Friends, I'm going to pray for us again briefly, and then we will dive into God's word. Let's pray. Father, you tell us to taste and see that you are good. And that's what we've come to do this morning, Father. So as we open your word, we pray that you would grant the Spirit to help us taste and see how good you are. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Unwinnable wars. Unwinnable wars are a nightmare for the nations fighting them. They consume precious resources. Think of uh modern-day wars, think of the trillions of dollars that are spent on them, but not just the money, the that type of resources, but think about the lives that are lost. Unwinnable wars can erode the morale of a country and can often be the event that triggers the downfall of an entire nation and people. And wars really can be unwinnable for different reasons when you think about it. Perhaps one reason might be that the objective of the war isn't clear. And so the army that's fighting the war can't know whether they have actually won or lost because the objective was not clear. Or you think about relatedly, maybe it's unwinnable. Because of the context in which it's being fought. We can think about the war on terror, for example. This is a global war in which the people being fought against are everywhere and nowhere at once. The enemies are unknown, and so how can one know if ever one has ever won the war or not? This is seems to be an unwinnable war. There are numerous reasons that make wars unwinnable. But perhaps the most dramatic reason of all is when an army takes up its weapons against an opponent who cannot be beat. History is replete with examples of wars like this, wars in which the deck was so decisively stacked in favor of one side that one has to question why on earth the opposing army decided to fight in the first place. Well, what do unwinnable wars have to do with us here this morning? Well, I bring all this up because the passage we're studying today is an account of an unwinnable war. That started long ago in history, that is still going on today, and that will come to a climactic end in the future. And the surprise for us is not only that this unwinnable war that started thousands of years ago is still going on today and will come to a climactic end in the future. The surprise for us this morning we may find is that some of us may realize that we are actually fighting on the losing side of this unwinnable war. And I think that's what Psalm 2 is going to help clarify for us this morning. So I want to invite you to open in your Bibles to Psalm number two. If you're using the Bibles that we've provided, you can find Psalm 2 on page 448. And as you're turning there, let me provide a bit of background to our passage. The book of Psalms contains 150 individual psalms that were written over the course of about 800 to 1,000 years. in ancient Israel. These Psalms, when you read them, if you're familiar with them at all, you see that they deal very candidly with the experiences of living in a fallen world. And they do an amazing job of exploring the full range of emotions that people experience living in a fallen world. But more than anything, they tell us about God's relationship with his people and what God has done. and is doing to repair the relationship that we've all foolishly broken by our decision to go to war with him. And this is exactly what Psalm 2 is about. Actually, if you look back in the history of the Jewish understanding of the Psalms, it's commonly understood that Psalms 1 and 2 are the introduction to the entire book of Psalms. So if you look down with me, look at the first line of Psalm 1. Notice how it begins, blessed. is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. Psalm 1 will then go on to explain that the blessed man is the person who comes to God's law Meditates on his law and rejoices in his law. So Psalm 1 begins, Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of wicked. Now look at the first word of the last line of Psalm 2. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. We're going to see that Psalm 2 is about God's anointed king. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. So there's kind of this picture frame of blessedness around the introduction of the first two psalms of the Psalter that are letting you know, hey, when you come to the Psalms and you come to Psalms 3 through 150, here's what we're teaching you. Blessed is the person who meditates on God's law and relates in the right way to God's chosen king. If you do that, you will find the path of blessedness in this life. That's what Psalms 1 and 2 are doing. And Psalm 2 is about an unwinnable war that mankind has chosen to wage against God. So I'm going to go ahead. and read Psalm 2 for us, and then we'll look more closely at it. This is God's word Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me. You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling Kiss the Son, lest he be angry and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him If you're taking notes this morning, we're going to look at our psalm this morning under three headings. First, mankind is at war with God. Second, mankind cannot win his war with God. And third, mankind should accept God's peace treaty If you haven't gotten those down, I'm going to repeat them again through the sermon, so don't worry about that. So first, point one, mankind is at war with God. That's really the unavoidable message of verses 1 to 3. You can go ahead that go ahead and look down there with me. The first thing I want you to notice Uh is that there's no mention of who wrote this psalm. Some of the psalms will say beforehand this is of David or of Solomon, kind of letting you know who the author is. Uh this psalm doesn't say that, but even though it isn't stated, we know from the New Testament, Susan read for us from Acts chapter 4, the apostles in the New Testament said Psalm 2 was written by David. That is King David, the greatest king in the history of Israel. Him and Solomon were kind of up at the top. So this psalm was written by King David. And we'll see that that makes a lot of sense given the content of the psalm. Look again at verses 1 to 3 with me. Notice the declarations of war in verses 1 and 2. David says that the nations rage. They are restless with anger. The peoples plot. They're secretly gathering together to make war plans. Then the kings of the earth set themselves. What does that mean to set themselves? What is he trying to say here? Well, they rise up to prepare for battle. They form a united front. And the rulers take counsel together. So we're around D. C. we get the White House is downtown. This is the equivalent of an ancient Near Eastern situation room. Where all the rulers of the earth have come to this one room, taken off their robes, they said, hey, we are no longer going to fight against one another. We are going to plot and plan to wage war against God. And that's what's going on here in the first few verses. And I want you to notice the words that David uses. He says it's the nations as a whole, geopolitical entities. It's the peoples, the individual members, who make up those nations, and it's their kings and their rulers So what's going on here? David is looking out at the world. He's looking out at all mankind, all the nations, Assyria. Babylon, whatever they might be that surround ancient near East and Israel. He's looking out at all of them, and he sees that mankind has joined together to declare worldwide war on God and on God's anointed one. This is going to be helpful for us to understand so we can really see how applicable this passage is for us today. In the Old Testament, the God who created the universe, Genesis 1. 1. The God who created the universe chose the people of Israel, Genesis 12, Abraham, out of out of Babylon, out of Ur the Chaldines Through Abraham, he created the people of Israel. He chose Israel out of all the nations on earth, so that they would be in a unique relationship with them Why Israel? Well the Old Testament says he chose Israel because he chose Israel. There's nothing in them that made them worthy of him choosing them. He loved them because he loved them. He wanted to show his glory to the world. And so he chose them as a people to have a unique relationship with them. He allowed them to know him, and he lived among them in their temple. And then he also gave them a king or many kings. over a long period of time. And the king of Israel was called God's anointed one. That's the purpose of when you read in the Old Testament the accounts of when kings would come into power, they would be anointed by oil It's a way of showing they are the anointed one of Israel. The king, as the anointed one, was God's unique representative on earth. He was so closely identified with God that when the nations made war against him, they were also making war against God. But why, we would have to ask now, why would mankind wage an unwinnable war against God? What is going on here? Well, look at the reason that they give in verse 3. The nations, peoples, kings, and rulers say, let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. Notice the imagery that's being used. The imagery is communicating to us something about what they are thinking. They view God's rule as bonds, shackles. Chains, things which imprison, cords, ropes, things which bind you up. They feel bound up by God's rule, and they're saying, we want to break free of this rule. We want to rule ourselves. We want to be our own kings and queens. Let us burst those bonds apart. That's for the old way. God is for the old people. His ways are arcane and archaic. We don't need him anymore. We are enlightened and progressive people. We can rule ourselves. This is what they're thinking. This is ancient progressivism. They wage war against God because they want to be free to do what they want to do. They want to live their own lives and make their own decisions. They don't need any God telling them what they can and can't do. Now, if you read Psalm 2, you might wonder, you might have the question: when did this happen? At what event did all the nations and rulers actually gather together and make this public declaration of war against God? I don't think there actually was a single event in which this happened. I think what David is doing is he's looking at mankind's worldwide rejection of God's rule Which at that time was seen in the worship of false gods which existed everywhere in the world. It was seen in the willingness of the nations to make war on Israel, God's people. And it was seen even among David's own people who plotted to take his life as the anointed one. He's looking at all of that. He's looking at all of that, and he's saying This is what they're saying in their hearts. This is what's going on underneath all of their actions, right? They want to be free from the authority of God in their lives. It's a vivid picture this worldwide declaration of war on God. You imagine all of the people of the earth coming together and saying, we're waging war on you. What? It's a vivid picture. Now, I assume that there are some of you here today who don't understand yourselves to follow Jesus. And I wonder what you think is wrong with the world All right, I wonder what you think is wrong with the world. Surely you'd agree that there is something wrong with the world. Something seems to be inherently broken about it and about us. And I want to know, in your opinion, what is the reason that the world is so broken? What is the reason that we are so broken? What would you say the answer is? Some common reasons that are given it. Is it poverty? Is it poverty? Well, I don't think it can be poverty because some of the wealthiest people in the world do some of the most terrible things. Is it lack of education? I think same thing with poverty. I don't think it can be lack of education because some of the brightest people in the world do some of the most terrible things. Brokenness seems to transcend all cultures, times, and places. This this experience of life in this world seems to affect people, all people in all nations at all times in the same way, regardless of class or status. So I wonder how do you reconcile that? How has that happened in the world? What's wrong with the world and with us? It seems to me that if you're going to answer that question, you're going to need to provide a reason that accounts for the fact that this brokenness transcends all places and all times and all peoples. It would need to be a comprehensive reason. Because no matter where you go on earth, the reality is you find humans experiencing the same things. We all experience bitterness. We all experience anger. We all experience rage. We all experience jealousy. And envy, sorrow, and hatred, and malice. How is it that all people in all places experience these things? What is the reason? I wonder what reason you would give. The answer that the Bible gives, and the answer that I found most convincing of the religions in the world is this, right here in Psalm 2. This is what is wrong with our world. We are at war with God. We have rebelled against him. We've rejected his good rule and chosen to be our own kings and queens, and we have made a terrible mess of things. We've made a terrible mess. Just look around at the world. Look around if you're honest with yourself. Look around at your own life. I've made a terrible mess in my life. The only thing that has gotten me to this place in my life is God's kindness to me. Because when I was in control of my life, I ran it off the rails Right? And we all do this in large ways and small ways. And we see it all around us. We are not good rulers of our lives. We need a good king who can tell us how to live and we've made a terrible mess of things. And this is what the Bible calls sin, if you're not familiar with that word or if it just kind of sounds like a a kind of angry, harsh word. Sin in the Bible, simply put, is the rejection of God's rule It's a form of cosmic rebellion. Supernatural sedition. I'm trying to come up with different ways to put it. Cosmic treason That's what sin is. We've rebelled against God and rejected him, and it's a rebellion that all mankind has participated in. Now I get also when you hear something like that, you might hear me saying to you, you are a rebel against God, and that sounds, oh, it's a little direct. I don't really feel like I'm a rebel against God, and I get why you might say that. I wouldn't want people calling me a rebel. But I I wonder uh if it's hard for you to believe because the reason is that we innately seek to justify ourselves by comparing ourselves to others. Right? So if someone calls me a rebel, well, what do I do? I say, well, I may have done some bad things, but I'm at least I'm not as bad as that guy over there. He's really bad. But what happens when you start to think that way and you compare yourselves and you justify yourselves based on the actions of others is it starts to affect how you view God and how you think God views you. You start to think that God will treat us by the same standard. You know, John, what you did was wrong. But at least you aren't as bad as Ryan. That guy is really bad. You can come on in, John. Right? But but that's not how God judges us, right? That's not how God treats us. His His standard isn't a curve, right? So maybe you uh in some of your college or high school classes you had teachers who graded on a curve. Well, everyone else got an 80 So 80 is the new A. God doesn't work that way. God's standard is perfection, and He's going to judge every individual human being by his holy standard of perfection. And all of us will have failed because all of us have sinned against him. And that's terrible news for us. We've waged war against God, and we cannot win this war. We've all said with one voice, let us tear his shackles off of us. And what's terribly sad about this war that we've all participated in is just how absurd it is. Just how absurd it is. We're going to see in Psalm 2 that you can't win this war. That makes it absurd enough. But it's also absurd because God is so good. He's good. His ways are good. There's no reason for us to rebel against him, but I want you to notice what sin does to us. What it does to our minds and what it does to our view of God. Sin distorts our view of God. God's ways bring freedom, but we feel imprisoned. God's laws are good for us, but we think we need to escape them. We view God as an evil ogre whose sole desire is to rob us of joy. When in reality, He's created us for relationship with Him, and that relationship is the only place that any of us will find true joy in this life So there is a kid's book that I have, or a series of kids' books that I have been reading with Jack and Knox. It's one of my favorites because of how Clearly and wonderfully it portrays this goodness of God and the foolishness of mankind. So kids, if you're here, how many of you have read the Adam Raccoon books, the series of books? Raise your hand if you've read Adam Raccoon. There's some around here. I can explain it simply if you if you haven't. Adam Raccoon is a raccoon. Adam Raccoon lives in a place called Master's Wood. Masters Wood is a wonderful place, kid. It's like kids, it's like the the the the the pristine garden of Eden. He has everything that he needs in Master's Wood. He doesn't have to go anywhere else The land has provided all that it needs, but not just the land. Master's wood is ruled by a good master named King Aaron. King Aaron is a lion. He's a strong and loving lion. And King Aaron gives Adam Raccoon instructions on how to live. He knows what's best for Adam, after all, because he rules Master's Wood. He knows how the citizens of Masters Wood should live But kids, if you've read the story or not, do you think that Adam Raccoon listens to King Aaron's instructions? No, that's exactly right, Jackson. No, he does not. Adam always thinks he knows what's best and he disobeys King Aaron and every time he disobeys King Aaron he gets in trouble. So on the race to Victory Mountain King Aaron gave Adam specific instructions, stay on the path, follow the red flags. You don't need to come in first. Whether you come in first or last, it doesn't matter. All you have to do is finish the race. And what is what does Adam Raccoon do? He gets off the path. He sees a biscuit stand with honeys and he wants to eat it. And then he finds a circus in a fairground and he stumbles off the path and then he gets lost and he gets hurt. Oh, kids, I want you to see that Adam Raccoon is us. King Aaron is God. He has given us specific instructions on how we should live life, and those instructions are good for us. And when we disobey them, we get hurt. But God is like King Aaron, and he comes to the aid of those who get hurt. King Aaron really teaches us about God. God's rules aren't changed to restrict us. But they are the path to true freedom and joy. Really, it's not God who puts us in chains. It's ourselves Sin is slavery. We become slaves to sin. So I want you to just picture this image. We are like a people who are raised in a castle who have everything that we need. Full wardrobe of glorious stuff, amazing jewelry, meals that come to us, fed, just the richest food in the world, and all of us say, no, we want to be imprisoned. We want to get out of this castle. We want to be in bonds and chains. And so we sin. That's the choice that's being made in Psalm 2. And that's the choice that all people make when we choose to break free of God's rule in our lives and seek to rule ourselves We are at war with God. And what we find next is that mankind cannot win this war with God, which is our second point. Mankind cannot win this war with God. Look at verses four to nine. Though the entire world has declared war on God, it doesn't seem to have had the effect that they thought it would have. Look at verse 4. He who sits in the heavens laughs. I don't think that there's an image in the Bible that better draws out the absurdity of rebelling against God than this one. God is so far from being troubled against an entire globe arrayed in battle against him that he does not even stand up. David describes them as he who sits on the throne. He is not disturbed in the least by our rebellion. And so he laughs at it. Nothing underscores the impossibility of winning this war better than that image. But we also see that he moves from laughter to action. He responds in verse 6 by setting his chosen king on Mount Zion. This king would then become God's chosen instrument to respond to this declaration of war. He's going to lead God's army in battle against them. And then in verses 7 and 9, that king speaks. David speaks. He describes when God called him his son. And then he basically says that this war will be no contest. God says to his chosen king, ask of me, and I'll give you the entire world. I'm going to give you the rod of iron, and when you go, it will be a sweeping victory. That's the promise that he's given to him. Mankind cannot win this war. It will be a lopsided battle. There'll be no stopping. God's chosen king. But we have to ask the question, who is this king? Who is the anointed king? We've already said that this is uh the psalm is written by David, and I think the obvious answer in the first horizon of this passage is that it's speaking of David. And we have further proof of that even in the Psalm. So I want you to think about David's own personal history. In 2 Samuel chapter 5, it was David who took hold of Mount Zion. And it was on Mount Zion that the house of the Lord was established. So I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Then in 2 Samuel 7, two chapters later, God makes a covenant with David. promising to establish for him an everlasting throne. And in that covenant promised, God says to David, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. Echoing the words of verse 7: You are my son. God's anointed king is David. But we also have to see that this psalm isn't ultimately describing David, is it? Well, why do I say that? Well, because David never made the entire earth his inheritance. David never conquered the nations in the way that Psalm 2 says that this anointed king will. He never accomplished this total victory. And not only David, but king after king after king in Israel came and went. And none of them lived up to this ideal of Psalm two. Which kind of makes you wonder why on earth we're here in Chevrolet, Maryland, in the year 2019 Studying a piece of literature that is roughly 3,000 years old and that didn't come true. It seems like a supreme waste of time, doesn't it? I mean, what is this just like an ancient Near Eastern literature class? What are we doing here? Well, I suppose it would be a supreme waste of time if the psalm didn't come true at all. But the fact is, it did eventually come true, and what we're going to see is that more is left to come. You see, when God promised an eternal throne to David, he wasn't promising that David, David, the man, he wasn't promising that David would reign forever. But that one would come from David's lineage, his own body, a future generation. One would come from that future generation who would rule forever. And that man has come. And his name is Jesus Christ. You find at the very beginning of Matthew's gospel, Jesus' lineage is traced to. David, he's the son of David. And then in Mark's gospel, we've seen on two different occasions a voice speaks from heaven about Jesus, and that voice says what? Shout it out. This is my son, two different occasions. Great job, Adam. This is my son in whom I am well pleased. Son of David, Son of God, Jesus Christ the Lord is the one, the anointed king. Anointed, the word used for anointed in Hebrew is Messiah. He is the true Messiah. But you might wonder, wait, wait, wait a second. We're talking about Jesus here. Kind, compassionate, loving Jesus. If Jesus is this anointed king, what's up with all the wrath and fury and rod of iron, shattering vessels? It doesn't sound like the Jesus that I know and have come to worship. Well, if that's what you're thinking, I can understand that. Jesus did come in his life, and he didn't come in wrath and fury. He came as a suffering servant. to lay down his life for those who were his enemies so that we could be forgiven. He came and showed compassion and love and mercy and justice and kindness. He showed perfectly the character of God in that way. But we also need to understand that the Bible says that God's character is not just kindness and compassion, but justice and anger at wrongs that have been done against him. And Jesus will one day fulfill that aspect of Psalm two. You see, Psalm two is very interesting It's a very interesting psalm. Here's how I would describe it. Psalm 2 is a letter written in the past about a people living in the present meant to prepare them for the future to come. Psalm 2 is a letter written in the past to a people living in the present, meant to prepare them for the future to come. It's a letter written in the past. It was written nearly 3,000 years ago. But it's a people living in the it's about a people living in the present. The authors of the New Testament understood Psalm 2 to be fulfilled when the religious authorities of Israel and the Roman government conspired to put Jesus to death. Verses 1 to 3 are fulfilled when the Israelite authorities and the Roman authorities gather together to take counsel against the Lord and against his anointed, putting Jesus to death. But then they also saw the psalm as fulfilled as taking place anywhere, anytime anyone rejected the Lord Jesus Christ and sought to be free from his rule in their lives. So this psalm is speaking to us today, who may have rejected in our own lives God's good and righteous rule of us So it was fulfilled then. And for those of us living in the present, we need to recognize that three days after Jesus was killed, he rose from the dead, and his resurrection was proof that he is the Son of God. So Paul says in Romans chapter 1. Jesus was declared to be the Son of God in power by his resurrection from the dead After he rose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, where he sat down as king at the right hand of God the Father, where he presently, presently, right now, as in this moment, is seated and reigns over all of creation. That's what's going on right now, even though we can't see it. There is a kingdom that is coming. There is a king that is ruling, and he's going to bring his armies into this world. And that's how it prepares us for the future. Before he ascended into heaven, Jesus promised that he would return again to rescue his people and to bring judgment on the nations who desired to be free from his rule. That's what he promised. Verse 8 and verse 9. Look at verse 8 and verse 9 of Psalm 2 again. They tell us what that future day will be like when Jesus returns. And we know that this is what Psalm 2 is predicting. Because at the very end of the Bible, in the book of Revelation, we find a prediction of Jesus' second coming. It's a prediction that is strikingly similar to Psalm 2. I'm going to read it for us now. This is what the book of Revelation says that day will be like. Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire And on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh, he has a name written King of kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus, one of the things that Jews in the first century struggled to reconcile were the pictures of the Messiah in the Old Testament. There are two pictures that exist side by side in the Old Testament. There is a picture picture of the Messiah as a suffering servant who would Be beaten for the sins of his people and take the punishment that they deserved. And then there's a picture of a Messiah who is a reigning king who strikes down all the nations and brings God's kingdom to earth. And they couldn't reconcile how these pictures could exist in the same person at the same time. And the reality is that they didn't happen at the same time. Now, as these prophecies were fulfilled in the life of Jesus Christ, what we see is that there are two comings of Christ. Jesus Christ came the first time as the suffering servant. To lay down his life, to extend God's peace treaty to mankind. But for all who do not accept the terms of that peace treaty, Jesus Christ is coming again. And when he comes again, he's coming as this great king on this terrible day of judgment. This day of judgment that is Psalm 2 points out, it will be a lopsided battle for all who are involved, who are not on his side. That is what's happening in Psalm 2, and that's what we see happening at the end of the book of Revelation. Words honestly fail to capture the sheer terror of this future appearing of Jesus. And it's something that we need to soberly deal with. It's a picture of an unwinnable war. If you are living your life today. And you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus Christ? What Psalm 2 would say to you is, listen You're you're involved in unwinnable war. You've taken up arms on the wrong side. It may not seem like it now, but God's king is coming. And when he comes, there will be no more opportunities to turn from your ways. A friend, if you are living in unrepentant sin today, Please, please keep this warning. This day will be terrible, and there will be no opposing Christ on this day. Listen to the warning of Psalm 2 and of Book of Revelation. I struggle with well what does this what does this look like? And I I've looked for ways to explain it in terms that we might understand. And I came across one recently. Uh I just started reading a book about a man named Tim Simaris. Samaris was a legendary storm chaser who specialized in chasing tornadoes. And at the beginning of this book on Tim, there's an account of a tornado that hit uh Gerald, Texas, back in 1997 that I think gives us a hint. a picture of what this day will be like when Christ comes. Here's what the account uh says from that book. The fire department, siren, sounded at 3. 30 p. m. A shrill, oscillating note, like an air raid alarm. The siren had only ever been used to call volunteers to the station, but anyone who had been paying attention that afternoon knew this was different The TV meteorologists were already tracking the tornado four miles to the north of Gerald. The tornado writhed like a snake at first. And for a time it seemed to track neither north nor south, but to trace a languid orbit in place like a whip. But then came the shift. The graceful ribbon was suddenly gone, replaced by this other thing, a gray miasma, not so much a tornado as a wall of smoke leaching up out of the earth. When it finally appeared in Gerald, it was a sight that people would resummon in their dreams for years to come. Bristling with debris, blackened with rich soil, scoured from the fields. It looked ancient and immutable, its wings spread wide. What it looked like was the end of the world In the wake of that storm, it became clear that the wall of the tornado was as wide as 13 football stadiums laid end to end. You imagine seeing that wall come at you? Notice what he says. For a time it appeared in the distance like a thin ribbon. kind of just moving in place, not threatening. But then came the shift, and it appeared in terror on the horizon, boring down on them, and there was no place for them to go. Gerald Texas was completely wiped out. There was no debris, they said, in Gerald, Texas afterwards, because it had granulized everything. So powerful was this storm. Why do I bring up this storm as an image? I'm trying to illustrate for us, even to my own mind, how can I better understand what is going to happen on that day? I'm trying to better illustrate for us what that day will be like. A friend, you might think like God's judgment just kind of seems like this thin ribbon of a tornado that stays off in orbit in the distance, but you need to know that it will appear. It will appear. And when it appears, there will be no escaping it. A tornado that is 13 football stadiums wide on end. The Bible says that's the work of God's finger There will be no escaping this judgment. This is a war that cannot be won. Standing before Jesus on that day as his enemy will prove as wise as standing in the path of that storm and expecting to survive. Now, friend, if you're here and you don't follow Jesus, I beg of you to take seriously this warning. Lay down your arms Lay down your arms and accept God's peace treaty, which brings me to my third and final point. Mankind should accept the terms of God's peace treaty After describing the future, certain victory of God's King of the Nations, we're brought back into the present in verses 10 to 12. We see that the end has not come yet. We see that God has offered peace to those who have waged war against him. And there are five terms, you might say, of this peace treaty. If you want to have peace with God now and in the future, here's what you need to do. Look at verse 10. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Essentially, how would I summarize that? Repent. Be wise. Come to a knowledge of the fear of the Lord and turn from your rebellion against him. Not just repent. Look at verse 11. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. The terms of God's peace treaty. Repent and serve him. Not only repent and serve, but look at verse 12, kiss the sun. That's an expression of loving homage. Repent, serve, love. That's how you would summarize. How do I escape this coming judgment? How do I accept the terms of God's peace treaty? Very simple. God calls you to turn from your rebellion, to serve him, and to love him. Right? I suspect though that some of you might look at Psalm 2. I think in our day and age, this kind of portrays God as a bit of a megalomaniac This guy's obsessed with power, bent on destroying anyone who rejects his rule. Sounds more like the kings of this earth than a good and loving God, doesn't it? I get that. I get that. I can certainly see how someone might arrive at that conclusion, but I do think if we pay more careful attention to Psalm 2, that we'll see that that's not the case at all that there's actually a very different picture of God that arises. First, I simply want to make the observation that it's remarkable that God extends a peace treaty to a people who've completely rejected him at all. Do you find that striking? If we as a people have rejected his rule and yet God still says, hey, hey, turn. I'll accept you back. I will love you and care for you, shows that God is patient and kind. The people rage and plot against him, but he is so long-suffering and patient that he extends peace treaties to us today. So if we're going to deal honestly with Psalm 2, we need to take seriously how peace-loving this God actually is. But it goes deeper than that. And it's far more glorious than even that. We'll see that his love for rebels is far more radical than we could ever imagine. I want you to look again at verse 7. The Lord said to me. You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Now we've seen in the Gospels that Jesus is called the Son of God by the voice from heaven, and he even claims to be the Son of God in his life before his death and resurrection. But This verse, verse 7 from Psalm 2, on three separate occasions in the New Testament, is cited explicitly in reference to Jesus' resurrection from the dead. Romans 1 Acts 13 and Hebrews 1. When Jesus rose from the dead, he proved definitively that he was God's Son. Today, the day of resurrection, proof, my son. You are my son. Today, when you rose from the dead, I have begotten you. It was definitive proof of Jesus' sonship. Why do I bring that up Well, before Jesus could be resurrected from the dead, a question to you, what would have to happen to him? He'd have to die. You have to die before you can be resurrected from the dead. Verse 7. I point that out. Why? Look at the verse 6 that comes before verse 7. As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. This verse seemingly describes the coronation ceremony of the king, but what I want you to notice is that word set. I have set my king on Zion. The Hebrew word that's used there means poured out. Or poured out as a sacrifice. And so we would be justified in reading verse 6 as, I have poured out as a sacrifice my king. On Zion, my holy hill. And this, this is where you see the indescribable love of God for rebels like you and me. Psalm 2, verse 6, foreshadowed the day when Jesus Christ, God's beloved Son The one who never sought to break free from God's chains, his bonds, his cords, he never sought to break free from God's rule. It was when Jesus was nailed to a cross to bear the judgment for sin. On that hill outside Jerusalem, Jesus was enthroned on a cross of wood. I say that he was enthroned because we remember the sign that hung above his head, don't we? This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. Jesus was being poured out as a sacrifice. God says, I have set my king. And before he comes in judgment, I have set him out as a sacrifice. So you can see what type of king I am. The sign above Jesus' head that read, This is Jesus the King of the Jews, is supremely ironic Because it doesn't disprove that Jesus was the Son of God. It doesn't disprove that Jesus was the chosen and anointed king. It proves what type of king God actually is. So far from being a megalomaniac obsessed with power, bent on destroying those who are opposed to him, he took on flesh and came into the world He lived a perfect and godly and righteous life, a life of compassion and kindness, teaching people how to turn from their ways and turn to God and no blessedness and no favor and no joy With God, and then he willingly went to the cross to be enthroned by being nailed to the cross to bear the punishment for our rebellion. A king who never rebelled, died for rebels He died for you and me. This is our king. This is our compassionate. and holy and righteous and loving King who would lay down his life for people who say, I want to be free from you. He says, hey. You don't know what you're talking about. And I'm gonna come show you how much I love you. I'm gonna show you that you can trust my rule, that you can trust my ways. You can lay down the sword. You don't need it anymore. I'm going to give my life in your place so that you can see the type of king I am It's the cross that shapes for us the picture of God's rule and reign in our lives. Sacrificial love How can it be that God would be punished for us, for you and me? This is the indescribable love of God. This is our King Jesus. He is a great Savior. And so to the kids, I want to speak to you all real quick. I want you to know that every day in life, you're going to be faced with two decisions. Or one decision. You're going to be faced with the decision of who are you going to serve? You're going to be faced with the decision of serving Jesus, who's a good King. Remember King Aaron and Adam Raccoon. He knows what's best for us. Or you're going to have the decision to serve yourself. I want you to know that the world is going to tell you that it's better to serve yourself. They're going to tell you you're going to find great joy. You'll find true freedom. You'll find lasting happiness. All these things that they that they hold out But the reality is nobody has found true joy. Nobody has found lasting fulfillment. If they did, they would be the most popular blogger and speaker in the world. The world is full of people who are searching and lost. I lived for about 30 years of my life choosing to live that way, choosing to serve myself, and it was terrible. I just made a mess of things and I was supremely unhappy. And I want to encourage y'all as you think about following Jesus, remember that his rules and his commandments are not burdensome. He's not trying to restrict you. He's actually trying to bring you into a place of freedom. And I want to encourage y'all to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want everyone here who follows Jesus or who doesn't follow Jesus just to see how Psalm 2 changes our experience of this world. The raging of the nations, the peoples and kings against God is still happening today, and it can cause great stress to see the devastating ways that that plays out in our world. And it's even greater stress when we experience persecution and opposition for following Jesus. But it's here that we need to have our outlook, our view on the world shaped by the heavenly perspective. We think this is terrible. God, what are you doing? God says, ha ha ha ha ha, I'm okay. I'm on my throne. So we need to let our minds be renewed by what's above. We need to let our minds be renewed by God's take on the situation. And remember that he is not disturbed by anything going on in the world today. And he has set a day on which he will correct everything. God's not troubled by this world's opposition to him, and neither do we need be. This Psalm, Psalm 2, has served as a great encouragement to God's people facing persecution. Throughout the ages, precisely because of the certainty which it declares victory. A victory that ripples throughout the pages of Scripture and comes to a head in the pages of Revelation, and that we will see come to a head when Christ returns. So how should this image of God sitting on his throne, being totally undisturbed by a world at war with him, how should that image shape how you live this week? What should that tell you about what's going on around you and about how God views it? Let your mind be informed by God's perspective on the issue. Man may be at war with God, but it is an unwinnable war. And those who have accepted his terms of his peace treaty can now be assured that God will relent and even become a refuge to those who take comfort in him. Just look at the last line of the Psalm. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. God offers that peace treaty to all today who will turn from sin and put their trust in his anointed king. Will you accept the terms of his peace treaty today? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we come before you, even thinking about this psalm, those of us who have known your love, your grace, and your mercy We're put to shame by the fact that even we who have known your peace and your love have still chosen to rebel against you in our own lives. Father, forgive us. Stir us up to greater holiness, to greater love, to greater good works. Help us to testify with our mouth and with our actions that there is a great king and his ways are good. Help us to do that this week, we pray, and we ask, Lord, that you would have mercy on all who have turned against you, and that you would cause all to turn from their ways and to trust in our good and gracious King. And we pray this in Jesus' name.