Well, you can go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 2. We're going to be looking at verses 23, Mark chapter 2, 23, all the way through chapter 3, verse 6. And if you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles, you'll find our passage on page 838. Page 838 It should be uh verse twenty-three of chapter two should be at the very top of page eight thirty-eight. And if you're not familiar with using a Bible, uh just let me point out that chapter two will be the big bold number two, and then the verse numbers will be the smaller numbers that follow after that. And also if you don't have a Bible of your own, please do take one of our few Bibles. It's a gift from us to you. We think one of the most important things that you can have in your life is to possess God's word. And we believe that God has spoken clearly and perfectly through his scriptures in the Holy Bible. And so we we offer that to you today. And we continue today in our study of the Gospel of Mark. And we've said that Mark's main purpose for writing the Gospel of Mark is to do what? This is where you guys get quizzed on what we've been studying over the last couple months. What is Mark's main goal? Just shout it out. To correctly identify Jesus as the Son of God. Yes, thank you, Jill. That's right. He wrote it so that we would correctly identify Jesus Christ as the Son of God. So that we won't be mistaken about who he is. And you see that the ball the book really actually falls into two neat halves. It's 16 chapters long, and the first half of the book culminates in chapter 8, at the end of chapter 8, with Peter's confession that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Messiah. And then the second half of the book, chapters 9 to 16, culminate with the Roman centurion's confession. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God as he saw him hanging there on the cross. So Mark drops very obvious literary cues throughout the book to help us know the main point, my purpose. And so that you would correctly identify Jesus as the Son of God. And we saw that in the early chapters. We're only in chapter three, but we've seen that taught in numerous ways already. Right, so Jesus is identified at his baptism in chapter 1 by God the Father speaking from heaven by the Spirit falling on him. Then we see him display his authority as a Son of God, first as a teacher. He has much greater authority than the scribes as a teacher. Then he's got authority to cast out demons in a way that amaze the people around him. Then he's also got authority to heal the worst of diseases, even to cause a paralyzed man to get up. And then in that same account, we saw that Jesus taught that he has the authority to forgive sins. And it's his claim to forgive sins at the beginning of chapter two that puts him in a conflict with the religious authorities of the day because they thought, well, only God can forgive sin. Who are you? What are you saying about yourself? And throughout chapter 2, you find Jesus in conflict with the religious authorities. They look down on the people that he surrounds himself with. He's surrounded by sinners and tax collectors. They look down on him for not fasting. He came feasting. They called him a drunkard and a glutton because Jesus and in the presence of God, we feast. And in his presence they feasted. And then this morning we find that Jesus is still in conflict because in our passage this morning. Jesus makes another radical claim to authority that incensed the religious authorities of his day And so let me go ahead and read the passage for us. This is Mark chapter 2, verses 23, all the way through chapter 3, verse 6. This is God's word. One Sabbath, he was going through the grain fields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. And the Pharisees were saying to him, look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? And he said to them, Have you never read what David did? When he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God in the time of Abiathor the high priest, and ate the bread of the presence, which it is not lawful for any but the pressed priest to eat And also gave it to those who were with him. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand. And they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man with a withered hand, Come here. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him. What radical claim to authority does Jesus make in our passage this morning? It's very clear. He claims to be the Lord of the Sabbath. What is the main point of our passage this morning? Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. And we see this taught in two different ways. These will be our two points for this morning if you take notes. Point one will be declaration This is Jesus' declaration that he is the Lord of the Sabbath. And point two, demonstration. Jesus will give a demonstration that he is, in fact. Lord of the Sabbath. First, declaration. So you see in our passage, the setting for the first half of our passage is a grain field on the Sabbath. Right, Jesus and his disciples are out for a stroll, just walking through a grain field, and his disciples, Matthew tells us in his gospel, are hungry, so they're plucking heads of grain and snacking on them. This is like Ancient Israel trail mix, right? They didn't have packets of like peanuts and cranberries and whatnot to bring with them. So you had to walk through a grain field to keep that energy up. But lo and behold, as we've seen throughout chapter 2, the Pharisees see them. It's kind of like they're like, what are the Pharisees out there just watching? Like are they just posting up in the grain fields or are they seeing Jesus go out and following him just to see what he'll do? It's almost like you have a foreshadowing what's going to happen in the second half of the passage. But they see him, and then they charge him with breaking one of God's commandments. What are your disciples doing? Which is to say, what are you doing? Because disciples only do what the teacher does. They charge him with breaking one of God's commandments. But we need to ask, what commandment are they supposedly breaking? What commandment are they supposedly breaking? Well, I think the context makes it clear that they are charging Jesus and his disciples with breaking the Sabbath. Breaking the Sabbath prohibition of work. Now it's really important for us today to understand a bit of the background on the Sabbath that we're really going to grasp what's going on here. Right, so any of the kids, for any of the kids who are present, we'll limit this one for ages six to eight, like we did last week. Can any of the kids tell me what day of the week the Sabbath was? You can raise your hand. Clark? I mean Grant, so sorry. Saturday, very good. Yeah, that's it. So the Sabbath was on Saturday. For extra points, I hereby, by the authority invested in me by the congregation of this church, will offer a lollipop to anyone who can tell me the exact hours that the Sabbath ran. And this is for any kids. Does anyone know exactly when the Sabbath ran from? Parents? What's that? Okay, let me ask the adults From sundown Friday into sundown on Saturday. That's actually that's exactly right. I'm learning what questions I can get away with, right? And see, we need to understand that in Israel, the Sabbath was not just another day to the Jewish people. It was an extremely sacred day. It was a symbol. It was a sign of the covenant that God had made with the people of Israel, right? So we think about the covenants that God has made and the symbols and signs he attaches to them. So the Noahic covenant. God gave the rainbow to show that he would never judge the earth by a flood again. Then in the Abrahamic covenant, he gave the covenant the sign of circumcision, that all who are marked off by circumcision are marked off by his people. And then the Mosaic covenant, he gave the symbol, the sign of the Sabbath. And really the s circumcision and the Sabbath Function to mark off the people of Israel from the world around them. It was a very big deal. And God gave them the Sabbath to rest from their work. And so in the Ten Commandments and the Fourth Commandment, dealing with the Sabbath, God commands them not to To work, not to do any work. And God was serious about their resting from their weekly labors. So we even see in the Old Testament that violation of the Sabbath was even punishable by death. This was a serious thing. And it's that command, that command not to work on the Sabbath that the Pharisees are charging Jesus and his disciples with. But Is what they're doing actually work? Is what they're doing actually work? Well, no, I think in fact it isn't. In Deuteronomy chapter 23, verse 25, God specifically says in his law that a person is allowed to walk through his neighbor's grain field and pluck heads of grain. He specifically allows it. He just says that you can't take a sickle to it. So what God's what he's saying is, when you walk through your neighbor's yard, you can pluck some heads of grain. Just don't go jump on your combine tractor and run through the whole field and take everything out of their field. But he's saying you can pluck heads of grain. So what gives? Why are the Pharisees, these supposed experts in the law, charging Jesus and his disciples with breaking the Sabbath? Well, in the centuries following the giving of the Ten Commandments, and especially after the Israelites' return from exile, the rabbis and scribes of Israel, out of a desire to be obedient to the law, started giving clear definitions and precise explanations of exactly what constituted work. God says do not work. We need to ask, well, what's work? I don't want to violate this command. And so they start spelling out very specifically, here are the things that constitute work. And in the Jewish writings of the Mishnah, these are their sacred writings, there's an entire section called the Shabbat. Which deals with laws for things that are not allowed to be done on the Sabbath. And here's some examples for us that we understand exactly what it was like, in some sense, to be an Israelite. in those centuries. So in the Shabbat it says, one may not soak ink, dye, or fodder in water on Friday unless There is sufficient time for those things to dissolve before the Sabbath begins at sundown. One may not sew two stitches. Nor may one tear two stitches in order to sew two more stitches. Nor may they make two loops And if they tie a knot, the knot must remain tied until the Sabbath has ended. To do so is to break the Sabbath. One may not read by lamplight One may not roast meat, nor onions, nor eggs, unless there is sufficient time for them to be roasted before the Sabbath begins. One may not write two letters, nor may one erase two letters in order to rewrite two letters. One may not hunt a deer. One may not skin a deer. One may not clean a deer. One may not salt its skins, nor cure them. To do these things on the Sabbath is to break them. Oh friends, these are just a handful of the hundreds of laws that were written out to explain precisely what constituted work. So One of those violations that they came up with of the 39 categories that then were expanded with hundreds of laws underneath them, one of those 30 39 categories was reaping. You may not reap on the Sabbath, according to the scribes. So along come Jesus and his disciples, plucking heads of grain, and the Pharisees charge them with breaking the law. But have they broken God's law? Have they broken God's law? No. They have broken the laws of the scribes. They've broken man's law, which the scribes had come to see on the same plane as God's law. We wrote that. That's God's law. You broke it. Guilty. God never said don't pluck heads of grain. In fact, he said you could pluck heads of grain. So no, we are not working So then in verses 25 and 26, look down with me at the at the Bible. Jesus responds to them rather than pointing them to Deuteronomy chapter 23, he responds to them with a story about King David and his companions, which comes from 1 Samuel chapter 21. And in that account, David has just been anointed as the future king of Israel to replace King Saul And King Saul wants to kill David, so David is on the run with a group of companions. They're on the run in the wilderness, and they're starving and hungry. So they come to the town of Nob and the tabernacle that was in the town of Nob, and they come looking for food But the only thing that the priest has to eat is bread that according to the law is only for the priests to eat. But the priest and David both agree that he can eat the bread. And interestingly, after they eat the bread. Both in that present account and throughout the book of 1 Samuel, there is absolutely no mention whatsoever of God's displeasure with what they did. There's nothing to say that they have sinned against God, and we need to think about the book of 1 Samuel because 1 Samuel has numerous instances of people doing things that were violations of God's commands for which they were immediately punished. But David here and the priest agree you're starving. Have the bread. Eat the bread. But why is Jesus using this particular story Why is he using this story? There are a number of different views about what exactly is going on here, but I think we can confidently say. That's what Jesus is doing with this story is he's making a comparison. He's making an argument from the lesser to the greater. What do I mean by that? He's making a comparison between himself and his disciples and David and his disciples. Notice the parallels. Can't miss this. David's the anointed king of Israel. God's chosen servant through whom an eternal throne will be established. And he and his band of followers are on the run for their lives and they're hungry. And then you have Jesus, the anointed Son of God, who is God's chosen servant to establish an eternal throne and to sit upon that eternal throne. And he and his band of followers. Are being pursued by the Pharisees, which we'll see in our passage this morning, and they're hungry. Right? He's saying, look Look, you Pharisees, you love and admire King David. You would even say that he didn't sin in that passage. And if David, the anointed king of God, could eat the bread of the presence How much more can I, the Messiah of God and Lord of the Sabbath, pluck grain from this grain field? Right? Jesus isn't intentionally thumbing his nose at the law. That's not what he does. Jesus followed the law perfectly. He is the embodiment of Torah living. If you want to know what it means to be obedient to God's laws in the Old Testament, look at Jesus and study his life. Right? He's not thumbing his nose at them. He's saying, I will not be beholden. To your interpretations of what is work and what's not, because I am the one who made the Sabbath. I am the Lord of all creation. Not only that, but notice what he says in verse 27. Look at verse 27 with me. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Alright, so what have these Pharisees done? What had they done with their desire to be precise? We can applaud them for that. They wanted to follow God's law, but what had they done? They had turned the the Sabbath day into a day of don'ts. Don't do this. Don't do that. Be careful of doing that. Don't do that. You don't want to break the break the law. That's not what God gave his Sabbath for. They made man subservient to the day itself when the purpose of the day was to serve and bless Israel. That was the purpose of the day. You know, I gotta ask. I think it's appropriate for us to look at this. I wonder, how many of you view God's commandments as restrictions? rather than on instructions for how you should flourish. How many of you view God's commandments as restrictions? rather than instructions on how to flourish in this life. Here's what I mean by that. Notice this. The negative command of the fourth commandment, thou shalt not work, is a prohibition. But that prohibition was made for you to flourish. I'm prohibiting you from work because this day is set apart for you. The Sabbath is for you to rest The Sabbath is for you to remember how I rescued you out of slavery in Egypt. The Sabbath was made for man. God gives commands, even negative prohibitions. for our good. Not to frustrate us. His commandments are the path of life They provide the boundary markers within which we flourish and outside of which we die. And wither up. The Sabbath was made for man. God blesses through his commandments. So that means that when God tells you to be long-suffering, He's telling you to be long-suffering and to not lose your patience because if you don't, You will slowly erode away the love that people have for you. That's why he says to be patient. That's why he gives his commandments. It's good that you be long-suffering. You will flourish. When he commands us not to gossip, he does not do it to keep us from talking about exciting and interesting things. But to keep us from destroying the unity of the church. He gives us instructions within which we flourish. All of his commands to us are for our good So which of his commands do you see as restrictive and limiting your joy and your happiness? The Sabbath was made for man. Kids, I'm guessing that this might possibly be a struggle for you Maybe not now, but as you get older, I could certainly see how this could be the case. If you've grown up in the church, you've likely become accustomed to how God calls his people. But as you get older, especially as you approach those teenage years, you're going to see more and more of what the world offers. And what the world says brings freedom and flourishing. And much of what the world offers is contrary to how God calls us to live. And it may seem like following God means missing out on all the fun, but I just want to tell you as one who lived in the world until I was 30 and lived it up in all of the ways that the world says is fun. I found nothing but pain and emptiness in that life. Because what the world holds out is fun is empty. To take those things as the things that will lead to your flourishing is to walk down a path to death. It is within God's good commands, those boundary markers that we flourish. And so I just want to encourage you kids to plant yourselves in the soil of God's word. And you know Lord will and you will grow up to be like that tree in Psalm 1 That's planted by streams of water and bears fruit in season and out of season. Another natural question that arises out of this passage as we're looking at it this morning is what significance What significance does the Jewish Sabbath have for Christians today? Is the Sabbath something that Christians are called to keep? Are they obligated to keep it? The answer that the New Testament gives us is that Christians are not obligated Key word there. Christians are not obligated in any way to observe the Sabbath as it was laid out in the fourth commandment. Where do I see that? Paul in Colossians 2 says to these Gentile Christians who did not have a Jewish background, therefore let no one pass judgment on you. And he's probably talking about other Jewish Christians who would pass judgment on them for not observing the Sabbath. Therefore, let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival, or a new moon, or a Sabbath. These things are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. We need to remember as Christians that the commandment to keep the Sabbath was part of the of the Mosaic Covenant. It was part of the Mosaic covenant that was given to the people of Israel. The Mosaic covenant And its commandments were meant to prepare the world for Jesus. And Paul says in the same letter to the Colossians, just after he said what he just said, that Christ nailed the demands of that law to the cross. And those demands, including observing the Sabbath, are no longer binding on Christians. But what about Sunday? Is Sunday the new Sabbath? Some believe that Sunday replaces the Sabbath and becomes the is the Lord's Day and takes on the principles of the Sabbath. But we need to understand that nowhere in the New Testament do any of the authors treat the Lord's Day as analogous to or replacing the Sabbath. Instead The Sabbath points forward only to the rest that awaits all those who follow the Lord Jesus Christ when at his appearing We will come into his presence, we will feast with him for all eternity, and we will rest in his presence. That's what the Sabbath points forward to. And so what do you do if a Christian that you know believes that the Sabbath still needs to be observed? What do you do in that case? Well, I think what the New Testament authors would tell you to do is treat them with the love and respect that's to be shown to fellow Christians. Paul says in Romans 14 that one person regards one day as special and other people regard them as all the same. Some people have special days, some people don't. Let each one be convinced in his own mind, he says. Right? So let them be convinced in their own mind. But if someone says to you, You need to observe the Sabbath in the way that the fourth commandment intended, in the way that it was carried out by the Israelites under the Mosaic covenant, and that is required for salvation. You tell them no. That is anti-gospel. Paul speaks clearly against that in his letter to the Galatians. But if you want to think about applying the principles of resting and remembering the Lord's work to Sunday, that's a fine thing to do. That's a fine thing to do every day to rest and remember what God has done for you. And I think for us, the danger is not going to be, do we rest too much, but are we resting enough? Are we resting enough? If you are constantly going, going, going, doing more, more, more, remember that you are a creature. And God created you to need rest. And you know what? He blesses those who rest because resting is a personal decision to display your trust that God is the true ruler of the universe and that this earth will continue to spin without you continuing to work. But as we zoom back out, we see that this passage, the true point of this section, is that Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, and so is Lord over all creation. And in the second half of our passage, we see a demonstration of that lordship. So let's look at this demonstration. Look at me at chapter 3, verses 1 to 6. Jesus enters a synagogue, and there's a man there with a withered hand, which probably means that this man suffered from some deformity or disease or injury that made his hand unusable. But Mark, instead of the man with the withered hand, wants our attention on the Pharisees. Notice what verse 2 says. So one pastor said, if you take these things as happening on the same day, you have this conflict in the grain field where Jesus is like, you're not Lord over me, I'm Lord over all the earth. And now they got to go to church together, right? If you take them as happening on the same, this is going to be a tense service. Notice what verse 2 says. It was tense. They watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath so that they might accuse him. All right, so the conflict that has been brewing throughout chapter two that we've looked at looked at in weeks past is now coming to a boiling point. The Pharisees' hatred for Jesus can no longer be hidden. They're intentionally, intentionally and maliciously looking for an opportunity to accuse him. And notice what they want to accuse him of. Healing on the Sabbath they want to accuse him of healing So since Jesus has made it a practice of healing and casting out demons in the synagogues, they think to themselves, well, there's a pretty good bet that Jesus is going to do it today. So all we need to do is post up and keep our eyes on him. And that's just what they do. They want to accuse him of healing. They're going to keep their eyes locked on him throughout the synagogue service so that they can catch him red-handed. Aha! We got you. You broke the Sabbath. You are going down. Right? You might wonder how they can even accuse him of something like healing. How can they accuse him of something like healing? Well, that's because of all the laws that they created. The scribes eventually created laws that prohibited certain types of healing on the Sabbath. So in Luke chapter 13, if we were to turn over there, Jesus heals a woman in the synagogue, and then the ruler of the synagogue is indignant. What are you doing? And then he gets tired of all the people coming to Jesus and he says to him, There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath. Now, to be fair, the Pharisees would have had a category in which they would have saved someone's life. So if a life was in mortal danger, they would have saved it. But clearly, their categories for what types of healings were allowable on the Sabbath. Clashed with Jesus' understanding of what's allowable and what is a fulfillment of the law. And so they they're wanting to build a case against him Bit by bit, they're going to pick up piece of evidence after piece of evidence. They're just watching them like little serpents. They're going to pounce on them when they get a chance. So what does Jesus do? Does Jesus go off in a corner? Do it secretly? Maybe I'll keep away from them so they don't catch me? Jesus wants to bring this confrontation right out into the open. He's gonna make a bold statement. And he's look he looks at the man and he says, you come here. The man with a withered hand actually doesn't say anything in the entire account. The account isn't about him, but you got to think this guy was coming to service one day and he became the focal point of the plot that leads to Jesus' death. I mean, just like you never know what's gonna happen to happen at church when you come some Sunday, right? I mean just this guy just, okay, Jesus told me to come here, but I'm gonna come here. He doesn't even know what's gonna happen. He doesn't realize he's gonna get his hand back. This is amazing Jesus steps right out in the open and confronts the Pharisees, calls a man with a withered hand to come out to him. Luke tells us, so we saw in the passage about the forgiveness of sins. That Jesus knew what the Pharisees were thinking and then questioned them. Luke tells us in their account, uh in the account of this same passage, that Jesus knew what their intentions were. So Jesus is not hiding from them. He wants to make it plain. He wants to demonstrate, I am the Lord of the Sabbath. So the man with the withered hand walks over, the scene is tense, right? You can cut the tension with a knife. So think about it, you've been there at the party or the park or something when two different people that you know are on bad terms show up together and you're just like, I can't watch But I have to watch. Like, what is going to happen here? Right? You think this is what's going on here. The people around them have known that this conflict has been building between the Pharisees and Jesus. Remember, Jesus is famous. People have been flocking to him. They would have been watching everything he did. It's not as though this scene took place and people were just passing. No. Stop. Silence. Jesus and the Pharisees, what is going to happen? Who's going to win? That's a bad question to ask, right? Who's gonna win? We all know who's gonna win, but this is what would have been happening. And then look, the climax of our verse, look at what Jesus asked them. Verse 4. Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm? To save life or to kill? This is the biggest softball that Jesus could have ever thrown to the Pharisees. He is handing them the right answer on a silver platter. You ever taken the multiple choice test where the teacher really wants you to pass? And so it's like, uh what what is a star in the galaxy? Choice A, McDonald's. Choice B, golf. Choice C, the sun. Right? Like this is what he's doing. He's handing it to them on a silver platter. And what do they do? What do they say? Nothing, nothing, nothing. They are silent. Why Because when he brings a man with a withered hand in front of them and asks them that question, he pulls back the curtain on the lifeless soul of the wither. their legalism. He shows them what all their man-made laws have become. You won't even answer me. Of course you can heal a person on the Sabbath. The Sabbath was made for man Does it any surprise to us? Is it any surprise to us that Jesus responds the way that he does? The Sabbath was created for man, not man for the Sabbath, and you guys won't even heal this man because it transgresses your laws. And not God's. I mean, think about what he's saying. Friends, if this passage is a warning to us about anything, It is a warning to not add to God's Word. We should never add to or take away from God's Word, but the special emphasis of this passage is warning us against adding. And what do I mean by that? I mean in placing our logical inferences about the way a specific command should be carried out on the same plane with God's law. That's what he's saying. Those logical inferences may be wise and they may be logical, but they are not God's law. So what does that mean for us? That means for us that we should be clear where God's word is clear and gracious where it isn't. Should Christians gather weekly to worship the Lord? Yes, absolutely clear in Scripture. What's the correct length of a church service? Not so clear. There's freedom for that. Should we sing when we gather together? Yes, absolutely clear. Clear. Address one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. What style of music is the most appropriate? Scripture doesn't say. There's freedom for that. But recognize that adding to God's word isn't only a danger in our worship, right? We implicitly do it in our lives. When we judge others for decisions that they make that God doesn't give explicit guidance on in his word. Right? Because when we judge someone else for a decision they've made, we are saying. Whether we say it out loud or not, my way is right, your way is wrong. I understand God's word better than you do. This is the wrong application of that word. So, some questions for you to mull over. Does the Bible give explicit commands on how you and your fellow Christians should spend their time? Does the Bible give explicit commands on exactly how you and your fellow Christians should spend their money? Does the Bible give explicit commands on what type of school you should send your children to? If you're able to vote, does the Bible explicitly tell you which political party to vote for All of these are just a few of the innumerable examples of situations in which we can and should affirm one another's freedom in Christ to come to a different conclusion than we may have come to on a particular issue. We can disagree. And we can even discuss those disagreements because we know that we're part of a kingdom that this earth knows nothing about. So we can discuss these things, but realize that our greater allegiance and our greater unity is to God. Right? And not only that, but we need to think about this. We want to think about how we can disagree and even discuss those disagreements, but we need to do so lovingly. And graciously let Paul's words in Ephesians govern us at all times. To be gracious always with your word, to let no corrupting word come out of your mouth. May it never be said Of Chevley Baptist Church, that to be a member of this church means you need to live in a certain way or believe a certain thing that the Bible does not speak clearly on. We don't want to be a people who burden one another with man-made commands, but who rejoice in the freedom that we have in Christ. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Therefore, do not fall back into a spirit of slavery. You hear the echoes of Jesus' comment on the Sabbath in that. The Sabbath was made for man. It is for freedom that you have been set free. But one of the things that we also need to think about is taking it to another level, digging down a little bit in what that means for us as a church. How can you be an agent of grace in affirming freedom in your conversations with others? How can you lovingly correct a brother or sister who seems to be judging someone for something that God hasn't said in his word? Hear me out. I am not telling you to police one another's conversations at all times. You will become a different type of burden to your friends if you do that. But seriously. If we are going to be a people who have a culture of rejoicing in the freedom that we have in Christ, we cannot let one another continue judging each other in the midst of our conversations. Even think about how you do it in your own life. I do it. I'm a sinner. I'm like these Pharisees. But it's for freedom that Christ has set us free Let us develop and cultivate a spirit and culture of grace and rejoicing in the freedom that we have And not only that, but we need to understand that one of the great dangers that we need to come to terms with is the relationship between legalism and delusion. Legalism and delusion, a rigid legalism that prides itself on punctilious obedience to God's commands all the while you are mean and merciless to others, is genuinely deluded in thinking that God is satisfied with them by I'm observing these laws, but I am just rude to all of you That is delusion, right? Do you think these Pharisees thought God was pleased with them? Of course. Of course. We need to be praying in our lives corporately and individually that a spirit of legalism will not come to characterize this church, but a spirit of grace and love and obedience to God's word, the way that Jesus sets it out and models for us. But this is where we need to look at our passage again and see the plain truth about God's attitude toward this type of behavior. Look at verse 5. One of the great things about the Gospels that I want to encourage you to really kind of sink your teeth into is that the Gospels show you in human form how God responds to particular attitudes. And what do we see in verse five? And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart. This is the only time in the Gospels, the only time in the Gospels that Jesus is explicitly described as angry. This is the type of attitude that God has towards those who add to his law and burden others with those. And it's a right response. It's a right response. Their legalism and traditionalism had robbed them of love for God. They love theology, not theos. They love theology, not God. They love the way that other people esteem them because of their observance to commands that God never even gave. Their love for praise from others replaced their love. for God and they were so blinded that they couldn't even see that God is sitting right in front of them That's what it does. It blinds you to seeing God. And what do they do? How do they respond after seeking to accuse him of healing? They immediately meet to devise a plot to kill him. Is it lawful to do harm or to kill? Apparently it is. Apparently plotting to kill someone doesn't qualify as work in their eyes. And then they meet with the Herodians. This is bipartisan plotting against God. The Herodians were on the other side of the aisle. They were the liberals to the conservatism of the Pharisees. But both groups hated the fact that Jesus threatened the systems of power that they had come to rely on. One author said about this passage, the perfect description, the clash with authority is not over rules, but over who rules. And the threat that Jesus posed is one that could not go overlooked. The Pharisees saw him as a threat to their kingdom, and as we come to learn in Mark's gospel, their plot would come to fruition. Jesus would be wrongly arrested. falsely accused and unjustly executed, with many of the Pharisees standing by mocking him as he died. But you'll remember. We read Psalm 2 earlier about how the rulers of the world take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. And how does God respond in Psalm 2? He laughs. He laughs. Why does he laugh? Because in God's sovereign wisdom The Father, Son, and Spirit, determined before the creation of the world, to send the Son as a sacrifice to pay for the sins of all who would trust in him. The Pharisees, by their own free choice to kill the Son of God, acted in perfect accord with God's definite plan. Acts chapter 2. God laughs because even in their hard-hearted rebellion against God, they work to accomplish his purposes. Because in accomplishing his purposes and killing the Son of God, they made a way for a new covenant to be established between God and His people. What is Jesus saddened about? What is he grieved over? Their hardness of heart. And what are the terms of the new covenant? I will remove their heart of stone and give to them a heart of flesh. God was making a way in their hard-hearted murder of the Son of God for their own hearts to be restored. And when you turn to the book of Acts, you see God's lavish grace and mercy that the very men who would put to death the Son of God come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So look, whether you're here this morning and you're a rebel and you've lived a crazy life, or you're just a hypocritical Pharisee who loves keeping the rules, you need to know that both of you, all of us, all people, have sinned against God. Our problem as a human race is that we have hearts of stone. We are completely opposed to God and his will. And it takes a act of God. For him to remove that heart of stone and give us a heart of flesh so that we might follow him. So whether you're a rebel or whether you're a Pharisee, you have the same problem. You have a heart of stone. But if you turn to the Lord Jesus Christ And you repent of your sins, the same Son of God who was pierced for your sins will lavish grace and mercy on you and will implant his Spirit in you. And remove your heart of flesh and give to you a heart, or remove your heart of stone, and give to you a heart of flesh, so that you would be obedient to his word. Pharisees are not the only ones who need Jesus. We all need Jesus. Praise God that he has given his son so that we might know him and love him. That we might not burden one another with laws and rules, but we might follow one another and follow him in the freedom that he has given us. Let's pray.