If you have your Bible, I would invite you to open to Colossians chapter 1. According to Forbes In 2018, the largest criminal enterprise in the world was Any guesses? Drugs, human trafficking, the largest criminal enterprise in the world was counterfeiting. Sales of counterfeit and pirated goods totaled more than $1. 7 trillion. And it's estimated that by 2022 Sales of counterfeited goods will exceed two point eight trillion dollars and cost five point four million jobs. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development states that counterfeit products encompass all products made to closely imitate the appearance of the product of another So as to mislead consumers. And the leading industries that have been seriously affected by counterfeiting are software, music recordings, motion pictures. luxury goods and fashion clothes, sportswear, perfumes, toys, get this next one, aircraft components, Lord, help us all from ever being on an airplane with counterfeit parts. Goodness gracious. Car accessories and pharmaceuticals. And in order to fight back against counterfeiters, certain industries have been very vocal about knockoffs of their products and they've gone about Publishing criteria for determining whether a particular item is authentic or a counterfeit. So you think about companies like Louis Vuitton or or Kate Spade and others like them. They tell their customers to inspect a stitching. Inspect the logo, the zippers, the packaging, and so on. Because while counterfeits might look genuine from a distance, when you get up close and look at them, you start to see it's not the real thing But you know, it's not just sectors like luxury goods, software, airplane parts that are affected by counterfeits. Christian ministry is also affected by counterfeits. What distinguishes a genuine, authentic Christian ministry from a counterfeit one? Is there some sort of criteria for authenticity that we can look for? And in fact there is, so if you haven't already opened your Bible to Colossians 1. I want to invite you to open there now. We're going to be looking at verses 24 to 29 of chapter 1, where the Apostle Paul lays out for us Two defining characteristics of genuine gospel ministry. How can you distinguish between a genuine pastor and a counterfeit one? How can you tell if a church is doing genuine gospel ministry or is participating in counterfeit ministry? Well, I want you to follow along as I read for us Colossians 1, 24 to 29. I trust that as I do, the answer will become clear that this is God's word. Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake. And in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. For the sake of his body, that is, the church, of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you. To make the word of God fully known. The mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. To them, God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Last week we saw that authentic, genuine, true gospel ministers and ministries are marked by suffering for Christ. That was in verse 24. And this week we see that genuine gospel ministers and ministries are marked by preaching Christ. That's the message of verses 25 to 29. Central to true gospel ministry. A defining characteristic of genuine gospel ministry is preaching Christ Now this is obvious because after Paul describes his sufferings in verse 24, he zooms in on the specific reason God called him to be a minister. And that reason was to make the word of God fully known. God called Paul for the purpose of preaching and preaching Christ. Look at verse 25. He starts off by reminding the Colossians that he didn't become a minister by his own choice, right? Paul hated the church. He was opposed to the church. He was a Persecutor of the church. He says, I became a minister of the church according to or because of the stewardship from God that was given to me for you. But he's looking back on the fact that he wasn't always a minister of the church, right? He hated and persecuted the church, but then Jesus stopped him on the road to Damascus, gave him a new heart and gave him a new mission in life. That's the stewardship from God that was given to me for you. The way that we would summarize that today is mission. That was his mission in life. That's what he's referring to. And what mission was it that God gave him to do? Preach Christ. Preach Christ in verse 25, Paul describes preaching Christ as making the word of God fully known. Taking the scriptures and expounding them in all of their fullness. Taking every part of scripture explaining its meaning, showing its fulfillment in Christ, and then instructing people on how they should respond in their individual lives. But you'll notice that Paul goes on there to describe the word as the mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. What does he mean by that? What is the mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints? Well, let's think about the context of Colossians 1. The whole chapter has been about the power of the gospel. The good news about the fulfillment of God's plan of redemption. And that at the heart of the gospel is the preeminent Christ. Who died to reconcile lost and ruined sinners to God. So when he calls the word of God a mystery that has now been revealed, he's referring to the fact That before Jesus came, before the coming of Christ, it wasn't clear how and when God would fulfill his promises. to send a Savior and redeem for himself a people from every tribe and tongue and nation. Those promises are scattered throughout the Old Testament. It's how how is this gonna come to pass? We don't see its actual fulfillment. What is the way it is gonna come to pass? And now that that Christ has come, that mystery of all of those promises and how they would be fulfilled. Has been revealed in Christ. Right? It was a mystery because before the coming of Christ, it wasn't clear how God would fulfill his promise to Adam and Eve to send a Savior. It wasn't clear how God would fulfill his promise to bless the nations through Abraham. It wasn't clear what the purpose of the nation of Israel was It wasn't clear how the Gentile nations would come to take part in this great salvation. It wasn't clear how the prophecies of a Messiah who is both a servant and a king would come true. In that sense, it was a mystery. That's why if you read 1 Peter chapter 1, Peter is talking about this very same thing. And he says the prophets. They searched and inquired diligently, wanting to know the time and manner in which these promises would come to pass. But it was not given to them to know, but to you and I to know. What a great privilege we have to see the fulfillment of that plan of redemption. That's why Paul is saying it's no longer a mystery. Because in the coming of Jesus Christ to suffer, die, and rise for his people, that mysterious plan of redemption has now been fully revealed. And the task that God gave to Paul was to make that word of God fully known to God's people. That is Paul, show my people all the ways that Jesus is the fulfillment of all of those promises that I gave to redeem mankind. Show them, make the word of God fully known, Paul, show them how Jesus is the seed of the woman who came to crush the serpent's head Show them how Jesus is the true ark who saves us from God's judgment. Show them how Jesus is the offspring of Abraham and the one through whom all the nations would be blessed. Show them how Jesus is the true Joseph, who was hated and killed by his brothers, yet was raised from the pit, then rose to the right hand of power and became the Savior of the world. Show them how Jesus is the true Moses, the unlikely leader who would rescue God's people from Satan's power and their slavery to sin. Show them how Jesus is the true Passover lamb, whose blood protects us from the angel of death. Show them how Jesus is the true tabernacle and temple, the one in whom the fullness of God dwelled. Show them how Jesus is bread from heaven and water from a rock for those of us wandering in the wilderness of this world. Show them how Jesus is the true high priest. Who enters the most holy place, not by the blood of bulls and lambs, but by the sacrifice of his own perfect life, and who always, always, right now, lives to intercede for them Show them how Jesus is great David's greater son, the true David who slayed a far greater enemy than Goliath when he defeated sin, death, Satan, and hell on the cross the true king who rules in perfect righteousness and justice, not a man after God's own heart, but a man who possesses God's own heart and who sits on an eternal throne over an unshakable kingdom. Show them how Jesus is the true Solomon Who's building the true temple of God? The true wise king in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And unlike Solomon, who never turned away Show them how Jesus is the truly blessed man who meditated on God's word day and night from Psalm 1. The righteous sufferer who was crucified yet rises to rescue his people from Psalm 22. The anointed king enthroned on Mount Zion in Psalm 2, and the one who sits at God's right hand in Psalm 110. Show them how Jesus is the suffering servant from Isaiah. The true Jeremiah who weeps over his people's sins, the true presence of God who comes to his exiled people in Ezekiel, the Son of Man who comes on the clouds and receives all authority in Daniel. the prophet who spends three days in the belly of the earth like Jonah, the ruler who comes from Bethlehem and Micah, the humble king. who comes to his people riding on a donkey from Zechariah. He is the word who was from the beginning. He created all things. He sustains all things. He is the lion and the lamb. the Savior and the Judge, the beginning and the end, the Alpha and the Omega, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory Forever and ever make the word of God fully known. Preach Christ Paul preach Christ. This is the one task I have given you to do that takes place over every other task in ministry. Make the word of God fully known by showing them how the entirety of my plan of redemption is fulfilled in him. Jesus, preach Christ. That is why Paul sums up his approach to preaching the way that he does in verse 28. Look there with me. probably one of my favorite verses in the New Testament. Him we proclaim. Him. What is the message of your church? Him. It is Christ. If we had a church where we could like carve some message on the wall about what we are about, Him we proclaim. That is what CBC is about. That is what my ministry is about. That is what your life should be about. Him we proclaim. We preach Christ. Notice that Paul says we. He doesn't say him I proclaim and I'm the only one doing it. No, he says him we proclaim. If you go back to the beginning of Colossians, who's writing the letter? Paul and Timothy. And then at the end of the book, you see that Epaphras is also part of that ministry. Paul is talking about him and Timothy and Epaphras and Peter and James and John and all the apostles and all genuine ministers of the gospel, we preach Christ because Christ is what you and I need most. That's why I don't preach myself. I don't preach self-help tips. I don't preach therapy I don't preach how to live your best life now. I don't preach health, wealth, and happiness. I don't preach current affairs. I don't preach how to alleviate poverty. I preach Christ because what you and I need most is Christ. All of him. That is what we need. E. V. Hill was the pastor of Mount Zion Missionary Baptist Church in Los Angeles, California. Uh he was a pastor there from 1961 until his death in 2003. And Hill used to tell the story of an old woman in his congregation that he called old 1896. I'm guessing he never called her that to her face. But he called her old eighteen ninety six. I'm guessing that's when she was born. And Hill said Old 1896 had the habit of letting young preachers know whether or not they were fulfilling their calling to preach Christ. If old 1896 wasn't pleased with the Christ-centeredness of the preaching, she would start saying, lift him up Lift him up. Lift him up. And if the preacher didn't start preaching more, Christ old 1896 would just keep going. Lift him up. Lift him up because what the congregation needed, what she needed, what all Christians needed, is for Christ to be lifted up. He needs to be exalted in our presence. He needs to be exalted in our hearts. We need to have our eyes lifted off this world and up to Christ. That's why Paul says: set your minds in heaven on things above, where Christ is seated at God's right hand. You won't be of any earthly good until you are so heavenly minded that you can start living like Christ on earth. Lift him up. Old 1896 knew what she needed. She knew what you and I needed. Him, we, pro, claim, week in and week out. over and over again. We see how contrary that is to our world today, right? Social media platforms like Instagram, Twitter, and TikTok, they reward innovation. They reward pumping out new and better content. And they train us into thinking that if we want to gain a following and then grow our following, we have to get on the treadmill of always innovating, always pumping out more new stuff. You can't do the same old thing or people won't follow you. You need to constantly innovate. But you and I don't need new things. We don't need innovation. What we need is to be reminded of the old story. My job as your pastor is literally to be a one-trick pony and to preach Christ. Every Sunday, week in and week out. If another elder is in this pulpit or another man is in this pulpit, his job is to preach Christ. That is what you and I need. But preaching Christ week in and week out doesn't mean a bare and boring rehearsal of the same facts over and over again, right? It's not to preach the same message every Sunday. My job is to present to you Christ in the fullness of his glory, according to the particular passage of scripture that we are looking at. It means preaching Christ as our Savior. It means preaching Christ as our Redeemer, as our rescuer, as our King. It means preaching Christ as the one who is high and lifted up, yet who also draws near to the lowly It means preaching Christ as our high priest and mediator and our intercessor, the one who sits at God's right hand. It means preaching Christ as our rabbi and our teacher It means preaching Christ as our brother, who was made like us, and because he shared in our nature, he's able to sympathize with us in our weakness. It means preaching the sufferings of Christ. the sorrows of Christ, the mercy of Christ, the grace of Christ, the pleasures of Christ, the truth of Christ, the glory of Christ, the power of Christ, the holiness of Christ, the full of Christ, it is to preach all of Christ For all of life. You need to see how the glorious buffet that has been set before you in Scripture, that there is there is no end to the riches of God's word. And how they are fulfilled in Christ, and then how that then works back out into your particular life. All of Christ for all of life. And that requires warning and teaching. Look at verse 28. Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom. My warning. Because Christ the Savior is also Christ the Judge. Christ the Creator is also Christ the destroyer. Jesus has the power to destroy both soul and body in hell. That is not a popular thing to say today. But it needs to be said because it's part of true gospel proclamation. Gospel means good news. Can't grasp the goodness of the good news until you understand the badness of the bad news. Right, you and I have fallen short of God's holy and perfect standard. Sinned and rebelled against him. All you got to do is look closely at your life today, in this past week. You'll have plenty of examples Brought shame upon ourselves and under God's judgment. And because God is just, look at it, let me just ask you a question. Do you desire to see a just ruler rule over the earth today? I bet you do. There is one. His name is Jesus. The problem with that though, for you and I, is we are unjust. And he will punish everyone who has sinned But God is also merciful. He is not only just, he is perfectly loving and merciful. And he sent his son, the eternal God, into the world to live the life that we should have lived, but none of us have. Died the death that we deserve, but none of us will, if we repent of our sins and trust in him. And then he rose from the dead and God said, Yes, I accept your sacrifice. And all who put their faith in you and repent of their sins and walk with you will be saved from my coming judgment. That is the warning of the bad news and the goodness of the good news, and that is for you today. If you've not trusted in Jesus Jesus welcomes you to come to him with open arms. Just read the pr the story of the prodigal son. Most of us know it whether we grew up in a Christian home or not Right? It's an amazing story of how a guy just blows everything in life, just ruins his inheritance, hates his father, goes off and does everything he shouldn't do. comes to the end of himself and says, well man, I have blown everything in life. What should I do? And he has this brilliant idea. I should return to my father. And he returns to his father, but because he's like you and me, he comes back to his father and he's like, uh, dad's gonna hate me. Dad won't love me. What does dad do? Dad runs to him, embraces him, says, come home. I'm gonna kill the fattened calf for you. We're gonna have a feast. That is God's love and mercy to you. You can have that today. You turn from your sins and trust in Jesus. We also need to be warned, though, because those who've already put their hope in Christ need to be warned not to turn away. Continue. Continue in the faith. Don't be led astray by human philosophies, Paul will go on to say in chapter 2. Don't turn back to your former way of living, the author of Hebrews writes. We need to be warned about the deceitfulness of sin in our own lives. True gospel proclamation entails warning. But we also need to be taught. Paul says warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom. Teaching is central to the ministry of the gospel. Paul had already prayed for the Colossians to grow in their understanding of God. Increase in the knowledge of God. And that that growth and that increase in the knowledge of God requires teaching. Teaching not an end in itself. We shouldn't seek to store up information so that we can walk around and self-righteously judge others because of how much we know about God. It's supposed to affect our lives. We learn about God, we increase in knowing God, and then we live more and more like Christ, right? We need to be taught who God is. Who we are, who Christ is, what He came to do, and how He calls us to live. We need to be instructed so that we're renewed in our minds and we grow in walking in a manner worthy of God. We need to hear of Christ and how he calls us to live. And the reason genuine gospel ministries preach Christ is because Christ. is the only message that has the power to change anyone and everyone. Notice Paul's emphasis on preaching Christ to everyone. Him we proclaim warning everyone and teaching everyone that we may present everyone mature in Christ. The Colossian church was a diverse church. Right? There were Jews and Gentiles There were barbarians, which is an actual people group, not just people who were like didn't clean their rooms and you know made a mess everywhere. Barbarian people group. There were barbarians. and Scythians who came from the area of Russia. There were slaves and free people. And what did every single one of them need? Christ. Christ. What does your dyed-in-the-wool leftist liberal neighbor need? Christ. What does your MAGA hat wear and QAnon conspiracy believing neighbor need? Christ What does your black neighbor need? Christ. What does your white neighbor need? Christ, what do Asian and Indian, rich and poor, educated, uneducated need? Christ We all need Christ because Christ, only Christ has the power to change everyone. And that's why Paul gives all of his energy, all of his time. all of his heart to preaching Christ and making the Word of God fully known. Because only Christ preached rightly from the Word of God has the power to mature us in the faith. Look at verse 28 again. Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom. Why? So that We may present everyone mature in Christ. The purpose of proclaiming Christ through wisdom-filled warning and teaching is to present everyone mature in Christ The regular preaching of the gospel is at the heart of all growth in the faith. It is the heart. Remove the heart and the body dies. What does this mean for you and me today? One thing it means is that when you're looking for a church, you need to provide prioritize above all else. Finding a church that preaches the gospel faithfully and fully. Not the health and wealth gospel Not the therapeutic, moralistic, deistic gospel where people are taught just to be nice and try to find happiness in this life for Jesus. Right? Not the gospel of works that preaches Jesus but then calls you to save yourself, but the gospel of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So for the teens, I want to talk to you all for a minute, especially those of you who are getting closer to leaving for college. You need to make sure that at the top of your list of what to look for in a church is preaching the gospel. A church that preaches Christ in all of his fullness. Not a watered-down Jesus or a Jesus who is your Savior, but not your Lord. Right? You need the full gospel, Christ in all of his fullness. And as you look for a church, it is okay to look for churches where you enjoy the music. And there are ministries for you to be involved in and things like that, but it is most important for you that a church preaches Christ in all of his fullness If the gospel isn't being preached at a church, you shouldn't be at that church. You know how when you're searching for an item online, you can select filters to narrow down your search results Right, this is fresh on my mind because I was looking at dishwashers yesterday and I wanted a GE, but not just a GE, one with a sound rating beneath 50 decibels. and one that was also under five hundred dollars and one that was stainless steel and one that was twenty-four inches wide. By the time I was done setting all the different filters, there were like two dishwashers to choose from. But Made my choice a lot easier. When you make preaching the fullness of Christ one of your filters, it may mean that there aren't that many churches to choose from, but that's okay. You're removing from your search the churches that aren't going to feed you or mature you in the faith I'd go so far as to say that if you're looking to move to a particular area for college and there isn't a church that preaches Christ in all of his fullness, you should look for another college. And I'd say the same to all of us. If you're thinking about moving, finding a church that preaches Christ has to factor into your decision. If you are given that decision, I know the those in the military are not given that decision in the same way. If you can't find a church that preaches the gospel in the area you're considering moving to, I would strongly encourage you to reconsider. That may mean not taking a job. That'd be good for your career. But it's a decision you should make because while your job is important and your livelihood is important, the condition of your eternal soul is far more important. You need to make sure you live somewhere where you can find a church that preaches Christ. That's why the gospel and the word of God is so central to our services. Here, we want you to feast on the Word and on Christ so that you grow healthier and stronger in every way. That's why it's not only central to our services, it's why I lead Bible study twice a month to make the Word of God fully known It's why we preach from every part of Scripture, both old and new, systematically through books of the Bible, not skipping any of it. It's why we make studying books at uh books of the Bible or books that help us apply the word so central in our small groups. And look, I'm not up here trying to boast at all. We have lots of room to grow as a church. I have tons of room to grow as a pastor. We are not doing everything perfectly, not by a long shot. But we are going to ensure that we do everything we can to hold out Christ to you in all of his fullness in every area of our life together as a church, because he is our source of growth in the faith. Preaching Christ is the means God has specifically chosen for our growth in the faith. It is the mark of all authentic ministry in the gospel. So, don't be fooled by counterfeits. Just because a church calls itself a church doesn't mean they are doing the work that God has called them to do. Like with counterfeit bags, look closely. Check the stitching and the logo and the packaging. Make sure that the message that they proclaim is Christ. Him. We proclaim. Let's pray. Father, we didn't even get to consider the fact that you chose to reveal to us the magnificence of this plan of redemption. We could have lived before the cross. We had no we had no say in when we came into the world. We could have lived in the period of time in which it wasn't clear how you would fulfill your promises. Thank you for allowing us to see the fulfillment of your plan of redemption in Christ. Help us to hold fast to him Help us to continue preaching him. Oh Father, we pray that he would always be proclaimed from our pulpit Grow us in the faith we pray. We need your spirit to work in our hearts. Mature us as we hear Christ proclaimed, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.