Good afternoon, friends. It is a joy and a privilege to have this time with you to open up God's Word and to hear Him speak to us through it. I want to ask you to join me in a brief word of prayer as we prepare to dive into His Word. Let's pray. Dear Father in heaven, we believe what you have said about your word. That your entire word was breathed out by your Holy Spirit, and that all of it It's good for instruction, for reproof, for exhortation, for training in the faith. Lord, we desire to hear you speak through your word today. We ask that she would, and we pray that you would also give us hearts that long for your word. That it would find our hearts to be good soil, to be planted within, and to bear everlasting fruit, the fruit of eternal life. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well in 2016, uh David Robson penned an article for BBC Future with the title The Blessing and Curse of People Who Never Forget. I was intrigued by the title, and so I decided to give it a read. In the article, Robson explores the stories of a number of individuals who can remember pretty much every day of their lives in enormous detail. From the smallest of details to the largest of details. And he writes in his article, for most of us Memory is a kind of scrapbook, a mess of uh blurred and faded snapshots of our lives. As much as we would like to cling to our past. Uh even the most poignant moments can be washed away with time. But for the individuals with HSAM or highly superior autobiographical memory. The past isn't a mess of blurred and faded snapshots, but a painstaking recollection of the details of each and every day from the weather to what they were wearing to the people they spoke with and what their conversations consisted of to which side of the train they were sitting on on their way to work. Every detail Every moment of every day instantly recalled. That truly would be a blessing and a curse A curse, because you can never really move on from the pain of particular events or seasons. But a blessing, because you would always remember the moments and the details of the times that were good. And so be able to give thanks for them. I bring up people with highly superior autobiographical memory because I'm guessing that you and I Are not them. Right? We, in all likelihood, don't remember every moment and every detail of every day. And because of that We forget all the reasons we have to praise God In order to help jog our memories, we're going to look today at Psalm 117. So I want to invite you to turn in your Bibles to Psalm 117 As you're turning there, let me provide some context for our passage. You'll note when you get there that it is a short psalm. In fact, it is the shortest psalm in the Psalter, all of two verses long. Psalm 117 is one of a group of psalms that are known as the Egyptian Halel Psalms, Psalms that run from Psalm 113. All the way to Psalm 118. They're called Egyptian Alel Psalms because they recount God saving his people out of Egypt. And they're called Egyptian halel Psalms because they call for God's people to praise him for saving them out of Egypt. Halel is the root of the Hebrew verb. Hallelujah. They give praise to God. The Hallel Psalms and Psalm 117, as we'll see, are about giving praise Let me go ahead and read Psalm 117 for us now. This is God's word Praise the Lord all nations. Extol Him, all peoples. For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. I typically summarize the point of a passage after reading it for us. I'm going to try to do the same, but it's pretty straightforward, right? You can't miss the main takeaway of Psalm 117. It teaches us That the whole world should praise God for his always overflowing love and never-failing faithfulness, right? We see, if you look at Psalm 117, that we should praise. God, right? You literally can't miss it. Psalm 117 is perhaps the easiest psalm in the entire Psalter to know the main takeaway. We should praise the Lord. That is, we should verbally express how awesome God is and how much we love him And the type of praise envisioned and commanded here could be done in a number of different ways, right? It could be done through song. Or through prayer or through different types of instruction. You just think about different parts of the Old Testament in which we find people praising God Think about all the songs in the Old Testament praising God. You have Moses' song of praise after being brought through the Red Sea. Or Deborah's song after defeating the Canaanites. Or the numerous psalms within the Psalter that are set to music and call for the use of instruments and encourage loud singing and shouts of joy. Or think of prayers like Hannah's prayer after the birth of Samuel. Or Solomon's prayer at the dedication of the temple. These are just a few of the many ways that the Israelites Praised God. And central to praising God, whether in song or in prayer or in instruction, was Telling the truth about God. That is highlighting his glorious attributes and bragging on him for his works on behalf of his people. That is praising God for who he is. And what he's done. And the Israelites would obviously have praised God in their individual lives as they went about their days, right? That's certainly in view here. But these commands to praise God were central aspects of their life together as a nation When they gathered corporately, right, to celebrate the Lord at their annual festivals, their holidays, their new moons, and their Sabbaths, they would gather together to praise and extol God. for his greatness. And they would do that through jubilant song, through prayer, and through instruction, all of which centered on who God is and what he's done for us. You just think about Psalm 145, right? Go like we can read Psalm 145 after this sermon if you have time today. How does it start off? Great is the Lord, that's who he is. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable We don't have enough time in our lives, in our days, to search out all of the greatness of his attributes and his character. It is so glorious. But then how does Psalm 145 continue? We praise the Lord for how he's acted on behalf of his people. And we are going to tell the world and all future generations about his mighty works on behalf of his people. We praise the Lord for who he is and for what he's done. But what is noteworthy about Psalm 117 is that it's not the nation of Israel who's being commanded to praise the Lord. Notice who's being commanded to praise the Lord. Praise the Lord all nations. Extol him all peoples. The psalmist is calling for the people of all the surrounding nations to praise Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. And this is noteworthy because Yahweh was the covenant God of Israel. The Israelites were his specially chosen people upon whom he had set his special love and affection, his Hesed love, his steadfast love and enduring faithfulness. You see, the nations outside of Israel were described as separated from God, without hope in the world, walking in darkness and ignorance because of their worship of false gods. But those same nations are being called to join in praising Israel, Israel's God, and specifically to praise him for his steadfast love and enduring faithfulness. In other words, the nations are being called to enter into a saving covenantal relationship with God. Why do I say that Because of how central these two attributes of steadfast love and faithfulness are to God's covenant with his people. You just go back to after the Lord saved Israel out of uh slavery and Egypt and brought them out into the wilderness And Moses asked, Hey, reveal yourself to me. Show me your glory. And how does God respond? What does he say to Moses? He says, I'm going to pass before you. You will see some of my glory, and I will declare to you. my name and my character. And he said he's essentially saying, this is who I am. When I tell you my name and I tell you about myself, I am telling you about my character and the display of my works to my people. And what does he say to Moses? He passed before him and says, The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. keeping steadfast love for thousands and forgiving iniquity, rebellion, and sin. At the heart of his revelation to Moses of who he is, Yahweh declares to him, I am a God who is full of steadfast love and faithfulness. That is for us to see that steadfast love and enduring faithfulness are the sum and substance of all of his dealings with his people. They are, as one commentator put it, central features of God's name and emblematic of his entire character Steadfast love and faithfulness are nothing less than the complete expression of his saving love for his chosen people. Let's just step outside of Psalm 117 for a moment. You come to Psalm 117 and you you read, uh Praise the Lord all nations, extol them all peoples. If you're just opening up the Bible to Psalm 117, You're like, okay, yeah, praise the Lord. That's gets good. I need to praise the Lord. Why? For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. And it's very easy for us to just look at that and think, yeah, not a big deal. Right? Not too much to that. Thank you, Lord, for your steadfast love and faithfulness. But just think about the fact that Psalm 117 is essentially a summary and thesis statement of the entire Psalter. Which is declaring the fullness of God's steadfast love and faithfulness towards His people. What else do we learn about God's steadfast love and faithfulness in the Psalms, just the Psalms themselves? We learn that it's because of God's steadfast love and faithfulness that his people will enter his house. Psalm 5, verse 7. God's steadfast love and faithfulness follow his people all the days of their lives. Psalm 23, verse 6. Steadfast love and faithfulness are all of his ways and all of his paths. Psalm 25, verse 10. We can praise him for his steadfast love and faithfulness, even during times of suffering. Psalm 31, verse 7. We also learn that steadfast love and faithfulness surround those who trust in the Lord. They preserve God's people, endure forever, watch over his people. Hold his people when their faith is slipping and and are from everlasting to everlasting and better than life itself There was never a moment in the life of an Israelite when God's steadfast love and faithfulness were not working for them. And so he was always worthy of praise because of them. But how could the nations praise God for his steadfast love and faithfulness when they were directed at the salvation and preservation of the people of Israel? The answer is that God's steadfast love and faithfulness to the people of Israel were not only for Israel's good and salvation. But were also for the eternal good and salvation of people from all over the world. The nations were supposed to see God's covenant relationship with Israel. They were supposed to see the way that God poured out his steadfast love and faithfulness to them and be drawn to worshiping the Lord themselves. And this is crucial for how we read our Bibles. God's intention for all the nations to worship him is not a New Testament invention. Right? As though God tried his hardest with the Israelites in the Old Testament, but then threw up his hands after it became clear that they were just going to continue breaking his laws and decided to just give it a shot with the Gentiles, right? That's not how we should read the Bible. The Old Testament is shot through with God's promises to and purposes for the nations. For people from every tribe and tongue and nation to worship him. Think about his covenant with Abraham, right? That through him all the nations would be blessed. Or Moses' song in Deuteronomy 32, before the nation of Israel goes into the promised land, where he calls all the nations to bow down and worship God. Or think of Isaiah's vision in chapter 2 of Isaiah of the mountain of the Lord and the people from every tribe and tongue and nation flowing to this mountain to worship Israel's king. Or think about his prediction of the servant of the Lord who would come to be a light to the Gentiles. God has always been a missionary God. It was never his intention to be the God of Israel only. He always intended for people from every tribe and tongue and nation to worship him And to worship him for his steadfast love and enduring faithfulness. A steadfast love and enduring faithfulness that God fully displayed When he sent his son Jesus Christ into the world. Think about how Paul describes Jesus' appearing to Titus in Titus chapter 3. What does he say about it? He says. When the goodness and loving kindness, that is the steadfast love, when the goodness and steadfast love of God, our Savior, appeared, He saved us. . Not because of works done in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. Jesus is the very embodiment and manifestation of God's steadfast love and faithfulness because he is the embodiment of God himself. And he came to offer his life as a ransom to rescue not only the Jews, but a people from every tribe and tongue and nation from their slavery to sin. And after he was crucified and buried, he rose from the dead, displaying his victory over sin and death and hell and proving to all That not even death itself can stop God's overflowing, his overflowing love and never failing faithfulness. And he calls all peoples from every nation's to turn from their sins To walk in newness of life and to trust in Him completely for their salvation. Friends, that's why we're gathered here to get here today. That's why we gather every Sunday To be reminded of God's steadfast love and faithfulness towards us and do exactly what this psalm is calling us to do. To praise God for them. That's why we saying, praise to the Lord the Almighty, right? His good, surely his goodness and mercy daily attend thee. Psalm 23, verse 6. That's what we're saying. Great is thy faithfulness. Morning by morning, new mercies abound for his people who have trusted in the embodiment of his steadfast love in Jesus Christ. To praise him for a love and faithfulness that he not only showed on the cross, but a love and faithfulness that have followed us and will follow us all the days of our lives. You know, as I think about that, I wonder if you believe that today. That God's steadfast love and faithfulness do in fact follow you every single day. Do you believe that today? Do you believe that they have followed you and will follow you all the days of your life I'm guessing that if you're struggling with sin, that might be hard to believe, right? When we struggle with sin, it's hard to believe that God would show us steadfast love and enduring faithfulness. Because when other people sin against us, our love for them is more like a roller coaster. Right? We I don't think we could describe our love for other people who sin against us as my love for you is steadfast right now. It's not wavering or waning in any way, but we can praise God. That God is not like us. He committed his steadfast love and faithfulness to us, knowing full well just how sinful we were and are. This is where we need to be comforted and encouraged by the account where God revealed his name and character to Moses When God revealed himself to Moses in the book of Exodus, it was after the Israelites had made the golden calf and worshipped idols Their sin provided the context for God to reveal Himself as a God of steadfast love and enduring faithfulness Our sins don't cause God to recoil from us, but provide him with the opportunity to show us more of his steadfast love and faithfulness If you've read Gentle and Lowly by Dane Ortland, uh then you would see this in Chapter 1. I love the way that he put it. He says, you know We tend to think of of Jesus as uh a little boy who's kind of squirming, recoiling as he reaches out to touch like a snail or some some funky creature like oh like in in our sins this is how Jesus reaches out to us but that that's not how Jesus comes to his people he Opens his arms and calls all of us to come to him. And Dane Ortland says in chapter 1 that our sins are what get Jesus out of bed in the morning. He came to save sinners, not the righteous, right? Your sins don't cause God's steadfast love to wax and wane for you. His steadfast love for you is great. And it's steadfast. It doesn't go up and down. And because you and I will struggle with sin the rest of our lives, we need to be reminded of how great God's steadfast love and faithfulness are. Which is why the psalmist calls people to praise God for great is his steadfast love towards us. Great It is not small. It is not little. It is not minor, unimpressive, or modest. It is great. It is immense, gigantic, colossal, and tremendous. Our many sins are swallowed up by the greatness of his love for us. Do you notice that great is his steadfast love? It doesn't flicker, wax, or wane. It is not wavering, unstable, undependable, undependable, uncertain, or unpredictable It is great in its steadfastness and steadfast in its greatness. You can never have more of God's steadfast love than you have in this moment if you have trusted in Christ. Now the question you have to ask yourself is how should that change my life today? How should that change how you treat other people? How should the fact that God never changes, never wanes, never waxes in his love and faithfulness to you, how should that change how you treat other people in your life? How should that affect your attitude and demeanor each day? How should that change how you come to God in his word and in prayer this week? One thing we know for sure is that his steadfast love and faithfulness should cause us to praise God. To praise him every day in song, in prayer, in conversations with others. But the greatness of his steadfast love and faithfulness Should also motivate us to call the nations to come and praise and worship God. God has called and equipped us to take the gospel to the nations Right, Psalm 117 is the missionary psalm of the Psalter. God has always intended his people to call the nations to join in worshiping him. That's why Paul cites Psalm 117 in Romans 16. He cites it as proof that God has always intended to gather a people from every tribe and tongue and nation. And since it is important to God, it should be important to us. Right? We gather corporately to worship and praise God and then scatter to call other people to do the same throughout the week. It's why we dedicate a portion of our budget to supporting overseas workers. It's why we want to be a church that plants other churches and sends missionaries out to share the gospel. Because we want to see the nations around DC And around the world come and worship God and praise Him for His steadfast love and enduring faithfulness. And we have the glorious vision Of Revelation chapter 7, depicting the fulfillment of Psalm 117's call for worldwide praise, where God's throne is finally surrounded. by people from every tribe and tongue and nation. And we can praise God knowing that that vision will come to pass because God's steadfast love and his faithfulness endure forever. At that point, friends, we won't have to be have to be reminded anymore of all the reasons that we have to praise God because we will be dwelling in the presence of God's steadfast love and faithfulness forever. Let's pray. We praise you for your steadfast love and enduring faithfulness. We praise you for how great it is, that it is like a a a an overflowing river, a a breaking dam, a a tidal wave approaching the shore. There is Far more mercy in you than there is sin in us, as Richard Sibbs said. Lord, we we praise you for the greatness of your steadfast love and your enduring faithfulness. We pray that you would help us to rest in it today, and that you would help us to call others to worship and praise you. And we ask that you, in your mighty power, would be gathering a people today from every tribe and tongue and nation. We take great comfort and encouragement in the fact that there are churches not only all around our area today, but all around the world who have gathered to worship and praise you, and that through their witness you are drawing people to yourself. We pray that you would continue doing that great work until the day when you send your Son to finally and fully gather your people. We look forward to that day. Encourage us and help us to continue to walk in faithfulness as we wait. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.