Please pray with me one more time as we prepare to open God's word together. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you say that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. We are a uh a people who are spiritually malnourished. Father, we need your word. We need to be fed by your word this morning Would you cause us to both hunger for it and to feed upon it that you might provide by your Holy Spirit the spiritual nourishment that we also desperately need? And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends, I want to start off our time this morning by working on our imaginations just a little bit. What I want you to do with me is I want you to imagine. I want you to imagine with me that you are right now Not at Bladensburg Elementary School. If you need to close your eyes, you can do this. I want you to imagine with me that you are in a gigantic. sports arena. Think uh Wembley Stadium, Wembley Field or something like that. One of those massive European League soccer stadiums. The place is packed. There is an ocean of people. The ocean of people is just kind of writhing as, you know, when you get thousands and thousands of human beings together. do and I want you to now imagine with me that you are not in the crowd, but you are actually standing in the middle of the field surrounded by the crowd. So you're looking up at this ocean of people and they're cheering and chanting and going. Crazy kind of if you are familiar with the European League Soccer. I'm not a huge football uh soccer fan, football fan, uh, but I love their chanting kind of the ole olay oh like the crowd just goes crazy. I love that chanting It just gets me energized. I want to go play soccer, even though I'm terrible at it. But I want you to imagine that kind of chanting and cheering going on around you. And then over the PA system you hear the announcer say And now, coming to take their place upon the winner's podium, finishing the event in first place. And as you say, as they're saying that, you can hear the roar of the crowd, crescendoing. It's just building higher and higher. Finishing the event in first place in record time. Please welcome to the winners podium, the new champion of the world. And then to your amazement, you hear your name called. You hear your name called. The champion of the world, Branch Robson, and the crowd goes crazy. Or Evan or Rochelle Richter and the crowd goes crazy. You realize the crowd is cheering for you. Wow. They're cheering for me. And you you walk out and you take your place atop the winner's podium and the gold medal goes around your neck and the crowd roars. Imagine, imagine that happening to you. That would be an exhilarating experience And I think the reason it would be so exhilarating is because deep down, all of us, all of us wants to win. We all want to be seen and known as the best in a particular field. It doesn't have to be a sports arena that we think about. We want to be the first chair. In an orchestra. We want to be known as the best lawyer, the best litigator. We want to be known as the best parent, the best writer, the best computer scientist, whatever it might be. We all want to win deep. Down, all of us wants to be commended. We want someone to look at our body of work and say, well done. You deserve to be recognized for your achievements. But you see, that one of the reality realities is in this world is that all too often, when it comes to seeking commendation, We all too often have our eyes set on only receiving commendation in this life. But I have a question for you this morning. I wonder. How many of you here today are concerned about whether or not you'll be commended by God in the life to come? I wonder how many of you are concerned about whether or not God will say to you, Well done, good and faithful servant, for the life that you've lived now. If today was your last day on earth And we all need to recognize that today may be our last day on earth. We just don't know it yet. We don't know the number of our days. Only God has those numbered. If today, though, was your last day on earth and you came to stand before God. Do you think he would commend you for the life that you've lived? Take a moment and think about it. Do you think God would commend you for the life that you've lived? Would you end up the first chair in God's orchestra? Would you win the spiritual Pulitzer? Would you stand atop the winner's podium and have God's gold medal placed around your neck? Luckily, we actually don't have to guess whether or not God would commend us for our lives because our passage this morning lays out for us two portraits of two different types of lives. One life we will find is condemned by God. And the second life that we see in our passage this morning is commended by God. So if you want to know what type of life leads to condemnation from God and what type of life leads to commendation from God, our passage this morning is the perfect type of passage to come to in the Bible. So if you haven't already, I would encourage you to turn with me in your Bible to Mark chapter 12. verses thirty eight to forty four, which Abbey read for us already this morning. If you're using one of the Bibles that we have provided, you can find the passage on page eight forty nine. And I want to encourage you, if you don't own a copy of the Bible for yourself, You can take the copy that we've provided on our chairs. That's a gift from us to you. In verses 38 to 40, we're going to look at the passage under two headings, condemnation and commendation. In verses 38 to 40, we'll see the type of life that God condemns. And then in verses 41 to 44, we'll see the type of life that God commends. So we want to understand what type of life will lead to commendation from God. So first in verses 38 to 40, let's look first at the type of life that God condemns. Look down at verses 38 to 40 with me. That's where you see Jesus describes the type of life that God condemns by pointing to the scribes as an illustration. The scribes were part of the religious authorities in Jesus' day, and the scribes really embodied the attitudes and behaviors that lead to condemnation rather than commendation. So look at verses 38 and 39 in particular. Jesus lists four revealing things about the scribes. So first, they like, they they enjoy, they like to walk around in long robes Then they they like the greetings in the marketplaces. They have the best seats in the synagogue and the places of honor at feasts. These are really in Jesus' culture four very powerful images. So do any of the kids, can any of the kids guess for me, if you think you know, what it was about the robes? What were the the robes of the scribes describing? What are the robes and what's unique about them? Let's go to the back row. Importance and how so? How do you think the robes communicated importance? So the robes marked them out by what they wore and the way that they looked, right? Yeah, very good. The robes were super important in Jesus' day because the robes that the scribes wore and the robes that the Pharisees wore Set them apart as people who knew God. You think of clerical robes in our day or vestments, right? So everyone knew that a scribe was coming because of what they were wearing. They liked putting on those long robes and they liked the status that that conferred to them and the way that people looked at them because of that. People knew when a scribe was walking by simply by the long flowing robes that he was wearing. And because of their status, they commanded authority from those around them. That's why Jesus says they like the greetings in the marketplaces. So when scribes walked through the marketplaces in Jesus' culture, the people who were sitting were expected to stand. Why? Because an important person who knows the Lord and who understands his word is coming through. Right? They had to honor the scribes as they were walking by. And you should start thinking about this. Look Hey, we're all human here, right? If you if I don't know if any of you have had courtside seats at some like amazing uh sporting event, right, whether it's a basketball game or a football game, you start to walk down, you like I'm about to go sit on the first row and everybody knows what that means about me. I have money and I'm important and I'm powerful. It's a little bit like this. The scribes Walked around and you start realizing I'm putting these robes on and now people have to stand when I walk by. I like this. I like being honored, right? That's what's going on here. Not only that, but they also got the best seats at the synagogue, kind of like that sporting event So at the synagogue they sat on the the days or the platform at the front of the synagogue facing all the people. So all eyes were on them You could only sit up there if you were a scribe and you were going to teach. They also sat in the places of honor at feasts. So whenever a person uh held a feast at their home or at their estate. It was very important to set aside seats of honor, and the seats of honor were always closest to the host. And the scribes were always placed in those seats of honor. And that meant you got the best of the food, you got the best of the drink, and you got the best of the service. You can see this life is comfortable. I like the honor that comes with this. I like the perks that come along with this job. But we also see if you look at verses 38 and 39. Or moving on to verse 40, you see an even more sinister side at work in them. They are greedy. They devour widows' houses This means that they got rich at the expense of the most vulnerable people around them. It's not exactly clear how they went about devouring widows' houses, but given that we're about to see a widow give the last of her money to the temple treasury and all of her property, this is all she had left. I think what we're supposed to see is that the scribes got rich Taking the last of people's money, even if they were the most vulnerable. And the way that they did that was money was given to the temple treasury. The scribes were part of the people who were in charge of sitting on vast amounts of wealth, and they were happy to devour the the the property of the vulnerable. Because it it built up their life. They didn't care about those around them. But to make matters worse, and this is just really where it gets kind of ugly because I think we all recognize this this level of hypocrisy. To make matters worse, they mask over their greed, they mask over their pride by offering empty acts of pretentious Public piety. They may be filled with arrogance. They may be filled with pride. They may be filled with greed. But oh God, our Father, We love you, and we pray that you would care for your people, even though you've given us to care for the people and we've consumed all that they have. We want you to care for the people We desire that you would cause us to walk in holiness. Right? You see what's going on. They're offering empty prayers in the sight of all the people so that they can maintain their status as the holy ones. So I just want to open this up to everyone here. I want to open this up to everyone here. What do you think Jesus is trying to communicate to us about the scribes? What words come to mind? You just shout 'em out. Hypocrites. What else? Self righteous, what else? Greedy? Right? You look at this passage. The words that should come to mind come to mind for us are arrogant, prideful, greedy, self-righteous, hypocrites. These men are hypocrites. What they're doing is terrible. And that's what leads Jesus to say at the end of verse 40. Look there with me at the end. He says, they will receive the greater condemnation. So hypocrisy leads to condemnation. Hypocrisy leads to condemnation. The reason their hypocrisy led to greater condemnation is because of the unique authority they possessed as leaders of God's people. And the way that their abuse of that authority lied about God and led people away from him. Right? They had a very particular role to lead the people in holiness, but their self-righteous, arrogant, greedy hypocrisy Destroyed people's lives and led them away from the Lord. But we need to recognize also how shocking Jesus' words here would have been The only reason I think that these words aren't surprising to us is because we've been taught, if you've been taught from an early age, scribes, Pharisees, bad. They're bad. Right? In Jesus' culture, this was shocking. They were the most righteous people. They were the most holy ones. Who can attain to the righteousness of the Pharisees? People may have had these. internal kind of intuitions about the ways that they use their authority, but they were viewed as the holy ones, the most favored by God. And this is the great surprise of this passage for us. That the very people we would expect to be commended by God are the people who are condemned by God. And that reality really still holds for us today. Friends, the fact that someone is a pastor or an elder Or holds any other office in a church, says absolutely nothing about their standing with God. Mark Jesus' words The road to hell will in part be paved with pastors. That is what Jesus is teaching. us here. Pastors who love the recognition that comes with being a pastor more than they love the people that they are called to pastor. Pastors who love the honor of being a pastor, but not serving that is required of pastors. Pastors who call their people to live lives that they themselves aren't willing to live. And these, friends, bringing it home to us here today, these are temptations. That every single one of the elders or deacons at CBC will face, myself included. We are not immune from these temptations. Paul says, if anyone thinks he stands Take heed, lest he fall. Right? None of us in this room, elders, deacons, all of us, none of us should say This will never happen to me. As soon as you say this will never happen to me, Satan has his laser dot on you. And he is going to come, and he's going to bring temptations to hypocrisy and arrogance and pride. And just like the scribes slowly became the kind of deeply ingrained hypocrites that they were, it didn't happen overnight Right? That can happen as well to each one of us. So if an apostle could say that, then we as pastors here at CBC can say that as well. And whether I want to take a moment to speak to elders of this church and any man who would desire to be an elder as we think about this passage. Whether you're an elder now or would desire to be an elder in the future, recognize that when you're called to the office of elder, you're also being called to a stricter judgment. The judgment that teachers will face is not going to be the same qualitatively as the judgment that a normal church member would face. I have no idea how that will actually work itself out, but I believe what God says. James says, and I think James is echoing Jesus, not many of you should become teachers, my brothers. For you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. And the reason for this is because what we teach and how we live will directly impact the spiritual health of the people we're called to lead. Right? I think you could assume that this is true. Right, if your pastor was like the scribes, you would probably be really angry and struggling spiritually. But if you saw that your pastor was laying their life down regularly for the for your sake and to see you built up in the faith and the other elders would do that you would probably be doing better spiritually, right? The teachers of the church have a direct impact on the spiritual health of the church. And that is why teachers will be held to a stricter judgment. With our lives and our teaching, we can lead people closer to or further away from God. This is why Paul told Timothy, keep a close watch on yourself And on the teaching. Persist in this, for by doing so you will save both yourself and your hearers. Notice what Paul tells them. He didn't just tell Timothy to keep a close watch on his teaching. He told him to keep a close watch on his life and his teaching, because both his life and his teaching would be used by God to save souls. He uses the minister in that way. Reflecting on Paul's words to Timothy, Robert Murray McShane would later write this. He said, the greatest need of my people is my personal holiness. Not that he thought he was more important than Christ, but that he recognized that his own personal holiness or lack thereof would impact the people God had given him to shepherd. Pastors cannot neglect the importance of both life and doctrine. Richard Baxter would say this in his book, The Reformed Pastor. It is a palpable error of some pastors Who makes such a disproportion between their theology and their living. They study hard to learn exactly and study little to live exactly. They are loath to misplace a word in their sermons or to be guilty of any notable mistake, but they make nothing of misplacing affections, words, and actions in the course of their lives. That is a great description of the scribes. They taught exactly. They taught down to the jot and the tittle, but they did not live exactly. They didn't live in the same way that they taught. And if the elders of CBC are going to be men whose lives match our doctrine, then we are going to need to be men of private prayer. We're going to need to be men of private prayer. You see, the scribes were well versed in praying publicly when they needed to, but what they lacked was a private relationship with and dependence on God. So they they didn't walk with God. And it was that lack of private relationship and dependence on God that slowly led to a lifestyle of deeply ingrained hypocrisy. J. C. Rile was commenting on the relationship between the lack of private prayer and the slow drift from God, and he said this: You may be very sure that men fall in private long before they fall in public. They are backsliders on their knees long before they backslide openly in the eyes of the world. Pastors need to be men of private Prayer, private devotion to the Lord. But we also need the members of this church to be praying for us. Your pastors are in desperate need of your prayers. We need your prayers for our holiness. Our your prayers for our love of God, for our care for the sheep, for our battle against hypocrisy, and for our protection against Satan Right? We all know that one of the goals in a war, one of the primary goals in any war is to take out the leadership of the opposing army, because without leadership, armies flounder and fail. In the same way Your pastors will face peculiar and persistent attacks from Satan because if Satan can destroy the leadership of this local church. . It is likely he could also destroy this local church entirely. And there's plenty of evidence all around us of this happening. This is a reality, friends. Pray for your pastors. Pray for us. Pray for our protection. Pray that Satan wouldn't sift us like wheat. We know that he wanted to do that to Peter. He's going to want to do that to the pastors of churches. Not only that, but you should also aim to call men to be elders who manifest the character of Jesus, right? You want to call men who have strong spines and tender hearts. Look for men who will speak the truth in love, even if it hurts. Look for men who can teach the word. They don't need to be able to stand up and speak publicly. They don't need to be gifted public speakers, but can they open up the word with you? and encourage you in the scriptures and help you understand what they mean. Look for men who can explain the scriptures to others, who serve without desiring recognition Look for men who pursue the lost and the hurting. If you see men doing that in the congregation, you just recognize them as elders. Tell us about them. That's the type of elders we want in this church. But we also need to see here that this battle against hypocrisy isn't something only the pastors need to wage, is it? And no, hypocrisy, the hypocrisy of the scribes, is something that all of us Needs to fight against in our lives. All of us are prone to live in ways that are inconsistent with what we speak and what we believe. I trust that you preach that God deserves all the glory, right? All the glory evermore to him, right? All the glory evermore to Christ. Well, a question for you. Do you use your God-given gifts to draw attention to yourself or to bring glory to God? Are you willing to serve behind the scenes in ways that bring little to no recognition from others? If you're unwilling or yeah, this like I don't want to do this job because I'm not going to get the attention that I want, what you're noticing in your own heart is this kind of hypocrisy of the scribes coming up. You know, you I it may be that God can see this this act of service, but I want other people to see it as well. Right? There's this one anecdote from uh from baseball, uh Hank Aaron, as he was approaching uh breaking uh Babe Bruce's home run record. He was receiving lots of hate mail. People did not want him to break it. And he just lamented one day and he said, look, I don't want people to forget the babe. I just want people to remember me I love that antidote because in some of the same way that that kind of is how we live the Christian life. I don't want people to forget Jesus. I just want to photobomb Jesus. I want people to remember me too. Man, Jesus was great, but John he actually did a great job for Jesus. as well, right? That's kind of the tension in our heart. We want to be known and seen for our acts of service. That reveals a bit of the hypocrisy of the scribes in us. Some other questions. What are things that you're quick to judge others for that you overlook in yourself? What do you find yourself consistently criticizing others for, whether verbally or internally? Hypocrites tend to see the sins of others more quickly and clearly than they see sin in themselves. Do you find yourself more consistently rationalizing sin or confessing it to a brother or sister? You see, hypocrites rationalize sin rather than seeing it as it actually is. When was the last time that you confessed sin to a brother or sister? And is that a regular pattern in your life? Right, the church is supposed to be the type of place where we don't let one another hide behind the veil of hypocrisy. We want to pull back the veil on hypocrisy now so that God doesn't have to pull it back on us on the last day. And I think an illustration that teaches this really well is uh comes from the Queen Mary cruise ship. So the Queen Mary was uh the largest ship to cross the oceans when it was launched in 1936. It served as a cruise liner through four decades and then was conscripted to become a ship in the World War. And she served until she was retired. and became a floating hotel and museum in Long Beach, California. But during the ship's conversion into a hotel, uh her three massive smokestacks were taken off uh to be scraped down and repainted. But when the workers began to scrape down the smokestacks, the smokestacks crumbled. Nothing was actually left of the three quarter inch steel plate from which the stacks had been formed. All that remained were basically more than 30 coats of paint that had been applied over the years. The steel had actually rusted away underneath. All right, we want to pull back the veil on hypocrisy now in our lives because if we don't, it may be that on the last day when God inspects our lives, he only finds 30 coats of paint. Hypocrisy characterizes the type of life that God condemns. And we want to fight against it in our lives. But what about the type of life that God commends? The type of life that God commends. Well, we see the type of life that God commends portrayed in verses 41 to 44. So look down there with me. Jesus, he sits down opposite the treasury. The treasury was part of the broader, bigger temple complex. There were three different large open areas known as courts, and each of those courts had a different name. The temple treasury was in the court of women. It's where all of the Israelite people were able to gather at once to worship the Lord. And against the outer wall of the court of women, there were thirteen trumpet shaped receptacles into which the Israelites would place their offerings. If you've ever seen a shofar or a ram's horn, it was more in the shape of that, because they would blow that as a trumpet, and the the wider portion would go at the bottom, and the The tapered portion at the top so people can stick their hands in, right? You don't want to they don't want to steal the offering. Uh so people would drop their offerings into uh these trumpet-shaped receptacles, and they would do that. They would give their offerings for the maintenance uh of the temple and its ministry. So Jesus is watching people come to give their offerings to the temple, and what he sees are uh is numerous uh uh wealthy people coming and they are giving large sums of money. But if you're following along in the passage Among that crowd of wealthy people, Jesus also sees there in verse 42, a poor widow come and put in two small copper coins. The coins that are mentioned in the original language are two of the smallest coins in circulation at the time. I think this detail just emphasizes her poverty And it's emphasizing her poverty, I think, against the backdrop of the wealth around her, the crowd of wealthy givers. But again, what we find in this passage. Just like his comments about the scribes would have been surprising, so too are his comments about the gifts he's seen given According to Jesus, the poor woman who put in two of the smallest possible coins, she has given more than all the wealthy people who put in large amounts of money. How is that possible? The math doesn't add up. The math doesn't add up. I think it's what we see is that in the kingdom of God, what we see with our eyes isn't actually indicative of the spiritual reality behind it and what God thinks of it How can it be that she gave more than the wealthy people, even though she only put in two small copper coins? Well, Jesus actually gives us the reason there in verse 44. Look there with me. He says that they, the wealthy people, they all gave out of their abundance, their wealth. But she out of her poverty gave everything she had. All she had to live on. What Jesus wants us to see is that it's not the amount that's given that matters, but the amount that's left over once the gift has been given Chris Spano, a local pastor, said this about this passage. He says, God doesn't measure generosity by how much we give. God measures generosity by how little we end up keeping for ourselves. I think that's what Jesus is saying in this passage. The wealthy people gave large sums, yes, but they also had an abundance left over. The poor widow, on the other hand, may have only given two pennies. But she gave the only two pennies she had to her name to God. She had nothing left after that gift in Jesus' eyes. That made her gift more remarkable than the gifts of those who were wealthy. Now the question for us that we need to ask is, does this mean that if we don't give all of our money to the church? Leaving nothing left for ourselves afterwards that God won't commend us? I don't think that's what this passage is teaching We can look to other places in the New Testament to see that. So for instance, Paul says to the Thessalonians that a man must be able to provide for his family, right? Or else he's worse than an unbeliever. He's committed a great sin. And for a person to be able to provide for their family, that would necessitate having income with which to provide for them in the first place. It's also clear when we look to both the Old Testament and the New Testament that God doesn't command or expect us to give all of our income, all of our wealth to the work of the ministry. When you go to the Old Testament, there's a lots of lots of different teaching on giving in the Old Testament. Broadly speaking, what we see in the Old Testament is that God commanded a number of different offerings or gifts that had to be given. But he also allowed for free will gifts to be given on top of those commanded gifts. So if an Israelite uh were to give only the commanded offerings, they would end up giving roughly twenty percent of their wealth away. But if they chose to add on a free will offering on top of that, they may have given upwards of thirty percent of their wealth back. to God. Now one of the reasons that we think about the tithe as a as a 10%, like that's where we should we should aim to give in the New Testament. The tithing language actually comes from the Old Testament in Abraham. uh you know gave a tenth of all he had uh back. Uh that's where that tenth comes from, that tithe comes from. Uh but I think there's good reason to believe that in in the New Testament there's there's no specific amount that's commanded of believers about how much they should give. We don't find specific amounts commanded by God in the New Testament. But what's obvious is that giving to the work of the ministry isn't optional. It's expected of all. It's to be a regular part of our lives as followers But what you find instead, rather than commandments about specific amounts in the New Testament, are guiding principles of sorts for how we should give. Three guiding principles that you see in the New Testament. First, we should give cheerfully. In 2 Corinthians 9, verse 7, Paul writes: Each one must give as he has decided in his heart. Not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. So in response to God's joyful generosity towards us through his son Jesus, we should respond by cheerfully giving what we have back to him. The second, second principle is we should give regularly. In 1 Corinthians 16, 2, Paul writes, on the first day of the week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up. as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting what when I come. So he talks about on the first day of the week, setting aside something to give to the work of the ministry. Now again, this isn't a rule that you need to give each week. Some of you, because of your line of work May not be able to give each week. You may be able only be able to give at lump sums through the course of the year, and there's nothing wrong with that, but we're called to give as regularly as our situation allows and the regularity of our giving is meant to remind us that all we have comes from God in the first place. All we have comes from God in the first place. One thing I want to mention just Just a brief aside from what I've got here in my notes is something that I've experienced in my own life. And if this resonates with you, then maybe you can think about this along with me. If it doesn't, just forget about it. But what I have noticed in the day and age of electronic giving, it has been a great gift and a great curse. It's been a great gift because the money just goes out of my account and it goes to the work of the ministry. And I don't have to think about it. And the fact that I don't have to think about it is also the curse. It causes me to forget that I am actually giving money to the work of the ministry and I forget to pray for that money as it goes to the work of the ministry. It's just kind of like, oh yeah, God'll take it and that's good. But that's that's actually not the picture of giving that God wants us to create and cultivate in our own lives. He wants us to to think about the gifts that we're giving. I'm not saying you shouldn't use EFT or anything like that. What I am saying is if you like me tend to forget about the fact that you're actually giving because it just comes out of your account, find some way to remind yourself so that you can be regularly praying that God would bless your giving and bless your gifts to the church, even if they come out electronically. So we should give regularly. Finally, third, we should give sacrificially. Think about the example of the Macedonians in 2 Corinthians 8. Paul writes, We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia. For in a severe test of affliction their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly For the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints. Abundant joy, extreme poverty, overflowing in wealth. They gave according to their means. They gave beyond their means. They begged us for the favor of taking part in the gift of giving. These are just Weird, amazing combinations of words. Poverty. Yet they gave a wealth. They gave away all that they had. I tend to think, well, no, those are the people who should probably hold on to it. And think about it. They're thinking, no, a much greater gift is ahead, our gift of giving to the work of the ministry so that other people can hear about the riches we have received spiritually in Christ. Because of what Christ has done for us, we can give sacrificially. We even long for that desire to give in that way. It's an astonishing description that is remarkably similar to the poor widow. The Macedonians were extreme in their poverty, but overflowed in their generosity by giving beyond their means. They gave all that they had, and they gave some more. You could say the principle of giving sacrificially. Another way to describe it is You could say that they gave until it hurt. And then they gave some more. Kids, I want to speak to you all briefly. As you all receive money, Whether it's as a gift or it's money that you've earned doing different chores or helping other people out, I want to encourage you to talk with your parents about how you can begin Cultivating this type of generosity in your own life now. How can you cultivate generosity with the money that you receive now so that you can build these patterns of giving joyfully now? Because if you let those patterns Not go developed, the world will teach you to spend all your money on yourself and you will have to work against those very bad patterns for the rest of your life Start building those patterns now of giving to the work of the ministry. I've seen some of you already placing coins in the offering plate. That is amazing. It just kind of causes my heart to explode with joy. To see you already giving to the work of the ministry. I want to encourage you to continue doing that and build those patterns in your life. Ask your parents how they do it in their lives and have them help you think about how you can do that in your life with what you have. Now the rest of us may be wondering, okay, what does this look like? What does it look like to give until it hurts I think the best description of what it looks like that I have heard or found comes from C. S. Lewis's book, Mere Christianity. He provides a really helpful description of what it would look like for us to give until it hurts. to give beyond our means. He said this. I do not believe one can settle how much we ought to give. I am afraid the only safe rule is to give more than we can spare. In other words If our expenditure on comforts, luxuries, amusements, etc. , is up to the standard common among those with the same income as our own, we are probably giving away too little. If our charities do not at all pinch or hamper us, I should say that they are too small. There ought to be things we should like to do and cannot do because our giving excludes them. That's a really helpful quote. If you want that, I'll send it to you later. It's really convicting to me. Matching, if you if your style of life is on par, all of your extracurricular fun activities are on par with people at the same income as you. We might think that we are we are giving too little. Giving should hurt, but the reason that it should hurt is because we are only matching the gift or trying to, attempting to match the gift that Has been given to us, right? I think we often approach the mind the subject of giving the same way we approach other aspects of the Christian life, and that's with the minimum amount mindset, right? What is the minimum amount I need to do to be a loving husband? What is the minimum amount I need to do to love my neighbor? What's the minimum amount I need to give to be commended by God? But you see, the gospel confronts the minimum amount mindset. By showing us how much God was willing to give to save us. Right? The poor widow is a picture of someone who's willing to give all that they have to God. And that is why Jesus. Jesus commends her. But the poor widow, as moving as her giving is, is only a dim reflection of a much greater act of generosity. When the Lord Jesus Christ, who though he was rich, became poor for our sake, so that by his poverty we could become rich And he did that not only by giving until it hurt, but by giving until he died. He gave his life as the sacrificial offering to pay for our sins. Sins of hypocrisy, sins of arrogance, sins of pride, and sins of greed. A friend, each one of us deserves To be condemned by God for our lives. Only Jesus lived a life worthy of being commended by God. But Jesus himself promises that to all who turn to him in repentance and faith, they will be forgiven of their sins and will share in the commendation that he himself has purchased for us. What do you need to do to live a life that's worthy of being commended by God? Turn to Jesus Christ in repentance and faith and continue turning to Him in repentance and faith and faith every day of your life. Will you do that today? Will you live a life that will be commended by God on that last day? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, these things are too great for us But we struggle against the flesh. We struggle against our desire to have things in this life. And we want to hold on to the material world. And we want to acquire and accumulate for ourselves. But create in us the joyful generosity that we would give of our own wealth to see others come to know the riches, the true riches that we have experienced in Jesus Christ. Help us to put to death sins of hypocrisy and pride, arrogance, and greed. Help us to come alive to the Lord Jesus Christ today and to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which we've been called. called and we pray this all in Jesus name amen