Genesis chapter 5, beginning in verse 1. This is the book of the generations of Adam. When God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. Male and female, he created them, and he blessed them and named them man when they were created. When Adam had lived a hundred and thirty years, he fathered a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth. The days of Adam, after he fathered Seth, were eight hundred years, and he had other sons and daughters Thus all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died. When Seth had lived 105 years, he fathered Enosh Seth lived after he fathered Enosh 807 years, and he had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died. When Enosh had lived 90 years, he fathered Cenan. Enosh lived after he fathered Cenan 815 years, and he had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enosh were 905 years, and he died When Kenan had lived seventy years, he fathered Mahalalel. Kenan lived after he fathered Mahalalel 840 years, and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Canaan were nine hundred ten years, and he died. When Mahalalel had lived sixty five years, he fathered Jared. Mahalalel lived after he fathered Jared eight hundred thirty years, and he had other sons and daughters Thus all the days of Mahalalah were 895 years, and he died. When Jared had lived 162 years, he fathered Enoch Jared lived after he fathered Enoch 800 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died. When Enoch had lived sixty five years, he fathered Methuselah. Enoch walked with God after he fathered Methuselah three hundred years, and had other sons and daughters, thus all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty five years Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. When Methuselah had lived 187 years, he fathered Lamech. Methuselah lived after he fathered Lamech seven hundred and eighty-two years, and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died. When Lamech had lived 182 years, he fathered a son and called his name Noah, saying, Out of the ground that the Lord has cursed, this one shall bring us relief from our work and from the painful toil of our hands Lamech lived after he fathered Noah 595 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Lamech were 777 years, and he died After Noah's five hundred years, Noah fathered Shem, Ham, and Japheth. When man began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them The sons of God saw that the daughters of man were attractive, and they took as their wives any that they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh. His days shall be a hundred and twenty years The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man, and they bore children to them These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land. man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in this generation. Noah walked with God, and Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence, and God saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on earth. And God said to Noah, I have determined to make an end of all flesh, for the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make yourself an ark of gopher wood. Make rooms in the ark, and cover it inside and out with pitch. This is how you are to make it The length of the ark three hundred cubits, its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits. Make a roof for the ark, and finish it to a cubit above, and set the door of the ark in sight in its side Make it with lower second and third decks. For behold, I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, in which is the breath of life under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall die But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you And of every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female. Of the birds according to their kinds, and of the animals according to their kinds, and of every creeping thing of the ground, according to its kind. Two of every sort shall come into you to keep them alive. Also take with you every sort of food that is eaten, and stored up. It shall serve as food for you and for them. Noah did this. He did all that God commanded him Then the Lord said to Noah, Go into the ark, you and all your household, for I have seen that you are righteous before me in this generation. Take with you seven pairs of all clean animals, the male and his mate, and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the male and his mate, and seven pairs of the birds of the heavens also, male and female, to keep their offspring alive on the face of all the earth For in seven days I will send rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights, and every living thing that I have made I will blot out from the face of the ground. And Noah did all that the Lord had commanded him. Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came upon the earth. And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him went into the ark to escape the waters of the flood. Of clean animals and of animals that are not clean, and of birds and of everything that creeps on the ground, two and two, male and female, went into the ark with Noah, as God had commanded Noah. And after seven days the waters of the flood came upon the earth. In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth and the windows of the heavens were opened, and rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights. On the very same day Noah and his son Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, entered the ark. They, and every beast according to its kind, and all the livestock according to their kinds, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth according to its kind, and every bird according to its kind, every winged creature. They went into the ark with Noah, two and two of all flesh in which there was the breath of life. And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him, and the Lord shut him in The flood continued forty days on the earth, the waters increased and bore up the ark, and it rose high above the earth The waters prevailed and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated on the face of the waters, and the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered The waters prevailed above the mountains, covering them fifteen cubits deep, and all flesh died that moved on the earth. Birds Livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures that swam on the earth and all mankind, everything on the dry land and whose nostril was a breath of life died. He blotted out everything living that was on the face of the ground, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, they were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark, and the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days. But God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the livestock that were with him in the ark, and God made a wind blow over the earth, and the water subsided The fountains of the deep and the windows of the heavens were closed, the rain from the heavens was restrained, and the waters receded from the earth continually. At the end of a hundred and fifty days the waters had abated, and in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. And the waters continued to abate until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen. At the end of forty days Noah opened the window of the ark that he had made, and sent forth a raven It went to and fro until the waters were dried up from the earth. Then he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters had subsided from the face of the ground. But the dove found no place to set her foot, and she returned to him, to the ark, for the waters were still on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took her and brought her into the ark with him, and he waited another seven days And again he sent forth the dove out of the ark, and the dove came back to him in the evening, and behold, in her mouth was a freshly plucked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the waters had subsided from the earth Then he waited another seven days and sent forth the dove, and she did not return to him any more. In the six hundred and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried from off the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry. In the second month, on the twenty seventh day of the month, the earth had dried out. Then God said to Noah, Go out from the ark, you and your wife and your sons and your sons wives with you, bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh, birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth that they may swarm on the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply on the earth. So Noah went out, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him. Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth went out by families from the ark. This is the word of the Lord. Good morning. Uh Jaron mentioned that there was a slight change and the the reason for the change is It's quite simple actually. I sat down and started working on the sermon yesterday, and I just had so much that I wanted to say that you guys would have been here for an hour and a half. if I preached all uh five of those chapters. So uh to have mercy on you I've divided it into two sermons. So we're gonna stop at uh chapter 8 verse 19 as he stopped there and then we'll do chapter 9 or the rest of chapter 8 and chapter 9 next week. But it's right for us to go to the Lord and ask him for his help in understanding his word. So would you pray with me briefly before we begin? Let's pray. Oh God, we cast ourselves on your mercy and on your grace. You are the God of all wisdom, of all power, of all understanding, and of all in We ask now that you would grant the Holy Spirit to give us wisdom. As we open your word, we pray, Father, that you would feed us by it, that you would give us understanding, and that you would help us to see. how this passage is fulfilled most perfectly in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the collective Western consciousness seems simultaneously enchanted with and possessed by apocalyptic stories. Right, you just think about this small sample of apocalyptic movies, right? You can take it back to 1998. You have Bruce Willis, Armageddon, then you have movies like Arctic Blast. Or Book of Eli, or I Am Legend, or Cloverfield, or 28 Days Later, or Independence Day, and that's just a few of these apocalyptic movies, but it's not just movies. You also have books like Cormac McCarthy's The Road or Emily Mandel's Station 11 or Stephen King's The Stand We could do the same with TV, right? The collective Western mind is consumed by the notion of apocalypse So much so that there are a massive number of people known as preppers. The preppers are people who in their spare time are preparing for, prepping for a coming apocalypse. They don't know what it will be. It could be some sort of civil unrest, it could be something like the coronavirus, or it could be something much greater. What is important to them is that they're preparing for it. And they prep by storing up items that would be necessary for survival in the event of an apocalypse, as well as acquiring skill sets that will help them to survive in the wild. So if you wanted to become a prepper, a beginner level prepper, you would be encouraged to aim for a two-week supply. water, which is one gallon of water per person per day. So for a family of four, you're looking at 56 gallons of water that you'd want to have stored up. You'd also want 20 pounds of rice. 20 pounds of beans, 20 cans of fruit, 20 cans of meat, two containers of peanut butter. I don't know what's wrong with them, but I would require six or eight. uh containers of peanut butter, uh two large containers of tang, or Kool-Aid, uh two bags of flour, one bag of sugar, one pound of oats, and one gallon of olive oil. Now keep in mind, this is the bare minimum for two weeks. It doesn't take into account advanced levels of prepping that include learning how to administer first aid, cook in the wild, hunt. Protect yourself and build a shelter or a bunker. All right, now we we might make light fun of preppers, but there is something they get right. And that is There is an apocalypse coming. Right? The question is, how can you and I best prepare for it Will we best prepare for this coming apocalypse through storing up food and water and learning survival skills? Or is there some other way that we should prepare? Well, since the Bible teaches us about this coming apocalypse, we should look to the Bible to find out the answers about how we should best prepare. So if you haven't already, when Jerem was reading, please turn with me in your Bible to Genesis chapter 5. We're going to be looking at Genesis 5 all the way through chapter 8 verse 19. So Genesis 5 starts on page 4 of the Bibles that we've provided. And if you don't have a Bible of your own at home, we want to encourage you to take the copy we've provided as a gift. from us to you. In weeks past, uh, with the sermons that we've been doing, we've been able to look closely at nearly all of the verses that I've preached on. But given the size of the passage today, we're not going to be able to do that. We're going to have to do more of a broad brushstroke. But I'm still confident that we'll be able to walk away with an understanding of the main point of these chapters. So if you're taking notes, we're gonna work through the chap these chapters with three main headings. So the first point will be sin, the second point will be judgment And the third point will be salvation. And if you want a brief sentence, the main point that I have come to understand these passages to teach is that worldwide sin Brings about God's terrible judgment, but God saves those who walk by faith. Worldwide sin brings about God's terrible judgment, but God saves those who walk by faith. I think that's the main point of these four chapters. So first I want us to look at sin. That is worldwide sin. So I want you to look down with me at chapter 5, and I want to give you a bit of context here. After God's promise to send the seed of the woman to crush the serpent's head. Back in chapter 3, we saw that chapter 4 documented the seed of the serpent, Cain, and his descendants. You'll recall that Cain killed Abel, the seed of the woman. And then the rest of chapter 4 showed what came of Cain's descendants, culminating in the seventh generation from Cain, a man named Lamech, a man who took multiple wives, and who boasted in bur uh in murdering a man. So you can see how the the seed of the serpent culminates with the the wickedness of this man Lamech who is the seventh from Adam in Cain's line. You want to then you're going to compare that to the list of descendants Given in chapter 5. This is the seed of the woman, the descendants of the seed of the woman, the godly line of Seth. And you notice there that the seventh from Adam in the godly line of Seth is a man named Enoch. Who walks with God and is taken up into heaven as a living human being because he so faithfully walked with God. So you have this comparison between the descendants of Cain, seven generations from Adam, through Cain's line, you have Lamech. a man who boasts in murdering, and seven generations from Adam and Cesline, you have Enoch, a man who was taken up to God because he was so faithful. So the author here is trying to compare for us these two different lines. The seed of the woman in chapter five is really the godly line of Seth. And that's where chapter 4 ends on a note of hope. As God gives Adam and Eve another son in the place of Abel who came killed, and his name is Seth. And he becomes the new head of a family line from whom the seed of the woman would come. And chapter 5 documents that godly line that descended from Seth. And while there's much to look at in this genealogy, what we want to note is the way that the genealogy ends. who it culminates with. Look at verses 28 to 30. There we see that there's another man named Lamech, not the same one in chapter 4, who has a son named Noah. And through this son will come relief from the curse. His birth becomes the focal point of the narrative since he is the one through whom the curse of Genesis 3 would be overturned. And his birth, as we see, is set against the backdrop of worldwide wickedness. So go ahead and look with me at chapter 6, verses 1 to 4. The exact meaning of these verses is widely debated. The debate mainly revolves around who the sons of God are in verse 2. But there's also debate about the correct interpretation of Verse 3, is God saying that you have 120 more years until he cuts off life from the earth? Or is he saying that man's life will only last 120 years now? Clear. And there's also debate about the correct interpretation of the identity of the Nephilim in verse 4. So you can see there's a lot of issues in understanding these four verses. But as I said, the main question here as you're looking down is who are the sons of God? Because it's their relationships with the daughters of men that we see will provoke God's judgment. And there are really a number of answers given. One is that the sons of God are angels in human form Because the phrase sons of God is only ever used elsewhere in the Old Testament to refer to angels. Not only that, but 2 Peter and Jude both refer to angels sinning when they allude to the flood. As odd as that may sound to us, uh that's one uh proposed answer. Others say it just refers to kings or rulers because in the ancient world, kings or rulers were understood to be sons of God, representatives of God on earth And still others say that given the fact that Moses has just spent two chapters tracing out genealogies of fathers and sons, that the sons of God refers to men who in their relationships with women have more children. And I think that's where I'm landing at on these verses. But I don't want us to get hung up on what's unclear or contested because what Moses wants us to understand is that the relationships of men and women resulting in more children Also resulted in sin spreading throughout the earth. Look at chapter 6, verse 5. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Now look at chapter 6, verses 11 and 12. Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence. And God saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt for all flesh. had corrupted their way on earth. What you didn't notice there how Moses draws our attention to the terrible reversal of the goodness of creation. that mankind's sin has brought about. You'll recall in in Genesis chapter 1 how God saw all that he had made and behold it was Very good. But now, since sinful man has spread over the face of the earth, when God looks at the earth, he sees wickedness, world-wide wickedness. The goodness of God's creation has been undone by mankind. Human sin has filled, polluted, and stained everything. Look again at the repetition of corrupt in verses 11 and 12. Corrupt, corrupt, corrupt. Humans are corrupt and have corrupted creation. You also notice there the different words used in verses 5, 11, and 12 of chapter 6. It's called wickedness, it's called evil, it's called violence, and it's called corruption. I think this is something that we we need to understand when we come to a passage like this. When we read words like this, I think we can often wrongly assume. That when God is looking down at the earth, he sees nothing but heinous crimes being committed. But that's not what this is describing. Those may be part of it, but that they're not the only thing this is describing. The wickedness in view ranges from Adam and Eve's seemingly insignificant sin, though in reality massive sin of eating forbidden fruit in the garden. It also includes their choosing to rule themselves. It also includes Cain's anger and then Cain's murder of his brother Abel. It includes Lamech's. bigamy and marital unfaithfulness and his boasting and his own killing a man and and everything in between. God is not just looking down and saying, It's heinous crimes that I'm calling wicked. He sees wickedness Spread throughout the earth in the lives of every human on the earth. When God looked on the earth, he saw men and women who only and always chose to rule themselves. And that rebellion against him and their taking autonomy into their own hands resulted in big sins and small sins, of heinous sins and respectable sins, but all of it in God's sight was evil A world full of men and women who rejected him is what God looked down on the earth and saw. I wonder if you think that God sees this type of corruption today when he looks at the world. world. If you look down at chapter 6, verse 5, do you think verse 5 could be said of our world today? If you don't, I wonder why not. If I had to guess, if I'd venture a guess, I suppose it would be because Because you think, yes, of of course there are evil people in the world today who do very evil things, but the world is also full of lots of good people, right? This wouldn't be an accurate description of our of our world today. But if that is what you think, I want to gently ask you who it is that determines what is good and what is evil. Who sets the standard? According to the Bible, God alone has the power to determine Who or what is good and who or what is evil. And what we find in the Bible is that God has looked on our world today and has determined that there are there is No one good, no, not one. According to Jesus, though this may offend our modern sensibilities, according to Jesus, only God is good. Because goodness, according to God, necessitates perfect adherence to his moral law. Only those who perfectly obey God in their motivations, in their intentions, in their thoughts, their words, and their deeds are considered good. So my question for you today is, are you good? Have you perfectly obeyed God's commands in this way? Wait, we can ask some more questions to shed light on whether you have or you haven't. Have you perfectly loved God at all times? Have you ever lied? Have you ever taken something that's not yours Have you ever looked at another person and lusted after them in your heart? Jesus calls this adultery Have you ever been sinfully angry, bitter, jealous, envious? Have you ever gossiped, slandered, spoken unkind words, or disobeyed your parents? Friends, the Bible says that to break just one of these laws is to break all of them, let alone breaking all of them many times over. And so I want to ask again, when God looks at our world today, could he say the same thing about our world that he says about the world in Noah's day in verse? Verse five. All sins, all sins, regardless of their degree of wickedness Share in common the unutterably wicked trait of rejecting God's good and sovereign authority over us and placing ourselves on His throne. Right? And the sin that was born in the garden through Adam and Eve sin was then passed down to all mankind after them, so that wherever man spread on the earth, so sin also spread. So much so that the Apostle Paul could say, 4,000 years after the flood, he could say, All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. All have corrupted the earth through wickedness. and evil and violence. Friends, I say this not to stand in judgment over you, right? I am the chief of sinners, right? I agree with Paul. When I look at my life, I see Nothing but sin and corruption and just serving my myself, right? But God has called me and all Christians to tell others the hard truth that you and I have sinned against God and those sins will not be swept under his rug. What happens in our passage testifies to the great and cataclysmic judgment that God has prepared for our world, a coming apocalypse. An apocalypse is coming that God has planned and has determined will come to pass on the world that we live in today. And so we should look next at this judgment and what this passage teaches us about this coming judgment. So if you're following along, point two, let's look now at the judgment. And really, what we learn in our passage is that God will respond to our sins with a terrible, sudden, and total judgment. Right, we see that this judgment will be terrible. Look at me at chapter 6, verse 7. So the Lord said. I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens. Notice that phrase there, blot out. Elsewhere in the Old Testament, the words blot out can also refer to cleansing. cleaning a dirty plate or a stained garment. This cataclysmic judgment will be a cleansing of the earth of all sinful mankind. And then he explains specifically what this judgment will be. Look at chapter 6, verse 17. For behold I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, in which is the breath of life under heaven. Now look at chapter 7, verse 11. In the 600th year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day, all the fountains of the great deep burst forth and the windows of the heavens were opened. Friend, just try to imagine the universal panic ensuing from numerous gigantic earthquakes that tear open the surface of the earth and which erupt in gigantic towers of water all over the planet, combined with the inevitable massive tsunamis that would ripple out in all directions from the oceans that are on the earth, combined with rain that fell from the sky, all of which lasted look at chapter seven, verse twelve. Forty days and forty nights. This is a terrible judgment How the account of the flood could have ever become one of the most popular stories in children's Bibles is frankly beyond me. This is horrifying. The sheer terror of this judgment is frankly unimaginable. And it is unimaginable because nothing like this has happened since. Really, we get only a glimpse of what it could have been like or it it may have been like when we see the videos of the tsunamis that hit Indonesia and Japan. But compared with the flood that God is describing here. The tsunamis in Indonesia and Japan are like making waves in a kiddie pool. This is a flood that covers the entire earth I watched the one, I just went to watch the one on Japan, and it is horrifying, but there are still houses standing after the flood came through. This flood wipes off everything on the face of the planet. It covers all of the mountains. Everything on earth dies. This is terrible. This is a judgment that results also in total destruction. Note the emphasis throughout the passage on the totality of it. Look at chapter 6, verse 13. I have determined to make an end of all flesh. Now look at the end of chapter 6, verse 17. Everything that is on the earth shall die. Now look at chapter 7 verse 4 For in seven days I will send rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and every living thing that I have made I will blot out from the face of the ground. Look at chapter 7, verses 19 to 23. And the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered The waters prevailed above the mountains, covering them fifteen cubits deep, and all flesh died that moved on the earth birds, livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures that swarm on the earth, and all mankind, everything on the dry land. in whose nostrils was the breath of life died. He blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground. Man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark. This is a terrible and total judgment that came on the earth because of mankind's sins. Because of sins that you and I have also committed. And the terror of it is compounded by the suddenness of it all. Look again at chapter 7, verse 11. I want you to notice how Moses carefully records the date. Chapter 7, verse 11 What we're gonna find by the end of uh chapter eight is that it's it's an entire year from this point forward before Noah exits the Ark. Flood begins. It's a whole year before he gets off the ark. But that's not what I want to draw your attention to. Look at the day. It's the 17th day. of the second month. Why is that important? What's important about that day Nothing. Nothing. Absolutely nothing. It is just another day What do you think people were thinking about on the 16th day of the second month? I'm confident it was not God's total, terrible, and impending judgment. They went to sleep that night thinking the 17th day of the second month, I've got errands to run, I've got food I've got to go get, I've got to get married, or I'm giving my daughter in marriage. It is just Another day, but like any other day, it was not. And the reason this aspect of the flood is so important for us to understand. is because the flood becomes for us a pattern in Scripture, a pattern, a type of judgment that points forward to and is fulfilled in the final judgment that has yet to come on mankind. When Jesus himself talks about that final judgment, he describes the terror of it by saying that people will call for the mountains and the hills to fall on them to keep them from the presence of God. He describes the totality of it by saying that when this judgment comes There will not be any judgment like it from the creation of the earth until the end of the earth. Which he's saying that the flood will not even compare with it. If God did not show grace to his people, everyone on earth would be consumed in this judgment. And he describes the suddenness with which it will come. By directly referring to the account of the flood in the New Testament, Jesus says, for as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark, and they were unaware until the flood came. and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. I think you have those uh They were unaware until the flood came. I think it it reminds me of the eruption of uh Mount Vesuvius. And you still have those people who are entombed in the lava, just curled up, right? Fossilized because the lava came on them so quickly they couldn't get away. They're just curled up. This is what it's like, friends. But it's not just one mountain. It's the entire earth erupting and giving way and consuming all that is on it. Friend, if you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I want to speak to you for a moment because I know that passages like this play on the idea. that God, that the God of the Bible is a capricious or vengeful or petty God, as though he flies off the handle in a rage and then floods the earth. But I want you to know that anyone who says those types of things really only shows that they haven't read the Bible or they haven't read it carefully. I want you to notice something. Look back with me at chapter 5. I just want you to let your eyes scan across all the ages of the people. Just let your eyes kind of fall across that. I want you to notice the ages of the people. And what I want to point out is that Noah comes Ten generations after Adam. Is God capricious? Is God vengeful? Does God fly off the handle? No, because for ten generations, totaling 1,656 years, God patiently watched as man Sinned and sinned and sinned. For seventeen centuries, God patiently endured the corruption of his perfect planet by his Creatures. This God is not capricious, not vengeful in that way, not bloodthirsty. He is patient and he is kind. Now, how do we know that he's kind? Well, because he sent warning signal after warning signal to get the people's attention. Notice the first warning signal that God gave over and over again, if you look at chapter 5 again What is repeated over and over again? Jaron did a great job as he was reading, just emphasizing the phrase, at the end of each person's life, they died. Adam lived for 930 years and he died. Verse 8, Seth lived 912 years and he died. Verse 11, Enosh lived 905 years and he died. And on and on. Moses is repeating the reality of their deaths to emphasize that the punishment for sin that God promised in the garden. is happening and as long as death still exists, that judgment still stands. Friends, I I I wonder if you recognize that death is a warning sign to alert you of a greater judgment to come. Every time You become aware of a death, whether it's someone you know or someone you don't know, you are being warned by God that your life is not eternal. Right? You are not guaranteed tomorrow. Your days will come to an end. You are not guaranteed a long life. Your life will probably end much sooner than you think it will. Your life is not eternal, and you will one day have to stand before God and face the terror of His judgment if you have not repented and put your trust in Jesus Christ. But death isn't the only kindness of God that warns us. He also kindly warns us by sending people into our lives to warn us. In 2 Peter chapter 2, Peter says about Noah and calls them, he's speaking about Noah, and Peter calls Noah a herald of righteousness. Peter says that Noah was a herald of righteousness. He uses the word a preacher of righteousness. Noah was a preacher. Noah, having been warned by God about the coming judgment, started warning others about that judgment while he's building the boat, the boat itself. Is a warning that something something devastating is going to happen if this guy's building this massive boat and we just see no reason for it on land. But but God kindly sent Noah to tell people about the coming judgment so that they would turn So that they would turn over and over and over again. God does this throughout scripture. He sends the prophets. Repent. Turn He sends Jesus, God in the flesh, repent, turn. You see the the uh unbelievable reality in Genesis 6 through 8. Nobody turned It's just Noah and his family. Nobody listened to him. God in his kindness sends people into your life. This is what I'm doing for you today. As a preacher of God's Word. Every other preacher on the planet who's preaching the gospel today is warning us of the judgment to come. This is what makes the gospel such good news. There is bad news that makes the gospel great and glorious news. And one of the things that I'm concerned about with Christians, and it's a legitimate concern. One, we live in a hyper ridiculously PC culture, which you can't say anything to anyone about anything. You're just gonna lest you hurt their feelings, right? It's such a sensitive culture. But it's not only that. We have terrible examples of people who would call themselves Christians. You think about like Westboro Baptist just doing all types of terrible stuff, dragging the name of Jesus through the mud. But what are they doing? They're warning people of the judgment to come. But what happens at least in my heart where you you kind of want to stay, I don't want to be like them, right? So what do I do? I just don't ever talk about the judgment. I'm just gonna love them into the kingdom. And friends, loving your neighbors, loving others is Jesus calls us to love others, but he also calls us to tell the truth to them. So even if there are people doing it poorly, it doesn't mean we as Christians abandon telling others hard truths. Right? We continue telling them. We tell them winsomely. We tell them kindly, but we tell them bluntly, boldly, we are all facing a terrible judgment. None of us is righteous enough to stand before God in our own flesh. We need a savior from our sins. All of us. And we all need to turn lest we face the terror of this judgment. And friends, we also need to think about uh how important it is as Christians to ponder God's judgment. To ponder God's judgment. Grace will only be as sweet to you as your understanding of what you actually deserve. When you don't think that you deserve to be judged by God, grace ain't all that sweet. Right? You think I've got my life together I'm good with God. I don't need to be saved from anything. And then God's grace to you in the gospel just becomes bland. I don't really need this gospel as much. Right? You should ponder judgments like these. This judgment foreshadows a greater and more terrible judgment that all of us sitting in this room will face. Without a doubt. When God says, I have determined to make a flood on the earth, guess what happens? A flood comes on the earth. When God says, I have determined that all men shall stand before my judgment seat. And you shall receive the right payment for their works done in the flesh. You can be certain that all men and women will stand before that judgment seat and will receive payment that they are due for their works done in the flesh. And since all of us have sinned, all of us are guilty, and all of us will be judged. And we need a savior. And that is what this passage so wonderfully teaches us about, that there is not only a coming judgment that we're called to warn people of, but there's also a glorious salvation that we're called to tell people. people about, which brings me to point three, salvation. Salvation. And we see first that salvation comes by entering into the Ark of God's protection. Look at chapter 6, verses 14 to 17. God commands Noah to make an ark, and we see the dimensions given. Basically, the way that these qubits work out would work out in our country, God is commanding him to make a 510-foot-long, 50-foot-high, and 85-foot-wide vessel. That is a large vessel. I think historians and archaeologists who do this type of work believe that this is the largest wooden vessel that has ever been created. the largest all-wood vessel that would have ever been created. At a length of 510 feet, it could fit three NASA shuttles end to end on its upper deck. and still have room to spare. It was as tall as a four-story building and it had the storage capacity with the three decks inside of it. It had the storage capacity of 450 semi-truck trailers. So a standard livestock trailer that attaches to the back of an 18-wheeler holds about 250 sheep. Which means the ark could have held close to 120,000 sheep. And it would need to be that big because of the number of animals. and creatures that it needed to house and the food that it would need to store. Look at chapter 6, verse 19. And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you They shall be male and female. And we see that this includes birds, animals, and creeping things, right? This is a floating zoo. Right? Quite simply, without God graciously giving Noah the plans for the ark, nobody would have lived. Noah would have perished. His family would have perished. All birds, animals, and creeping things would have perished. The salvation of Noah and his family. Came through their entering into the Ark of God's protection. And yet we also see that salvation comes through God's righteous servant, Noah. Look back with me at chapter 5, verse 29. Notice what Noah's father says about him at his birth. Out of the ground that the Lord has cursed, this one shall bring us relief from our work and from the painful toil of our hands. On the heels of the curse in Genesis 3. 15 and the promise of God to send a seed of the woman to crush the serpent, Noah now appears to be the one who would reverse the curse. He would bring relief from the painful toil of their working with their hands. And then we see this description of Noah in chapter 6, verse 9. Look there with me. Look at what it says about him. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man. blameless in his generation, Noah walked with God. And it seems that his righteousness is the reason that God establishes a covenant with him. Look at chapter 6, verse 18 But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with me. And then we see his righteousness in action throughout these chapters. Four different times. Moses highlights Noah's obedience. Look at chapter 6, verse 22. Noah did this. He did all that God commanded him. Then again in chapter 7, verse 5, Noah did all that the Lord commanded him. Then again in chapter 7, verse 9. Two and two, male and female, went into the ark with Noah, as God had commanded Noah. And finally, chapter seven, verse sixteen. And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him. Moses is stressing for us Noah's active obedience to God. He is righteous and blameless and has done all that God has commanded him. And because of Noah's righteousness, Noah's family is saved. Do you notice that? It's not Noah's family that is described as righteous and blameless. It's Noah. It's not Noah's family that makes a covenant with God. It's Noah. It's not Noah's family who did all that the Lord commanded them. It was Noah. Noah's family receives a gracious and merciful salvation from the flood through God's covenant with righteous Noah. Because you are righteous, Noah, they will be saved. Because of my covenant with you, Noah, they will be saved. Because you have done all that I have commanded They will be saved. Noah's family is saved through the terrible judgment because of Noah and not because of anything they did. Friends, if you follow Jesus and you read this story, I hope you see how clearly it points forward to Jesus as the true Noah and the true Ark. Right, it's so easy to open up the Bible and say, there's Noah. How can I be like Noah? That's not the point of the story about Noah. It's not the point of the story about the stories about Moses, it's not the point of David killing Goliath. You and I never identify with the hero because the hero is always preparing us for Jesus. Noah is pointing forward to Jesus. We are Noah's family. Silent benefactors of his righteousness and his covenant with God. Thank you, Noah, for your righteousness because it's your righteousness that allowed has allowed us to enter into the ark. That is you and me. We are the family members of Jesus Christ standing around doing nothing to secure our own salvation Completely dependent upon him for his righteousness, for his covenant with God, for him to be our ark, for him to be the righteous servant who God makes a covenant with and saves a people through. Not even Noah was completely righteous. We'll see that in chapter 9 when we get to chapter 9. Noah sins. He gets drunk. He's just like other men. In the Old Testament, those who were considered righteous and blameless were those who put their faith in God to do what God promised to do, and what God promised to do was to send the perfectly righteous and blameless sea to the woman who would crush the serpent's head, the true Noah and the true Ark Jesus. Jesus Christ. Jesus is the true Noah, the truly righteous one who always did all that God commanded him. who was obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross, who gave his life as a ransom for many that we, by his righteous deeds Could be saved. And he's also the true ark. When we put our faith in him, we are united to him. And the apostle Paul says in Colossians 3: hidden in him. hidden from the wrath to come. When you put your faith in Jesus, Jesus takes upon himself your sins and my sins and gives to us his Righteousness so that at the final judgment, when God looks upon us, he will pass over us in the judgment because he will see the righteousness of his son Jesus. You and I, like Noah's family, have been brought onto the ark of Christ's salvation, wholly apart from anything that we have done. And we can have confidence that at the final judgment we will be protected. because God always remembers his covenant with his people. Look at chapter 8, verse 1 During the midst of the flood, when the flood waters had reached their peak and the whole earth was covered and all hope seemingly lost, God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the livestock that were with him in the ark, and God made a wind blow over the earth, and the waters subsided. It's really hard during a sermon like this for us to appreciate how intricately woven together this passage actually is. But to try to explain a little bit to help you see what's going on here. In Hebrew literature, there is a device called a chiasm. It's a style of writing that is intended to make a point. They have different styles of writing that are intended to make different types of points. And the way that a chiasm works is it's it's almost like a pyramid. The author will make a statement A. And then he'll make a statement B, and then he'll make a statement C, and then he makes statement D, that is at the top of the pyramid, and then he makes a statement like C, a statement like D. B and a statement like A. And whenever an author is doing that, and it's clear that they're doing that, the statement D that sits at the top of the pyramid is the main point. And the flood narrative, the account of the flood, is a gigantic chiasm. God commands them. to enter the ark. They enter the ark. The flood begins. The floods continue. God remembers Noah. Main point. The flood subsides, the flood abates completely, and then they leave the ark. The same story on both sides, entering and then leaving. What's the main point of the flood narrative? God remains. Remembers his covenant with his righteous servant. Right? God remembers Noah. The central point and statement of the flood account is that God remembers his covenant with Noah. And rescues him from the watery grave. And in the same way, God remembered Jesus in the actual Grave. Three days after Jesus died, God remembered his covenant with him And he raised him from the dead. And now all who have put their faith in Jesus can have the confidence that God will also remember. them. A friend, God remembering his people occurs throughout the Old Testament. He remembers his people in Egypt and he delivers them out of slavery. He remembers his people in the exile and he brings them back into the promised land. and he will remember you and me. Why is that? Because we have been united to Christ by faith and God will not forget his covenant. With Jesus. Jesus has secured all blessings for time and eternity, now and forever, for his people. I want you to think about this as you face different trials. in life, whether it's health trials, whether it's work trials, whether there's difficulties in your family, God will always remain If God can deliver Noah from a worldwide flood because he remembered him, surely he can deliver you from your trials that seem like a flood overwhelming your life. God sits in the heavens above, mightier than the waters, mightier than the flood Think about this. If you know any Christians who are struggling with dementia or Alzheimer's, you can encourage them. and be encouraged yourself that their salvation does not depend on their being able to remember God, but God remembering them. And he will always remember his people. And this passage teaches us so much about patience. Noah's on the water for an entire year. An entire year on that boat. Oh my gosh, I would go crazy. When is this gonna end? Lord, when is this? Can't you just make the waters go away right away? But God has purposes in our trials. He grows us in steadfastness. He grows us in character. He grows us in hope. If it was good for you for him to remove that trial from you immediately, he would. But he has greater in store for you by allowing you to endure it. So that you come to know and see and believe that God always, always remembers his people. And if you die before this judgment comes, God God will remember you and he will lift you out of the dust like he lifted Jesus out of the dust. And as we'll see in chapter 9, he will bring you into A new creation, because that is essentially what is happening in the flood account. God is creating a new heavens and a new earth, and the animals coming out of the ark, and Noah and his family are like the new Adam and Eve. Friend, know that God will deliver you when he finally comes in judgment, but that judgment will not touch you if you have put your faith in Jesus. Friends, there is an apocalypse coming. There is. The question is, how can you best Prepare. And the way that you prepare for that apocalypse is by putting your faith in the only one who can deliver you through it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, though we do not remember you, we all too often forget your goodness, your sovereign power, your love, and your care for us. You show your goodness to us by remembering us. Oh God, we pray that you would preserve us through the judgment to come. You would keep us even in the midst of the trials that we're facing in this life now, that you would hold us fast, and that you would remember us as you have remembered your Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.