Would you pray with me one more time for God to bless the preaching of His Word? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning as a people who are completely dependent upon you for For all things. Lord, we ask that you would show mercy to us by granting the Spirit to bring conviction of sin, by granting the Spirit to give us understanding of your word, and by granting the Spirit to give us deeper faith. in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Appearances can be deceiving, can't they? One particular example of this is uh from 2007. Uh in 2007, uh just outside of the Lenfant Plaza Metro stop in Washington, D. C. , uh a man uh pulled out a violin and began playing. If you're at all familiar with the metro stops in Washington DC and around this area, uh then you know it's pretty common for street performers to set up around the metro stops. uh to pull out whatever instrument they they might have, whether it's a a drum kit or uh a guitar or a saxophone, whatever it might be. It's it's pretty common in this area that around the Metro stops. Street performers will bring out their instruments. Uh they'll try to make a buck. Uh you know, they'll open up their musical case, people will drop money in uh as they walk by. Uh and this man, he seemed like all the rest. Uh he seemed no different than all the rest. He was really he was dressed unassumingly. Uh he was dressed in a baggy long-sleeve t-shirt. Uh he was in dark jeans and a hat. And uh as uh there was a video that was set up recording this, uh it uh there were People counted after the video was completed that roughly 11 people 1100 people uh walked by him that morning and only one only one stopped Looked at him, puzzled, and then realized, wow, the appearances of this situation are very deceiving. She realized that this was no mere street performer. The violinist was Joshua Bell, a Grammy Award-winning violinist and conductor. And at the L'Enfant Plaza Metro stop that morning, he was playing one of the most intricate pieces ever written for a violin. And he was doing it on a violin that was worth $3. 5 million at the Metro stop. In the 45 minutes he played, he amassed only about $38. Even though three nights before, he had played a sold-out show in Boston where the tickets averaged $100 apiece. And sometimes we miss the greatness around us because it doesn't appear to be all that great. Appearances can be deceiving. We think, oh, this is just a Metro stop. There can't be anything special going on here this morning And yet one of the world's greatest living violinists was playing one of the most intricate violin pieces ever written on a $3. 5 million violin. Appearances can be deceiving. And I bring that up because the passage we're studying this morning is a similar example of how deceiving appearances can be. If you've not already turned with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 12, I'd encourage you to do that now. We're going to be studying verses 35 to 37 uh closely today. If you're using one of the Bibles that we provided, the passage is on page 849. And if you don't own a copy of the Bible for yourself, we want to encourage you to take a copy that we've provided as a gift from us to you. Jill just read the passage for us, and so now we want to look more closely at what God is teaching us in these three short verses. One thing I want to mention before we begin is there there are some sermons that are a balance of explanation and then application. There are some sermons that are almost all application. This is a sermon that's going to require a good bit of explanation up front, and I just want to prepare you for that because I think the explanation on the front end will help you to grasp the magnitude of the deceptive greatness that is actually appearing here in this passage. So where are we in Mark's gospel? Well briefly Jesus is in the temple. Look at verse 35, as Jesus taught in the temple. He's in the temple. And this is the fifth scene of a group of scenes that all happen on one day. Jesus has been barraged with questions about theology and the law. And after answering his questionnaires He turns the tables on them and now starts answering them questions. Look back briefly at verse 34. The last line of verse 34. He's answered all his questionnaires perfectly None of them can question his authority and it's set Mark records there. After that, no one dared ask him any more questions. So if you're watching the scene, he's just answered, answered, answered. Everyone falls silent. We don't have any more questions to answer him. And now Jesus says, let me ask you a question. You've been asking me questions. I'm going to turn the tables on you. And now he questions them. Look at me at verse 35. Jesus asks the question: How can the scribes say that the Christ is the Son of David? Kids, real quick, kids or youth, can any of you tell me who the scribes were and what they did? Just a brief description. Who were the scribes and what did they do? What was their job? Sam. So they were the they they wrote stuff for the city, thus they were scribes. That's very good. Anyone else want to give me some other ideas of what the scribes did and what they were really known for? Not only just recording, as Sam said, what else were they known for? What did they have a great understanding of? Abram? The Bible, the scribes were experts in the law. They were the ones who understood everything about the Old Testament. They were the go-to authorities. If you needed an explanation on something in the old testament, you went to the scribes because they gave their lives to studying and understanding the law or the old testament. And Jesus now is openly questioning their authority. The scribes, these experts, how can they say that the Christ is the Son of David? What Jesus is specifically challenging is the scribal understanding of the identity of the Christ. The word Christ is just the Greek word for the Hebrew word Messiah. The Messiah. The Messiah was the central figure of the Old Testament. He was a mysterious person predicted throughout the Old Testament who God promised to send to crush the serpent's head and defeat his people's enemies, giving them victory over all their opponents. And one of the clearest predictions about the Messiah in the Old Testament teaches that he will be a descendant of David. That is, he'll be a son of David. Doesn't that in kind of this culture to say he was a son of David did not mean he was like his physical son. It just Somewhere along the line, this person would come from David's line. He'll be a son of David. Now another question for the youth. Can any of you tell me what Book and chapter. In what book and chapter is this very specific, very important promise by God to David that he would have a messiah coming from his line who would sit upon an eternal throne. What book in chapter? Do any of you know Are the parents whispering to their kids right now? That's cheating. Ava? Isaiah 9 is a very good one, and that one does say it, but there's another promise in which God comes to David, speaks to him directly, and talks about this eternal throne that would come through him. Isaiah 9 is great. Uh Rook. Well Psalm 110, what we're looking at today. That's true. Any of the adults know what I'm talking about. I'm gonna move to the adults, see how we're doing on our Bible knowledge. What book in chapter Second Samuel, John Tobias, round of applause everyone for John Tobias. There we go. Or snaps if you do that. That's right. 2nd Samuel Chapter 7, 2 Samuel. That's where God comes to David, promises to David a son who will sit on an everlasting throne. 2 Samuel chapter 7 verses 12 and 13. You just want to note this in your in your bulletin or in your Bible somewhere. Uh there are certain chapters in the Old Testament that are more important than others. All of it's God's word. All of it is beneficial for our instruction, our building up, our correction, all of it. But certain chapters have, whoa, big things all come together. 2 Samuel 7 is a chapter you want to mark in your Bible to better understand at some point in your life. You want to just go back to it and study it. But in that passage, God says this to David in verses 12 and 13. When your days are fulfilled, and you lie down, that is die, when you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body. And I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. So, what do we see in 2 Samuel 7? That was understood by the scribes in Jesus' day. We see very clearly that the Messiah will be a son of David who sits on an everlasting throne. So the question we need to ask ourselves when we look at Jesus' question in the Gospel of Mark now becomes: if the Old Testament clearly taught that the Messiah would be a son of David, Why is Jesus questioning that idea? What's going on here? Well, the answer to that question is that he's not challenging the idea that the Messiah is David's son. He's challenging the idea that the Messiah is only David's son or merely David's son. He's challenging the idea that the Messiah would be merely a man and not someone more. And so what he does in verse 36 is he reaches back to Psalm 110, as Rook pointed out, a psalm that was written by King David. About the coming Messiah. And he reaches back to that psalm to prove that the Messiah would be very clearly more than just a man, more than just a son of David. So what I want you to do now is I want you to turn in your Bibles back to Psalm 110. If you're not familiar with the Bible, you want to reach just right in the middle of the Bible. And open it, and chances are you will have landed in the Psalms. If you land in any book that has a name like Isaiah Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Haggai, any of those, you've gone just too far. Go back just a little bit So you want to uh turn to Psalm 110. And the reason that I want you to turn to Psalm 110 is so that we can briefly see the Psalm in its entirety. Because what happens in the New Testament often Is that when the Old Testament is cited or alluded to, the person making the reference wants the reader's attention drawn to the entire context. And not just to the single verse. They didn't have versification in their day. So when Jesus refers to this first verse of Psalm 110, he's also referring to all of it. Jesus' citation of Psalm 110 is a prime example of this. So if you're looking at Psalm 110 with me, I want you to notice how very clearly messianic this psalm is. In verse 1, the Lord speaks to his chosen Messiah and tells him to sit at his right hand. That's the place of power at Yahweh's right hand, and he'll have complete victory over his enemies. Then in verses 2 and 3, Yahweh describes the Messiah as a king. He holds a scepter. He rules the people. Then in verse 4, the Messiah will also be a priest. We're not going to dive into that, what that means today. When I preach Psalm 110 in the future, we will But king and priest were two of the most important offices in Old Testament ancient Israel, and the Messiah will be one who fulfills both these roles. He will make atonement for the people as a priest and he will rule over them as a king. Then in Psalm 110, verses 5 to 7, David retur returns to the imagery of a king. You see there, Yahweh is at the messianic king's right hand, and this king will completely destroy his enemies. According to God's promise, this king would have an eternal throne Would rule over and protect his people, sit at God's right hand, and destroy his people's enemies. But Did you notice that David, what David himself says about the Messiah, this son of David, look again at verse 1. David says that the Messiah is not only his future son, but his present Lord. Look at the first verse of Psalm 110 again. The Lord says to my Lord, the messianic king, described in Psalm 110. Will not only be David's future son, he is currently his present Lord at the time of the writing of this psalm. He would be a descendant of of David, yet as David prophesies about him, it's clear that the Messiah would be far more, far more, than just A man, he would sit at the right hand of God on high. None of the kings of Israel following David, nor David, ever did that. He would conquer all of Israel's enemies Everlasting throne, no opposition, no king of Israel ever did that. They all got sent into exile because of their sins. This is a king that never came in the history of Israel. This is David's son and David's Lord. He's more than just a man. So turn back with me to Mark's gospel. This is why Jesus asks the question that he does For nearly 1,000 years, it was about 1,000 years that David lived and that promise was made to him before Jesus came. For nearly 1,000 years. The Israelites had been waiting for this king to come because all of their kings had failed King after king after king came from David's line. Some good, some bad, some terrible Until eventually the nation was sent into exile because of her sins. It seemed all hope was lost. The king, the messiah, never came. And even after Israel returned from exile, the nation really struggled to re regain control of their throne as they were occupied by foreign nation after foreign nation until eventually they were occupied by the Romans, which brings us. To Jesus' day. The Romans are occupying Israel. And Jesus is saying to them, the reason those kings failed is because they were only merely sons of David. They were only men. He's saying what you need, and what I'm trying to draw your attention to, what you need is someone more. You need the king who won't fail in his task to lead his people perfectly. You need the one who is both David's son and David's Lord. You need someone who is both fully man and fully God. And because appearances can be deceiving, what they don't realize is that the promised Messiah David's son and David's Lord is standing right in front of them. The Messiah had come. Jesus is David's son. That's why Matthew begins his gospel with the genealogy of Jesus Christ by carefully noting his physical ancestry, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. He's saying, Hear, O Israel, the Lord has come. We've seen this in Mark's Gospel also, haven't we? What does blind Bartimaeus repeatedly call Jesus in chapter 10 of Mark's Gospel? Son of David, have mercy on me. The blind man can't even be deceived by appearances, but understands who this man is. He's the son of David. What did the people shout during the triumphal entry into Jerusalem as they're laying down palm branches before him? Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. You sitting on the donkey are the one bringing it, the promised Son, the son of David had come, the man who would come to deliver us and give us victory over our enemies. But We also know from the New Testament that Jesus is far more than only merely David's son. He is David's Lord. He is the divine God man sent to rescue his people. We saw in Matthew that he's David's son Think about how Luke tells us that he's David's Lord. Think about what Luke records about Jesus' ancestry. The angel comes to Mary, says to Mary, do not be afraid, Mary. for you have found favor with God and behold you will conceive in your womb and bear a son physical human son and you shall call his name jesus He will be great and will be called not the son of David. He will be called the son of the Most High God. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom, his kingdom, there will be no end. He's not only a son of David. According to Luke, Jesus is the son of the Most High God, sitting on an eternal throne, the divine God-man and Messiah. Jesus is the Lord. And think about the power we've seen him display throughout Mark's gospel as we've been in this year and a half-long study through the gospel that shows that he's far more than a man. Let's just go back to the beginning. The demons flee from his presence. What do they call him? You are the holy one of God. They are terrified of him He heals every disease and every form of paralysis. He heals blindness. He makes deaf people hear. He stops raging storms in their tracks. He raises the dead to life. Yet And yet, the greatest proof that Jesus was more than just David's son is still yet to come in Mark's gospel in the weeks ahead But we need to pause here and consider another crucial detail about Psalm 110. I'm not going to ask you to turn back there, but we need to note this about Psalm 110. Psalm 110 was known and understood as a coronation psalm. It was a coronation psalm That means Psalm 110 was read aloud whenever a new king came to the throne in Israel. And the reason that they read it aloud was God's way of reminding the people of Israel, there is an ideal king coming. Look forward to him. But you can also understand how discouraging that would have been as an Israelite to have to read Psalm 110 over and over and over again. While you simultaneously watched your nation descend into sin and fall apart. You just think this, when will this king come? Who is this promised Messiah? When would he come and give us this widespread victory? You can imagine that it would have been hard to stop I don't know how many of you look to God's promises in the New Testament and because of the discouragement you see around you for whatever reason Think these promises are starting to lose their power in my life. If that's you, I want you to take encouragement from what you're about to see in this passage. They would have called out to God, we've seen so many failed kings. Lord, who is this king? When will he come? Will this coronation ceremony described in Psalm 110 ever happen? And God's answer to their longing and to ours is a resounding yes. Yes, it would happen In God's perfect timing, he would send his son Jesus as David's son and David's Lord. And though Jesus' life appeared common, appearances can be deceiving Unlike any of us, Jesus lived a life of perfect devotion to God. He loved God perfectly with all of his heart and all of his soul and all of his mind and all of his strength, and he loved his neighbor as himself. And yet, in spite of that perfect sinless life, Jesus Christ was betrayed, arrested, condemned, mocked, beaten, and crucified for his claims to be the king of the Jews. He was nailed to a cross of wood. He was taunted by the people while he hung there. They said to him, If you are the king of the Jews, come down now and save yourself. Prove it to us so that we might see and believe. But Jesus would not come down from the cross because The cross was his throne of wood that he was sent as king of Israel to hang on, so that he would release the people of Israel from their true enemies. Not physical, earthly enemies like the Romans, but their true enemies, their spiritual bondage to sin and to Satan, the enemy of all mankind. And after his death on the cross. He was buried. His disciples fled for their lives, and his opponents celebrated their victory over this supposed charlatan who claimed to be Israel's king. He claimed to be Israel's king. Look at him now. He's buried in the ground. Though it appeared that he had been shown to be a false messiah, appearances can be deceiving. Because three days after he died, Jesus rose from the dead, displaying his power as God's chosen Messiah, testifying to God's acceptance of his sacrifice on our behalf and declaring his victory over sin, death, Satan and hell. And after he rose from the dead, friends, what did he do? 40 days after he rose from the dead? He ascended into heaven, and he ascended into heaven on the clouds. I want you this afternoon, write this down in your bulletin. I want you this afternoon, go to Daniel 7. And I want you to read in Daniel 7. About how the ancient of days sat upon his throne and the heavenly assembly gathered around him. And then in the presence of the ancient of days sitting upon his throne, Daniel saw one coming on the clouds of heaven. He looked like his feet were made of bronze. His hair was pure white as snow. He came with a face shining like the sun. He came on the clouds of heaven. And what do you think the Most High God? Said to the Son of Man when he came into his presence in heaven, he said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. When you read Psalm 110, friend, you are walking into heaven and you are listening to King Jesus's coronation ceremony. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The king that they pierced and nailed to a tree The king of the Jews that they mocked with a robe, they stuck a reed in his hand, they spit upon his face and put crown of thorns, is the one who wears a crown with many diadems. He is the king. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand. Jesus is David's son. Jesus is David's Lord. Jesus is the Messiah. Jesus Christ is Lord now and forever. That's what he's teaching in these three verses. But appearances can be deceiving, can't they? Who are you? It's the son of Joseph. You're Carpenter's son. Jesus Christ though is Lord and his Lordship should challenge the way that we think about him. Think about Psalm 110. This is really hard for us in our culture. We live in a PC culture. It's not not really kosher or, you know. People don't like when you talk about things like you know violence or judgment or anything like that. But if we're a people who are gonna look at the horrendous things That happen in our world, who are gonna lament the horrendous things that happen in our world, and yet have a problem with the fact that God will eventually bring justice on those things, there's something wrong with our views. Psalm 110 testifies to us that Jesus' lordship should challenge what we think about Jesus. We like to think about Jesus as Jesus, Jesus, meek and mild. the sympathetic high priest who is hanging upon a cross. And he is those things. But he's also a king. He's a king who holds a scepter He's a king who cannot be defeated. He's a king who rules all the nations. And when we say that Jesus is Lord, we are affirming that reality. And I bring that up because inevitably what we think about a person will shape how we act towards them. But think about the show Undercover Boss. I don't know how many of you have ever seen Undercover Boss. You can raise your hand if you've seen it. It's fine if you haven't. It's a show where the owners of a company go undercover in their own company and work among the people who work for them. But since they're undercover, none of their employees know it's them. And because they believe the undercover boss is just another employee, they treat them like just another employee. Appearances can be deceiving. But at the end of the show comes the big reveal when the employees find out that the new guy is actually the owner of the company. All right, what do they do? Imagine being them. You start running through everything you said to them. Oh my gosh, I insulted them I didn't even know it was them. I just treated them like they were some other, just every other employee of the company. It's kind of like that with Jesus. Right? We read about his earthly ministry in the gospels and become become accustomed with his tenderness and his sympathy, right? That he he came to serve and he was and is those things. hidden from human eye during his earthly mercy ministry was unspeakable power. Think about what just one book of the New Testament says about Jesus. The book of Revelation says this about Jesus. He is the firstborn from the dead and the ruler of the kings of the earth He is the Alpha and the Omega, the one who is, who was, and who is to come. He is the first and the last. He is the one who died but now lives forevermore. He is the one who holds the king, the keys of death and Hades. He's the one with eyes like a flame of fire, whose voice is like the roar of rushing waters, whose face shines like the sun. He's the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David. He is the conqueror who alone is worthy to open the scroll. He's the rider on the white horse, the one who is called Faithful and true. He wears a crown with many jewels. He has a name that's above every name. From his mouth comes a sharp sword to strike down the nations. He is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Jesus is Lord. That's what we learned from our passage this morning. And that unspeakable power will be seen by all people at the big reveal on the day of judgment. Jesus was, is, and always will be Lord, and so we need to respond to him as Lord. I totally get if you're here and you maybe don't follow Jesus, Mike talked about, whether you're exploring. Christianity trying to understand you might just be like, whoa, what is what is going on here? This is crazy apocalyptic stuff going on here. Like what what is going on? I get it. I get it. It's some of this stuff is hard for me to believe. It's hard for me to picture. But I believe that everything that Jesus taught is true because he rose from the dead. And because he rose from the dead, we can trust everything that he said and taught. And he taught this about himself. So if you're here and you don't currently follow G follow Jesus, responding to him as Lord means repenting and believing. To repent is just a word the Bible uses to describe turning around. So the Bible says that all of us are like sheep who have gone astray. Each has turned to his own way. We like to rule ourselves. We live lives, whether we recognize it or not, that are marked by sin, and we're on a path that will end uh in judgment. We'll face God and be judged by him. And to repent, God says, is hey, turn around. Walk back towards me. Okay, I'm going a different way now, Lord. You're my Lord, so I'm gonna I'm gonna submit to the things that you've called me uh to do and the the ways that you've called me to live. To believe is just to believe that Jesus has paid the price and the penalty that none of us could ever pay for the debt for our sins. And if we repent and believe in him, we will be preserved from the judgment that's described in Psalm 110. But I also want to point out that responding to Jesus as Lord doesn't just include a single choice. to repent and believe, but it involves a life of increasing and continual submission of our lives to His commands. So it is an unfortunate reality in uh in our culture that some people, uh, because they prayed a prayer Or walked an aisle or filled out a card, think that they have been saved by Jesus. And I don't fault you if that describes you. I fault the people who taught you the gospel. That's why we need people who teach faithfully. Responding to Jesus isn't just a single moment, and then you can go on living any way that you want. When you call Jesus Lord, If you're going to call him Savior, you need to also call him Lord. That means I am now repenting and believing and I'm submitting my entire life to you. So that means when I open your word as as Lord Jesus, and I see that your word conflicts with how I'm currently living my life and it calls me to a new way of life, I'm going to say no to that old way of life and yes to this new way of life. That's what it means to be Lord. He's a good king. Kids, I want to encourage you to think about this. When you decide to follow Jesus Which is my heart's prayer, and I know it's a prayer of everyone in here that you would follow him. When you decide to follow him, you're deciding to hand your life over to him. You're saying, Lord, my life is now yours. My life is now yours. You're saying, hey, I'm gonna follow you no matter the cost. I'm gonna follow you no matter the cost. I'm gonna choose your way over mine. But kids, here's what I also want you to think about I want you to think about what kind of Lord Jesus is. David Mathis wrote this, and I think this would be helpful for the kids to hear and for all of us to hear. Jesus is the kind of Lord who not only deserves our obedience, but who's worthy of our admiration. He's the kind of king we acknowledge not only with our service, but with our adoration and delight. He's not a selfish Lord, but a self-sacrificing Lord. He's not a mean Lord, but a kind one. Right? So he's not the insecure, cowardly Prince John who opposed Robin Hood. But the wise and magnanimous King Richard, a king for whose return his subjects longed. He's not a lord like Scar, but like Mufasa. He's not Denethor, but Aragorn. He's not the white witch, but Aslan. Jesus, he is a lion. But if you're following him and you've called him Lord, you'll never see his teeth. He's a Lord who loves his people and lays down his life for them. And if you turn to King Jesus, his power will never be used to punish you. Instead, he'll use his power to preserve your life from the pit and prepare you for life in his kingdom. And I want you to notice That even in our passage this morning, nothing will prevent him from bringing his people into this everlasting kingdom. Look again at verse 36. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet Until. That's an expression of from this moment forward until the appointed time. That means that there will be a time where his enemies are not under his feet, so to say. There will be a time where it it seems, all appearances would tell us. That Jesus isn't currently reigning. It might seem like those who oppose the church are winning. It might seem like Satan is on the throne and not King Jesus, but Appearances can be deceiving. From heaven's vantage point, King Jesus is placing his enemies under his feet God has determined in his wisdom that is beyond ours, and we can trust as a wise, holy, and good ruler, he has determined in his wisdom to allow evil to continue for a time. We call this a period of grace, that those who are living in sin might know the grace and mercy of God through our Lord Jesus Christ and turn from sin and trust in him. But God has also appointed a day when Jesus will return to judge the living and the dead. So I hope that this is an encouragement to us corporately, right? Think about this. No matter what opposition the church faces in this country, and no matter what persecution the church faces globally, it may look like the church is losing, but appearances Can be deceiving. Jesus is still on the throne, and it's only a matter of time before he comes to rescue and deliver his people once for all. But not only corporately, I hope this is an encouragement to you personally. Because God has determined that our enemies should still exist, we will still continue to struggle against the sinful flesh. We will still continue to struggle personally against Satan's opposition to us. We will still continue to struggle against the death that is in this world and the way that it affects us both physically. and emotionally and spiritually. But no matter how intense the battle may appear in your life, remember that appearances can be the same When Christ returns, He will free you once and for all from your true enemies. He will free you once and for all. From sin, he will defeat Satan once and for all, and then he will defeat the final enemy, which is death. It may appear to you today As it probably appeared to the Israelites in the Old Testament who read Psalm 110, it may appear to you today like that day will never come, but appearances can be deceiving. Take encouragement today and look forward to that day when the big reveal happens. Because on that day, on that day. Every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Will you confess that Jesus is Lord today? I hope you will. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we praise you as the reigning King. Even though we can't see it perfectly now, we see it as in a mirror dimly, but we look forward to that day when we will see it perfectly when we see you. face to face and in so doing become just like you. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would send the Lord Jesus back today. Yet while you determine to wait, we pray that you would grant repentance from heaven and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, that your people might be saved and delivered from their enemies. Oh, Father, help us to submit to the Lord Jesus in all that we do this coming week. And we pray that all glory would be to Christ our King. And it's in His name that we pray. Amen.