Well, good afternoon, church. Good to be with you. It's a pleasure to be with all of you. Even though I don't know all of you, I look forward to hopefully saying hey to some of you after the service and getting to speak with some of you for a few moments. I am grateful for this church, though, from afar. This is my first time gathering with you, but as I've kept up with John and just heard of the good things going on at this church, just want to say that I am encouraged by you Back where I live in North Carolina, where I'm a member of Covenant Baptist Church, we have prayed for you guys before. I'm sure we will continue to do so in the future. I'm sure that this church was prayed for even in our service this morning It's been good to be here. I came from North Carolina yesterday and got some good time at the Joseph House and then this morning was able to Attend Temple Hills Baptist Church, and one of the songs that we sing, you may sing it here, it's called Lord I Need You, and it goes every hour I need you, my one defense, my righteousness Oh God, how I need you. And that was true for me when I sang it this morning. It's true for me now, and it's true for all of us now that we do need God's help. And so even though John just prayed, I'm going to pray for us, lead us in a prayer one more time. So would you pray with me? God, we do ask very simply for your help. We know that if anything good is going to happen over the next few moments as we look to your word, that you're going to have to make it happen If I'm going to be doing anything other than standing up here talking, then we need you to, by your spirit, invade our hearts. Show us Christ in your word this afternoon. We pray that we would not just see words on a page, that we would not just hear words from my mouth, but like John has already prayed, that we would hear ultimately from you and that we would Trust in your son all the more. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I don't know about you, but for some Weird reason I really enjoy watching those shows that deal with pawn shops. You guys know what I'm talking about where people will walk into a pawn shop with some kind of treasure or something that they have that they're trying to Sell and they're trying to get money for. Sometimes people will walk in there with something really cool, this item that they've acquired somehow, some rare item a lot of times. And they're trying to make some decent money off of it. So this could be something like an old book or old jewelry or something signed by the president or something with the president's wife's lipstick on it and they want to make some money off of it Every once in a while somebody will walk into these pawn shops and they will end up actually getting more money than they thought they were gonna get for it. So for instance, I saw this one guy he walked in with a Spanish colonial coin. He's expecting Hoping for something like a thousand dollars and he ends up getting offered eleven thousand dollars. It's a good day for that guy. It's a happy moment. I like to rejoice with them But then on the flip side, sometimes people, they walk in there, they're hoping to make bank, hoping to make a lot of money off this thing, and they end up being profoundly disappointed. There was one guy, for instance, who walked into one of these pawn shops one time and he had this Hudson Bay Gore Gorge, I think, gor, I don't know what it's called. Don't ask me what it is. Not important to the story. It's basically a necklace or some kind of collar that protects the throat. It's pretty old. He's hoping for a big payday. The guy walks in hoping to get a hundred thousand dollars for this thing. To this pawn shop, which is not gonna happen. But he goes in, he thinks this thing is worth $100,000. Easy. He thinks it's worth a lot. Long story short, he ends up getting an offer of $1,000 He doesn't sell it and he walks away angry and disappointed. So he he thinks that what he has is worth a lot. But the reality is that it wasn't actually worth all that much at all. What in his eyes was a treasure turned out to be in the boss's eyes. A thousand bucks trash compared to what he thought it was. Well, in our passage today, we find the Apostle Paul making a similar claim about something that's far more important than Coins or necklaces, we find him saying essentially that what appears to be worth a lot is simply not worth all that much. In particular, he's talking about our own self-righteousness. It may look great, it may look shiny and impressive, but before God, it's not worth a thing. And I think that that'll be clear as we Get into the text for today. So if you haven't already turned there, go ahead and get your Bible and you can start making your way to Philippians chapter 3, one of the Apostle Paul's letters later on in the New Testament. Philippians chapter 3 And we will be focusing our attention on verses one through eleven. So before I Say anything else? Let me read Philippians 3, 1 through 11, and you can follow along with me as I read. This is God's word. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you Look out for the dogs. Look out for the evildoers. Look out for those who mutilate the flesh For we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also, if anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law of Pharisee As to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ The righteousness from God that depends on faith, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and may share his sufferings becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead Amen. Well, I have three points for you this morning, like any good Baptist preacher And just so you're aware, point number one will be the longest by far. So just if you're looking at your watch at some point and you're starting to sweat a little bit. Don't be alarmed. Point number one is quite long compared to the other two. But number one, before God, even our best isn't good enough Before God, even our best isn't good enough So this is the Apostle Paul. He's writing to the church at Philippi. And remember what is going on in this context with the Apostle Paul at this time. So he's writing this letter from prison. He's not sure if he's gonna be released. He's not sure if he's gonna be executed. His present and his future are both pretty up in the heir at this point. And in the midst of the most difficult of circumstances for Paul, he he says that writing the same things to them, teaching the gospel to them is no trouble. I've got all this going on, but it's no trouble. I'm gonna write you this letter. He's in prison, basically saying it's no big deal. Let me write, let me give you the gospel again. And one of many reasons that he does that is he gives this church, he gives Christians the gospel, the good news is because We need the good news when we are unbelievers, but then we also need the good news when we are believers in the Lord Jesus. So he's refreshing them. He's giving them the good news. He's giving them the word again. And then in verse 2, he goes on to warn the Philippians. And it's so interesting what he warns them against. So in my mind, I think when I first read this that he's probably going to warn the church about something like persecution or suffering. Something that Paul is acutely aware of. Maybe he'll warn them about, this is how you don't end up in prison. Or do this so this doesn't happen to you But that's not what he says. He instead says this, verse 2, look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh. So think about who Paul, what Paul is telling them to look out for. Not suffering, not persecution. By the government or anything like that. He says, look out for the dogs and the evildoers and those who mutilate the flesh. The people that Paul is talking about here in that context are the Judaizers, and the Judaizers were these really moral religious people. And here's what they were doing. So they're coming to Gentiles who want to become Christians, and they're basically saying, look, I think it's great. I think it's fine that you want to become a Christian, but you also need to put on the Jewishness that we have. Put that on first and then move toward Christ. If you get all the Jewish stuff going for you, things like the ceremonial law and the moral law and things like circumcision. So that's mutilating the flesh there Get these things under control, do those, and then you'll be good. So that's why they that's why Paul brings up circumcision here. Which for a 35-year-old Gentile is probably not the best news, but brings it up. The Judaizers are telling someone to be circumcised and all these other things So just in short, the Judaizers, they're saying you just need a little bit more ceremony, a little bit more morality and religion and all that jazz, and then you'll be good to go. That's the whole package. You want Christ, fine. Make sure you have all this other stuff in order. And that idea that anybody would add anything to faith in Christ. Disgusted Paul so much that he refers to these Judaizers, the religious people, the moral people, the nice people. He calls them dogs and evildoers. These weren't murderers or rapists or people that we think of typically as evildoers. No, they were in one sense of the word, they were the good people. The moral people feels a little backwards. It seems counterintuitive that Paul would describe these people in that way. But Paul wasn't the only person to think like this, right? Think about Jesus for a moment. Jesus in the gospel. Think about who his hardest and harshest words were for. Was it, for instance, the woman caught in the act of adultery? She's literally caught in the act of adultery. Your sin is not, there's no chance of it being covered up. It is real, it is there. She's brought before the people. She's She's they they lie her down before Jesus and what does Jesus say to her? He says, Neither do I condemn you, go and sin no more. You're not condemned. So it's not someone like her. Another example, we got Barabbas, right? Also from the Gospels, the insurrectionist rising up against Rome. That seems like someone who would be a helped and deserving of Jesus' harshest words, we know from even Jesus' own teaching that You don't do that. You don't rise up against the government like Barabbas was doing. He's a bad guy. He's in prison. He's about to go on a cross. And yet it wasn't Barabbas that received Jesus' harshest words. Jesus actually ends up taking Barabbas' cross. So who was it? Well, for starters, it was the Pharisees, right? Religious folks of the day, Bible teachers of the day. Listen to what Jesus says about them in Matthew chapter 23 verse 27. He says this: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful. But within are filled with dead people's bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. That's harsh. Or think back to Matthew 7, the familiar passage to some of you I trust The end of the Sermon on the Mount, one of the heaviest, hardest to read passages in the Bible, probably. It's a moment where people are going to stand before the Lord. They're going to present what they've done, and he's going to turn them away. Who who were these people that got rejected by Jesus in Matthew 7? Well listen to this verse 22. Lord, Lord Did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. J. C. Ryle puts it like this, of all the mischievous delusions that keep men out of heaven, of all the soul-destroying snares that Satan employs to oppose Christ's gospel, there is none we find so dangerous, none so successful as self-righteousness. It's not our record of good behavior that gets us into heaven. It's not our been called a spiritual resume that Paul ends up giving in this passage. It's not our spiritual resume. And our achievements that give us righteousness, that give us the holiness that God requires. The religious people here that are called dogs. Not a kind term to call somebody in this in this passage an evildoers. So if you're like me, you're reading this and Pretty obvious that you know you think, well, sinners, really bad people, they don't get to go to heaven. That's fair. But then we're reading this and also the the good people. They don't seem like they've got a shot either. The people who seem like they're good, seem like they have it together, seem like they know the Bible. So then we have to ask the question, well, well, who is good enough? Who gets in? What is. What is God looking for? What's enough? What do we have to do to get in? Look down at verse 3 again. Paul says, For we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God, glory in Christ Jesus, and put no confidence in the flesh. So the people of God, the saints of God, are those of us who put no confidence In our flesh, in ourselves. No confidence in our abilities, in our gifts, in our behavior, in our goodness. We don't put confidence in those things. We put our confidence, plain and simple, bottom line, in the person and work of Jesus. We put our trust in the fact that the Lord Jesus has lived perfectly and died sacrificially and resurrected victoriously. That's where our confidence is, Paul says. It's those of us who have turned from our sins and ourselves and have put our confidence and our faith and our trust in Christ. That's what verse 3 is talking about. And then here's where Paul goes next in the passage. So Paul knows that some people are going to hear that. They're gonna hear that you can't put your confidence in yourself, you can't earn your own righteousness, you can't be good enough. People like you and I are gonna hear that and somehow think that we are the exception to the rule. Like we'll think that that's that's not true for us. I see how that's true for someone else, but that doesn't apply to us We'll think, yeah, I get it. Self-righteousness is bad, but I really am doing well. I'm doing great, Paul. This spiritual life, I'm hitting home runs most of the time. He's assuming that people will think that way, and we can tell that because of where he goes in the passage to debunk that whole assumption. And before we get there. Part of what he's doing, this will hopefully make sense to you. So it makes me think of my time. I went to college at UNC Chapel Hill, big tarhill fan, much to the dismay of Pastor John back there, the Duke fan But went to UNC Chapel Hill and the basketball players there, they used to do this cool thing at the school every year. So in the offseason in the spring. They would send out a message campus-wide saying, hey, we the basketball players are going to be hanging out at this court on campus at this time. Come out and join us. And so people would do it. Everybody's lining up to go play basketball with these Division I Carolina Tar Hill basketball players. You got all these people who are, you know, 5'8, 5'10, 6'1, maybe. Who are ready to go out there and show that they've got game. And so they go out there. We got the basketball team there People would students would take turns trying to make a free throw and if you made a free throw you got to play against these guys and The problem, though, is that these legit basketball players have more basketball talent in their pinky finger than all of us regular Joe Schmoes have in our entire body. And so we go out there being all confident. I've got game. I'm ready to put it on display. I'm pretty good at this thing called basketball. Little do we know when we go up against actual basketball players, that idea, that confidence gets thrown out the window. The reason I bring that up is because that's exactly what Paul's about to do here in this passage. He's got people rolling up to him, probably gonna read his words and think, yeah, but that's other people. I really am pretty good. And Paul's gonna Roll up to the court and say, oh you you think that you're all that? Let me show you why why you're not. So Look down at verses 3 through 6 again, and we'll see we'll see Paul doing just this. So he says, We have no confidence, we put no confidence in the flesh, though I myself, he says, have reason for confidence in the flesh. We don't put confidence in the flesh, but if we were going to, I would have good reason to put confidence in my flesh In myself, if anyone thinks that he has reason for confidence in the flesh, anyone, if anybody thinks that they're doing really well religiously, I'm doing better, Paul says. I have more of a reason to be confident. Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews. As to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. We're going to very quickly walk through each of those. So Paul is bragging here again to make a point. He's giving us his resume that lists all of his religious accomplishments and his His personal accomplishments and all the noteworthy things about his life. He's mentioning his reputation and his religion, his rightness. And so, real quickly, let's look at this list. The first one seems like kind of a weird thing to throw in there, circumcised on the eighth day. But again, in that context, for Paul, circumcision was a big deal. It's a big deal. It mattered for Paul that he was circumcised on the eighth day because it meant that not only was he distinct and set apart, In the family of Israelites, but it's kind of like his way of saying, I was keeping the law since I was eight days old. Right? I've been doing it since birth, basically. So from the beginning, Paul is he's deeply rooted in Jewish heritage. Goes on of the tribe of Benjamin That matters in part because it meant that Paul could prove his lineage. That's significant because in the year 1722 BC, the Assyrians, they conquered Israel, and then in 586 the Babylonians, they took Judah away and the whole Israelite camp. See that in the in the Bible. The whole Israelite camp gets. . pretty muddled during that time and it became difficult for people to know exactly where they came from and to trace their specific line back. . But Paul is saying here that he could trace it. I know who I'm from. I know where I'm from. I come from Benjamin. And back in the Old Testament, when other tribes were turning against the Davidic throne, the throne of Benjamin was one of the ones that stayed faithful to the king, the King David. The tribe of Benjamin is also the tribe that gives the nation of Israel their first king, King Saul. So he's got that going for him. Paul is also a Hebrew of Hebrews, so all that to say he's got an insanely strong Jewish heritage. Family history, his reputation was as good as it gets. He goes on, as to the law of Pharisee. So he wasn't just a Jew, and he wasn't even just a Jew that had this amazing lineage in the ethnic people of God. He was also a teacher of the Jews. And not only that, but Acts chapter 22, verse 3 says that he was educated as a Pharisee under Gamaliel according to the strictest manner of the law. So think of it like this. You think about Ivy League schools out there, say Harvard, and you think about every school, Harvard has that professor that People will take this professor and 98% of the people will fail in one of those weed out classes, right? And then only the strongest survive. Well Gamaliel in this story, he's that professor at Harvard. Harvard is the school of the Pharisees, and Paul's in that 2%. Paul is past. He's saying, I know this stuff like the back of my hand. Then he says, verse 6, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church. So he was passionate about his religion. You could say, in one sense, that Paul, before his conversion, was on fire for God, in one sense. He thought he was following God as well as anybody else. He was zealous. For the things of God as he understood them. Of course, we know that Paul was wrong in so many ways, but he was deeply committed to Judaism. He didn't want Christians robbing God of glory. Finally, he says the same verse there as to righteousness under the law, blameless. Obviously, Paul is not saying that at a heart level he was without sin. He's just said that he persecuted Christians. He knows that's wrong. But he's saying that if you were to look at the Torah, all those ceremonial and moral laws, if you were to look at that, Paul would say, I was doing that. I was doing it. I was following through on what God was asking me to do. In all these things that we just saw, Paul is saying that he had it all together. I was talking with a pastor friend recently, this guy and his wife. Um, they have young children who might be I trust that a lot of the children in this room are very well behaved as well, but I don't know you as well. I know this friend of mine well and his kids, and they might be the most well-behaved kids that I have ever been around. They are just so compliant. And they just do anything that you ask them to do. They're rarely, if ever, getting in trouble. And so I was with this friend recently and I was asking him. You know, about his parenting. Kind of like how did you do how you doing this with your girls? They're like angels. And he was giving me some insights. So if you want the secret to perfect kids, you can come talk to me. I'll give you this guy's number, he'll hook you up. Parenting will be done. You'll be good. But one thing that he said really struck me. As he was talking about his really well-behaved kids. So he says, first, I'm I'm really glad that my girls are super well-behaved. The good thing, we we work toward this, we're training the uh them to be good kids. It's a good thing. It makes life easy, is what he said. But he also says, because of that, I'm afraid that it's going to be really hard for them to see their need for Jesus. Maybe some of you parents in the room can relate to that. Praise God for your very well-behaved kids. And at the same time, you're thinking, how are they going to see their sin? If they're so good and they're so well behaved. You young people here as well, is a bunch of kids and Young adults, teenagers, which is awesome to see. You guys uh who are here. If uh I I don't know very many of you at all, and I don't know your story, but I'm guessing that most of you are pretty well behaved kids, like my friend's kids. You're here at church, probably raised in Christian homes, a lot of you, probably generally speaking, you Have a good reputation for being a good kid, a good teenager, doing the right thing. You're well behaved. Some of you might even be taking notes on this sermon, uh, which is awesome. If you're not, it's fine. But if you're like me I grew up in the church to godly parents and grandparents and grew up in the church, good kid Good reputation. Did the right thing. And if you're like me, it might be hard for you to see your need for Jesus. You might even be sitting here thinking, yeah, I know that Jesus died for my sins. I know everybody's a sinner, but like I don't know that I'm really that much of a sinner. And it's going to change the way you think about Jesus. It's probably really easy for you, like it was and even still is, for me to trust in your own goodness. You listen to your mom and dad. You're involved with your church. You got good friendships. You do well in school. It's going to be hard at times for you to not trust in your own behavior and yourself before God. And so let me just encourage you, young people, and then the rest of us as well. Very simply, no matter what your life looks like, don't trust in yourself before God. Don't trust in yourself before God. Your spiritual resume, your list of all the good things about you is not going to impress God All the spiritual, godly things, whatever God has put in me by his grace, is not going to impress him when I stand before him. Paul is saying that his goodness doesn't cut it, and if even his goodness doesn't cut it, then nobody else's is going to cut it before God either. It's not going to be enough to atone for our own sin. So that is in short point number one. Gotten through the longest one. That before God, even our best isn't good enough. Two and three are going to be much shorter. Number two says this, before God, the righteousness of Jesus is good enough. Before God, the righteousness of Jesus is good enough So thinking back on what Paul has just said in the first half of the passage, he is saying now that all of these wonderful accomplishments and this biblical knowledge, this family history, this morality that he has just listed out for us, all these things that people treasure. He's saying that if you get all of those things, but you don't get Jesus, you've lost. So many people, so many of us are tempted to gain, to gain stuff, to gain reputation, to gain A particular look about us to look great, to sound great, to act great. But if through it all you don't know Jesus, then who cares? Well Paul is saying, you've lost everything. If at the end of the day you don't know Jesus, you don't put your confidence in Jesus. Paul had everything that people strive for. He had prestige, he had power, he had a good education, he had a good reputation, he had a good standing with people. But he says right there that he counts all of that as loss. How could he count all of that as loss? Because he knows Christ Jesus. And that is the worth of knowing Jesus surpasses all other things. In other words, knowing Jesus is everything. Just to make it simple, knowing Jesus is everything. He's more valuable than the best things in this life He is all of our peace before a holy God. He is all of our righteousness. He is our sure hope For life and godliness. That's Jesus. That's not in ourselves. Paul is saying as well that if he has a choice between literally between between Jesus and literally anything else in this world, he's going with Jesus every single time. If he has to pick between the joy of the world and the joy of the Lord, then he is going with the Lord. He says something similar there at the beginning of our passage in verse 1. He says, Finally rejoice in the Lord. If you're going to rejoice in anything, find joy, rejoice in the Lord. Anything and everything without Jesus is lost. It's wasted. He even calls it rubbish. The word rubbish is an interesting word in the original language of the New Testament. Some of you know this. It's one of those places where we don't actually get the full meaning of that word rubbish there, because it's actually kind of a vulgar word. Basically, what Paul is saying there is that I consider all these things I just mentioned, I consider all of them dung or manure or waste or a dirty diaper, if that's easier to think of it as. I consider it that. No matter how moral and decent, no matter how good your life looks compared to Jesus, all of that is worthless. It pales in comparison to knowing Christ. And of course, this isn't just about knowing about Jesus, right? You've heard this before. I know lots of stuff about Michael Jordan, but that doesn't help me in life. To know about him. If I were to ever get close to him or to talk to him, he wouldn't know who I was. He probably wouldn't care what I have to say. No, knowing Jesus means knowing Jesus, being in a relationship with him, trusting him. And so that's the question that each of us has to ask ourselves this afternoon is, do you trust Christ? That's what life boils down to. Do you trust Christ? Do you know him? Are you trusting him with your life and with your eternity? At the end of the day, your self-righteousness won't give you a right standing before God. Doesn't matter what you show up to God with, ready to present. Not gonna matter. It's not gonna be enough in terms of earning you favor with God. Verse 9 says that Kind of answers the question for us. Well, if that's not going to be enough, what is? Verse 9 says that we need the righteousness that comes only through faith, not in ourselves, but in Christ. That's what we need, the righteousness that comes through faith in Christ. In other words, your good works, no matter how good they are, again, cannot save you from your sins. They also cannot keep you saved. Right? We don't trust in Christ in order to be saved from our sins, and he takes care of that, but then from now on, we kind of have to keep ourselves saved. No, from beginning to end, we trust in Christ and his righteousness alone, is what Paul says. Jesus' record is perfect Ours is not. His record is spotless. Ours is not. And God invites you to come before him with the righteousness of his son and be found in Jesus. The answer to our sin problem is not our good works. If you're feeling maybe you have a tender conscience and you're here today and you're feeling like I don't know if I'm gonna stand before God one day and be able to stand Maybe maybe you're thinking, you don't know what I've done, preacher. I don't surely there has to be some way that I can recover and bounce back from that. Or maybe you feel like you're pretty good, but you just you know you're not quite there. And you so you're ready to leave here and make sure that you get there, make sure you do enough, make sure you have the best week you've ever had in the Christian life. So that when you get before God, there's nothing that's gonna, there's nothing that's gonna tempt God to turn you away. Obviously, we want to go out of this room and we want to follow the Lord Jesus. We want to not just be hearers of the word, but doers as well. So we want to leave here and we want to follow Christ. But at the end of the day, the answer to our sin problem is not our good works. The answer is Jesus in our place His good works, his perfect life, his sacrificial death, his resurrection in the place of sinners. It's faith in him and not ourselves, in his righteousness and not our own. So before God, the righteousness of Jesus is good enough. That's our hope. And then lastly, number three here, in Christ, we have the resurrection power of God. In Christ, we have the resurrection power of God. So Paul mentions the idea of resurrection a couple times in these last couple of verses. So first in verse 10, he says. He says that I may know him, know Christ, that I may know the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. So the resurrection power that's mentioned in verse 10 is not just some future hope or a future reality. It is that But what Paul is saying right now, what he's saying is that right now in our current lives with Jesus, right now, I'm standing here and you're sitting there. Right now in Christ, we can experience that resurrection power. We can know the power of the resurrection that God has. We can know that right now. It's amazing. This is such good news in Christ that we have real resurrection power available to us right now. Because again, if you're like me, you ask questions like, how in the world are we supposed to live this Christian life? How are we supposed to do it? It's for instance, it's so hard to love other people sometimes. Even other Christians. It's hard. How do we do this? We can't follow Christ in our own strength, in our own power. Just think about our weaknesses. Think about your weaknesses. Think about those old habits that maybe you have that just won't go away. Think about the same sin. That you are promising God over and over that you're not going to do that thing that you've done over and over again. This is the last time, God, I'm not going to do it again. And then you end up doing it again. Where's the hope? How do we live this Christian life? How can we walk like Jesus while we're suffering? While we're being persecuted, we heard about persecution even earlier in the service in different parts of the world. How do we follow Jesus when that's going on around us? On the news to us. Well, we do these things quite simply by knowing and living in and trusting in the resurrection power of Christ. That is there for us. God does it in us. The same power that raised Jesus from the dead, the same God that did that, is the same God that is working in you day by day. He is faithful. He is doing it. When we know Christ, we know his resurrection power. We know the God who raises people from the dead. And this power that comes to us by grace, It's gonna help us make it to heaven. God is gonna get us there. He will get us there. And one of the means that He uses to get us there is by giving us His grace and by showing us and using in us His resurrection power. He gives us strength to endure. And then Paul says that he wants to know the fellowship, the closeness of sharing in Christ's sufferings. This is this is a deep concept here. Hard for any of us to understand exactly what's going on, but Paul is saying. At least this is part of what he's saying. He's saying that in gaining Christ, in trusting in Christ and being found in him, and in getting him, even in the lowest moments of my life. When I'm suffering, Jesus is with me. And in some mysterious way, whenever Jesus is with me in those moments, I am joining him in his suffering and I'm becoming like him. I don't really know how to unpack that much more, because it's deep and but I think that's what Paul is getting at. Paul is saying that he's gonna take up his cross. He's gonna follow Jesus every day, and as he does that, he's gonna believe that all the pain and all of the suffering and all of the hardships and all of the self-denial is gonna be worth it. And why is it going to be worth it? Verse 11. He says that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. So he knows that suffering is real. The first row seat to that. But he also knows that God uses suffering to make people more like Jesus, and he knows that the final resurrection of God's people is real. He knows that that is coming one day. We will be with God forever after this vapor of a life is complete. He knows that if he shares in Christ's sufferings and if he endures the hardships of life as a Christian during his relatively short life on the earth, then one day he is going to share in Christ's resurrection. Knowing Christ means knowing eternal resurrection. With God forever. It means knowing eternal life with God forever. One last note on verse 11 in talking about the resurrection as something that he attains. He's not doubting that he's going to be resurrected on the final day. He's obviously not saying that he's going to work to attain it and he's going to earn it. He's just saying in part that he doesn't know exactly what he's going to face before that happens. He's simply saying, I want to persevere to the end, and whatever God throws my way, whatever is going to help me attain it, whatever God is going to use to sharpen me and to refine me. And to make me more like Jesus so that I'm still believing in the end, I want that. More than Paul wants a great reputation More than he wants worldly success or a comfortable life. He wants to know Jesus and on the last day be raised from the dead to enjoy the Savior forever. So as we close, here's the choice that we all have before God, even as we leave here today. Are you gonna trust in yourself or are you gonna trust in Jesus Would you play with me? Father, we are so grateful for your word. I'm grateful for this church that is centered on your word. God, we're so grateful for Christ and who has and the way that He has done what we could never do for ourselves. We thank you, God, that you invite us to trust in your Son For eternal life, for joy, for satisfaction, for salvation, for the forgiveness of sins That is found in Jesus. We pray that as we leave here today, God, you would help us to simply be grateful. Help us to be Thankful in a new way that we who are trusting in Christ have been found in Him and we will be with Him And we will be forgiven forever because of Christ. Help us to rejoice in that anew today. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.