Well good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you all. Uh I'm so thankful to have this opportunity with you to be able to open up God's Word and to be able to hear what the living God has to say for us today and to us. But before we do that, let me go ahead and pray for us again briefly before we dive into God's word. Let's do that now. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you now in the name of your Son Jesus Christ, and we come giving thanks. Thank you for sending your son as a sacrificial offering to bear the punishment that we deserve so that we could be made your children. And we pray now that in that same spirit of love, you would grant the Spirit to open our eyes, to cause us to rejoice in the gospel, to believe it, to turn to Christ in faith. and to be fed now from your word. And we ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh friends, why don't you go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles, if you have the Bible around you, to Mark chapter twelve, verses twenty eight to thirty-four. That's the passage that we're going to be looking at and reading and studying this morning. In Mark chapter 12, we find Mar uh Jesus in a scene that Mark records for us that takes place during the final week of Jesus' life. So this real this final week and these scenes that have been following one after the other that we've been studying for the past couple months really began in chapter 11. when Jesus entered Jerusalem during the final week of his life in what we call the triumphal entry. That happened at the beginning of chapter 11. And what's happening now in this final week of Jesus' life is he's really declaring openly his authority as the true King of Israel. So if you're familiar with Mark's gospel at all. Then you know that as you've read along throughout the gospel that you've seen on various occasions when Jesus manifests his power through various miracles and such, he tells people Don't tell anyone what I've done or who I am. And that's because he's wanting to prepare the people of Israel for his role as the Messiah. They thought the Messiah was going to come and bring political power and political victory in this life, but he was trying to prepare them to see, no, the Messiah has very different purposes. I am coming to bring victory, he would say but spiritual victory over sin and darkness and hell. And my kingdom will actually not be a political power of this world. My kingdom will be from heaven. And so what he's trying to do throughout Mark's gospel is prepare people for this true the true nature of the kingdom and the true identity of himself as the Messiah. But following after chapter 11, you know, the veil's been cast off. Jesus is now declaring openly Who he is and what he came to do. And what we see beginning in chapter 11 is that Jesus is now being confronted openly by his opponents. And they are specifically challenging his authority. His authority. Why do I bring all that up? Well, because I want to build the context for our passage this morning. Jesus is on day two of his journey into Jerusalem. It's the second day of the week. And he has come into the temple. I want you to go ahead and look down with me at Mark chapter 12. Mark chapter 12, beginning in verse 1, Jesus there is Speaking parables to his opponents, the Pharisees and the Scribes, who have challenged his authority. And beginning in chapter 12, verse 1, all the way through the end of chapter 12, we're in one single scene. So Jesus confronts the Pharisees. He calls them wicked tenants. We talked about that about a month ago. Now look at chapter 12, verse, let's see here, chapter 12, verse 13. Same day, same occasion, after he tells the parable, those Pharisees send some more Pharisees and some of the Herodians, and they ask him about whether or not we should pay they should pay taxes. Then chapter 12, verse 18. Right, following on that scene, the Sadducees come to them. This is another group of religious and political authorities in Israel, and they challenge him on the nature of the resurrection, whether there was actually a resurrection. And he answers them. And then in verse 28, the passage we're looking at this morning, a scribe comes up to him and asks him about the greatest commandment. So the context for our passage this morning. Is Jesus' authority has been challenged by one opponent after another? They're coming out of the woodwork. They're coming in mass to see if they can cause them to stumble or trap him in his speech or find some way to incriminate him. And the scribe this morning comes to Jesus and asks him, hey, what is the greatest commandment. And it was common in Israel during this day for rabbis to be tested on their mastery of the law by Being challenged to summarize the entirety of the law. So if you're not familiar with Israelite law, there were about six hundred and thirteen laws in the Old Testament And rabbis students would come up to them and say, hey, can you summarize the law in a single sentence? Tell us, what's it all about? What is the greatest commandment? And that is what the scribe is doing today to Jesus. Now, if you were here three weeks ago, then you saw that we would have studied the first part of this passage where Jesus responds to the cry the scribe and he says to him, The greatest commandment is this, hear, O Israel, the Lord is one. The Lord is God. You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart, with all of your soul, with all of your mind, and with all of your strength. So the entirety of the law, Jesus says to the scribe, is about love of God. What are we commanded to do, Christian and non-Christian alike? We are commanded by Jesus to love the Lord our God completely. We looked at that three weeks ago. But what's interesting about what Jesus does is he answers: what is the greatest commandment with two commandments And he doesn't say one is better than the other. He basically says they're the same. Love of God completely, you love God completely, and then you love your neighbor as yourself. Why don't you look down there with me at verse 31? Jesus says, the second is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. So Jesus sees that the fulfillment of all the law in the Old Testament was meant to teach Israelites and meant to teach us that they should love God and love their neighbor. So that we have a framework for what we're reading through in this passage and how things function in the passage. I'm going to go ahead and read it for us now, and then we're going to look at it more closely. Would you do that with me? This is Mark chapter 12, verses 28. It's a thirty-four. And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, Which commandment is the most important of all? Jesus answered, the most important is, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength. The second is this You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him, and to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself. Is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that, no one dared to ask him any more questions. This is the word of the Lord Well, friends, what we want to look at in our passage, since we're looking spur uh specifically at love of neighbor, this second commandment, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. We want to ask three questions to see if we can better understand specifically what love is. That's going to be our first question. What is love? Second, who our neighbor is. So that's the second question we're going to answer. Who is my neighbor? And third, the third question we're going to answer is: how do we love our neighbor as ourselves? If you're taking notes this morning, the answer to those questions, or those questions are going to form our outline so you have an idea about where we're at in the sermon, but I just want to put this on your radar now. We are going to answer the first two questions very quickly. So if you think, oh my gosh, this is going to be a 10-minute sermon, praise the Lord. Just want to prepare you. Point three is where we're going to spend the remainder of our time. So it's not going to be a 10-minute sermon. Maybe more like a 40-minute sermon. But we have lots of good stuff to look at this morning, and the Lord is going to speak to us in his word, and that's a good thing. So we want to take time and consider specifically what is love? Who is my neighbor and how do we love our neighbor as ourselves? So the first question we want to answer as a people is, what is love? If we're going to love our neighbor as ourselves, we need to know what love isn't. And what love is. Now, I'm just gonna go ahead and put myself out on a limb here and be a little bit vulnerable with you. I wonder how many of you, when I ask the question, what is love? Start singing in your head, baby don't hurt me. Don't hurt. Some of you start laughing, so maybe I'm not the only Weirdo here, right? Some of us may laugh at the fact that that song comes to our minds when we hear the question, what is love, right? But But the reason I bring that up, the reason I bring that up is because the very fact that it does come to some of our minds points to an important reality for us this morning. And that reality is this If we don't fill our minds with the biblical definition of love, our culture will fill our minds for us. They will provide us with a definition of love that is different from the biblical definition. And that's not the only song, right? Think about all the songs on love. Think of the Beatles. All you need is love Love, right? Or Steve Wynwood's bring me that higher love. Bring me that higher love, right? Steve Wynwood, if you were a child of the 80s, maybe. Our culture loves love. Our culture loves love, but the problem is our culture no longer knows what love actually is. And the reason for that is because our culture has become radically, radically individualized And it has become intoxicated by the idea that self-expression is the ultimate good We have redefined love to mean doing only that which allows someone else to most fully express themselves. So I love you when I allow you to be who you want to be. That's what our culture understands his love. And you have seen this all throughout advertisements. This is why advertising is all about pursue your dreams. Put yourself first. Do what's best for You love has been redefined in relation to the self. You love me the most when you allow me to be who I want to be and do what I want to do. According to our Culture, true love, has as its goal the glorification of the self. When the self has been most fully expressed, it has been most fully glorified, and that is the highest good in our culture. You might put it in this word in these words. You love me on my terms, and if you don't love me on my terms, then you don't actually love me at all. And maybe some of you have heard others say that to you. Maybe you've said it yourself. But that, friends, is not true love. It's not the type of love that Jesus is talking about here. True love. Biblical love, love according to God, is desire for the good of another. It is desire for the good of another, yet What is good for them is defined not by them, but by God. God provides a definition of what is good for others. Right? God created us for relationship with Him, and so the greatest possible good for us is to live in perfect relationship to Him, which means that love is. True love is anything that leads a person closer to a perfect relationship with God. Which means that anything that leads us further away from a perfect relationship with God is not love Right? Love is anything that leads us closer to a perfect relationship with God. So that is what love is. The second question we need to answer is. Who is my neighbor? Now some of you may be rolling your eyes at this question like John. Give me a break, right? My neighbor is the person who lives Right next to me, right? It's Bob. He comes out of his house and we talk in the morning, we chat, and it's in some sense true that Bob is your neighbor, but there is more to it than that. So we want to think about the original context that Jesus was in and the cultural assumptions at that time. The Jewish people that were living around the time that Jesus grew up understood the term neighbor in purely ethnic terms. They only looked at fellow Jews as their neighbors. And this is really kind of understandable. And that's because. God had created the nation of Israel through the person of Abraham. He called them. He made them his special covenant people. And then he gave to Israel numerous laws. That governed their relationship to him and their relationship to one another. You could say he gave them laws that governed how they were to interact with their neighbors. But the scope of those laws was almost exclusively aimed at how to interact with other Jewish people and not people from the surrounding nations. Like the uh Philistines or the uh Gergeshites or the Hittites or the Hivites, right? It was how to interact with fellow Jews. So they developed this notion that neighbor meant fellow Jew, nobody else. Right? It would be like if Christians today thought that the command to love your neighbor as yourself applied only to other Christians. I'm only to fulfill this command with other Christians. So really when Jesus comes along, what he's doing is he's exploding, blowing up the Jewish conception of neighbor, and he what he does is he expands it to include people from all walks of life. You think about the parable of the Good Samaritan. Jesus took one of the chief enemies of the Jewish people, the Samaritan people, and made the Samaritan the hero of a story about how to love your neighbor as yourself, when he stops to care for the man and cares for the person and brings them to an end. Jesus blows up the Jewish conception of neighbor and expands it to include people from all walks of life. So what that means for us today, in the kingdom of God, your neighbor is your fellow man, whether a Christian or not. In the kingdom of God, your neighbor is your neighbor, the person who lives right next to you. And your neighbor is the elderly woman you've never met who lives on another street in your neighborhood who just lost her spouse of 50 years. Your neighbor is also the person you pass at Costco. Your neighbor is the barista who hands you your coffee at Starbucks, and then your neighbor is also the human being behind the avatar that you argue with on Twitter. And your neighbor is your boss. Your employee, your spouse, your parents, kids, your neighbor is your siblings. You should love your neighbor as yourself. You should love your sibling as yourself. How did y'all do with that this morning It's not easy, is it? It's not easy. We're gonna see why it's not easy for us. But since loving your neighbor, it means loving any other living human being. Jesus is commanding you to love people that you might really otherwise struggle to love. Right, get this. If if your neighbor, according to Jesus, is everyone on earth, how many people are there on earth that you really disagree with and find offensive or you just struggle with them? Jesus is calling you to love them, right? So in our cultural moment, I I think politics is a is a great flashpoint to draw this out. If you're a Republican, you're called to love your Democrat neighbor And not just your Democrat neighbor, but the uber progressive leftist neighbor who you think who you whose politics you think are destructive, you are called to love them as yourself. If you're a Democrat, you're called to love your Republican neighbor. Not just your Republican neighbor, but your alt-right MAGA hat wearing neighbor whose politics you think promote injustice. Your neighbor is your fellow man. Your neighbor is every living human being Jesus says to you today, you must love your neighbor as yourself. There is no boundary between who our neighbor is and who our neighbor isn't Whether or not a person offends you or you really struggle with them, you are called to pursue doing everything you can to bring that person into a perfect relationship with God because that is what love is defined by. There is no boundary between who our neighbor is and who our neighbor isn't. If their heart is beating, they are your neighbor. There's no one on earth where not to love because Jesus In the Gospels, even commands us to love our enemies. What does he say? You have heard that it was said you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. He's pointing to the the former Jewish conception. You have heard that it's that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you so that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. So what is love? Love is anything that leads a person closer to a perfect relationship with God. And who is your neighbor? Your neighbor is your fellow man, including your worst enemies. So now that we know what love is and who our neighbor is, we can think more specifically about how we should love our neighbor as ourselves. That's our third question. How do we love our neighbor as ourselves? To answer this question for our time, I think it's really going to be easiest for us to divide the category of neighbor into two groups Non-Christians and Christians. And the reason that I'm dividing them into two groups is not because one is more valuable than the other, but because of the way that we as Christians will love our non-Christian neighbors Sometimes differently than the way that we love our Christian neighbors. What do I mean by that? Why would I say something like that? Well, let's think about this. If love is anything that leads our neighbor closer to a perfect relationship with God, then the most loving thing that we can do for our non-Christian neighbor that we won't do for a Christian is call them to salvation through repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. If we are truly concerned for our non-Christian neighbors' welfare, then we're going to begin by being concerned for their spiritual welfare and their relationship with God. And the reason that we place such a priority on their spiritual welfare is because Christians understand That one day all humans will stand before the judgment seat of God. And any human being who stands before the judgment seat of God, apart from faith in Jesus Christ, will stand in their own strength. And will have the punishment for their own sins brought against them, and none of us will be able to stand that day. And what awaits us is an eternal judgment according to Jesus Christ. So we love our non-Christian neighbors by calling them to repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ so that they can flee from the judgment to come. That is the most loving thing that we can do from them. If we're seeking to love our non-Christian neighbor in a way that doesn't include sharing the gospel with them, then we're not truly loving them. To illustrate this, I want you to imagine with me that you're driving down a highway, and in the middle of the highway, you can see in the distance, lies a man whose legs are broken. He's lying in the highway, it's a busy highway, he is in impending danger. And you pull over your car Uh he's unable to drag himself off the road and it's inevitable at some point he's gonna get hit. So what you do, you pull your car over and you run out to the man And instead of dragging him off the road, you say to him, wait here, I'm going to drive to the closest hospital and tell them about you, and I'm going to encourage them to come get you. Have you loved that man well? Well, say, hey, listen, it's really kind of you to drive to the hospital and to tell them about me and to get an ambulance to come and pick me up. But if you could drag me out of the road, please. There's cars coming, right? You can see how it's very kind of you to do that. But the man is in impending danger. And if we're not dragging him out of the road to to to drag him to safety We're doing a kind thing, but we're not truly loving him. We want to be the type of people who love our non-Christian neighbors by dragging them out of the highway. Not just running and doing, you know, telling the hospital like, hey, there's somebody on the highway. In the same way, what I'm trying to illustrate is that doing genuine acts of kindness toward our non-Christian neighbors While never telling them about the danger they're in is like leaving that man in the highway. We want to be a people who pull our non-Christian neighbors out of the highway. But I also want to speak to some of you here who may not be followers of Jesus. And you may have had Christians do a really poor job of telling you about what it means to follow Jesus. Maybe they were rude. Maybe they were harsh or unkind. If that's you and that describes an experience that you've had with another Christian, let me just apologize to you as one who has Done that to other people. I didn't I didn't quite match the loving message with a loving tone and a loving approach, right? I want to apologize. If that's you, Christians don't always do a good job of matching that loving message with a loving attitude. But we're not perfect, right? Far from it, in fact. But we know someone who is, right? We know that the Lord Jesus is perfect, and we want to point you to him in spite of our imperfections. But if you're not a follower of Jesus, I also want to say to you that anytime a Christian has tried to share the gospel with you They were at least attempting to love you enough to tell you something that you probably didn't want to hear in the first place. And what is that? Well, it's what Christians understand to be the gospel, the good news. And it's good news because there's first bad news. And the bad news is that you and I have sinned against a holy God. He created us to live in perfect relationship with him. But we rebelled against him, we rejected his laws, we've broken his laws, we've all been angry, we've all lied, we've all been unkind to others, we've all been harsh with people close to us, some of us have stolen. Some of us have committed great acts of immorality. These are all manifestations of the sin that indwells all of us and that all of us will be judged by. God is a perfect judge So if you knew a judge on earth who was presented with a person who the case was clear against him, there was great evidence that showed that the person was guilty, and that judge said, you're guilty, but I'm just gonna let you go. You would say, unjust judge. We want just judges in this world, don't we? But the the dangerous thing about that is that's that's a reflection of God's image in us And what that tells us is that we actually know that God is just and he will judge us perfectly for our sins, which is the bad news. That is that day of judgment that I was talking about. We will all stand before the judgment seat of Christ And be judged by God perfectly for every sin that we've ever committed. But the gospel, the good news is this: that God is not only a perfect and loving judge, he's also merciful and loving. And he sent his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, into the world to live a perfect life. The life that you and I should have lived, the life that I think some of us really desire to live, but we just keep messing it up. We keep sinning He lived that perfect life and he did so intentionally. And then he went to the cross, and on the cross, Jesus taught, interpreting what he was doing for us. He said, I am going to the cross to bear the punishment for the sins of all who would turn from their sins and trust in me. So if you would repent of your sins today. And put your faith in Jesus Christ, you would be saved from that judgment to come because God is merciful. He holds that out to you today. That is the good news of the gospel. And that is the good news that we as Christians think is one of the most loving things That we can hold out to you and tell you about. And so if you're here today and you're not a follower of Jesus, please turn, turn to him, trust in him, put your faith in him, and follow him. And you will be saved from that judgment to come. So we as Christians love our non-Christian neighbors by telling them about God's love for them in Christ. But But, and this is a massive butt. I'm gonna throw an exclamation point, I'm gonna hit bold, I want to put an underline, I want to do everything like increase the size of the font on this butt so that you get that this is a major conjunction in John's sermon. Right? I'm paying attention to what he's about to say. But we also we also love our neighbor, our non-Christian neighbors, by showing them God's love for them. We tell them about God's love for them in Christ and we show them God's love for them. And we do that by seeking to know them and serve them. You see, if we try to share the gospel with our non-Christian neighbors every time we interact with them without trying to get to know them, then we treat them like a project rather than a person who is created in the image of God. So, by all means, share the gospel with them, but be also to share with them God's character by manifesting it to them in your life. What are some ways that you can do that with your non-Christian neighbor? Here's a few to consider. Draw near to them when they're suffering, to show them that God is a God who draws near to those who are hurting. Welcome them into your home to show them that God welcomes the foreigner and the exile into his home. Isn't that what he's done for us, right? We were once foreigners and exiles Sympathize with them in their weakness to show them that Jesus sympathizes with us in our weakness. Pursue them to show that God pursues the lost. Be humble. Share with them the ways that you fall short of God's standard of perfection, right? God doesn't use our perfection to save people, He uses Jesus' perfection to save people. Share with your non-Christian neighbors the way that you're struggling as well so they can see hey becoming a Christian doesn't mean I have to act like I'm a perfect person because all of us know that is a mask. We want to take that mask off. Want to show them that we're not perfect Get to know them. God desires to know and be known. Do you know your coworkers? Do you know your immediate neighbors? Do you know the people who live around you? Do you know their names? Do you know their kids' names? Do you know their spouse's names? Do you know anything about their life story? Do you know their joys, their pains, their fears, their sorrows? Trust me, I from experience I learned this the hard way when I was in the Coast Guard. I did a terrible job of getting to know my my uh co-workers and then I would try to share the gospel with them and they just had no desire to listen to me whatsoever. And then I started being convicted, like I am actually doing a terrible job. I don't really care about them. I'm just like trying to like keep sharing this message with them. But God was gracious to me to show this to me and then give me a spirit of trying to get to know them. They actually started open up to opening up to me. The more that you invest in actually getting to know and love your neighbors Trust me that the door for spiritual conversations will begin to open more and more. But when we think about this idea of loving our neighbor, and if our neighbor is everyone that's alive on the planet, we start to run into a potential danger, right? And that is the danger of being overwhelmed. So I'm uh my wife likes to point this out to me and she does it out of love. John, you're an all-or-nothing kind of guy When I go on a diet, it's like we need to throw everything out of the cupboards. We need to go to like Whole Foods. We need to get everything organic. It can only be green plants. It can't be any grains. It can't be this. It can't be the other. Like I'm all in. And then when I go to my friend's house and they're serving donuts, I like shove the donuts in my mouth. I was like, oh like I'm all one way or I'm all the other way, right? So I start to look at the world and I see wait there's so many neighbors on this planet. I can't love them all. I'm just not going to do anything. Right? We run into this danger of being overwhelmed. If that describes you, maybe you're looking at me and you're like. You're crazy, legitimately crazy, right? . . Then maybe I'm not describing you right now, but if you can at all kind of like, I relate to that, I get that. How can we fight against being overwhelmed? Well, what I want you to do and I want you to be encouraged by is uh some good news, and that's that God doesn't expect you to be able to love everyone on earth. Only God can do that. What he does expect you to do is to love the people he's put near you. And think about that passage in Acts in which. Uh one of the apostles says, God has determined the places and times in which people will live. God has sovereignly and providentially put your neighbors and co-workers around you for this very purpose. So when you're worried about like I need to love all my neighbors in Russia, God's like, no, it's good that you think that. Pray for them because I can answer those prayers, but I put Bob right next to you. Focus on Bob, right? Think about that. So let's say you live in Bowie. God doesn't expect you to be able to love all the people in Hydesville. He doesn't even expect you to be able to love all the people in Bowie. He doesn't even expect you to be able to Of all the people in your neighborhood But he has put you on a street. Think about walking out on your front steps today and turning to the left and turning to the right and thinking about those houses and those people. Think about your workplace. Bob's not worried or God's not worried about you loving Bob in HR on floor two. He wants you to think about Sally, who's in the cubicle next to you. Think about the people he's put right around you, and then think about how you can love them. So focus on loving them before you start pushing boundaries outwards to love others. If you're interested in learning more how to grow in the art of neighboring, I have a book called The Art of Neighboring. I'm not going to give it away right now, but if you really want to grow in this Shanita, you can come grab one. I'll give one to you since you raise your hand You can go grab one for me at the door afterwards. This is an excellent book to think about how to do that well. Right? Love your non-Christian neighbor by telling them about God's love for them and then by showing them God's love for them. And start with the people closest to you. Yet we're also called to love our Christian brothers and sisters in a way that is different from our non-Christian neighbors. Paul says in his letter to the Galatians, do good to all, especially to those of the household of faith So there is a heightened obligation, a heightened obligation that we have to love our fellow Christians. Not only that, but we know from Jesus that love is to be the defining characteristic of the church. Jesus says, by this all people will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. If you love one another. Love for one another that leads us closer to a perfect relationship with God. And before I dive into specific applications, I want the members of Chevly Baptist Church to receive what I'm about to say as a Hebrews 12. Keep on going. You are doing an amazing job. When I look at this congregation and I look out here, I just want you to know these things I'm about to encourage us to apply in our own lives, I see in spades in this congregation. I am so encouraged by the ways that I've seen members of this church pour themselves out, give their time, give their love, give their energy, give their emotions to support and sustain and encourage other members of the church. So hear me when I say to you, members of CBC, you are such an encouragement to me. You are an example to me. I am convicted by you of your love for others. And I am spurred on by your example to love others well. So thank you so much for the ways that you do that. And so I want you to hear these applications coming in that spirit and coming from that heart. You're doing amazing. Keep going. And here are ways that we can keep doing that. So how can we as a church love one another like Jesus would have us to love one another? Six ways, briefly, that I want to hold out to you to consider today. First, we love by committing to love one another. We love by committing to love one another. If you're here and you've been visiting for a while, you've probably heard us talk about becoming a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church. And the reason that we talk about becoming a member is because we understand God's plan for us as individuals to be inextricably linked and connected with our membership in a local church. See, when you read the New Testament, it's just everywhere throughout the New Testament. Christians are parts of churches. Christians are parts of churches where they're known, where people know them and the pastors know them and they care for the pastors. There's a loving, committed relationship. And so the reason that you hear us talk about membership so often is because we all need to be encouraged, challenged, rebuked, instructed, and loved So if you've been attending here for a while but haven't joined, let me encourage you to consider committing either to this local body of believers or another local church. And why is commitment so important? Well, I think you probably know this from your own life and the relationships that you have. If you are married, you know that love tends to, doesn't always in a fallen world, tends to flourish in a committed covenantal relationship. Right? I, you know, if if imagine if I said to Leah, I back before we got married, I really love you. And I I think I want to hang around you for the rest of your life. But it doesn't quite communicate the same thing as I want to give my life to you and I'm going to love you through thick and thin, through the good, the bad, the hard, the ugly, the wonderful. I want to covenant together with you. And in the context of that committed relationship Real love can flourish because we know that we're not going to run the other direction when the hard comes. So I want to encourage you, if you've been attending here for a while, to think about committing to this local church or another one, because in that commitment True love can flourish between Christians, the type of love that Jesus is talking about. So if you go to churches every weekend You can't really love those people. You can't be encouraged by their pastor. You can't do the types of things that Jesus holds out. So I want to encourage you to commit to a local church. Commitment is necessary for true love to flourish. God's chesed love, that's the Hebrew word for committed love in the Old Testament, about that type of love, Paul Miller said this. Pessit love, committed love is one-way love. Love without an exit strategy. When you love with this type of love, you bind yourself to the object of your love no matter what the response is. So if the object of your love snaps at you, you still love that person. If you've had an argument, you refuse to retaliate through silence or withholding affection. Your response is entirely independent of how that person has treated you. Hesed love is committed love. And I want to encourage you today to express that committed love by either joining this church or another local church if you understand yourself to be a Christian. Second, we love by pursuing one another. Pursuing one another. If Severly Baptist Church, CBC, is gonna be a place where loneliness and marginalization vanish. It is only going to happen if we become a people who pursue one another. What are some ways that we can practically do that today and in the weeks to come in our Sunday gathering? Well, we can pursue the first-time visitor. By just bum rushing them, thanking them for coming, welcoming them with open arms. Maybe don't bum rush them, but like here, you get my point. Welcome them warmly. Let them know that we are thankful that they are here and that we care about their presence and we want to be a place where where they they feel the love of Christ. That's how you pursue the first-time visitor. You pursue the repeat visitor by reaching out to them. Yeah, just go up, break, break the ice. Say to them, hey, can I get your phone number? Can I get your email? I want to connect with you this week. I want to invite you. I've seen you around a few weeks in a run. I want to invite you guys into our home. I want to share a meal with you. I want to get to know you. I want you to know what it looks like to walk with Jesus at CBC. We want to pursue one another. And then in the midst of our relationships to other members of the church, we pursue one another by getting to know the sufferings and struggles of each other's lives and being there for one another through thick and thin. We want to take our relationships to a deeper level so that when we're hanging out, we can talk about surface stuff, we can talk about sports, we can talk about how family's going, we can talk about vacations coming up, but we pursue one another by saying, hey, no, no, how are you really? Yeah, how's your soul doing? How's your heart? What are you struggling with these days? That's how we can love one another by pursuing one another. Third, we love by sympathizing with one another. We love by sympathizing with one another. Once you take a moment and do something weird. I'm not gonna have you get up and greet one another. We don't do that here. Why don't you just look around the room for a second? I get to look at you guys. Just look around the room. You can actually turn your head. Your neck works, I trust. You could turn your head, just look around the room. Alright, why am I having you do that? You know everyone that you just looked at has suffered or is suffering You know that? Everyone suffers in this life. The love that we want to embody is a sympathetic love that understands the sufferings of life So when you get really frustrated, a person who maybe snapped at you this morning who was unkind to you, maybe just consider that they're suffering in some way. How do you feel when you're suffering? Your fuse gets shorter, right? Think about the things that are going on behind the scenes in people's lives. There's hardly a person in this room who hasn't carried some cross. or known some grief that if you knew wouldn't bring you to your knees. Everyone in this room has that going on in their life. Whether it's broken family relationships, emotional suffering, depression, anxiety, losing loved ones, or having bodies that aren't working properly, we have all suffered. So let us be a people who sympathize with others in their suffering. But you can't sympathize with others in their suffering if you don't know the ways that they're suffering. Kind of connects with what we just talked about. The thing about people who are suffering is that they're not going to tell you. They're just not going to offer it to you in conversation. Hey, how are you doing today? I am really suffering. I mean how many people have done that to you? And that's because people who are struggling don't tend to bring their problems to the surface. So what does that mean for us? We need to pursue so that we can sympathize. Connects in love Right? Think about how you can take your relationships with those you know in the church to a deeper level by really asking meaningful questions about the ways that they have suffered or are suffering. Consider adding this question to your life Whenever you're meeting with other people, just add this question. What's hard in your life right now? Simple question. Gets to the heart of what we're aiming for Love pursues and love sympathizes. Fourth, we love by encouraging one another. Sin The fall has made it so that encouraging others has become a foreign language to all of us. Right? Sinful judgmentalism clouds our hearts and our minds and keeps us from seeing the good in others. But a community of love is a community of encouragement. Two things you can be certain of. Every single person in this congregation, every single member of this church has character qualities and spiritual gifts. That are worthy of being pointed out and verbally encouraged. And the second thing you can be certain of is every person in this room needs more encouragement. Every single person in this room Make it a point this week to call out one good thing in another person. Then next week, make it a point to call out two good things in another person. Then the following week three and the following week four and keep adding encouragements to others until encouragement becomes your native tongue. We love by encouraging others. Bev Moore, Beverly Moore, a counselor with CCF, said this. When we excuse me That is my next point. I was about to read to you a quote that has nothing to do with what I was about to say. I'm gonna hold off on that one. Sorry. That's what happens sometimes when you look down at a manuscript Make it a point this week to call out good in others. You can never encourage enough. Fifth though, we love by confronting one another. So you know a quote about confrontation is about to come We love by confronting one another. Because sin still indwells our hearts as a people, we will at times need to confront one another one another, but confronting other people is hard. It's not easy to call out a person on their sin, right? It's uncomfortable. I mean, who are we to actually call this person out? But the reason that we are willing to confront other Christians and other members of this church when they're in sin is because we love their holiness more than we love our comfort. Bev Moore with CCF said this about confronting others. When we confront, we're demonstrating love for God and obedience to him. We're also demonstrating love for the person. We're more concerned about honoring God and the spiritual well-being of the other person than we are about our own comfort. When we're reluctant to confront, we sometimes rationalize and justify with thoughts like, what if they get mad? What if I hurt his feelings? What if she doesn't like me anymore? And this reveals what we're truly worshiping: the love and acceptance of others. When we confront, we have to be willing to risk the person's rejection or anger for the sake of God's honor. Think about the wonderful illustration of the Bible when Nathan goes to David. Because he knows that David has sent us a great picture of confronting. I want to say some things real quick on this. I don't I don't want I'm not saying that we should love by confronting others in order to make us The sin police, so that we go around like Pharisees pointing it out in one another's lives. Jesus actually gives us guidelines for how we should go about confronting others. And do you know what the first thing he tells us to do is confront yourself. Look in the mirror, take the log out of your own eye, so that when you go and you take the speck out of their your brother's eye, you can do it in a spirit of humility. So I want to encourage you if you're ever thinking about speaking to somebody about a pattern that you see in their life. Stand before God on your own, see the sin in your own life so that you can go in a spirit of humility. But I also want you to think about maybe welcoming other people into that process. If you have questions about whether you should confront a person or maybe overlook, you can reach out to the pastors of this church. We would love to talk to you, but there are also many other wise brothers and sisters in this congregation who can help you think about how to do that well. Because we don't want to become a community of people who just go around pointing out sin, right? You think about what sin has done to our hearts. It's made us really good at that and not as good at encouragement. Think about how you can encourage someone and confront them, you know. In a way that's what's balanced. And then finally, we love by praying. We pray with and for one another. Seriously, what more loving thing could we possibly do with and for a person than to bring them and their needs into the presence of the all-sufficient? all-powerful, all-loving Father who delights to give good gifts to his children. A community of love is a community of prayer We love one another by bringing each other's needs to the one person who can provide exactly what we need when we need it. Right, it's not loving for us to try to sustain people or support people or give people wisdom in our own strength. Because what we're doing when we do that is we're teaching them to lean on us, broken reeds, who are going to like put splinters in their arm when they try to lean on us, rather than leaning on God, who is the only one worthy of being leaned upon. So question, how how regularly are you praying with and for other members of this congregation? The amount that you pray for them will tell you how much you love them. Right, and let me encourage you to adopt the practice of praying with people when possible as soon as they share with you a prayer request. Rather than saying, I'll pray for you, and then either walking away and not meaning it or walking away and just forgetting to do it. Think about how you can, if you have time, if it's possible and if it's appropriate, just say, hey, you just shared that with me. Can we pray right now? Can we pray right now Think about what it would look like after this service if you looked around and you just saw groups of people praying for one another. Right? A community of love is a community of prayer because we know that the most loving thing we can do is bring one another's needs and requests to the God who can provide. I'm going to call him out today as a in the spirit of encouragement and what I've already talked about this morning and just say if you want to know what faithful prayer looks like you should talk to Tom Bennett Dennett uh puts me to shame in my own prayer life. He's the model for me to follow. He has prayed more for all of you in this room, probably three times as many times as I prayed for you. He prays constantly. He stops to pray. He recognizes. I'm calling him out because the spirit that's at work in him isn't Tom. It's God in him. Tom shows us what God is like. By praying regularly for people. Let's be a community of people who pray for one another regularly. Kids, I want to speak to you all real quick before we finish up also. Uh VBS this last week was amazing. I loved it. I loved being with you all, but it also gave me some insight into ways that you can apply loving your neighbor as yourself this week. So kids, I want to ask you some questions And I want you to raise your hand if you can say yes to this question. How many of you like to be picked on? Raise your hand. You don't I love you. You are so encouraging. I love that you raised your hand. You did a great job, Jack. Uh none of you like to be picked on? How many of you like when people laugh at you? There are some kids here who like being laughed at. How about they you like being laughed at when people are making fun of you and being mean to you? to you and a whole group of kids gathers around and laughs at you. How many of you like that? Why do I bring that up? Well because VBS gave me insight into some of the dynamics that I once experienced myself. Uh kids, I think it's really easy uh to see somebody else do something silly, maybe they trip and fall, and then a bunch of kids start laughing. Ah, look at the kid, he just he just fell. Let's all stand around and laugh at him and point, right? If you're the kid who fell, you don't want people to do that to you. So if you're going to love your neighbor as yourself, you're going to encourage other kids. Hey, y'all should stop that. Right? Be brave. Stand up to other kids if you see them doing unloving kids unloving things to other kids. Because if you want to love your neighbor as yourself, you're gonna want to do the things that you would want done to you. Don't you think about how you can do that with your siblings this week in terms of generosity, in terms of kindness, in terms of sharing, in terms of patience. There's so many ways that we can love our neighbor as ourselves. We love one another in these ways because when we do, we lead each other closer to a perfect relationship with God. But ultimately, we all fail in doing this perfectly. None of us will love our neighbor as ourselves the way we ought to. So does that mean that we can't lead each other into a perfect relationship with God? Yeah, it does mean that. We can't But that's because leading others to a perfect relationship with God is not something that we do, but something that has been done for us And that's been done by the only one who completely fulfilled the command to love God with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength, and the only one to perfectly love his neighbor as himself, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus, who displayed his love for God perfectly by living in complete and total dependence on God and perfectly obeying his commands, and then by willingly going to the cross To bear the punishment for the sins of his neighbors, so that through him they might be perfectly reconciled to God. And if you have trusted in Christ, then that perfect relationship with God is now presently yours. Not to be undone by our failures to live perfectly. The cross is the ultimate display of neighbor love because the cross shows us the extent of God's commitment to us. The lengths he would go to pursue us. The reality that our high priest sympathizes with us, being familiar with suffering The cross is the grounds for our encouragement, the means by which God confronts us in our sin. And let us not forget that on the cross, Christ loved us by praying for us. Father, forgive them. They do not know what they do. You must love your neighbor as yourself Let's look to Christ to see what that means. And let's ask for a spirit to empower us to carry it out this week. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we are a weak and frail people who are unable to carry out your commands as you would call us to. But we trust in you and we rejoice in you. And we ask that you would grant the Spirit to help us to love our neighbor as ourselves. And even as we prepare for the Lord's Supper, that you would help us to see the way that the Lord's Supper is a symbol of your commitment to love us, even when we fail to love you perfectly. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.