Good afternoon. Good to see y'all. Hey, I wonder real quick if you would take your bulletin and turn back to page seven. The hymn there, Not in Me. I don't know if you noticed this hymn. We haven't sung this hymn much. This may be the second time in four years, I think. But I was just struck by the words. And what it says about the Christian faith and about us, how freeing it is. I'm not we're not going to read all of them, but just look at verse one. No list of sins I have not done No list of virtues I pursue. No list of those I am not like, and earn myself a place with you. O God, be merciful to me. I am a sinner through and through My only hope of righteousness is not in me, but only you I mean we could just read the rest of the hymn. We won't do that now, but just think about what this says about the church, about who you are, if you're a follower of Jesus. about if you're not a follower of Jesus, what you should expect in the church. I think often uh non-Christians think of the church as uh hypocrites and you know Pharisees and We are that. We don't intend to be that. That's not our goal. What we would say about ourselves is that we're not worthy. Only Jesus is worthy. There's no list of things that I have not done that I could I could I could present to God and say, see what I've done? Now let me in. None of us could do that. There's no one else that we look at and say, see who I look look at who I'm not like. Our righteousness is only Jesus. That is so freeing. You can take a deep breath now. You can say, you know what? I did sin this past week I did fall short. And everyone else in here did too. God be merciful to me. And you know when you cry out to God for mercy He hears those who cry out to him. And he gives mercy to his people. This is what we say, CBC, not in us. Only you. Praise God that He's provided a Savior, Jesus Christ. We're gonna think about how it's not us, how we come with empty hands as we think about the Lord's Supper, but this the hymn just struck me. Wow, this is good news. So let's pray, and then we'll dive in. Heavenly Father, it's not us. It's not in us. The righteousness that you require, perfect holiness, it's not in us, but it's in you. And you gave your Son, Jesus Christ, as the righteous one, to live the life that we should have lived but haven't, to die the death on the cross in the place of all All who would put their faith in him, so that the judgment we deserve would be poured out on him. And then he was raised to new life, resurrected from the dead So that we would have an eternal hope and know that the eternal life you promised in Christ is coming to all who've trusted in him. Him. Help us to trust in him through our time today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I grew up in a military family, and because of that, I have a lot of fond memories of my childhood growing up on different military bases. In different places of the world. So I remember Fort Clayton in Panama. I remember the torrential downpours during the six-month of rainy season when it would pour every day. for six months. Not all day, but it would pour every day for six straight months. I remember the mudslides that we used to make in the wake of those torrential downpours and then just Get dirty and nasty being little kids sliding down mudslides. I remember the treks in the jungle full of iguanas and snakes and big spiders. I also remember our home being robbed on Christmas Eve. That's less a fond memory and just a memory. Uh all the toys got stolen. I remember Albrook Air Force Base. And the air shows with fighter jets screaming overhead. I remember Fort Lee, Virginia, and the annual fireworks shows on the 4th of July and the weekly trip to the commissary with my mom to get all the groceries we would need for the week. But One memory stands out of something that happened, not just at one base at one time, but at all the bases I've ever lived on. Each evening at 5 p. m. , the loudspeakers that were placed throughout the bass would crackle to life. Then the bugle would play retreat, the military song marking the time to secure the flag and pay respect to what it stands for. And while the playing of the bugle, playing retreat, was beautiful, it wasn't the music that I remember so much as what happened when the music played. You see, throughout the day, the base teemed with life. Non-military people came onto the base to do business. Military people went off base to run errands, and before long, it wasn't clear who was in the military. And who wasn't? You could only be sure that those in uniform were in the military, but not everybody was wearing uniforms. Everyone else you were just guessing. Until 5 p. m. Then who was in and who was out became crystal clear. Why is that Well, because as soon as the music began playing at 5 p. m. , military members, out of custom and requirement, pull their car cars to the side of the road. Of people walking or running on the sidewalk, stopped in their tracks, faced in the direction of the music or the flag, and saluted All the while, the people who weren't in the military, who also were supposed to stop what they were doing, but because they were unfamiliar with what was going on, often just kept going about their business. You see that music made clear who was in the military, who wasn't. It had a clarifying effect. It was also a daily reminder to military members of the sacrifices of those who'd gone before them. It was a daily way to remember their commitment to the military. And to those that they serve alongside, and the time when those in the military became visible to the world. Who in this space is is actually in the military throughout the day? I'm not sure. 5 p. m. , bugle plays. Now I see. All the military has stopped. All the civilians just keep going about their business. While there are obvious differences, in many ways the daily playing of retreat on military bases is similar to the celebration of the Lord's Supper in church. How so? We're going to consider that in just a moment. If you're visiting with us, we're in the final week of a topical series on the church. Over the past six weeks, we've seen that the church is the fulfillment of God's plan to gather a people for himself. There are people who are created and sustained by his word and a people who call on him in prayer to keep his covenant promises. And we also saw over the last three weeks that the local church is heaven's embassy on earth. We're the people who God has given authority to to speak for him on earth as we gather together in his name to proclaim the gospel. And starting last week, we learned that the gospel, that the church gathers not only to proclaim the gospel, but to rightly administer the ordinances. Of baptism and the Lord's Supper. And those ordinances mark off the church and make it visible to the world. And we considered baptism at length last week, and this week we're going to finish out our series by considering the Lord's Supper. And like we did with baptism last week, we're going to consider the Lord's Supper by asking and answering three questions. If you're taking notes, these are going to be the three points for our sermon. The first question and point one is: what is the Lord's Supper? What is the Lord's Supper? And question two, who should take the Lord's Supper? And question three, point three, how do we celebrate the Lord's Supper Hey, so first let's go ahead and dive in and ask and answer the question: What is the Lord's Supper? This is by far the longest point of the sermon. Points two and three are going to be much shorter. Just a heads up up front in case you You think I'm going to preach for an hour and a half after point one's done. All right, what is the Lord's Supper? I want you to imagine with me that after service today. You go to dinner at another member's house. Maybe you don't have to imagine this because you have dinner plans. You arrive, you have your normal small talk and conversation, and then you sit down for dinner So far, so good, right? Then the food is passed around. Everyone helps themselves, and then comes time for the prayer. But instead of praying, your host opens his Bible. And begins reading from 1 Corinthians 11. Mind you, it's just their family and yours. And as he's reading, it becomes clear to you: oh, he isn't just reading this passage. He's administering this meal as though it's the Lord's Supper. He tells you the roles are Jesus' body broken for you. And that the wine, we're Baptist, grape juice, is Christ's blood shed for you. And then he tells you, take and eat the Lord's Supper. Now my question for you is as we begin did you just celebrate so say you do it you eat it kind of like oh I feel weird it's gonna be weird if I don't eat this you eat it Did you just celebrate the Lord's Supper? I wonder how you would answer that question. Yes? No? Maybe something doesn't feel right about it. I just don't know where I would go in scripture. How would you answer that question? I want you to keep that answer in mind. Before I answer, I want us to start with a definition, and we're gonna answer that question. question as we go through the sermon. Let's start with a definition. What is the Lord's Supper? And uh two books to point out that are available on the book table. John, if you pointed these out, sorry if I'm repeating you. There's two books on the book table. What is the Lord's Supper by R. C. Sproul and Understanding the Lord's Supper by Jonathan Lehman or Bobby? Bobby Jameson. Two very short, very helpful books on understanding the Lord's Supper. So if you're taking notes, I want to encourage you to write this down. Again, it's long. I'm going to go through it slowly, and then we're going to unpack each part as we go. This is how it would define the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is the meal of bread and wine given by Christ to the church. To remember his death, receive his benefits, renew our commitment to Christ and each other. And remind us to anticipate his return. At that that last one there, I tried to do all Rs, but there was no R word, R synonym for anticipating, so I made it remind us to anticipate, but Just wanted to point that up. All right, let's unpack it. First up, we see the Lord's Supper is the meal of bread and wine. Given by Christ to the church. I want you to turn with me in your Bible to Luke chapter 22, verses 14 to 23. Whether you have a Bible in front of you or your phone and you have a Bible app, just pull up Luke chapter 22, verses 14 to 23. We want to understand that the Lord's Supper is a meal of bread and wine given by Christ to the church. This is what Luke says in chapter 22, verses 14 to 23. And when the hour came, he, that is Jesus, reclined at table, and the apostles with him. And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer For I tell you, I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body. which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise the cup, after they had eaten, saying, This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. The first thing I want us to notice that the Lord's Supper takes place in the context of a meal The Passover meal. Look again at verse 15. And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. If you're familiar with the New Testament, then you know that in the context of the Lord's Supper, Jesus is celebrating the annual Passover feast with his disciples, but he repurposes, reconstitutes that meal into a new meal. As a sign and signpost of the new covenant he was making with his people. It takes place in the context of a meal. But rather than focusing on the celebration of the Passover Jesus repurposes the Passover meal in order to establish a new meal for his followers. And we see that he's establishing a new meal because he makes a menu change Right? No longer would they be called to eat lamb roasted with bitter herbs, which was the Passover meal. The main courses of this new meal would be Bread and wine. Look at verse 19. Luke chapter 22, verse 19. And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them. Now look back at verse 17. He describes the cup filled with the fruit of the vine. That is wine that's in view there. We're going to dive into the symbolic meaning of each as we go, but I just want us to see that the Lord's Supper is a meal of bread and wine. It doesn't to call it a meal is not to say how big or small the meal is. It is just that bread and wine form the central elements of this meal. This is where we start to see that those Imaginary members. Oh, excuse me. I don't want to get ahead of myself. We we'll dive into the symbolic meaning of each as we go, but I just want us to see that the Lord's Supper is a meal of bread and wine and is given by Christ to his church. In none of the Gospels do the disciples take it upon themselves to institute the Lord's Supper. In every account of the Lord's Supper in the Gospels, Jesus initiates Jesus institutes, Jesus gives the Lord's Supper to the church. And this is where we start to see that those imaginary members celebrating the Lord's Supper at their dinner table just might not be celebrating the Lord's Supper at all. The Lord's Supper is a corporate meal. In the Gospels, all the disciples are present But the corporate nature of it is emphatically stated in 1 Corinthians. So I want you to turn to 1 Corinthians 11 now. These will serve as the two main texts that we're looking at today: 1 Corinthians 11. Paul is writing to the church in Corinth, and he's writing to them specifically about their celebration of the Lord's Supper. And he writes in verses 17 to 21. But in the following instructions, I do not commend you. Because when you come together, it is not for the better or the worse. For in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And I believe it in part. For there must be factions among you, in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized. When you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper that you eat. Pause real quick. Why? What reason do you think he's going to give? It is not the Lord's Supper that you eat, because in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal Then he goes on to say, Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? The Lord's Supper, according to Paul, is a it's a it's a it's an ordinance given to the gathered church. To celebrate together, and we're going to talk about what it symbolizes in a few minutes, but we see how emphatically Paul says as clear as day that because they aren't celebrating it together, it's not the Lord's Supper. There goes the Lord's Supper, celebrated by our imaginary members. The Lord's Supper is a corporate meal, a corporate celebration for the entire body. It's a gathered commemoration. In which the whole church partakes of the bread and the wine. Right? If we remove the meal from the gathering of the church Then we've also removed the Lord's Supper from the meal. It may be a meal, but it's not the Lord's Supper Lord's Supper is the meal of bread and wine given by Christ to the church. And why did he give it to the church? Well, the first reason is so that they might remember his Death, to remember his death. In Luke's gospel, after giving his disciples the bread, Jesus tells his disciples explicitly To do this in remembrance of me. Right? Celebrate this meal And as you celebrate this meal, remember my death and all that it accomplished. The bread is broken like my body. The cup is the blood of the new covenant shed for you. This is where we need to see the connection between the Passover and the Lord's Supper. Right? The Passover meal was instituted by God and given to the people of Israel to celebrate as an annual reminder of how God miraculously and powerfully delivered them out of slavery in Egypt. Each year, when they ate the Passover, they were to remember that the only reason, the only reason they escaped God's judgment Was because they were covered by the blood of the Passover lamb. That lamb was to remind them that they did not save themselves. They could not. Save themselves. They needed God to intervene. They needed God to provide. They needed God to deliver. And He did all of those things through the Passover. And that's what the meal was meant to do, to remind them of that. In the same way When we celebrate the Lord's Supper, we remember. We remember not the sacrifice of a literal spotless lamb, but of the true spotless Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, who offered himself on the cross to bear the wrath of God against sin and by his Shed blood protects all those who take refuge under his blood from the judgment of God. Every Sunday When we come to the table, we remember how his body was broken and his blood poured out for our sins. And our salvation. You're supposed to remember both. You come to the table and you remember the reason his body was broken. The reason that his blood was poured out was because of my particular sins, not just world sin in the abstract. But because each of us has sinned individually and countless times against a literal living God. And that God is holy and just and righteous and he's also merciful. And he sent his son into the world that whatever would believe in him would have eternal life. And that spotless Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, went to the cross, bore the wrath of God for our sins. A terrible death in our place for our sins, so that we could be saved. You come to the table. You have to think of two different things. You have to come to the table each week and recognize this is my fault. My sins caused his death, and it pleased God to do it for me. My sins and my salvation. Pictured symbolically in the broken bread and the cup poured out. The new covenant That God worked for all his people. We remember his death in the Lord's Supper. As freely as he gave to his disciples the supper, so he would freely give to them all that the supper symbolized. He would freely give to them his broken body and shed blood for their forgiveness. For our freedom, for our redemption, for our restoration, for our reconciliation We not only remember what he did, but what it accomplished for us. Which leads us to the second reason we celebrate this supper, not just to remember, but to receive. Receive. In the Supper, we receive Christ's benefits. We share in Christ Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10, he says, the cup of blessing, as the cup that we drink from, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ When we celebrate the Lord's Supper, we share in what Christ's broken body and shed blood accomplished for us I want to ask the kids here. We've talked about forgiveness and salvation. So for any of the young kids, preteens, teens, for any for any of you, can you think of any benefits? Of being in Christ that we share in through the Lord's Supper. Can y'all think of anything It's okay if not. Parents can even give hints if they want. But here's what I want to point out, kids. When we celebrate the Lord's Supper, we share again. Not that we receive the benefits for the first time, but in sharing again in his body and blood, we're freshly reminded of all that Jesus has done for us. And all that we participate in him. So I want you to think of these things, kids, not just salvation in general, but specifically. In the Lord's Supper, we're reminded that we share in the justification that has come through Jesus Christ So kids, I want you to imagine you're standing before the judge of all the earth, and he looks at your life, and he sees lots of sin, as I'm sure you see as well. What what's the declaration? Is it innocent or is it guilty? What would you say? Guilty. Guilty. But the Lord's Supper reminds us that when we put our faith in Christ, God justifies us. Once and for all, but the Lord's Supper reminds us again. The verdict, that the gavel, it was as it was coming down, and it seemed like it was going to be guilty because you looked at your life and you looked at all that you had done. Jesus stepped in front of you and said, Not their righteousness, but mine. And the father said, not guilty, innocent. You are innocent. When you celebrate the Lord's Supper, you're reminded that in Christ You have been justified, declared righteous and innocent for all time. That's one benefit. Just one. There's reconciliation. You're reminded that you and I, as prodigal children, who stood far off and thought to ourselves, there's no way He's going to forgive me. I've got to think of some reasons that he might forgive me. I've got to do something to make him like me again. The father says nonsense. And he runs to us In Christ, reconciliation with the Father, reminded through the Lord's Supper. Adoption. We are no longer strangers and aliens, but through faith in Jesus Christ and being reminded in the Lord's Supper of all that He's done for us, we're reminded that we are now Sons and daughters of the Most High. The Spirit within us calls out, Abba, Father. How did Jesus teach his disciples to pray? Our Father adoption Benefits that we share in and are reminded of again, right? In Christ, we share in every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. We receive all of his benefits because in the gospel we receive him. All of his benefits are found in him. And we receive these benefits with empty hands. We bring nothing to the table. You and I approach the Lord's table and we must cry out, please feed us. We can't make bread that will nourish us. We can't make wine that will feed and nourish our souls. Feed us. We don't come with hands full of all the good deeds we did. Not in me. We did we did to show that we're worthy to celebrate the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper tells us that we're not worthy, but that God nonetheless has shown abundant mercy by giving his son so that you and I would have eternal life. God, in his astounding grace, chose to show mercy, and he has committed himself to share with us all of his glorious benefits. He fills our hands and our mouths in the supper, and through the bread and the cup, he fills our hearts again with the knowledge that is in Christ. And that in Christ all is ours. We share, we receive benefits. But not only do we remember and receive We also renew. In the Lord's Supper, we renew our commitment to Christ and His church. When you take the Lord's Supper, you are in a very real sense saying. That profession of faith that I made back then, however long ago it was, I still make now. Christ is still mine by faith. His body was broken for my sins. His blood cleansed me of all unrighteousness. But we also must remember that to receive Christ as Savior is also to receive him as Lord. The two are inseparable. He is both Lord and Savior. And if we lay claim to his salvation, we're also renewing our commitment to follow him as Lord. And thus we're renewing our commitment to walk in his ways. Not to earn our salvation or improve on our justified state. Those are impossible to do. But simply to recognize that Christ has called us to holiness And so we are going to seek to walk in holiness by his strength and his spirit. And when we fail, we will turn to him again as our sin. Sympathetic high priest. But we also renew our commitment to his church. Just as the daily playing of retreat reminds soldiers not only of their commitment to defend the country, but also of their commitment to one another. So the Lord's Supper reminds us both of our commitment to Christ and to each other. And because we have fellowship with Christ We have fellowship with one another. In 1 Corinthians 11, Paul says, because there is one bread, one loaf, we who are many are one body. For all share of that one bread. In the Lord's Supper, we're reminded of the commitments we've made to love one another. Work for unity together. Rejoice with one another, mourn with one another, encourage one another, admonish one another as occasion may require. When we celebrate the Lord's Supper, we are renewing again our commitment to do those things with fellow Christians in this church. And finally, as we consider what the Lord's Supper is, we also see that it reminds us, it reminds us to anticipate Christ's return. The Lord's Supper points us forward to the future hope of the wedding supper of the Lamb When God dwells again with his people, he will throw a feast, and that feast will far surpass anything that we can imagine. The Lord's Supper is a visible sign of that future meal, right? Jesus himself hints at this when he says in Luke, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day. When I drink it with you in my Father's kingdom. I think that's actually from Matthew, but you get the point. He's pointing forward to that future meal. The Lord's Supper doesn't just look back to Jesus' death on the cross. It then draws our eyes across the entire horizon of redemption to drink in the glory of God's plan of salvation, culminating in the feast of all feasts. When we sit around the table and eat with the Lord. In that sense, the Lord's Supper is like an appetizer It's wetting our appetite for the whole meal. I have a love-hate relationship. With small plates restaurants. I love the food. I can't think of a small plate restaurant where I like the food just hasn't been out of this world. But I hate how much they give you. My favorite small plate restaurant locally is Ambar in DC When I go to Ambar, I order the Brussels plate Brussels sprouts small plate with citrus yogurt and crispy bacon. And I just, when they bring it out, they bring out like five. And then, like, there's some of the yogurt and some of the bacon. I just want to say, bring it all out. Bring me all the brussels sprouts you have, all the yogurt sauce you have, all the bacon you have, just pile it up in front of me. And what do they? No. It's a s this is a small plate restaurant, sir. That's not what we do here. We're gonna give you just just a little bit, right? They're just gonna give you a little taste. One day, the small plate of the Lord's Supper, by which we taste of our salvation. Will be brought out in full in the wedding supper of the Lamb. And God will say, enjoy, enjoy the full glory of your salvation. We're reminded to anticipate his return. The Lord's Supper is the meal of bread and wine Given by Christ to the church to remember his death, receive his benefits, renew our commitment to Christ and each other, and remind us to anticipate his return. Which brings us to point two, and again, point two and three are shorter. Who should celebrate the Lord's Supper? Since the Lord's Supper is given by Christ to the church, then only the church, that is Christians, should celebrate the Lord's Supper. But that doesn't mean that the Lord's Supper doesn't have anything to say to those of you here who don't follow Jesus. The Lord's Supper, as you may have gathered thus far, is a visual message for you. About the grace and mercy of God and about the seriousness of your sins. Right? When he was on earth, Jesus taught that all of us have fallen short of God. We've all sinned, he taught. No matter how moral and how upstanding we might think we are, according to Jesus, none of us are good. But not according to God's standard of goodness, which is perfect righteousness. And because we've sinned, Jesus taught that we are all under God's judgment. But because God loved the world, he sent his son into the world so that whoever believes in his son would have eternal life That's the offer for you today. And that eternal life was made available when Jesus died on the cross bearing the punishment that we deserve. His body was broken like the bread in the Lord's Supper, his blood poured out like the cup, and he offers forgiveness and redemption, the forgiveness and redemption that he purchased on the cross. free of charge to you if you would simply lay hold of him by faith. You see these predictions in the Old Testament Of a time when God would say to the people of earth, Come and drink, come and buy milk without price. Kind of a paradox, right? Doesn't it's uh oxymoron, buy milk without price. How can I buy it without price? Because Jesus Pay the price for us. And God says, here's the milk now. Lay hold of him by faith. It is a offer of forgiveness and reconciliation with God. And you can have that if you lay hold of him by faith. The Lord's Supper, though, is for those who have lay hold of him by faith. It's for believers, but not all believers. The Lord's Supper is only for those who've been baptized in obedience to Christ. In the Old Testament, only circumcised Israelites could celebrate Celebrate the purse the Passover. Even if a foreigner wanted to celebrate the Passover with Israel, he first had to be circumcised, and everyone in his household Circumcision was the entry sign into the old covenant people. And then once you uh subject yourself to the entry sign of circumcision, you're now able to come in and celebrate the Passover with the people of Israel. And we talked about some of the similarities. There's obvious differences between circumcision and baptism. But baptism is the entry sign into the new covenant. It's when you publicly declare to the world: I'm with Jesus Christ. And then those who go through the waters can now come to the table. So it's only for baptized believers. Baptism is our public profession of faith as Christians. And we have to first profess faith publicly through baptism before we can renew our faith commitment publicly in the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is for baptized believers. But I'd also say that you shouldn't celebrate the Lord's Supper if you aren't committed to a particular local church where the gospel is preached. In the New Testament, to come to Christ was also to come to his people. The church. We talked already about how the Lord's Supper displays our commitment to Christ and to one another, not just Christians in the abstract, but a particular group of people If you're not a member of a local church, and listen, I recognize that uh there are churches out there that don't use terms like membership. If you don't understand yourself. to be uh committed to a particular church somewhere and a particular people uh that that that make up that church somewhere, then I'd encourage you to abstain from taking the Lord's Supper until you commit yourself to a local church. church and a particular group of people. If you've been visiting here for some time and maybe you're not a member of this church, but you're moving towards membership. You're taking membership classes. And you want to commit. I would say celebrate the Lord's Supper then. But if if you're uh here and you understand yourself to be a Christian and you are just happy to not be committed to any local church, just floating around as a Christian, I'd encourage you to not Take the Lord's Supper. The reason is to be unwilling to commit to a particular local church, but still want to participate in the Lord's Supper is to claim Christ, but not his people. But Christ is one with his people. If we're unwilling to commit to his people, it might indicate that something is amiss in our own relationship with with Christ. I understand that it's sensitive and there may be particular circumstances that you're facing that you have questions about. Come find me after the service we can talk. Or any one of the other elders would be happy to talk Talk with you about that. Well, we'd say the Lord's Supper is for baptized members of gospel preaching churches. Which brings us to point three. How do we celebrate the Lord's Supper? Supper. We've heard what the supper is. We've heard who should take it. And now we'll consider how we should take the Lord's supper. Supper. And the first way that I want to highlight is that we should take it together. In 1 Corinthians 11, right, Paul repeatedly emphasizes the centrality of the gathering. Of their corporate togetherness in celebrating the Lord's Supper. And he specifically rebukes them for not being together when they take the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is for the gathered church. It symbolizes the unity that we have in Christ. That we who are many are one in Christ. That's why we don't celebrate the Lord's Supper in small groups or at weddings or around individual dining rooms like with our imaginary members. Right? The Lord's Supper testifies to our unity in Christ. And to take it individually, apart from the gathering of the church, is to undermine the very meaning of it. So we take it together. We also take it regularly. How regularly? Scripture doesn't tell us exactly how often. There are lots of interesting examples throughout history. Scottish Presbyterians took it once a year. Some churches do it quarterly, others do it monthly. Because there's uh there isn't a prescribed frequency stated, there's freedom for churches to decide how often they will do it. We've landed on a weekly celebration for a couple different reasons. Uh the first is again not stated explicitly in the New Testament, but the weekly calendar seems to replace the annual calendar of the Old Testament. The annual celebration of the Passover by which they are reminded of God delivering them out of slavery in Egypt is replaced by the the weekly celebration of Jesus rising from the dead and us being released from slavery to sin. And so it seems right to us. Not standing on scriptural ground again. Uh it seems like the the Lord's Supper would have would have played a a regular role in the gathering of the church on a regular basis. And I think you see this attested to in the New Testament when it talks about them gathering to break bread regularly. The second we celebrate it weekly because of what it reminds us of. Think about all of the glorious realities that we've already attested to. Why would we not want to remind ourselves of these things as often I want you to listen to what John Calvin says about how often to celebrate the Lord's Supper. He says, what we have so far said of the Lord's Supper abundantly shows that it was ordained. to be frequently used among all Christians in order that they might frequently return in memory to Christ's passion. By such remembrance, to sustain and strengthen their faith, and urge themselves to sing thanksgiving to God and to proclaim his goodness the Lord's table should have been spread at least once a week for the assembly of Christians. And the promises declared in it should feed us spiritually. All like hungry men should flock to such a bounteous repast meal. The Lord's table should have been spread at least once a week. Calvin says, hey, if the church is gathering regularly, even through the week, celebrate the Lord's Supper because of what it reminds us of. We want to celebrate this bounteous feast. Weekly. Now I've heard in the past some argue uh that it shouldn't be taken weekly because people will get bored with it and it will lose its meaning. I think That's just wrong. I don't think that happens. But by the same reasoning, we shouldn't preach, sing, or pray each week because those might also get old. We do it because God commands us to do it And because it's good for us to be often fed from his bounteous feast. And finally, we take it in a spirit. Of self-examination. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself Traditionally, Paul's warning, uh his warning here has been understood to refer to two things broadly. Uh celebrating the Lord's Supper while living in a state of unrepentant sin uh and celebrating the Lord's Supper while in a state of unforgiveness toward another Christian. Unrepentance. That is, if we're a baptized believer who's a member of a gospel preaching church, but we're living in a state of unrepentant sin, then we shouldn't participate in the Lord's Supper. We're called to walk in the light, and walking in the light entails both bringing sin out into the light and actively turning from it. Not perfectly, of course. But fighting against it by God's Spirit. And then in the Lord's Supper, being comforted by Christ's promises to you, that it's not your righteousness that saves, but his. You shouldn't take The Lord's Supper, if you're living in a state of unrepentant sin. Confess your sins, bring them out into the light, and then come to the table. But neither should we take it if we're in a state of unforgiveness. With another Christian, especially a member of this church. The bread testifies to our unity. Unforgiveness reveals disunity You think about Jesus' teaching in the Gospels, which I think is can be applied here. Jesus says it's better to leave your gift at the altar and go and be reconciled to your brother or your sister, and then come and offer Your gift. I think Paul is saying the same thing. Discerning the body is a tough phrase to know exactly what he means, but I think we can broadly say that it means recognizing the unity of the body. And since unforgiveness undermines that unity, then you shouldn't come to the Lord's table if you're in a state of unforgiveness towards another believer. Go to them, like Matthew 18 teaches. Be reconciled to them, and then come to the table. And both unrepentance and unforgiveness are two more reasons why we want to celebrate it weekly, at least at CBC. Because it encourages us to regularly examine our lives and, Lord willing, put sin to death before it takes root in our lives. And because it encourages us to keep short accounts with other Christians. To remember that the forgiveness God has shown us now becomes a pattern for how we should forgive one another. And display the unity that we have in Christ. We celebrate the Lord's Supper together, regularly, and in a spirit of self-examination The Lord's Supper is the meal of bread and wine given by Christ to the church to remember his death receive his benefits, renew our commitment to Christ and each other, and remind us to anticipate his return. Like the daily playing of the bugle, playing retreat on military bases. It makes the church visible on earth. You can say that there they are. I wonder if you're see if you're here as an as a non-Christian right now and you're wondering, I wonder how many of these people are actually followers of Jesus. If you're up for awkwardly looking around and staring at people during the Lord's Supper, you can find out. Those are the ones, the ones who put the bread in their mouth and drink the cup. Those are the ones who've been baptized. Those are the ones who who bear Christ's name and who are members of at least of this church, if not a church elsewhere. It makes the church visible on earth. But it also reminds us, again. That we come with empty hands. Not in me. Not in you. No list of good or bad that I have done. It's God feeding us, reaching down from heaven to give us bread from heaven, water from a rock in the Lord Jesus Christ The God who made us alive through his Spirit will also feed us and nourish us, and he will bear us along until he finally brings us to the wedding supper of the Lamb. Where we will feast with him forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray and thank you for the gift of the Lord's Supper and the reminder that it is to us of Christ's death. Or the ways that it reveals the seriousness of our sins and also the gloriousness of our salvation. I wish we share again in Christ and are reminded of all the benefits He've won for us in Christ. I wish we renew our commitment to Christ and to one another. And we're reminded to anticipate his return. As we think about his return, we pray to you, Father, Lord, send Jesus quickly. Come, Lord Jesus, come. And until you send him, until he comes, we pray that you would keep us in the faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.