Well good afternoon. Oh, we're gonna try that again. It's two thirty. Good afternoon. Alright, we're gonna need that kind of energy all afternoon. Good to be with you all this afternoon. We pray for you all often down the road in Temple Hills. We praise God for another gospel preaching church in PG County. And we pray the Lord would Strengthen and sustain many more in the years ahead. Thank you for lending us your pastor this morning who preached Isaiah 53. And after his sermon, I'm not sure they're gonna invite me back next Sunday, but uh we got the same word. And so I'm encouraged that the Lord has given us his word to to learn from and to listen to. So would you join me in a brief word of prayer? then we'll jump into God's Word. Lord, we thank you that you've given us a book that is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Do your work through your word and your people even this afternoon. We pray all this in Jesus' name. My grandfather used to tell the story of a young schoolboy out in the country who was struggling in his English class And he was having a hard time putting together the past tense and present tense form of verbs, like so many of our young kids do. And so one afternoon, his English teacher decided to pay a visit to his home Upon arriving, she found little Johnny out in the yard playing, and so she approached him and asked, Johnny, is your mother home? The boy replied, oh, nah, Ma, she goed to the store. He just said, okay. But what is your father home? No, Pa' been done gone fishing at the river All right. Well, is your older sister home? Oh no, she went it to her friend's house. The teacher replied, your ma gold out. Your pa been dung? Your sister she winted? Boy, where is your grandma? Oh grandma's out in the in the kitchen fixing dinner. Do you want me to go get her? Some of us need more help than we even know. I trust many of the husbands and dads know that acutely. Let your wife leave you home with the kids for 10 minutes. It hasn't been long if you pick up the phone ten times asking where the kids' clothes are, which cabinet the fruit snacks are in, and where's all the headache medicine. Who we turn to for help says a lot about what we think about that person and the severity of the situation. When husbands turn to wires for help, we we acknowledge that y'all are really superheroes, just minus the capes. Or who you put down as the emergency contact at your kids' school or at your job Says a lot about that person's dependability and availability and ability to help should the emergency arise. When tragedy hits, the first call you make reveals a great confidence that that person can do something, anything, to help Who is it that you turn to when situations seem bad? Or when things go from bad to worse? When times are desperate and you experience the most severe of problems, is there anyone you can turn to for help? For hope? For healing? That's a question we'll investigate this morning. So if you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 9? Matthew chapter 9, and this morning we'll look at verses 1 through 8 together. We read this. And getting into a boat, he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, This man is blaspheming. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise and walk? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He then said to the paralytic, Rise, pick up your bed and go home. And he rose and went home. When the crowd saw it, they were afraid and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men Now, as we come to this passage, we find in one instance a great need for help, and in the other, the great provision for healing. We find both sick patient and able physician. And here's what I think the main point that Matthew wants to highlight is: the main point of our passage. Jesus is the great physician Who will heal you of your deepest sickness? But you must feel your need of Him and go to Him for help Now that's like a 30-word main point, so I'm gonna say it again. Jesus is the great physician who will heal you of your deepest sickness. But you must feel your need of him and go to him for help. So this afternoon we want to consider what is it that makes Jesus such a great position? Three things. Number one, he makes house calls and accepts walk-ins. Number two, he's a deep diagnostician. And number three, he has the power to heal the deepest diseases. First, he makes house calls and accepts walk-ins. Look there at verse one and part of verse two again. And getting into a boat, he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. We see here that Jesus was a traveling physician. His entire life was filled with activity, with movement. Here we see Jesus crossing over from one side of the Sea of Galilee to the other. He'd gone to the more Gentile region of the Gadarenes in the previous passage. There he healed two demon-possessed men, but was begged to leave the region by the townspeople. Now he comes home to the Jews, to his own city of Capernaum It's a great mercy that Jesus went back to his earthly home and not to his heavenly home. I mean, the reception Jesus received from the gatherings was generally his reception on earth. People begging him to leave. Go back to where you came from. If Jesus literally obeyed their instructions? He would have ascended into heaven and all humanity would have descended into hell. But Christ stayed He stays for those he came to save. And so here he stays and goes to Capernaum for the same reason. To save some. So Jesus boars the boat and goes back home. And he goes to resume the ministry he'd begun at Capernaum before he left. A ministry of healing. If you let your eyes wander over to chapter 8, verse 14, you see that Jesus had a thriving practice in Capernaum He'd gone to Peter's house and healed Peter's mother-in-law of a fever. And verse 16 says he ended up healing many demon-possessed people and all who were sick. And so Jesus is coming back into town, back into Capernaum, was coming back to a people pregnant with all the expectations that he'd do more of the same, that he'd heal them. And in a very real way, it was a legitimate expectation. I mean, Jesus goes to where the problems are. His entire ministry was a manifestation of that. The very fact that he was on earth testified that he cared about his people's problems. He left heaven's joys to take away his people's pains. But what is it that motivates Jesus' movements? From heaven to earth, from one side of the Sea of Galilee to the other, from this sick person to this sick person to this sick person. It's not that people would receive him or what they would do for him. It's not that they would give him acclaim or even appreciate him. What motivated Jesus' movements was mercy. Jesus' ministry was a ministry of showing mercy to those most in need. And we get a vivid illustration of those most in need in verse 2. As people bring a paralyzed man to Jesus to be healed, the situation doesn't get much bleaker than the one presented here. And just notice the description given The paralyzed man is totally inactive. Even the way he's referred to makes the point. It's not that he comes, it's that his friends have to bring him And it's not that he's simply limping on his feet, but lying on his bed, his limbs lifeless In a sense, it's a picture of how we all come to Jesus. Helpless, lifeless, but not hopeless. Because in Christ we find one who can cure us. So these men take their friend to see Jesus, which in general is just a loving way to live. Friends take their friends to Jesus I hope you're encouraged by the testimonies you hear when you witness baptisms or when you share in your small groups as person after person tell of their lives before Christ, how their lives were in shambles. Suffering either from self-delusions spiritually or from out and out rebellion against God. And then some friend comes along. Some member opens up their Bibles and opens up their mouths and takes them to Jesus. And he heals them. Sometimes I hope the stories of what happens when people encounter Jesus both encourage and motivate your evangelism. You know, it's really quite astonishing that we can encounter him, that we can have access to him. I think Matthew wants to highlight that If you've read through the Gospels, you know that this same story appears in the Gospels of Mark and Luke as well. And in both those accounts, the measures these men take to get the paralyzed man to Jesus are detailed. And they get to the house where Jesus is healing, and they find a large crowd surrounding the house. And yet so desperate are they to get in that they cut a hole in the roof of the house And lower their friend down into it. It's a juicy detail that Matthew leaves out. And I think it's because what he wants to highlight is not so much their great attempts to see Jesus, but his great availability to see them. His schedule is not full. His door is open. And he welcomes the most desperate of sinners They can come because he came. In essence, his entire ministry was an extended house call to humanity Calling all those who are sick, all those who are heavy laden, all who are burdened to come to him freely and openly that they might find healing That's one component of what makes Jesus such a great physician. He comes, he makes house calls, and he accepts all those who come to him But a second aspect of what makes Jesus such a great physician is this. He's a deep diagnostician. And point number two, he's a deep diagnostician So here's a confession. I don't like going to the doctor. I guess no one really likes going to the doctor, but I'm especially reluctant to pay a visit to the doctor's office. And it's not because I don't believe in modern medicine or don't appreciate doctor's work. I do. It's just because in my limited experiences, and with my limited knowledge, there seems just to be a lot of guesswork. I mean I go to the doctor with a specific ailment or issue. They poke and prod a little bit. Make me say, ah. Stick that little rubber thing with the light in it in my ear. They put me on a scale, which almost always makes me five pounds heavier than my scale at home. They take my height, which always measures shorter than what's on my driver's license. They send me off to the lab, prick my arm for blood. Call me back to the the the office with the results and deliver the groundbreaking news. I think you might be stressed Well duh, everyone past 13 is dealing with some kind of stress. What's that gotta do with my elbow? It reminds me growing up and my grandmother would prescribe robotussing for any ailment. You take some tussin? Like grandma, I'm pretty sure robotussin won't fix a sprained ankle. But yes, I took some tussing. Perhaps we should expect this kind of guesswork in diagnosing problems and and recommending remedies. After all, we're all limited in knowledge and understanding in some way. But in Jesus, we find something different. We find someone who sees deeper than what's on the surface. Look back there at verses 2 through 4. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, This man is blaspheming. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? Jesus is like a walking x-ray machine. He sees what other people don't see. I mean, here he sees a group of people bringing this paralytic to him. And he doesn't just see a group of friends helping a friend. He sees something deeper behind their actions. Faith. The text tells us that Jesus saw their faith. You know, one of the things I think Jesus is doing here. Is exploding the false notion that you sometimes hear. That Christians are the only fools who operate by this fluffy thing called faith. The rest of the world, the modern man, the intellectual person, operates by reason and intellect. But it just isn't true, is it The whole world runs on faith. And when you plopped into that pew this afternoon, you put an incredible amount of faith that it was going to hold you up You knew nothing of the mixture of materials that it was made of or the laws of gravity. You just trusted that if you sat in it, that it would be sturdy enough to hold you. When you got into the car this morning and started the ignition or switched lanes on the highway, you placed an incredible amount of faith that that vehicle was going to operate in the way in which it was intended When you sit in the barber's chair or the beauty salon, you place an incredible amount of faith that that Joker behind you knows what they're doing. The whole world runs on faith. We fool ourselves if we think otherwise. When you're sick and you go to the doctor's office. You place an incredible amount of faith that he or she knows what they're doing and can heal you, able to help you. So it is with this group. Jesus sees something deeper. Faith. Faith that trusts that he is able to heal. Friends, that's what genuine faith is. Genuine faith is a going to Jesus. Yes, the whole world operates by a general rule of faith But there's also a specific faith that the Bible commends and that you and me as Christians have come to know. A faith that goes. Not knowing all the details, not knowing all the answers or the outcomes, but it goes steadily and surely to Jesus. Trusting that Jesus can heal us. And friends, we all need to be healed. Because whether we feel healthy or not, the reality is that we are all deeply sick. Jesus points that out here with this paralyzed man. When Jesus sees this man, yes, he sees faith, but he also sees faults. But it has nothing at all to do with his physical condition. Jesus' words to him have nothing to do with his physical state and everything to do with his spiritual state. Jesus tells him at the end of verse 2 to take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. It's a significant statement for a number of reasons For one, it seemingly overlooks the obvious. Obviously, this man's biggest issues lie on the outside. I mean, just look at his broken down body But Jesus diagnoses a deeper problem, a greater problem than his paralysis, his sin. Notice a few things we learn about sin in this passage. First, sin is plural. That S on sin marks just how comprehensive it is It's not just one sin. It's multiple sins. The plural form of that word should terrify us, really. Sins against the holy God. Remember, it was one sin singular that plunged all humanity into damnation One bite of one piece of fruit in the garden brought God's wrath on all men and women. And here's the thing: that's never presented in the Bible as God overreacting. But rather as his rational response as a holy God towards rebellious creatures. One sin brought the wrath of God. What then of the whole catalog of sins that you and I have committed against him? Sins connote just how exhaustive it is. It envelops us. In a way, this paralyzed man's physical condition is a picture of his and our spiritual conditions. His being stretched out on a bed, his whole body limp. Is a fitting description of what sin does us. Isaiah chapter 1 tells us that the whole head is sick The whole heart is faint. From the sole of the foot down to the head, there is no soundness in it. Sins defile and define us. Our thoughts, our words, our actions, our attitudes, our motives, our intentions are all stained by it. Second notice here that sin is personal. Jesus tells the man, these are your sins. Sin isn't just some general pot of wrong deeds that nobody takes responsibility for. No, each person has sinned, and each person is held accountable Third, sin deserves punishment. That's implied from Jesus' offer of forgiveness. On the flip side, of forgiveness is punishment or penalty It's receiving the just repayment for our actions, for our offenses against God, which the Bible tells us is eternal damnation, eternal separation from Him in hell. Lastly, sin is pardonable. Sin is pardonable It's not the flip side of forgiveness that Jesus offers, but it's actually forgiveness itself. Your crimes against the high king of heaven have been dropped All your charges are forgiven, and your record is now completely clean. It's on this basis that Jesus can tell this man to take heart, to be encouraged, to rejoice. Even as he remained lying limp on his bed. That term, take heart, almost always comes to those in adverse situations in the Bible 20 verses later in this same passage, Jesus tells a woman suffering from a discharge of blood for 12 years to take hearts. In Mark chapter 10, verse 49, a quail tells blind Bartimaeus to take heart. Jesus is calling you. In Acts chapter 23, verse 11, the Lord appears to have beaten and bruised Paul in prison and tells him to take heart. External situations aren't your biggest problem, even if they present themselves as such. Your biggest problems aren't out there somewhere, they're in here. Your sins have separated you from your God and your iniquities have hidden his face from you. But Take heart. Your sins are forgiven. How many of them? All of them. For how long? For eternity For what purpose? To unite you to God that you might live with Him forever. Oh saints, take part. This command to take heart isn't meant to minimize or make light of the very real problems that plague us, but it is to put them in their proper perspective, which we so often lose sight of. I mean, as Christians, we aren't immune to suffering or struggle. Some of you all know that deeply this afternoon And we can be tempted to magnify those realities and to minimize this greater reality that our biggest problem has been cured. You know, the gospel isn't just for unbelievers. Christians need the gospel too. Because every day. Our bodies and our bank accounts and our broken and dysfunctional families are telling us that our biggest problems remain We need to be reminded of the depth of our sin and the depth of Christ's love for us. Jesus came to earth and he lived for us. And then he went to the cross and he laid down his life and he died for us, the death that we deserve to die. But Jesus didn't stay dead. After three days, he rose up and he ascended into heaven. And even now he is there at the Father's right hand, interceding for us, pleading forgiveness for us, advocating for us. We need to encourage each other daily to take hearts. At the beginning of a difficult pregnancy, take heart. Your sins are forgiven In the middle of a messy marriage, take heart. Your sins are forgiven. At the end of a dead-end job, take heart. Your sins are forgiven. In every trial and every tribulation, we can take hearts. We can have real hope and real joy because our sins are forgiven. Think of the story of Horatio Spafford, a Christian and successful businessman in the 1800s. Who, in the span of two years, watched his whole world collapse. He lost his fortune in the great Chicago fire in 1871. And two years later, he lost his four daughters when the ship carrying them on vacation sunk and they were all drowned. Amidst the deep grief and sorrow. Baffert put some thoughts to paper and composed one of the most famous hymns of all time. The hymn we'll actually sing at the end of our service this afternoon. One line in particular strikes at the heart of why Christians can have deep joy even in the midst of deep sorrow. Because of this. My sin. Oh, the bliss of this glorious thought. My sin, not some little part of it, but the whole Is nailed to the cross and I don't bear any of it anymore. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, oh my soul. The worst thing about us has been forgiven our sin. And the worst possible situation has been averted. Hell. And so there's reason for paralytics and grieving parents and people like us with a multitude of problems to take heart, to have hope, to rejoice. Now, some in our day might offer criticism at this point of how Jesus has handled this situation with this man. And why you gotta bring religion all into it. This man just wants to walk again. He didn't say anything about his sin. Our culture is seemingly obsessed with separating out religion from everything. You can't mix religion and politics. You can't mix religion and education. You can't mix religion and social good. It seems we want a non-religious society. And yet the same folks clamoring to keep religion out are the ones who are constantly encouraging doing good works. They're the same ones here who'd rather Jesus take care of this man's physical problems, if he's able, would not bring up anything spiritual at all. They'd prefer Jesus just shut up and heal. Do good, but don't talk. But Jesus shows us here that good works are subservient to good news. They're meant to commend, not cancel out the gospel. You know, I'm thankful for the abundance of good works that Christians do. The churches like CBC do. We can do a lot of good as churches, but we never do it as a means to keep Jesus out of the conversation. But rather as a means to bring Jesus into the conversation. We understand from Christ that the most important good that we can do for anyone is an eternal good. Telling them of the Christ who came not just to fix their situations, but to forgive their sins. That might garner criticism from our country or people in our community. But praise from our King. Well, in verse 3 here, we find criticism of Jesus dealing with this paralytic of a different kind. Here, the criticism isn't that Jesus is too religious. Here, the criticism is that he's sacrilegious. This man is blaspheming, the scribes say. They cared not at all about what Jesus didn't do initially, heal the man's legs. They cared about what he did do, claim to forgive the man's sins. These men, these scribes, were experts in the Old Testament law. They meticulously studied it and taught it and were concerned with preserving not only the words of the law But also the correct interpretation of it. So when they heard Jesus make this bold assertion to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, their mental rolodexes Started scrolling through all the Old Testament passages that talked about who had the authority to forgive sins. Perhaps they thought of Isaiah chapter 43 verse 25, where the Lord said, I, I am he who blots out your transgressions. Or Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 34, where the Lord says, I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. Maybe they thought of the entire Old Testament sacrificial system where sacrifices were made to God for the atonement of the people's sins. Upon hearing Jesus' words, the scribes quickly downloaded all their available data and came to one conclusion: blasphemy. Why? Because only God can forgive sins. And Jesus, in their estimation, is just a man. And you can sense the outrage in their charge. This man is blasphemy. But notice where they say it Verse 3 says to themselves in their hearts. But no worries, Jesus sees right through them. He knows even their thoughts and he brings them to the surface And he doesn't then praise them for being excellent Old Testament exegetes or for their fervor in protecting God's holy name. And no, Jesus has a charge for them as well, only he won't hold his under his breath. Jesus says in verse 4, why do you think evil in your hearts? And their so-called desire to protect God's holy name by charging Jesus with blasphemy They belittle Jesus' holy name and he charged them with evil. Friends, what you think about Jesus matters More even than what you say about him. We've all come together this afternoon and said some really nice things about Jesus We've sung of his majesty and his mercy. We've prayed in the power of his name. But I wonder, do you believe any of it? What's your heart's attitude towards Jesus right now? He sees. He knows. Friends, this is not a place to practice false piety. This is a place where we want to be honest about who God is and who we are. If you don't know him, don't be ashamed. Let it be known. Talk to somebody around you. Talk to Pastor John or one of the other elders after service. Tell them of the struggle you're having and let them lead you to who Jesus truly is. Don't fake it. Jesus can see through the facade. Kids, don't act like you're a Christian if you're not. I played that game for a long time to my detriment. Don't put on a show. Or your parents. Don't try to do good deeds or to earn the praise of teachers or others. You know, you can know a lot of the Bible Can answer all the questions about the Bible. Can know a lot about Jesus, but not truly know Jesus. But Jesus knows you. He knows your hearts. Come to him for forgiveness. My prayers that many would come to know who Jesus truly is today. And if you already know them, know him, then praise him for his mercy. And pray that you grow to know him even more. As we zoom back from this story, We see that Jesus has addressed two classes of people. The social outcasts and the religious elites. The paralytic and the scribes. But as different as they might look on the outside, as different as their standings might be in society. Jesus looks at them, looks inside of them, and diagnoses the same root problem. Sin Evil, and yet only one went away cured. The one who understood he needed help and believed that Jesus had the power to heal him. Which leads to our third and final point. Jesus has the power to heal our deepest diseases. Look with me at verses five through eight. For which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise and walk But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He said to the paralytic, Rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and went home. When the crowd saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men. Now, in one sense, by this point, Jesus doesn't need to prove anything to show he has authority. He told the paralytic earlier, your sins are forgiven. And the paralytic didn't respond, that's beyond your scope. No, he believed he had the power to do so. Jesus peeked into the scribes' hearts. And told them that their assumptions that he was blaspheming was actually evil on their part, not his. They should have at least assumed that if he can see inside our hearts Maybe he's more than who we think he is. Can do more than we think he can. So Jesus doesn't really need to do anything here to make his point But I think he acts here for two purposes. One, to shame his enemies, and two, to assure his people. The question Jesus poses to the scribes there in verse 5 is meant to tease out their assumptions of him. They've already confirmed in their hearts that Jesus can't forgive sins. In essence, they've chalked his claim up to empty talk. But now Jesus ups the ante. They had a problem with him saying to the paralyzed man, your sins are forgiven. So here he asks, well, oh what if I told this paralyzed man to get up and walk? Well then that becomes a harder saying. And now it's harder to do, but easier to say, your sins are forgiven. And nobody can confirm for sure whether what was just said is actually accomplished After all, not everyone can see inside people the way Jesus came, the way God came. But to say rise and walk Yields immediate and visible results. Either the man gets up or he stays on his bed. So Jesus puts some pressure on himself here. And before the scribes are able to respond, he turns to the paralytic and says, rise, pick up your bed and go home. Now at this point, the scribes are probably peeking through their fingers to see what's going to happen. And the crowd in the house have their eyes all peeled on this paralyzed man's mattress. It's the moment of suspense. What's gonna happen? We read, and he rose and went home Saints, there's power in Jesus' words, isn't it? He gives life to dead limbs and life to dead hearts, both then and now. That's why we spend time this afternoon reading God's Word and studying the Bible. That's why you all come out on a Sunday afternoon at 2:30 after a long day, when kids are fussy to hear God's word, because you believe that God has power in His Word. That when He speaks, things happen His words give and sustain life. The scriptures tell us that man can't live by bread alone, no matter how good that bread is, but only by the word of God. You know we have to ask ourselves here. Why this extended episode? If Jesus was going to heal this man all along, then why drag things out? And why this dramatic scene? Does Jesus just have a flair for the dramatic? Well, Jesus tells us at the beginning of verse 6 the purpose for the whole thing. That you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. The whole episode was a series of increasing realities meant to culminate in this reality. That Jesus is the Son of Man who has the authority to forgive sins. The scribes, these Old Testament scholars needed to know That Jesus wasn't just the man claiming to forgive sins. They were right that only God can forgive sins, but failed to see that Jesus is the God-man, come to earth for that very purpose. And he was the son of man that Daniel prophesied about in Daniel chapter 7. The one who in heaven will be enthroned with all power and exercises of authority over all nations. Is the same one who now on earth is exercising his authority and establishing his kingdom by forgiving sinners and welcoming them into his kingdom. His time on earth was a toppling over of Satan's dominion. Moment by moment, miracle by miracle, undoing the effects of sin By causing the lame to walk and the blind to see and even the dead to rise, Jesus was laying claim that this sinsick world would be made new again. The scribes had been wrong about Jesus. They'd read their Bibles but missed him. They'd heard his claims but rejected him. And sadly, this episode didn't soften but only harden their hearts. They'd continue in opposition against Jesus. But Jesus wanted them to know that in doing so, it wasn't man they were opposing, but God The paralyzed man needed to know that Jesus' word is bond. He went away walking. A visible display that nobody leaves Jesus the same. And there's no sign that he doubted Jesus' initial proclamation, that his sins were wiped clean. But what a sweet assurance his healed body now offered Continually testifying to a deeper inner reality, a healed soul. He was right about Jesus. He believed that if he went to him, Jesus could heal him He came looking for new legs and he left with a new heart. Christ can do far abundantly more than anything we ask or think. The question for us is how will we leave our encounter with Jesus today? Will we leave sicker or better off than we came? The answer to that question lies in how you respond to him now. In light of who Jesus has shown himself to be. The one who came to earth to save sin-sick people. The one who sees beyond the surface problems and down into our hearts. Into the very fabric of our wicked souls. And the one who actually has the power, the ability to heal us. What will we do? Will we turn away from our sins and trust Him? Receiving the eternal remedy? The forgiveness of our sins? Or will we walk away the same as we came? Thinking that Jesus was just a man, someone good but not great. And leave with a disease more deadly than the one we walked in with. What will you do this afternoon? Will you come to Jesus Will you come to Jesus? He'll have you and He'll heal you. But you must come. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. We pray that your word that is powerful enough to bring life to dead limbs would work even now, Lord. Strengthen those who are weak. Encourage the faint-hearted Lord. Admonish the idle. Give faith to those who don't know you and strengthen the faith of those who do. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.