Well, good afternoon, friends. It is a pleasure and an honor to be with you and to open up God's word together with you. But before we do that, I'm going to lead us in prayer one more time, briefly, for God's blessing on this time. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your hands have made and fashioned us. Give us understanding that we may learn your commandments. Those who fear you shall see us and rejoice because we have hoped in your word We know, O Lord, that your rules are righteous and that in faithfulness you have afflicted us. Let your steadfast love comfort us according to your promise to your servants. Let your mercy come to us, that we may live for your word and your law is our delight. And we pray this all in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, friends, I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 2. Today we're going to be looking at verses 16 to 23 as we continue our study through Paul's letter to the Colossian Church. Last week we were looking at verses 8 to 15, where Paul warned the Colossians about not being taken captive by empty, man-made philosophies because they had already Come to share in the fullness that is in Jesus Christ. That is, they had come to share in the fullness of being made new creations. They had come to share in the fullness of being completely forgiven of all their sins through faith in the death and resurrection of Jesus And they had come to share in the fullness of Jesus' victory over all the spiritual powers opposed to God and his people. And that passage brings us right to our passage today. I want you to go ahead and take a look real quick at verse 16. Notice the first word there. It says, therefore. You all know that the question you're supposed to ask, right? What is the therefore, therefore, because of all that fullness that you already have in Christ, therefore, now do this. So as I read verses 16 to 23 for us, I want you to hear Paul's instruction in light of that fullness in Christ that you already possess if you've repent. repentant and put your trust in Christ. I'm going to read the passage for us now. This is God's word. Therefore. Let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival, or a new moon, or a Sabbath These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Let no one disqualify you Insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the head From whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world Why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations? Do not handle. Do not taste. Do not touch. referring to things that all perish as they are used, according to human precepts and teachings. These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self made religion and asceticism and severity to the body. But they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh I think one of the things that it's important to get right when you're reading letters of the New Testament, I think it's important to get right the tone of the passage. Right, I think it's easy to read this passage. It's very kind of condemning. Paul coming in strong. Don't let anyone judge you, don't let anyone disqualify you. But you got to read these instructions in light of the whole letter. Right, Paul has already commended the Colossians multiple times for their faith and their hope and their love. He's encouraged with what he hears about their faith. So if you think about Paul's letter to the Galatians, where he's like, My name's Paul, I'm an apostle, I'm writing to you, to you churches in a Galatia. How dare you turn from the gospel? How foolish of you, right? He gets right to it. He's coming in strong in his letter to the Galatians because they had really started trusting in their own works for righteousness. But here in Colossae, Paul's more like, hey, you guys are doing great in the faith There are false teachers coming around here trying to lead you away from faith in Christ. Don't let them judge you. Don't let them take you captive. Don't let them disqualify you. I think that's the tone that he's coming to them with. He's just reminded them of the fullness they have in Jesus and because of that fullness, therefore Don't submit yourselves to human rules and regulations. Don't seek to make yourself righteous by obeying commandments that God hasn't called you to obey. This is one of Paul's clear arguments against legalism in the New Testament and all the various forms that it can take. So what we're going to do over the next 20 to 25 minutes or so is just want us to look at two things that this passage teaches us about legalism. There are two things I want us to look at. First, I want to see, I want us to look at the types of legalism we may encounter. And then second, I want us to look at problems, the problems with legalism. So first, the types of legalism. And second, the problems with legalism. If you're taking notes, those will be our two headings. So first, I want us to look at the types of legalism. For those of you here who are here who aren't Christians, the word legalism may not be familiar to you. Legalism is basically when people either consciously or subconsciously try to earn favor with God through obedience to religious rules and regulations And it appears in our passage that the Colossians were being tempted to turn away from an active and living relationship with God through faith-filled dependence on Christ and turn to An empty external obedience to human regulations. They were being tempted to become legalists to view a relationship with God as nothing more than obeying certain religious rules. And it seems that there were two different types of Legalism they were being tempted to conform to. I'm going to call them for our purposes today religious legalism and spiritual legalism The first one we see is religious legalism. I want you to look at verse 16. Paul tells them not to let anyone judge them about matters related to food. and drink or about festivals, new moons, and sabbaths. Just real quick, you can't stop anyone from judging you, actually. Because they're judging you in their heart. And maybe they'll say something to you, but you can't stop people. So when he says, let no one pass judgment on you, he's not saying, hey, do everything you can to stop anyone from judging you. He's saying Don't let their judgments of you, because you're not obeying their rules, cause you to change how you are putting your faith in Christ and start putting your faith in obeying their rules and their ways of living, right? That's the religious legalism. It seems the false teachers were imposing the Jewish law on the Colossians and telling them that if they truly Wanted to please God, they needed to get up to speed with Jewish dietary laws and ensure that they were celebrating the weekly, monthly, and yearly days of religious observance. That's why you see the Sabbath, that's weekly. The new moon, that's monthly. And the, what is the other one there that we see there? The festival. Those are annual celebrations. Right, and all of those things we see in the Old Testament were part of the Jewish form of worship of Yahweh. But with the coming of Christ, we'll see those shadows of the Old Testament have given way to the substance. That is Christ. But these Jewish teachers in the New Testament, they're called Judaizers. It seems that they were condescendingly judging the Colossians for failing to live up to their standards. They were looking down on them, acting superior to them, because they rigorously and fastidiously observed old covenant laws, while the Colossians they merely lived by faith. Right? If you want to be saved, if you want to be truly holy, you must add to your faith. You must become like us by obeying our religious rules That's the essence of religious legalism. But that's not the only type of legalism that we see that Paul is concerned about. We also see spiritual legalism. Look at verse 18. And Paul basically says to them, hey, don't let anyone disqualify you. Who insists on asceticism and angel worship, who goes on and on about the visions he's had, who's conceited and puffed up because of all that he thinks he knows, that person is not holding fast to Christ. There's a whole lot of discussion and commentaries. Scholars are trying to figure out are there are there two different types of false teachers? Are there false teachers coming and leading them away to Old Testament worship and another group that's coming along? It's not exactly clear, but my best guess is that they are different false teachers, but it's a guess at best. And the reason I think they're different is because of the different types of demands they were making This is like a completely different type of legalism going on here. They insist on you must do this asceticism. That is the denial of all sensual pleasures and comforts for the purpose of achieving a higher plane of spirituality. They also insist on the worship of angels, which can mean two different things. It can mean actually worshiping angels, like we're bowing down and giving praise to the angels. Or they can it's they're insisting on the fact that the Colossians join in the worship of angels. That is, come alongside the angels in their worship of God. Right? It's a super-spiritual, hyper-spiritualized legalism. Right? Not only that, but it also included visions and deep spiritual insights, perhaps even secret knowledge reserved for the super spiritual. And they may not have insisted, if you're looking at verses 18 and following, they may not have insisted that the Colossians have visions and achieve deep spiritual insights, but. If you're in a community of people where all the super spiritual people have visions and they walk around talking about all that God has revealed to them and all the visions that they've had. and all the deep insights they have into the mind of the Lord, well then, you simple and immature Colossians, you better get up to speed. Right? If you want to be truly holy with us. You want to be truly holy, truly saved, you need to add to your faith by selling all that you have. Denying all sensual pleasures. You need to have visions and become like us with our profound insights. That is the spiritual legalism that they're being tempted by. And whether it is religious legalism or spiritual legalism, the essence of both is become like us. Not become like Christ, become like us, be made into our image, follow our ways. We know the true way to please God. Right? The author of Hebrews says, God's word is living and active. And we see how living and active Paul's instruction to the Colossians is for us today Because both types of legalism are present in our world today. In fact, if you look back, we don't have time to do it. There's a myriad of examples that I could give. If you look back through church history. These two legalisms have popped up over and over again throughout the history of the church. Right? You have the more obvious religious legalism today of Christian fundamentalism who require using only the King James Version of the Bible, who demand that men wear suits to church Who demand that women wear skirts of a particular length or fabric, who don't allow drinking in any form or in any amount, or dancing, or watching movies. They prohibit things that God doesn't prohibit. And they create rules where God hasn't created rules. And if you're going to exist happily within their movement, you must conform to their laws. Or you have the spiritual legalism of certain Christian movements today that teach that a person isn't really saved unless they've spoken in tongues. And experience the second blessing of the baptism of the Holy Spirit, which appears in, is manifested in the ability to speak in tongues. Or you have other movements like Bethel Church, which emphasizes visions and prophecies and communicating with angels So they have very clear uh claims to have visions of a glory cloud that appears at their service services, which signifies the presence of God among them. They talk of angel feathers and gold dust falling down from heaven while they worship. All of these things. You haven't really experienced the Lord until you've been to one of our services. You haven't really experienced the Lord. Have you had a glory cloud appear at your services? Have you had visions of angels Well, you need to become like us. But my guess is that very few of you, if any Are being tempted to become religious or spiritual legalists on par with what I've just described. But that doesn't mean this passage doesn't have anything to teach us. Because surely the attitudes and outlooks of the legalists, both forms, will appear in our lives as well, right? Think about all the different ways that they can appear in our lives. The attitudes and outlooks of the legalist appear in the person who judges others for their lack of religious rigor, who looks down on others for not reading the Bible enough. Or not praying enough, or for not having a firm enough grasp on Christian doctrine. Right now, listen, I want to give a very clear caveat here. I am not saying that if another member of the church Tells you that they're not reading the Bible or they're not praying, that you shouldn't challenge them to spend more time in the Word and in prayer. We should be constantly seeking to sharpen one another in love. What I'm talking about is an attitude of self-righteousness and condemnation. There's a huge difference in posture between looking down on a person and thinking you're better than them. And lovingly coming alongside them and challenging them to grow in the faith. But Paul even tells the Colossians earlier in his letter. He desires that they continue growing more and more in the faith, right? So we can lovingly come alongside others. There's just a difference in posture, right? The attitudes and outlooks of the legalists can also appear in how we look down on others for how they do church, right? The church that uses lots of instruments looks down on the ones that use very few. The church that sings only psalms questions the depth of the faith of the church that sings contemporary music. The church that emphasizes expository preaching looks down on the one that emphasizes topical and vice versa. Back and forth we go The church that has a booming mercy ministry questions the love of the church that doesn't. These attitudes and outlooks also appear in area where God has given us freedom in our lives together as Christians, right? We can potentially judge others for how they spend their money in everyday life. We can judge others for what schools they choose to send their kids to. We can judge others for what they do with their time. The list could go on and on. And my encouragement to you is to figure out where you're prone to self-righteousness, because we all have it, right? There isn't anyone in here who doesn't struggle to some degree or another with self-righteousness. So my encouragement is to figure out where you are prone to these attitudes and behaviors. Because I don't know if you've if you've ever entered into a truly legalistic environment. There is a suffocating atmosphere to it. And what we don't want to be is a type of church that comes up with all of our own legalisms. Things that we think you should do with your life and things that God hasn't spoken about, that we have ideas for you on how you should spend your time and your money, that will that will that will kill the culture and the life of this church Right? There is freedom in Christ for us to live and make decisions where God has not clearly spoken. There is freedom in the ways that uh we can worship God. He has given us very clear direction his word of what should happen in the gathered service. You should read, you should sing songs, you should pray, you should preach the word. And inside of that it can look a lot of different ways. There's a lot of faithful ways to worship God and a lot of faithful ways to to sing from the front and to do those types of things. We want to recognize God has given freedom to churches and to Christians to make those types of decisions where He hasn't spoken clearly. Right? But again, I'm also want to just want to very clearly give another caveat. I'm not saying we also shouldn't give thought to these things or have opinions about how things should be done or have convictions about what God's Word says about different areas of the Christian life. But what I am saying is that we shouldn't try to make black and white what God has left gray. When we do that, we run the risk of creating a legalistic culture. And as we'll see in our passage, there are a number of problems with legalism. And that's point two, the problems with legalism. Throughout the passage. Paul points out a number of problems with legalism, with imposing external obedience to man-made commands Look at the problems of the Jewish legalism being imposed on the Colossians in verse 17. Look at what he says there. The dietary laws and the observance of holidays were a shadow of things to come. But the substance belongs to Christ. The dietary laws and religious holidays were meant to point forward to Christ And now that Christ has come and fulfilled the law, these dietary laws and holidays are obsolete in Christ. One pastor said that to continue observing these laws and observing these holidays is akin to a soldier being at war. The soldier has a picture of his family, his wife and his children in his barracks that he looks at longingly every night when he's home from battle He he thinks about his wife, he thinks about his children, he gives kisses to the picture, he longs to see them, right? And then he returns home from more. And rather than running up to and hugging and kissing his family, he pulls out the picture again. Starts hugging it If he kisses to it, thinking about it, and he's got his his wife and his kids right there. No, no, turn from the picture and look at the fullness that you have in your family Now, that is the fullness that we have in Christ. To turn back to the dietary laws and the observance of these holidays is to grab that picture. When your family's standing right there, he's like, No, Christ has come, the fullness is here, he is the substance. Worship him, abide in him, remain connected to him. The picture is a shadow, right The soldier has the reality of the family. The Old Testament laws and festivals were a shadow, and Christ, the reality for the Christian, has come. That's not the only problem with legalism. Look at verse 19. In critiquing the spiritual legalists, Paul says they're not holding fast to the head. They're not holding fast to Jesus. In seeking and insisting on the worship of angels and asceticism, what would probably to most of the world look like somebody who is especially holy and especially concerned about their worship of God, Paul says, cut off, disconnected, no longer rooted in Christ. It's a tree. That may still look like it's got green leaves, but when you look down at the roots, it's been pulled up from the ground that it's in. No longer connected to Christ. Not only that, but look at verse 23. He basically sums up all of these rules, whether it's spiritual legalism or religious legalism, he basically sums them up as do not handle, do not taste, do not change basic rules. These things are all gonna perish. These are all gonna perish with time. But then in verse 23, he says, these have indeed an appearance of wisdom. In promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body. But what are they? They are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh Somebody who sells all their goods, who insists that you must become an ascetic to properly worship God Is worshiping God in a manner, according to Paul, that is of no value in actually stopping the indulgence of the flesh. Why is that Well, because of how prone the fallen heart is to boast, and it becomes self-righteous and prideful. The ascetic gets rid of all of their goods. The ascetic moves out into the desert, into the wilderness, as the early as uh people in the early church would often do. They would flee Rome, get rid of all their goods, move out into the wilderness, and insist that others do the same, that ascetic now starts to think, Wow, look at me. Look at what I've done. This is a strict code of religion that I have created. I have really accomplished something with my life. And in so doing, they've become a hypocrite Right? It's all external. It's all for show. It's also that others might look at them and say, I want to become more like him, not more like Jesus. Become like us. That's at the root. You see the problems with legalism. Legalism, according to Paul, is living in the shadows It cuts us off from Christ and it is ultimately worthless because it can't produce the change. That we most need. Man-made rules don't have the power to truly restrain sin because man-made rules can't Can't change parts. Now, kids, I understand how I or I see how it could sound like I'm saying that obedience isn't important at all. That's not what I'm saying. If your parents ask you later what what Pastor John preached today in this sermon, you say to him, We get to disobey every law that you came up with, that's wrong. That's not what I'm teaching. Not at all what I'm teaching. Nothing could be further from the truth. Jesus actually says this. He says, this is how we know that we love God. We keep his commandments. We obey his commandments. But the commandments we're obeying are his. Commandments and not ones we've added on to his commandments ourselves. No matter how many rules we create for ourselves We can't make ourselves perfectly righteous before God. Only He can do that. Only He can do that, and He will do that for you You repent and put your faith in Christ. You see, Jesus came down from heaven to live the perfect life. Life on our behalf. Because we cannot keep the rules that we need to keep. We could not keep God's commandments. He lived the life we should have lived but haven't. He kept all of God's commands, never breaking one, lived a life of Perfect devotion to God. And then he died on the cross to bear the punishment that we deserve for breaking God's commandments. And then he rose from the dead and offers forgiveness of sins and a new heart to anyone who would repent and put their trust in his righteousness. If you're not a follower of Jesus, I wonder if you see here how different Christianity is From the religions of the world. A pastor friend of mine who travels overseas regularly and interacts with people of different faiths. He was in another country and was sitting outside a temple with two other guys, each of whom was from a different religion. And the two men were talking about how all the religions of the world were essentially the same. Maybe you've thought this yourself, just superficially different. I thought this myself before I became a Christian. Then finally the pastor spoke up and said, it's almost like you guys picture God, or whatever you want to call him. He's sitting at the top of the mountain And we're all at the bottom of the mountain. And I may take this path up to the top of the mountain by obeying certain rules. And you may take that path up by obeying other religious rules. But in the end, we're all going to be in the same place. Is that right? And they smiled and they said, exactly. You understand? You get it. Yeah, that's what we're saying. And he responded to them and said, well, what if I told you that the God at the top of the mountain didn't wait for us? to come up. He actually came down to where we are. And they said, well that would be great. And he said to them, this is the difference. What we find in the Bible is a story of a God who has not left us alone to try to find our way back to Him. him. He has come to us and has made the way back to himself through his son, Jesus Christ. Legalism, man-made rules and laws, that's man's way of climbing the mountain back to God. God, of making ourselves righteous enough to come back into God's presence by our own rules. But in the end, what we eventually find out is that mountain can't be climbed. It is too steep, it is too treacherous, and too high, because no matter how many laws and rules we create, we can never make ourselves righteous enough to come Into God's presence. We can never accomplish the change in our heart that has to happen for us to return to God. And that is why God came down the mountain. He came to do for the Colossians what they could never do for themselves. Through Christ, he made them new creations. Through Christ, he forgave them all their sins and gave them victory over the spiritual powers. They had experienced the fullness of Christ, and Paul doesn't want them turning back. to man-made outward external rule keeping. Instead, he wants them to live in the fullness of freedom that comes with Being forgiven and made new creations in Christ, and now having a heart that is filled with faith, filled with God's Spirit, that sees God's commandments and says, Yes, I want to follow them, because in them is life. Not in the commandments that man creates for me. And God has already done the same for us. If we have repented and put our faith in Jesus, our attempts to make ourselves righteous by creating rules for ourselves are no comparison. For the righteousness that Christ has already given to us. Right? Think about it. Like you create laws for yourself, you create rules that you try to live up to. You accomplish them, you meet those rules, and you're like, ah, look at what I did, God, I made myself righteous, and God's like Look at what I did for you in Christ. Put your eyes on him. That's where truth growth comes from in the faith. Right? What connects you to Christ Is not adding to the commands God has given to his people. What connects you to Christ is faith. Faith in his perfect life Faith in his death and faith in his powerful resurrection. If you want to become genuinely mature, Genuinely holy and genuinely righteous, keep putting your faith in Him and walking in His ways. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you can see our hearts. You know where we have judged others for breaking commandments that you never gave in the first place. You know the ways that we judge ourselves and walk around condemning ourselves because we haven't lived up to a standard that you haven't placed over us? Forgive us, Lord. Help us to remain connected to Christ, connected to the head. Help us to continue walking by faith in Christ. That is the only way that we individually and we as a church will be nourished and knit together and built up. Father, grant us that faith. Help us to live joyfully in the freedom that you've given us and help us to display our love for you by obeying your commandments. Your commandments give life, and they are good. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.