Culturally speaking, I find it's hard to quite know what to do with each Easter, right? So I was at the stores yesterday with daughters, and Easter does get some commercial attention. Right, you get the chocolate display of different cadberries, eggs, and so forth at Target or extra flowers out front at Costco. It's not a federal holiday, but we still get the day off, of course, because it's on Sunday. Um maybe you do an Easter egg hunt, maybe you have an Easter egg lunch or Easter lunch. Yet without a doubt, Easter does not have the cultural cachet of say Christmas. Just several days ago, a writer in Slate magazine sarcastically asked, Sending out hundreds of Easter cards this year? Attending way too many Easter parties? Getting tired of those endless Easter themed specials on television? I don't think so. You understand what he's getting at Why why doesn't Easter get the same attention as Christmas Well, at the beginning of the 19th century, in fact, if you look at English-speaking books, Christmas and Easter received about the same amount of coverage. uh same amount of words approximately were given to those two holidays. Well by the time you get to 19 1860, Easter gets about half. of the coverage that Christmas does. And historians actually attribute a lot of that to the 1840s story, anybody? By Charles Dickens. Christmas Carol, that did a lot to bring attention to Christmas. And by 2000, Easter receives about one-fourth of the attention. that Christmas does. Why why in in books? Why is that? Well I appreciate the explanation offered several days ago by the religion staff writer at Vox. com. She observed Christmas, with its celebration of the birth of a child, is a natural fit for a secularized celebration. Dogmatic Christians and casual semi-believers alike can agree that Jesus Christ, whether divine or not, was probably a person whose birth was worth celebrating. Plus, the subject matter makes it ideal for a child-centered holiday. The centrality of family and Christmas imagery, the nativity scene, portraits of Mary and Child allow it to translate easily into a holiday centered around children and childhood. But the message of Easter, she goes on to write, That of an adult man who was horribly killed, only to rise from the dead, is much harder to secularize. Celebrating Easter demands celebrating something so miraculous that it cannot be reduced, as Christmas can, to a heartwarming story about motherhood. Its supernatural elements are on display front and center. It's a story about death and resurrection. A baby is a symbol of promise, after all, and you don't really need to know anything about the baby. It's just kind of of this this vehicle that you can import all your own aspirations and hopes into. But the grown crucified Jesus, well it's much harder to define him because he defines him. And more than that, if Jesus really did rise from the dead, well that says something dramatic about who he is and what his claim on our lives is. Well, who is this resurrected Jesus? That's what we're going to think about this morning in our passage. We're not looking as your bulletin says in 1 Corinthians 15. That's old news. That's Friday night's news. Saturday night's news is that we're going to look at Colossians 1. Go ahead and turn there. Colossians 1, and we're going to read verses 15 to 20. He is. Who is this resurrected Christ? He is the image of the invisible God. The firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him And he is before all things. And in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Well, first question here. What does Paul mean? When he says Jesus is the firstborn of creation, does he mean that Jesus was That this this the Son of God was there was a time when he didn't exist, and then he was born. He did exist. Is that what Paul is saying? that he was created. Well no look at the end of verse 16. For by him all things, all things were created. And more crucially, Paul defines firstborn for us. Look at verse 18. Christ is the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. Here we have Paul invoking the law of primogeniture. Jesus possesses all the rights and the entitlements and the inheritance of a firstborn son. Notice then that we can divide this passage in half. Verse 15, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, and then there's a justification for that claim. For by him all things were created in the heaven on earth. And then we have the same grammatical pattern repeated in verse 18. Look there. He is the beginning, the firstborn over the dead. And then a justification for that in verse 19. For in him. In other words, this entire passage is about the preeminence of Jesus Christ. Verses 15 to 17 tell us that he's preeminent over creation. And verses 18 to 20 tells us that tell us that he is preeminent over salvation or new creation. Uh uh kids, again, what does the word preeminent mean? Any guesses? What does preeminent mean? I'm going to use that word a lot. Preeminent. Any guesses? Parents, any guesses? What does preeminent mean? That's the word in our text, verse 18. He is pre-eminent. Anyone? Before all things? Of first importance, yeah, that's in that's exactly right. Emma? Above all. How many kids in here are taking Latin? Got a few? Do you know what menire means? It's a word you might have learned, to stand. And immeniere is to stand out. So he is the pre-imaniere, right? He is above all those even who stand out. He is pre-eminent. He is first in rank above all things. The Greek word that we're given here is even says the same thing. He's first in order above all things. Well, what do we celebrate at Easter? Will we celebrate the resurrection of Christ Yes, but as much as that, what the resurrection proves, that Jesus is preeminent over creation Over new creation, over everything. And I want you to stop for a moment here at the beginning and just reflect on that fact for a second in light of that passage. It's remarkable, isn't it, how socially uncouth it is to bring out that name Jesus Christ in a typical conversation. I I'm not, well, since since being married, I've I've learned I'm not the most socially uncouth person, or I'm not as socially couth as I once thought I was, but even I can perceive that in social company it's kind of safe to refer to a belief in God. You can say that, right? You can refer perhaps to an unseen power It's most safe just to refer to my interest in spirituality. But if you leave all that vagueness behind And you get really concrete in a conversation with somebody and talk about Jesus Christ, well that that's that's gonna that's gonna raise an eyebrow, right? In some countries that that's going to do a lot worse. And so ironically, as Christians, we can feel embarrassed, can't we, to bring up the name of Christ. I even have vague memories of actor Owen Wilson in some dumb movie playing this cheesy evangelical guy who refers to his friend JC and then he gets a laugh line. So Jesus' name. It's kind of a laugh line. Right? Compare that laughter, compare that embarrassment to what we see in our text. this morning. Verses 15 to 17. 1, Christ is preeminent over creation. Point one, Christ is preeminent over creation. How do we see that preeminence? Well, verse 15, he's the image of the invisible God. He shows us the very character and nature of God Himself. God, Jesus, makes the invisible God visible. That's what he does Now there's a sense in which you and I too were created in God's image, but we haven't displayed and represented what God is like. We've done our own We've ruled ourselves. We speak like God speaks, but we speak perversely. We we build relationships like God has relationships, but we expect Exploit those relationships. So we we image him, but we image him like one of those wavy carnival mirrors that show a grotesque or a distorted picture of what you actually look like, not Jesus. Jesus is the perfect mirror. He is preeminent. Displaying what God is like perfect. Speaking just like God speaks, building relationships, just like God builds relationships, righteous, loving, asserting dominion just like God the Father He is the second Adam. Paul calls him elsewhere. He is the last Adam, inaugurating this whole new creation. He's preeminent. This verse continues. It says, all things were created by Christ. What does it mean by all? Means all, right? And it goes on to explain that to us. All things in heaven and on earth. Angels and Ardvarks All things visible and invisible. In other words, Jesus created electromagnetism in order to hold atoms and molecules together. He designed gravity. which which gathers atoms into stars and then compresses them at their stellar cores into such high tens of millions of temperatures that the entire periodic chart of elements is created. Jesus, whose name is a laugh line in our culture is the architect of the biological cell, complete with plaza membrane. ribosomes, cytoplasm, and nucleus which which contains the two chains of nucleotide bound together in that double helix structure that you've seen in documentaries, we call it DNA. He designed all of that. But Christ did not merely create the natural universe. These verses tell us he established the moral and the political universe. Keep looking, for by him All things were created, it said, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. No, he did not create the wickedness of human governments, but he created the fact of governments. kings and princes, presidents and prime ministers, their duties, responsibilities, their limits The laws of justice balance perfectly in him. And what he does. All that he does is good and perfect And being preeminent over the physical universe and the moral and political universe means he is preeminent over the history of humanity? Preeminent over the heavenly host, fallen and unfallen, no king rises to his throne, and no angel sinks into the pit of revolt and hatred apart from his permission. None can say to Jesus, none can stay his hand and say to him, What have you done? As King Nebuchadnezzar learned, none can declare a war or lose a battle or build a kingdom apart from Christ's will. He's not lost control thinking, oh, it's a mess. Presidents, princes, secretaries, sheikhs are all at his beck and call He possesses rule over all things, from the great to the small, from the famous to the anonymous. Jesus is pre-eminent over Obama and Trump. the left side and the right side of the Supreme Court, the Maryland State House, the PG County Animal Control Commission. More immediately, friends, Jesus is preeminent over your days and my days. He is Lord over what you do with your taxpayer. Coming up in a couple of weeks. He lays claim to your Facebook account and your work email You and I can try to construct, build an identity for ourselves, and make life plans for ourselves, but it's his definitions and his life plans that finally Count that are the measure and judgment of all things. Look at the end of verse 16. All things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Your tongue was created for him, and he holds it together. Your body was created for him and he holds it together. Your marriage was created for him and he holds it together. How then would you use your tongue, your body? Your marriage? Christ is preeminent over all creation. Now you may not like that fact. The idea might bother you But common uh contrary to the preeminent philosophies of our day, how we feel about something or how much we want something does not determine whether or not it's true. True. And friend, if you're here this morning and you don't understand yourself to be a creator. uh a Christian, God created you with feelings, and those feelings are good, God given things, but whether or not we like or dislike something, again, doesn't make it false or true. And the text presents us with this This fact. And we have a choice about what to do with it. That he is risen from the grave and that he is preeminent. over all things. And either Jesus did or did not rise from the grave. Scripture says he did And no one has ever produced a reasonable or compelling explanation of the empty tune How did those fishermen move the stone and defeat the Roman soldiers who guard it? How did they avoid prosecution for what would have just been falling down on the job or being asleep? if that were the case. That's not how Rome ran its armies. Or perhaps Jesus didn't really die, some say. Perhaps he just swooned. Well why why the spear and the side and then no bleeding? If you begin to research the claims surrounding the Bible's claim that Jesus got up from the dead, my non-Christian friend, you'll find it hard. I challenge you to do this. You'll find it hard to find an alternative, satisfying explanation. And again, the most important question you can ask yourself today is not today is not, do I like This idea of a resurrected and preeminent Jesus. No, the right question is, what does the fact, the more real than gravity fact, of his preeminence mean for you. In fact, the next point helps us answer that. Point two. Christ is preeminent over the church and all new creation. Verse 18. He is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning. Really, he's the new beginning. So think back to Genesis 1, in the beginning. God created the heaven and the earth. Well what Paul is telling us now is in the new beginning, Christ created new creation. A new heaven and earth, or he is the beginning of that. He is the first fruits of that we learn elsewhere. And now there is this new beginning. There is this opportunity. for us too to be born again, to participate with Christ in this resurrection. And that's the amazing hope we have as believers. We participate with him in this up from the grave resurrection And he did this, we see at the end of verse 18, that in everything, creation, new creation, he might be preeminent. Now, in between these kind of two halves, these two stanzas of this what commentators think was probably an early church hymn. There's this unstated massive Grand Canyon-wide gap that we call the fall. People. And princes and presidents alike have taken the rule that God has given them into their own hands and ruled on their own behalves. Yes, Christ is preeminent over creation, but the Bible teaches We have sought to rule ourselves and he has led us for a time. Creation has fallen And so our hearts are bent and rebellious. Our families are broken. Our governors are self-interested and too often corrupt. Just yesterday. Notice this verse from Ecclesiastes. Then I saw that all toil and all skill and work come from a man's envy of his neighbor. You can read that quickly, but stop and just think about it. about it for a second, it really hits you. Then I saw that all toil, okay, I do that, all skill and work, okay, I understand that, come from a man's envy of his neighbor. You hear that and you think, really is it that bad But then if you stop and you're kind of honest from yourself, you reflect on the fact, okay, how much of my work, how much of the skills I've built up are simply all about envy of my neighbor. I'm trying to prove myself to someone, something. Again, yesterday I was Giving my wife some counsel on a matter when she had a different perspective, and I got defensive And felt a need to prosecute my case, not out of love for her, but To prove my point, vindicate my honor, prove that I'm preeminent, just yesterday. And we know, friends, that our world is defined by such rivalries, personal rivalries, professional rivalries, ethnic rivalries, party and national rivalries. You see it on Twitter, you watch it in the news, you experience it in work, you feel it in your heart. Well, verse 18 is the answer. This is all the gap, verse 18, is God's response to all this, the resurrected Jesus Christ He is the firstborn from the dead. He is the inauguration of a new creation. And then verse 19. The fullness Not the partialness, the fullness of God dwells in him. Jesus is the God-man. Fully God. Fully man. It's hard to fathom. But that's what it tells us. The fullness of God dwelled in him. He was a person. The fullness of God dwelled in him. Fully God, fully. Man. And then verse 20, and God will reconcile all things to himself through Christ by making peace by the blood of the cross. Why that last line, making peace by his blood? Well, because the cause of the universe's disorder and brokenness is not entropy or the Second law of thermodynamics. It's not the explosion of stars. It's not the death of cells. The cause is the angelic realms and humankind's moral rebellion against its creator. That's the cause of the problem of this universe. And the rebellion of humankind requires the payment of blood Life for life. Injustice requires justice in order for righteousness to prevail. You think of a judge, a murderer comes before the judge, the murderer says, I'm really sorry, I'll do a bunch of good stuff. Would the judge be just to say that's fine, I forgive you? Well, no, the person's still dead. Justice still has to be done. The person who murdered still has to be affirmed in the value of that life. So for our rebellion and sin, there must come justice. And God, because he's good, will do justice And the good news of Christianity, of course, is that Jesus came as the just one, but also to justify all of us. Who are guilty in our sin and to remake us in his own image, all of us who repent and believe. So Christ, the God man, In whom the fullness of God dwell died on the cross, making payment for us, if we would only repent and believe. Yet the cross without the resurrection is no good. The cross without the resurrection means sin wins. Death wins. But of course they don't win. God proves He wins through the resurrection. Do you see the hope and promise of Easter and the resurrection It's the hope and promise that fixing this broken universe doesn't finally depend on us. It depends upon death and resurrection as accomplished by God So th think think think about it for a second. I can stand here and I can point out things I did wrong from yesterday and I can think, okay, I've learned from that and I'm gonna I'm going to improve and do better than what I did yesterday. And and you can think to yourself, yeah, okay, I understand I'm kind of selfish in these ways and I can do better in those ways and I can work on that. And you and I can get together and we can talk about all the bad things out there. We can talk about about corrupt governments, we can talk about structural injustices, and we can contribute to trying to fix some of those things. The problem is I cannot finally fix myself. And you can't finally fix yourself, and we cannot finally fix all that's going on out there. This universe can't be fixed It's tiring, isn't it? It's tiring to be stuck in sin. It's tiring to read what we read in the news. And yet our concerted moral efforts and our self-improvement won't fix it. Only a new creation, only a resurrection fixes it And Christ is the first fruits of that resurrection, of that new creation. This is what we read, for instance. In the final chapter of John, just listen to this account of a couple of disciples and the resurrected Jesus. Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see the marks Of the nail, and place my finger into the marks of the nails, and place my hand into his side I will never believe. Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came. Doors were locked. Jesus came somehow and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. And he said to Thomas, Put your finger here and see my hands. And put out your hand and place it on my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe Thomas answered him, My Lord, my God. Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you've seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Well, in response to this Remarkable scene, friends. We can all take one of three paths. We can take self-delusion. I'm fine, I don't need a fix. We can take cynicism. There's no such thing as a fix. Life is what it is. Go to the ground, we die. Or we can put our hope in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ Friends, the good news of Christianity is not that we can fix ourselves, it's that Christ died in our place, paying the penalty we deserved. And he again, he he rose on Easter morning, not just to fix things, but to establish a whole new creation. a new order. And the claim that we see in these verse that he will reconcile all things to himself does not mean that all will be. saved, it means he will put all things to right. He will accomplish justice and give what's due to all things. His rule will no longer be hidden, but it will be public and manifest. He rules, we just can't see his rule. But it will be public. and manifest, and all things will be reconciled to him. In order to demonstrate his preeminence over everything, the Lord of creation became creation. He remained fully God, but he also became, as we said, fully man. He suffered the tragedies of sinful creation, even dying on a cross. And then he shattered the rule of sin and death by becoming the firstborn from the dead. preeminent in new creation. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus as your personal savior and Lord Or if you would say you knew him once, but now you're not so sure. Or you knew him once, but you thought better of it and you walked away. You can be reconciled to God in Christ. You can have your sins forgiven. You can begin to participate. in this new creation. We who are Christians now know that our lives have begun to change. And so we walk, though we can't see this new creation, we walk in the knowledge of it and the purposes of it and the ambitions of it. And my non-Christian friend, your conscience tells you that you are accountable to God. And the Bible is telling you that this is more real than gravity. And so I'm calling you now to turn away from your sin and put your trust in Christ Who is preeminent over you and over me? And one day that will be made public. Friends, can you imagine the end of your sin? Can you imagine what it will be like and we live in that public demonstration of Christ's rule of all things? the end of your impatience and the end of your anger, the end of selfish ambition and envy, when all of your work won't arise out of jealousy of your neighbor, the end of wayward lust and gluttony. I enjoy science fiction movies. People often enjoy science fiction movies because often they're set in the future and we get to imagine what the future might be like because of advances in technology. And these advances seem to make everything easier and Smoother, right? So disease is eradicated or you take a pill and the person is fixed. Cars fly. Or forget cars. You can just teletransport there. But the thing is you get 10-15 minutes into these science fiction movies set in the future and something always goes wrong, right? Why? Well because hearts are still human hearts. And so you need a plot. And so we understand how plots work. Human hearts assert themselves and people do bad things. They're still self-justifying, still self-worshiping, still therefore self-ruling, no matter what advances we have in technology. It's hard to imagine, isn't it? A totally New creation. Where not only our bodies are fixed, like Jesus' resurrection body, but where also all is justice and all is righteousness. and all is love. Our morality is fixed. Our hearts are fixed. Our spirits are fixed. Our ambitions and hopes are fixed Imagine all your relationships marked only by encouragement and tenderness. Imagine the media and social media filled only with things that build up and edify. Imagine workplaces where the work is satisfying and productive and harmonious. It's almost harder to imagine, isn't it, than a science fiction movie. But brothers and sisters in Christ, you were created for that. And that's what the resurrection of Christ anticipates. And that's what the changes you have discovered since becoming a Christian, even if they're just baby steps little by little, is anticipating. That's what the fellowship of this church, a society of the first fruits, of new creation. Bit by bit, from one degree of glory to the next, still stumbling, still falling, but moving there. That's what we anticipate. Friends, I have good news. He's risen. He's risen indeed. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we give you praise. You are the firstborn over creation and new creation because you are preeminent over all things. All things belong to you. Thrones, rulers, authorities. None is a threat to you. Nothing intimidates you. you or worries you and you have us and you own us and you have made us your own and we give you praise for that this morning In Jesus' name, amen. Friends, we sing now of this preeminent one in the hymn in Christ Alone. Let's stand. and sing