The sermon passage for this morning is Psalm 91. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust, for he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and a buckler. You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday. A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked. Because you have made the Lord your dwelling place, the Most High, who is my refuge, no evil shall be allowed to befall you. No plague come near your tent. For he will command his angels concerning you, to guard you in all your ways. On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. You will tread on the lion and the adder. The young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot. Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. I will protect him because he knows my name When he calls to me, I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. With long life, I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Amen. The Lord also promises to deliver preachers who forget how their own service is supposed to run. So that is my second time doing that since we made that change, and I'm going to start requiring that the reader sit directly next to me So that I don't do it anymore. Well, praise God. You guys just heard the wonderful word that Tammy preached to us from Psalm 91. We are going to jump into Psalm 91 momentarily, but since we're here to hear from the Lord and to hear his promises and what they mean for us, we should ask him for his spirit so that he would bless this time. So let's do that now. Would you pray with me Heavenly Father, we lift up our voices to you and we ask that you would hear our prayers. We ask that you would listen to our cries for mercy. Lord, there are so many dangers around us in this world, and we struggle with fear. We fear being harmed, we fear abandonment, we fear being separated from you. But Lord, we have this great and precious promise in Psalm 91 that's that's held out to us this morning. So we pray that you would grant the Spirit to give us great courage in Christ and to show us How you are a great and perfect refuge and dwelling place for your people where we can be protected from all harm ultimately. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this past Wednesday marked the 18th anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City. Uh it's really it's hard to believe with every passing anniversary, it's hard to believe that it's been 18 years uh since it happened. Uh I can remember where I was when it all went down. I'm I'm sure that all those of you who are old enough Also remember where you were when it all happened. I was in my senior year at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia. I was just walking into my graphics design class in the Temple Mass Communications Building. uh right off of Main Street in Richmond. I recall standing around with some of the some of our other classmates who were in the classes wondering wondering aloud, hey, where's our teacher? Why isn't she here? She's a few minutes late. And then suddenly she came in and very soberly instructed everyone to follow her to another uh classroom in that building and it was since it was a mass communications building she was taking us to one of the the the faux fake TV studios. uh where they helped people practicing for uh TV the life on TV or in news. Uh and so they had a TVs running there and when we came in, Good Morning America was on. And they were reporting on an explosion that had happened at the World Trade Center. I remember sitting down, I remember turning to the person next to me and saying, hey Well what's going on here? What are we watching? And they were as puzzled as I was. And then within a minute or two of sitting down, the second tower got hit. Yeah, it was one of those experiences that really it seers itself onto a person's memory. You just never forget That moment. It's one of those moments that really testifies to the brevity of life. We have no idea when it's going to end. Testifies to the evil in this world, the brokenness of this world. And you know, as terrible as that day was It is only one of thousands and thousands of evil things that have been committed, both large and small, in the 18 years since then. It's one of just innumerable evidences of the brokenness of this world. And it's not just moral evil that threatens us, right? When we look around the world, we see natural evils. Like natural disasters in the forms of earthquakes and volcanoes and tornadoes and famines and hurricanes, just Hurricane Dorian recently These things have claimed thousands and thousands of lives throughout human history. You add to that various forms of sickness and disease which have ravaged humanity from the beginning of time until now. And what are we left to conclude? What we're left to conclude is that this world is a dangerous place. It's a dangerous place. And so it's no surprise that throughout history People have gone to great lengths to protect themselves from danger. In the ancient world, people protected themselves from other humans by building massive fortresses that people couldn't break into to protect them from the outside world. In the modern world, nations protect themselves from other nations by building up the biggest arsenals possible. We try to protect ourselves from natural disasters with seismic monitoring or or super advanced meteor meteorology. We try to protect our bodies. from disease with supplements and medicine. We protect our homes with alarm system. We are a people in search of protection. We're people in search of protection, but the reality is, as we look at the world, that even the most advanced forms of protection against moral and natural evils eventually fail We, in our humanness, simply don't have the ability or the power to protect ourselves from the innumerable dangers that surround us. But just because we don't have the ability to protect ourselves from those dangers doesn't mean that we should sink into despair or live a life that's controlled by anxiety or fear, because what Psalm 91 so clearly teaches us is that God, God provides perfect protection for those who trust in him. So we don't need to fear. And if you're taking notes this morning, that is the main point of Psalm 91. God provides perfect protection for those who trust in him. So we don't need to fear. And what we're going to do this morning is we're going to walk through Psalm 91, and we're going to see how the whole Psalm teaches that God provides perfect protection for those who trust in him And then we'll have a second point where we meditate and consider why we don't need to fear. So if you haven't already, please turn with me in your Bible to Psalm 91. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you'll find Psalm 91 on page 497. And if you don't own a Bible, we'd encourage you to take the copy that we've provided as a gift from us to you. There's really Nothing that more important for us that we think in your life than to have a copy in your life of God's own words. We want to encourage you to take that Bible. But I said that the first point of our psalm, uh of our sermon this morning, where we're going to spend the majority of our time, is that God provides perfect protection for those who trust in him. And I want to encourage you to go ahead and look down at the Psalm. We're going to be looking at the Psalm extensively. We're going to try to figure out what these words mean and what they say. uh and what's going on here. So please do follow along with me in your Bible as I try to explain how God provides perfect protection for those who trust in him. And our first point begins with the fact that God, it's God who provides Perfect protection. And we see that right away. Look at verse 1. Notice what we learn about this God who provides perfect protection. What we learned is that there is none like him. He is the most high God. Kids, if there's a kid here who has not answered a question before, I want to open this up to you. What do you think it means that God is the most high? high God. What do you think that's trying to communicate? Raise your hand if you if you have an answer. What do you think it's trying to communicate that God is the most high God? Anyone want to venture a guess? Any of the kids? What do you think it means that he's the most high God? You can do it. I believe in you. Someone over here? Abram? He's the most holy. He's the best. He's the strongest. There's none like him. He's the most high God. It means God is exalted. He's awesome. He's high and lifted up. When the psalmist says that God is the most high God, it means that there is no God that's higher. than him, right? He sits on a throne that's higher than any other throne. God doesn't look up to anybody. literally or figuratively. He is the most high. Everyone is below him and dwells underneath of him. When God is described as the most high God, that's what theologians describe as God's transcendence. God's transcendent. He's transcendent over all, right? He's above all, greater than all. He is the most high God and you and I can't get on his level, right? You see, we have rags to riches stories, stories about people who go from the basement to the penthouse, right? They they caught a break, they made it rich, and now they're like they're on the same level as all the people that they once looked up to, like, whoa, I'm one of the wealthiest people in the world now. I caught a break, went from rags to riches. Man and woman and kids, we don't catch breaks and end up on God's level. He is the most high God, and he dwells on that plane by himself. He is the transcendent one, and no one is like him. But we also see in verse 1 that he's the Almighty God. He will abide in the shadow of the Almighty God. Not only is he transcendent, but he's all-powerful. Nobody and no thing can limit his power. Nobody can stop him from doing what he wants to do. He is the strongest one, right? We have bodybuilders in this world. We have a competition called Mr. Universe where where guys and guys and gals get really strong and they try to build up the strongest Body, but in reality, there is only one Mr. Universe, and his name is the Lord. He is the strongest one, and he's won the title of Mr. Universe every year since he created the universe Right? And since he's the Almighty, nobody can attack him. Nobody can hurt him. There's nobody on earth who strikes fear in God. He isn't scared of anyone or anything because he's the Almighty God. I don't think anyone has ever put it better than a man named William Gurnal who once said, one Almighty is more than many mighties. One Almighty is more than many mighties. Line the mighties up, and the Almighty will knock them down. He's the king of the hill, he's the king of the jungle, he has been and always will be the last man standing, transcendent. all-powerful, the most high and almighty. And we also learn that this most high and almighty God has a name. Look at verse 2. I will say to the Lord, when you see the Lord in all caps like that in Scripture. That's not some generic title for an important person. That is the divine name of the God of Israel, which means that the God of Israel Is the most high and almighty God. That means that it's the God of Israel who's above all others and stronger than all others. It means that if we want to be protected by a God who's greater than all other gods, Who offers us a perfect refuge, a dwelling place who is like a fortress to us, then we need to know the God of Israel. We need to know the Lord. And what is amazing about this passage and what it teaches is that the Lord is not only the most high and almighty and transcendent one, it's that this transcendent God draws near to lowly creatures. He comes near to lowly creatures like you and me. Notice in verse 1 Does it strike you that the most high is also a shelter? That's odd Not two descriptions I think would go next to one another, but the most high and holy and awesome one who dwells over all and rules over all is also a shelter. A shelter from the storm for his people. He lets us live in his shadow. He is a refuge and a fortress for us. Look at verse 4. He's like a giant mother bird who covers her children under her wings. So we talked about God's transcendence. This is what theologians call God's imminence. He's not only high and lifted up But he stoops down and comes near and says, you, you, little lowly one, you can come into my presence and you can be perfectly protected because I am. the Most High and Almighty One who lets his creatures come into his presence. Right? God is all around us. He's not just high and lifted up but stoops down and draws near. There's nowhere that you can go to escape from his presence. Kids, here's a fun fact Hide and seek isn't a very fun game with God, right? You run and hide in your place and you're like, all right, you can come and get me, and he says, Gotcha I'm right here with you. There's nowhere that you can flee from his presence, which means his eye is always on you, which means he is always near to you. You can always draw into his shadow and be a have him be a refuge for you. And we also know that because he was the God of Israel, that he was near to Israel. Kids, when the nation of Israel wandered in the wilderness, how did he appear among them? How did he appear among them? Yeah, a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night, right? The most high and almighty God who created the universe was among the people of Israel in the pillar of cloud by day and the fire by night. And he provided perfect protection for them, all encompassing protection. Which is what the rest of the psalm is, quite frankly, clearly teaching us. Let's just look quickly at the rest of the psalm, and we'll see that his perfect protection is perfectly clear. Look at verse 3 He delivers from the snare of the fowler. That's just a way to describe a dangerous person who's trying to hunt you down. Like somebody who hunts birds. God protects us from evil people who are trying to hunt us down Not only that, but he delivers from the deadly pestilence, from deadly disease. Look at verse 4. He covers you with his pinions Pinions are the outer part of a bird's wings, which means that you will be entirely covered by the Lord when he spreads his wings over you. His faithfulness, you see there in the second half of verse 4. His faithfulness is a shield and buckler. So back in the day when dudes went to battle, uh they would roll into battle, important warriors would roll into battle with what was called an armor bearer. It was a guy who had the unfortunate job of not having a weapon. He just carried the shield. He didn't get to defend. He just had the shield to defend himself, but he couldn't do anything to attack others. But a guy, a warrior, would go into a battle with an armor bearer, and that armor bearer would carry a shield and a buckler. So back in the day what they would do is they would build massive shields, not ones that could just be held with your arm But it would be like a movable wall. Alright, move forward. And the guy moves the wall forward, right? But when you have a movable wall, it's not all that maneuverable. So that shit that armor bearer would also carry a buckler, a smaller shield to protect from incoming aerial attacks, from things like arrows or overhead strikes. So you're protected from the front, you're protected from above, you're protected from all around. The Lord is a shield and buckler around his people. This is all encompassing protection. Look at verse 5. You won't fear the terror of night. Why? Because Yahweh dwells among you in a pillar of fire. Right? If it's nighttime and you have a massive pillar of fire around you, is it dark anymore? No. So there's no need to be afraid of the night Right? You'll be protected in battle, protected from plague, protected from destruction, day and night, all the time. Verses seven and eight. Look there with me. In battle, thousands and thousands will fall around you, but you won't be harmed at all. Verse 10. No evil will ever harm you. Verse 11. God's angels will protect you from harm, and you will trample on and defeat the lions and snakes that prowl in the wilderness, right? Verses 14 and 6, 14 to 16. Look there with me. God promises deliverance, protection, rescue, and salvation, right? This is a picture of complete protection. God is a force field around his people I don't know if any of you see movies. It's not an encouragement to go to this movie or anything like that. I'm not giving it as an endorsement. I'm just trying to say, like, have you ever seen Black Panther? God is like the walls of Wakanda. Right, the enemies run and they think they're running right for them, and then boom, they smash into the invisible force field of Wakanda. That's what God is like around his people Can't get through. In that movie, some people break through, but then they then they defeat him, right? But that's not the point. That's what he he's like a force field around his people. Don't don't tell anybody else I use that illustration. Maybe you could if it works for you, but right with God as your refuge, you are protected from all harm If you ever played tag kids, he's like the safety zone where you go to, you run, you get into that safety zone, nobody can come and tag you. You can just kind of like blow your little ears at them and make fun of them because they can't get you, you're in the safety zone. That's what God is like for his people You can come into his safety zone, into his refuge, into his dwelling place, and he's a place of perfect protection. Now, I think when we read this psalm, one of the dangers is I think you read this psalm, and this just seems completely far-fetched. Completely far-fetched. But when you read the Old Testament, you do actually find account after account of this type of protection for the nation of Israel When the nation of Israel was being pursued, hunted down by the Egyptian army, God stood between Israel and Egypt as the pillar of cloud and kept the Israelites from being harmed. They had No weapons whatsoever, and there was an oncoming army attacking them, and God stood between that army and Israel and kept them from being harmed When they journeyed in the wilderness, God protected them from the arrows of their enemies who were trying to attack them, the Amalekites and other nations. When they entered the promised land and went into battle with the nations that lived there Thousands and thousands fell, but Israel was protected because the Lord was with them. And anytime the Lord was with them, they were perfectly protected from harm. But you also know that if you read the Old Testament, that Israel wasn't always perfectly protected from harm. They lost battles. They suffered plagues. They were wrecked by pestilence. They were attacked by snakes in the wilderness. So what gives? Is Psalm 91 a lie? Is this not true? Is it exaggerated simply to prove a point that God does provide protection sometimes to some of his people in some way? It's just an over-exaggeration to get that point across. Well, no, I don't think it is, and I think the reason is because God didn't promise perfect protection to everyone in Israel. Look again at verse 2. He offers perfect protection to those who trust in him. Now look again at verse 9. Look down at verse 9. This is the the author of Psalm 91 speaking to the one who trusts in him. Because you have made the Lord your dwelling place No evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near you. Because you have made the Lord your your refuge and your dwelling place. It's because you have trusted in him and taken refuge in him. This promise of perfect protection is for those who have trusted in God and taken refuge in Him. It's those who are offered this kind of protection. But it even goes beyond that. This offer of perfect protection is only for those who perfectly, perfectly trust in God at all times. Which is why this promise wasn't realized by the people of Israel fully We've already said they suffered defeat. They experienced plagues and famine. They experienced the terror of night and destruction by day. They at times weren't delivered by God. They weren't rescued from rescued by Him. They weren't satisfied with long life. They were sent into exile because they didn't take refuge in God. Look at verse 14. Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. These promises for perfect protection are contingent upon holding fast to the Lord in perfect love and trust Which Israel did not do, which is why they were sent into exile. Israel's story is a story of constantly trusting in things other than God They trusted in wealth. They trusted in possessions. They trusted in political alliances. They trusted in power. They trusted in themselves until they were eventually sent into exile among the nations for their sins. But When you look at the psalm, you see that it wasn't meant for the entire nation. This psalm is directed towards a single individual. It looks forward to an individual who would perfectly trust in God, who would take complete refuge in God, who would hold fast to God In love. Notice in verse 2. This is the voice of the one who holds fast to God. This is what he will say There's a singular man speaking. I will say to the Lord. Not we, you have other psalms in the entire book of Psalms that are corporate. Our God, we will do this. No, I. I will say to the Lord, not y'all, I will say to the Lord, my refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust. Now notice in verses 14 to 16. This is God speaking to the one who trusts in him, this singular individual. Verses 14 to 16. Because he holds fast to me in love. I will deliver him. I will protect him. I will rescue him because he knows my name. I will answer him I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him with long life. I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. You have to realize the book of Psalms was used, it was given to the people of Israel, and when they gathered for corporate worship and for festivals, they would read these Psalms aloud together. And now you can only imagine That when the nation of Israel is in exile, if they gather to read this psalm and they hold this book up and they say, He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty I will say to the Lord, my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust, you know that they are looking around at one another and saying, that isn't us. We haven't said that We haven't taken perfect refuge in God. We haven't trusted in God as we ought. They get to verses 14 and 16. You know when they're reading God's voice, God's word to this singular individual because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. They are going to be looking around. Where is this individual? It is none of us. We haven't been delivered. We haven't loved God and held fast to him the way that this psalm proclaims. And that's because there is only one man, one individual who has ever lived who took refuge in God. There's only one person who made God his perfect fortress, who called God my God. Who perfectly trusted in God, and that is Jesus of Nazareth. This psalm points forward to the one who perfectly trusted in God, whose name is Jesus. Jesus called God my God, did he not? On the cross? My God. My God. Why have you forsaken me? Verse 14. Look at verse 14 again. Jesus is the one who held fast to God in love. Jesus said in the Gospel of John, I, I do as the Father commanded me. So that the world may know that I love the Father. Second half of verse 14, Jesus is the one who knows the name of God Jesus said in the Gospels, I have manifested your name to the people who you gave me out of the world. It's no wonder, frankly, that when we look at this psalm, it's no wonder that out of all of Scripture, that out of every book in the Bible that existed, that out of every verse that he could have chosen from that Satan chose this psalm to cite in order to tempt Jesus in the wilderness. When Jesus was in the wilderness, Satan took him up on the top of the temple, took him up on the top of the temple and said, hey, if you are the Son of God, Prove it. Prove it by throwing yourself down. And then what does he do? He cites verses 11 and 12. Hey, if you are the Son of God. He will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against the stone. Right? You say you're the Son of God. You're the one who trusts in him. He'll perfectly protect you. Prove it. Throw yourself down. But Jesus knew that if he threw himself down He wouldn't be perfectly trusting in God because trust in God manifests itself in obedience to God. And Jesus said to him, Scripture says you should not put the Lord your God to the test. Throwing myself down off the temple is not what it looks like to take refuge in God. Making irrational, foolish, and possibly sinful choices to throw yourself off of a building Is not evidence of trusting in God. This psalm is for those who trust in God, and I'm going to trust in God by obeying his word and taking refuge in him. And so I will not put the Lord your God to the test. That's what's going on in the wilderness. And I just want to point this out real quick. It is frankly amazing when you consider Satan's boldness. Listen, he could have chosen any verse out of the entire Bible. And you know how bold he is? Do you want to know why he's so bold? It's because throughout human history Satan ran into human after human after human who he could get to disobey God's word, even by presenting it perfectly. He didn't misquote it at all. He quoted it perfectly, actually. He just presents the word of God to humans and they fail and fail and fail and fail. So what does he do? I'm just going to do it again. And do you know what passage he cites? One of the key verses in the entire Old Testament that predicts his destruction. Look at verse 1213. The one who trusts in God will tread on the lion and the adder, who will tread on the serpent. He will crush the serpent's head. The promised one from Genesis 3 who will come and crush the serpent's head. This is a prediction of that one. But Satan is saying, you know what? I don't believe you can do it. Frankly, I don't even care. I'm just going to cite this verse that predicts my own destruction because I think you are not the Son of God That's how bold Satan is, just stepping up to Jesus, quoting a psalm and a verse that predicts his own destruction. Right? But Jesus didn't come to throw himself off of the temple and to strike his foot against a stone. Jesus came to offer himself on the cross And then offering himself on the cross, he would strike his foot against the head of the serpent and the lion. Jesus is the one who came to crush. the head of the serpent Satan who prowls around like a roaring lion. And he came to do that by perfectly trusting in God and taking refuge in God even to the point of death by offering himself on the cross to bear the punishment for his people who don't trust in God. To bear the penalty for their lack of trust in God, to take the judgment that we deserved for not holding fast to God in love. And because He and He alone perfectly trusted in God God vindicated him by raising him from the dead. Look at the second half of verse 15 again I will rescue him and honor him. With long life, I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Because Jesus Perfectly trusted in God. Jesus experienced the perfect protection that God promised to him. But here's what's so glorious about the gospel, and this is what's so glorious for you and me today. Jesus didn't just take our sins on his body in the on the tree. He also gives to us his righteousness. When God looks at us, he sees the perfect righteousness of Jesus. When God assesses our lives, he sees the perfect record of Jesus. When God assesses our trust in him, he regards it as the perfect trust of Jesus. Because Jesus was perfectly righteous. He received all of the promised blessings in Scripture, including the promises of perfect protection in Psalm 91. Where am I going with this? Why does this matter for you and me today? Since the gospel is not just that Jesus took the punishment for our sins, but gives to us his righteousness then with his righteousness we also receive the promised blessings in Scripture through faith in him Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 20, for all the promises of God find their yes in him, for all the promises of God find their You get you guys to say it louder, for all the promises of God find their yes in him. Yes and amen. And that means That if you have trusted in Jesus, if you've taken refuge in God through faith in him, when you open to Psalm 91 and you read of this otherworldly, seemingly far-fetched protection This perfect protection offered by the Most High and Almighty God of Israel, revealed in the Lord Jesus Christ, then you can know that these promises are For you. You open Psalm 91 and you say to the Lord, Lord, you promised perfect and all-encompassing protection for those who take refuge in you. And the Lord says to you, Yes. That promise is yours in Christ. Through faith in Jesus, God becomes our refuge. Through faith in Jesus, we abide in God's very presence. Through faith in Jesus, God becomes our fortress. Through faith in Jesus, God completely covers us with his wings. Through faith in Jesus. God perfectly protects us because God perfectly protects those who trust in Him This promise is for you today if you have taken refuge in God through faith in Jesus Christ. And friend, if you're here and you're just trying to figure this whole Christianity thing out You're trying to, what does it mean to follow Jesus? What does it mean to believe in him? One, I am so thankful that you've come today. I can understand why it might seem bewildering. Look, we're studying a piece of scripture that is like 3,000 years old. What on earth does this mean for me today? What this passage is trying to teach you is that you and I From the very beginning, since our first parents sinned against God, all humanity fell into sin and bore the curse of sin, and now we are separated from God. Because of our sins, God is no longer a refuge for us. But what we do is we try to find refuge in the things of this world And that manifests itself differently in different people's lives. So you have some people who try to find refuge in their career. They're just going to work all the time. Doesn't mean if you work all the time that that's what you're trying to do, but some people do that. They try to find refuge in their career They're trying to find refuge in a good reputation. I want to be thought well of by people because that will give me meaning and hope in this life. We try to find refuge in relationships with other peoples, whether it's with uh you know a a boyfriend or a girlfriend or a husband or a wife in in in a friend. We put too much hope in these people. We try to take refuge in them. We take refuge in money. Refuge in comfort, refuge in possessions, refuge in drink, refuge in drugs, refuge in pills. Just man is on a quest for refuge. And what Psalm 91 is trying to hold out for you today is that you're not alone. This room is full of people who try to find the refuge in things other than God. We actually have great experience at that, right? Because we all do it And yet we know how good God is as a refuge to his people. And he gave his son, Jesus Christ, on the cross to be broken. And to bear the evil and the wrath and all the worst things of this world in himself for our punishment, for our sins, so that God could become a refuge to you again And if you would turn to Jesus, what this Psalm teaches us is that what does it look like to take refuge in God? It looks like doing what this person does in Psalm 91, verse 2. You declare. My refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust. Paul says in the New Testament, the New Testament teaches that those who confess with their mouth and believe in their heart that Jesus is Lord, they will be saved from their sins. I would encourage you today to consider what it means to take refuge in God through faith in Jesus. You can turn to any of the people around you. I trust they would love to talk to you after the service. But God is a perfect refuge for his people. But but you might be thinking if you're listening to this, whether you follow Jesus or not, you might be thinking, John, that's all well and good, but the reality is bad things happen to people who believe in God. Evil things happen to them, sickness happens. What gives? Well, what gives is this, the protection that God promises to his people is perfect protection of our souls from judgment. From ultimate judgment. That's what the New Testament teaches. This is kind of a foreshadowing of the perfect protection that occurs in God's people. It's a perfect protection of their souls from ultimate judgment, not protection from physical harm in this life. And Jesus gives us perfect proof of this in Luke 21. Listen to what he says in Luke 21, verses 16 and 19. He's speaking to his disciples. And he says, you will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and some of you, they will put to death. You will be hated by all for my name's sake. But Not a hair of your head will perish. By your endurance, you will gain your lives. Excuse me, let me what? You will be offered up to death, physical harm, evil will happen to you. But not a hair of your head will perish. Huh? You just said I'm gonna die. My hairs will perish. Bo by your endurance you will gain your lives. Oh! Oh he's talking about eternal spiritual life Even though we may face physical harm, sickness, evil, and even death in this life, if we've trusted in Christ, if we've taken refuge in God, we will still gain our lives. Because God perfectly protects those who trust in him. And because of that, look at verse 5. This is our main application point. You don't need to fear the dangers of this world. You will not fear the terror of the night Nor the arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday. Do you understand? He will deliver you from the snare of the fowl. He will cover you with his wings. You will not fear. Because God perfectly protects those who trust in him, we do not need to live in fear. Now listen, some of you may be thinking that because you do still feel fear that you somehow failed as a Christian. Like you should be able to walk through life with perfect confidence and courage, right? Because of what Psalm 91 says you, you up in Psalm 91, you're like, well, I guess I've just got to fake it because I'm not supposed to have it, but I actually do have it. So what gives, right? But the reality is fear is something that all of us, all of us, struggles with. There isn't a person in this room who doesn't struggle with some form of fear. I struggle with fearing rejection. I fear conflict. I fear people breaking into our home, harming us. I'm still kind of afraid of the dark. Not afraid to admit it. The dark is scary sometimes Right? And the reason that all of us in one form or another still struggle with fear is because fear is one of the primary fallouts of sin. Right? When Adam and Eve sinned against God, they immediately felt two things. Can anybody name them? Shame. Fear. Shame and fear. They were afraid of God. They hid from God. Sin destroyed the confident trust in God's protection that man enjoyed and all mankind. since then has known what it means to be afraid, to be afraid of the unknown, to be afraid of being harmed. To be afraid of being abandoned, to be afraid of death. It's an inescapable feature of life in a fallen world. So I wonder, what are you afraid of today? What strikes fear in you? Like genuinely, what what strikes fear in you? I know I'm I I'm confident that most of us would have like the the first three to five things would all be the same. But I wonder if we peel back you, you know, we peel back your soul, what do we find there? What do we find there? Maybe you fear loneliness. Maybe you fear losing your job? Maybe you fear some struggle with sin being exposed. Maybe you fear not being accepted by others. Maybe fearing losing control. What is it that you fear? I have to ask myself the same questions, right? Until we work on our heart before the Lord. When you ask yourself, what is it that I truly fear? And then you follow up that answer with, why? What you're doing is you're bringing yourself face to face with the living God. You're assessing your own weakness before him. I believe, help my unbelief. That's what we're doing when we ask why. Why do you fear the thing that you fear? Consider what Psalm 91 has to say to us. When we ask ourselves why, it will show you the ways that you doubt God's word, or you doubt his love for you, or you doubt his power. It exposes the smallness of our faith. An author, Ed Welch, said this: fear and worry reveal that our faith is indeed small. If you are looking to plumb the depths of worry, you can find it in your mixed allegiances. You trust God for some things, but not others. You trust Him for heaven, but not for earth I wonder what your fears tell you about your trust in God today. Now, it's not that we should expect to live fear-free, right? That's unrealistic. There's a reason why the most repeated command in Scripture is do not fear, do not be afraid. It's repeated some 200 times because of how prone we are to fear. But God commands us not to fear In order to remind us that the things we fear don't have ultimate power over our souls, no matter how terrible they may seem. Right? So it's not that we should expect to live fear-free lives, but we should fight fear by faith. We should fight fear by faith. We want to live a life in which fear doesn't control us or rule over us, because frankly, it's a terrible master. We don't want fear to be the boss of us because Fear is a terrible boss. Well, Welch says this. Fear causes us to run from something, but it doesn't show us what to run to. It convinces us of danger, but it doesn't point the way to safety and peace and rest. But faith in the midst of fear directs us to God's words and God's promises and God's character and God's love. And one author said this God's self-revelation is a higher authority than our feelings We bring our feelings of fear to the Word of God and we let Him speak into our fears so that our faith might be strengthened. And what has God revealed about Himself? He's revealed in Psalm 91 that through faith in Jesus, the Most High and Almighty God becomes your refuge and your fortress. Fortress, right? When this psalm was written, people built fortresses high up on mountains so that their enemies couldn't protect couldn't attack them. And fortresses have been excavated from this time period that had walls that were 15 feet thick. 15 feet thick. What happens when you're inside of a fortress with walls that are 15 feet thick and your enemies are outside banging on the wall? You go on with your business like nothing is happening. You don't worry because the walls are 15 feet thick. They're not gonna get through them. God is like a fortress. This is the image he's trying to create in the Israelites mind. He's like a fortress around his people. Right? And that type of confident fearlessness should mark our lives as Christians because the Most High and Almighty God is our Fortress. And if we need more reasons not to fear God, he provides them throughout Scripture, right? God is the Lord of life and death. You will not die apart from his gracious decree. He holds it in his hand. Other people cannot harm you apart from God's gracious will for you. The God who protects you is who is your fortress is never taken off God or surprised by anything, right? We can just open the pages of Scripture and find reason after reason why we don't have to fear if God is our fortress. And this isn't just wishful thinking, right? This isn't wishful thinking. The next time you read the gospels, I want you to notice how many times Jesus is surrounded by people who want to kill him and he just Slips away. Why do you think that is? Because he God perfectly protected him. Because God was protecting him until the appointed time when he would allow evil to befall him. But God was going to use that evil for a greater good. Right? God allows him to experience the evil of the cross because it was through the cross that he was bringing about the greatest good. It was through the cross that Jesus trampled down the serpent Satan on our behalf. And like Jesus in the Gospels, God's sovereign power will so superintend your life that you will be supernaturally protected from evil until God chooses to allow it to touch you touch your life God is sovereign over these things. He allows it to happen. But when he allows it to touch our lives, we can confidently endure it, knowing that God works all things together for good for those who love Him and for those who are called according to His purposes. And not only do we not need to fear the evils that we might experience in this life, we don't need to fear Satan. Right? Look at what this passage teaches us. Why? Because through faith in Christ, we share in these promises, and one of these promises is you will trample down the serpent. We share in Christ's victory over Satan. By faith, we become members of his body. And since we're members of Christ's body, We experience and participate in the experience of the fulfillment of this promise in Psalm 91, including the promise to trample on the serpent. Paul says Romans chapter 16, verse 20. The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. Why? Because you are part of Christ's body through faith in him. Your feet, our feet. Because we participate in Christ. But it's not just evil and Satan that we don't need to fear. We also don't need to fear death You notice those promises of ultimate rescue, deliverance, honor, long life, and salvation are also yours through faith in Christ. This is why the Apostle Paul could boldly mock death, which he does in the New Testament. Death is swallowed up in victory Oh death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? In Christ, death has been defamed. Right, there's no power of it over you. Have you ever seen a boxing match where one boxer is beating on the other so badly that the referee kind of jumps in and he's like, Oh that's the fight. It's kind of standing knockout But the dude who's getting beat on because he's been beat so senseless, what does he do? He stands up, he's like, I'm I can keep fighting. We keep throwing swings, but the fight is over, right? The fact that he's still kind of wobbling around throwing swings thinking he can fight Doesn't mean the fight is still going on. That is what it looks like when you're looking at Satan and death as a believer. Christ has TKO'd them, right? More than TKO, he's put them in the grave Satan and death have no power over you. They may swing kind of flailing at you, but God will ultimately rescue you and honor you. With long life, he will satisfy you and with salvation, or he will show you his salvation. Right? So Ed Wells says this. It is not our task to transform into a superficial sunny optimist. It is to grow to be an optimist by faith. The kingdom is advancing. God's reign is spreading. There will be justice, and when we belong to Christ, it will end in joy. So friends, as often as you fear the unknowns of the future to come, remind yourself of what you can be certain your future includes. Glory, redemption, restoration, deliverance, rescue, and salvation Because the ultimate fulfillment of Psalm 91 is yet to come when Christ returns to rescue his people, to deliver them from their troubles, and to bring them to the home that he has prepared for them, where God will be our refuge. Forever. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain. for the former things have passed away. In that place, fear will finally and completely Fall away, replaced by the pure vision of our faithful guide, God, who provides perfect protection to those who trust in him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, and we can we can say with with It's great transparency. We believe. Help our unbelief. We struggle with fear because we're afraid of things that ultimately can't harm us. But we need a greater vision of you if we're going to overcome that fear. We're going to need a greater understanding of your power, a greater awareness of your sovereignty, of your love, of your character, of your purposes for us in Christ. How those purposes even include suffering so that we might become more like Christ and might show off your power through our weakness. But as much as we're struggling with fear today and in the weeks to come, We pray that you would replace that fear with a confident trust in you, that by faith we might behold and lay claim to the promises that are ours in Christ. And they are ours today. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.