Good to see the Rousseau so well used here already. Well done. What a joyful occasion this is, and what a special privilege to be with you guys this morning. We're here as God's people to hear God's word, so let's open our Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 5. 1 Peter chapter 5 Peter writes, so I exhort the elders among you as a fellow elder. and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed, shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you. Not for shameful gain, but eagerly, not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Now, this is not a new passage. It's not an unfamiliar passage. Many of you will have read this passage. John, I trust you've studied this passage before, especially in light of the responsibilities the Lord is calling you to as a pastor And when we read this passage, especially on a day like today, we feel the weight of it particularly. We see more of how to do it. All these matters interest us here. this morning. Now, if you're visiting with Chevly Baptist Church this morning and perhaps you're not a believer, you've just come with someone who is, I think you're here on a very good morning. It's an unusual morning. It's not many times that in the life of a church that they have a pastor being installed beginning formally his ministry. But a pastor's life, and considering a pastor's ministry, is a great summary of the good news of Christianity. There's actually a good picture that's laid out in what a pastor is called to do in what we are called to do as Christians. There's a good reliance upon the Lord Jesus Christ shown. So if you're here and you're not a believer, you're called to live a life particularly for God. Your whole life is to be for Him. But the truth about you, though I don't know you personally, is that you failed at that. You've sinned. And we know that because the Bible teaches that's true of all of us That we've all sinned and separated ourselves from God. In fact, we've lived in such a way that because God is good, He will judge us. He should judge us. But in his amazing love, that's not the end of the story, and that's where the little red book that John held up at the beginning for visitors is such a good one. Who is Jesus Because the story is that God sent his only son, Jesus Christ, to live a life of perfect trust in his heavenly Father a life of love. And that he died on the cross specifically bearing God's wrath for all of us who would turn from our sins and trust in him. So both His active obedience, his righteousness, his goodness in the way he lived is accounted to us And the penalty that he bore on the cross for our sins is paid for us. Both of those are ours if we will repent of our sins and trust in him. The Bible says God raised him from the dead in order for our justification, our being declared right before God. And he ascended to heaven and presented his sacrifice to his heavenly father, who accepted it. And he calls us all now to turn from our sins and trust in him. That's good news for you today. If what I've just said sounds like a bunch of mumbo jumbo and you don't understand what I meant, John would love to talk to you afterwards. He would love to explain it to more. People around here would love to. This is perhaps the day in which you'll begin the most important relationship of your life, although you just visited church with a friend. in today. Well, this subject is per of of the ministry is particularly of interest to Christians. I mean anything that gives us examples of how to follow our Lord Jesus Christ and pastors are supposed to be examples. of how to follow our Lord Jesus Christ helps us. If we're really Christians, we want to follow Christ. And we're anxious to get anything that will help us do that. Even more, though, than merely Christians, I think this topic here in 1 Peter 5 is of interest to church members. Now, of course, normally all Christians will be members of a local gospel preaching church near them. They'll meet together regularly with brothers and sisters for edification around God's Word. and encouragement, but we know today that some Christians have not read books by Jonathan Lehman. They have been poorly taught on this. They don't understand about church membership. Uh they something in them tells them that they should do it, but they they just don't. Uh others Have knowingly, sinfully neglected it. But for the most part, Christians know there to be church members and they are. And for church members, few topics could be more significant. than what we are commanded to do in God's word, to do for his glory and for our own good, that we see in the life and ministry of the pastor. And if such interest typifies all members of a church, how much more the members of this particular church on this wonderful morning? after a long period of gestation with some some pretty good teaching uh in the intervening months, surely on this morning your ears are eager to hear how it may be that you may honor and bless the Lord together with your life here in this place. Surely you have a great interest in knowing what God's word tells you of those who are to lead you, of knowing what you are to aspire to. of knowing what John in particular is to be like. You know, it's good for you to know your pastor's job description so that you can pray for him about it, hold him accountable to it, encourage him in it. And finally, even when that time comes, to replace him. So one note, when I mention replacement, I think as we age God sort of compensates for the physical abilities that decline by giving us the wisdom of experience and perspective. Congregation, today, John is your new pastor. Soon enough, he will be your former pastor. His role is to lead you to the chief shepherd who will never leave you or forsake you. John is your temporary conductor to the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I love the way the Puritans would call the pastor the friend of the bridegroom. One member that this topic is of special significance to is John's wife Leah. Leah, you are a dear sister. to so many people in this congregation. You are called to co-labor with John. The Lord has long prepared you for this ministry. You had a caring kind of pastoral ministry before you ever knew John. Before John knew the Lord, you were out pouring out to people. He's prepared you for that. He's made you to suit John and to minister alongside that. We've seen that for years at Capitol Hill Baptist Church and John's ministry as an elder and pastor. Pastor there. Now God calls you to take up the chief care of the senior pastor of this church. It's a wonderful ministry to have. Embrace it, enjoy it, and trust the Lord to show his goodness to you in that. Of course, this passage, you look there in chapter 5, verse 1. You see, it's to the elders plural among you. We know from elsewhere in the New Testament Like the letter to James or Acts chapter 20, that was read for us earlier by Katie or Titus chapter 1, that it was typical for churches in the New Testament to have a number of men serving as elders. And in God's kindness, that is your situation here. And so for the other elders of this congregation, for for Dan and for Jonathan and for Kline, how absorbing this topic must be for you. How full of interest and significance. Given that God has called you to the pastoral ministry here in this place Given that you've been doing the work of the eldership already, this is a wonderful opportunity for you to reflect on what you're called to do. As you shepherd this congregation, you too, along with any other other elders the Lord may raise up here, are charged by God to do this. So these warnings are yours. These charges are yours. These hopes are yours. But as much as they interest this group of godly men, they interest John more than anyone else. Because especially practically this charge will fall on him. His leadership of the elders by counsel and by prayer, by time and by training. His leadership of this congregation will have much to do with the prosperity of this eldership and the prosperity of this church. John, you have felt called by God to make your work as an elder your job. And this congregation has agreed with you. So you bear a unique responsibility. You'll have unique opportunities as you teach this church from week to week. Yours will be a special burden. You've been called to lead this church, especially among other things, by having the charge of the public teaching here. Well, I want us to, in this time, consider some of the practical faithfulnesses that John especially is now being called to as the pastor of this church. Before we do that though, I want to make sure we notice the most important thing in our passage. If you look down at those first four verses, I think the most important thing here is there in verse 4. Peter writes of Jesus Christ as the chief shepherd. He is the good shepherd You can tell because good leaders, the good shepherd, lays down his life for his sheep. So you are invited to share in his reward, the unfading crown of glory All Christians in our lives know this pattern of Christ's that we follow of suffering then glory. Suffering then glory. You see it in Isaiah. You see it in the Gospels, you see it in the book of Acts. You see it here in 1 Peter very clearly. Look just uh just above our passage. In the last verse of chapter 4. Peter writes, Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. But now here in chapter 5, verses 1 to 4, the elders are particularly called to follow this pattern When I was in England, the name of my college was Corpus Christi College, and their sign was a seal with what looked like a swan uh plucking its own breast with some blood coming out of it, feeding its little baby swans. This was a medieval symbol of the work of Christ. They took what they thought, that was supposed to be a pelican, it looked like a swan, but they took what they thought the pelican did, according to ancient Greek writers. of feeding its young from its own blood. They took that as a sign and a symbol of what Christ has done. And in that sense, he is a sign and a symbol for what a good leader. A good shepherd, a good pastor does. He lays down his life for his sheep. Now, we've read of pastors doing this, we've seen pastors doing this, we've heard of it, but here is the time and place for us to see the imitation of this, particularly and especially in John's life. Pray for John in this. To that end in our time together this morning, I simply want to share with you some reflections on four crucial aspects of pastoral ministry. And I pray that as I do, you'll be especially reminded and encouraged that this church will be built up and you'll make a little prayer list for John. So that you'll know these are things specifically. Any day of the week, you're wondering how you can pray for John, pray for him for these things. Four simple points. Number one, preaching. When I first interviewed with the pulpit search committee at CHBC, I said that I was happy for every aspect of my public ministry to fail if it needed to, except for the preaching of God's word. That might seem a strange way to interact with the pulpit search committee, but I just wanted to make clear the priority that I understood there to be in my role in preaching God's Word. When I stop to have a conversation with somebody else or when I give my time to something else, I'm stopping for a little while serving the entire church and I'm focusing on one person in it. It's not a bad thing to do. It's part of pastoral ministry. But the most fundamental work that the pastor is called to is study of God's word in preparation of teaching for the whole people of God in the congregation. Now, the Word of God then should be the fountain of our spiritual life, both as individuals and as a congregation. God's word has always been his chosen instrument to create, to convict, to convert, to conform his people. God uses his word to create faith. We read in 1 Thessalonians 2, when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but for what it really is, the word of God. Which also performs its work in you who believe. The word performs God's work in believers Or in Hebrews chapter 4, for the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. God's word is what God's Spirit uses to give us new birth. James advises in humility, receive the word implanted, which is able to save your souls. The word saves us. Peter also claims regenerating power for God's word back in chapter 1 of 1 Peter. He says in verse 23, For you have been born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable. That is through the living and enduring word of God. And this is the word which was preached to you. Brothers and sisters, there is creating, a conforming, renewing, life-giving power in God's Word. The gospel is God's way of giving life to dead sinners. He doesn't have another way. That there's not another way for us to get new life than by hearing the truth about God and ourselves and Jesus from God. So if you want to work for the life and health and holiness and happiness of your church, then you must work for it according to God's revealed mode of operation. Otherwise, you're running in vain. God's word is his supernatural power for accomplishing his supernatural work. That's why our eloquence or our creativity, or our innovations, or our programs are so much less important than you think. So if I can just say those of you who are members here at Chevrolet Baptist Church, you know, you've been most of you been used to meeting in a hundred-year-old church building on Capitol Hill that looks very much like a church. And you may feel a little put off by now meeting in a schoolroom like this with interesting posters around and stuff, you know. I think it's great. It helps just make the point that the power in the church is not the building. It's God's Holy Spirit working through his word among his people, wherever those people assemble. That's why we as pastors must specifically give ourselves to preaching, not to programs. That's why we need to be teaching our congregations to value God's word over activities. You may think I did that so well, or some pastor you knew growing up did that so well, or you may think that John does that so well, but friends, you realize. All the pastors you've ever had are just waiters. God's the chef. He makes the good stuff. All we do is we just bring it to you. So, what you want to make sure that all of us waiters like me or like John do, you want to just pray for us that we get it right, that we understand what the Lord has in his word, and that we bring that to you, because that's how he will build his church. So, preaching the gospel is primary. The just shall live by faith. That's our great good news. Christ's righteousness is given to us from outside of ourselves. How do we know that? Because the Bible tells us so. One thing that this means for you, John, is that you must give yourself to the study of God's Word. We ministers of the Word must give ourselves to faithfully read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest. the holy scriptures, and such studies as help us to know and understand them better. What did Paul say to Timothy? Preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering. Endure hardship. Do the work of an evangelist. Fulfill your ministry. So, congregation require John to give himself to preaching the word. John, give yourself to preaching the word. Second thing, prayer. In your personal life, pray. In your marriage, pray. In your home, pray. In your meetings with others, pray. In your elders' meetings, pray. In any kind of opportunity the Lord gives you, pray. In public services here, devote so much time to prayer that nominal Christians are bored by spending time talking to the God they only pretend to know. Be unapologetic. You want to attract at Chevrolet Baptist Church real Christians and hungry non-Christians. Don't waste your time trying to entertain pretend Christians. Will not serve the church well. Diligently call upon God by prayer. For the true understanding of his word, so that you may be able to teach the scriptures, to exhort with wholesome doctrine, to withstand and convince those who oppose the truth. Prayer shows our dependence on God. It advertises that He is good and faithful. It honors Him as the source of all blessings. And it reminds us that converting individuals and growing churches are his work, not ours. Jesus reassures us that if we abide in him and his words abide in us, then we can ask anything we will and he will do it. So allow these prayers that we see in Scripture to be a starting point. Let me just give you five specific examples of things you could be praying for And this is not just for John, but it's for all the members of the church here. Number one, what more appropriate prayers could there be than the prayers we see in Scripture, the prayers that Paul prayed for the churches in the New Testament? Those are wonderful prayers. Allow those prayers to be a starting point for what you would pray about broadly and consistently. instruct the members here that one of their most important ministries is in praying for you. So that the six brothers who just led us in prayer for you and Leah were giving great examples of the kinds of things everyone here. could be praying for you regularly. Get copies of D. A. Carson's book, Praying with Paul, and just start giving them out in the church. Make sure people are studied and knowing how to pray. Number two, pray especially their preaching of the gospel. We'll be faithful and clear. Number three, pray for the increasing maturity of the congregation. That your local church would grow in corporate love and holiness and sound doctrine, such that the testimony of the church here in Chevrolet would be distinctively pure and attractive. Number four, pray for sinners to be converted. Pray for the church to be built up through your preaching of the gospel. We look forward to hearing about your need for a baptistry. Number five, pray for opportunities for yourself and other church members to do personal evangelism Pray God give you the opportunity to personally share the good news. And these are the very kinds of things that you want to pray about publicly in your services as you just advertise that you depend on God. And pray personally. I think one of the most practical things that you can do is to pull together a membership directory. I don't know if you guys have already done this. But if you haven't, we'll be voting you all out of our directory next Sunday, Lord willing. So it's a great time for you to pull out your own directory and start cultivating the practice for yourself of praying through that regularly and encouraging the members of Chevely Baptist Church to pray through that for each other. Model for your congregation faithfulness in praying through the directory in your own devotional times and publicly encourage them to make that a habit. And friends, when you pray through a list of people like this, some of whom you'll know well, some of whom you don't know that well, your prayers don't have to be long. When I prayed for many of you all over the years, my prayers are brief, and there'll be something that reflects what I've been reading that morning in Scripture. That's what you can do as well. Model this kind of prayer, John, for others, encouraging them by regularly praying for them as individuals. Pray that prayer will come to characterize you as a faithful church. So John, give yourself to prayer. Number three, personal discipling relationships. Personal discipling relationships. One of the most biblical and valuable uses of your time as a pastor here, John, will be One of those things which I think you and Leo are most naturally gifted at, and you already do, that's cultivating personal discipling relationships, folding people into your lives. Whether that's one-on-one regular meetings or bringing people into your home, different stages of life, discipling is going to look like different things When you're single it looks like one thing. When you're married another. When you have little kids, there's things that are taking time you don't have to do, but then other ways you can use people, you know, and get them around you. And then it continues to evolve as they are in high school and then Once on you're on the other side. I mean it's just there's so many different stages of life, all of which have their appropriate ways for you to personally try to help someone else grow as a Christian. Now, I don't have to say a lot about this. Congregation, I do just want to say on an event like today that you hurt yourself if you discourage John from having personal friends in the congregation. I was taught at seminary that I should not have friends in the congregation. I was taught this by a very prominent, well-known pastor who taught the pastoral ministry course. I think that was a bad thing to teach. I think John is a normal human being and he needs friendships. And you want to encourage him in that. So pray against any tendencies to jealousy or gossip. And members of the church, I would encourage you to join with John in this ministry. Invite people after church here on Sunday over to your home. Meet up with him during the week. If they expressed interest in getting together and they're open to doing it again, meet with them again. Maybe you suggest a book the two of you could read over together. But as they do that, you meet with them weekly or every other week, it opens up areas of the other person's life that you can talk with them about. You can find encouragement and correction and accountability and prayer. So whether or not you ever tell somebody that you are discipling them, try to do good spiritually to others. And try to receive good spiritually, deliberately from others. Initiate care and concern for others. I think this practice of personal discipling is helpful on a number of fronts. It's helpful obviously for the person being discipled because they're getting biblical encouragement and advice from someone who's a little further along in their life stage or their walk with God. So in this way, discipling is another channel for the Word of God to come into somebody's life through. It's good also for the one who disciples Whether that's you or John, whether that's you, because it encourages you to think about discipling not as something that only super Christians do. But it's something that is part and parcel of normal Christian life, normal following of Christ. So the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church need to know that spiritual maturity is not simply about their quiet times, but it's about their love for other believers. And their concrete expression of that love. A good byproduct of folks discipling other members is it promotes a culture of discipling that's distinctively Christian. In which people are loving one another, not simply as the world loves, but as followers of Christ who are together trying to understand and live out the implications of his word for our life together as a local church. These kinds of relationships help both spiritually and they can also help numerical growth in a church. John, another healthy byproduct of personal discipling relationships. is it helps to break down any defensiveness there is towards your leadership. I mean, brother, some of these people were Sunday school teachers when you came to Christ. So there would be many carnal grounds for people being defensive towards you about your leadership. By continuing to export care and concern, by simply the sheer fact of your doing good to others, you open your life up again and again to others. That causes defensiveness towards your leadership to decline As people understand and they see you concerned for their spiritual welfare, they see you more and more as a caring friend or a spiritual mentor or a godly leader, they're less likely to misunderstand your leadership. or wrongly resent it as some kind of self-centered egotism. There'll be more forgiving of your mistakes and shortcomings. Because church, if you wanted to have a pastor today with no mistakes and shortcomings, you should have gotten somebody other than John. There is only one pastor who has no shortcomings and no mistakes, and that's the Lord Jesus. If we're going to have churches in this world, our pastors will make mistakes and they will have shortcomings. And you're called to love them and encourage them through those. in order that they can grow and mature in their ministry among you. And I think developing these kinds of relationships, John, helps in that. It helps to establish personal knowledge of yourself, which is helpful in knowledge in nurturing personal trust of your character and motives. and growing an appropriate level of confidence in your leadership among the congregation. They'll get to know you. They'll get to know what you're like, what your strengths are, and in what ways it's really good. God has put other people in the body as well. So the eldership at CHBC, you know sometimes they listen to me very carefully about things, and other times they're just polite while I talk because they've they've known me for 20 years and they understand where it's really helpful where I can be really helpful to them and they understand other parts of me too. And uh the same way we'll be here with you, brother. I think those kind of relationships gradually break down any we versus him barrier that Sadly, but often kind of subtly is there between a congregation and their pastor. And it's helpful in paving a way for biblical growth Just a word to the congregation here. I remember one time when Jeremy McLean, who uh is now the pastor of Mercy of Christ Fellowship, back when he was a member at our church, uh Jeremy was sitting in an intern discussion and one of the interns was commenting on what a wonderful church Capitol Hill was. And uh just what amaz we'd had an elders meeting and they just said what amazing elders this church has. Uh and Jeremy at the time who I think had recently become an elder had a very wise word. He said, I think that's true, and I'm thankful for the elders here But he said, we also have a remarkable congregation that's willing to be shepherded. And uh, brothers and sisters, I have to tell you, that's true. It does not matter how good your elders are If you as a congregation are not happily willing to be shepherded and inviting that leadership, even leadership that makes mistakes sometimes, you will bear bitter fruit in your life and the life of the church. The reason the eldership at CHBC has flourished in no small measure is because the congregation, that'd be a lot of you all. have been wonderful to Shepherd. You have asked humbly for our help, for our wisdom, for our prayers, for our assistance. That's an essential part of a church working. So, John and CBC, give yourselves to doing each other good spiritually. Number four, patience. When I arrived at Capitol Hill, I waited three months before I preached my first Sunday morning sermon. I simply attended I asked for that time when I was talking to them about coming as their pastor, and I explained my reasons and they agreed. I meant to show respect to the congregation to kind of learn their language. learn what they were accustomed to. It showed them I wasn't in a ch uh in a hurry to to change everything. And I realize not all of us have that kind of of luxury of waiting three months to preach after you arrive at a job. But John, this congregation has already shown similar patience with you. You've had almost a year of giving leadership before the Lord in his providence has allowed you to begin your regular preaching ministry here. What's a wonderful kindness of God. And that kind of patience that this congregation has, perhaps necessarily by circumstance, shown. is a good symbol and a good sign of what needs to typify the congregation and your own pastoral ministry. Brother, run at a pace the congregation can keep up with. Of course, some things you might need to start quickly, your new church. But as much as possible, when you're initiating something new Do it quietly, with no criticism of what may have gone before or what others' ideas were that weren't adopted, and with an encouraging smile We are indeed to reprove, rebuke, and exhort, according to what Paul tells Timothy in 2 Timothy 4. But notice how we're to do it. He says, with great patience and instruction. So make sure that plans you want to implement are biblical, or at least prudent, and then patiently teach God's people from God's word before you expect them to embrace the ideas that you're encouraging. Teach them before you ask them to follow you in that I think that kind of patient instruction is the biblical way to sow broad agreement with a biblical agenda among the flock of God. You'll come upon new situations that you haven't faced before. It'll take time to figure out what to do about those things. Once this broad agreement is sown, decisions are often less likely to be divisive, and unity is less prone to fracture. So as you work to maybe change this or that as the church grows and matures, work also to extend genuine Christian goodwill towards people. I love what Paul tells Timothy in 2 Timothy 2. The Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach. Patient when wronged. Interesting. He assumes you will be wronged. Patient when wronged. With gentleness correcting those who are in opposition. If perhaps God may grant them repentance, leading to the knowledge of the truth. I think the key to having this kind of patience is to have the right perspective on time, eternity, and success. These should be three subpoints to point four. Three subpoints that will help you have this kind of patience, a good perspective on time, eternity, and success. Time. I think most of us only think in terms of five or ten years down the road at most. It just doesn't come naturally, it seems to be people to think much in long terms. But brother, I think patience in the pastorate requires thinking in terms of 20, 30, 4, 40, or even 50 years of ministry. And that puts it all into perspective Uh, you know this last week I've been with a pastor who's in his fiftieth year of ministry in the same church. I remember him telling me one time after a kind of staff revolt that happened after he'd been there five years. And by any normal measure, he should have left then But instead, he stayed 45 years beyond when most pastors would. And there has been remarkable fruitfulness in his ministry. That doesn't mean everybody's supposed to stay at the same church forever. There can be reasons to leave one church and go to another that are perfectly good in God honoring. But on the whole, I think our assumption needs to be that it is normal for us to look at the congregation as where we will be For the remainder. Don't look at a congregation as a career. You look at the congregation as the bride of Christ. Stay with them. Keep teaching them. Keep modeling. Keep leading. Keep loving. Second thing, in order to have this kind of patience, is a good perspective on eternity. As pastors, one day we will all be accountable to God for the way we have led and fed his lambs. All our ways are before him He knows the truth of us and what we've done. He will know if we use a congregation simply to build a career. He will know if we led them or if we left them prematurely for our own convenience or our own benefit. He will know if we drove his sheep too hard, shepherd the flock in a way you will not be ashamed of on that last day. Day. Realize that these are his dear sheep. You haven't died for them. Christ died for them. You're being given a temporary stewardship to care for them. I love what Paul says to the Colossians, do your work heartily as for the Lord, rather than for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. It is the Lord Christ whom you serve For he who does wrong will receive the consequences of the wrong which he has done, and that without partiality. A third matter to think about well in order to have patience is to think well about success. John, be careful. If you define success in terms of size, your desire for numerical growth will probably outrun your patience with the congregation. and perhaps even your fidelity to biblical methods. Either your ministry among the people will be cut short, or you will resort to methods that draw a crowd without preaching the true gospel. You will trip over the hurdle of ambition, whether yours or those around you. But if you will define success in terms of faithfulness, Then you're in a position to persevere because you're released from the demand of immediately observable results freeing you for faithfulness to the gospel's message and methods, leaving numbers to the Lord It seems ironic at first, but trading in size for faithfulness as the yardstick for success is often the pathway to legitimate numerical growth. Because sheep can tell they're genuinely being cared for. And they gossip about that positively to others. Confidence in the Christian ministry does not come from personal competence or charisma. or experience in baseball or on the staff of the Capitol Hill Baptist Church, nor does it come from having the right programs in place Or jumping on the bandwagon of the latest ministry fed. It doesn't even come from having degrees from VCU or Southern. You know, much like Joshua, our confidence is to be in the presence and power of the Lord. In the promises of God, like we see in Joshua chapter 1. More specifically, confidence for becoming and being a pastor comes from depending on the power of the Spirit to make us adequate Through the equipping ministry of God's Word. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Such confidence we have through Christ toward God. Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God, who also made us adequate as servants of a new covenant Not of the letter, but of the spirit. For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. Well, how does the spirit make us adequate? What instrument does he use? 2 Timothy 3, all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for approof, for correction, for training in righteousness. Why? So that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. The one thing necessary is the power of God's Word. That's what His Holy Spirit uses. Only the Bible is God's perfect word. That's why preaching that word and prayer will always be paramount. No matter what fad tops the charts this year or next among pastors. Stake your ministry on the power of the word, on the force of the gospel itself. So success is faithfulness in these simple matters. It's staying focused on these in the whirl of competing priorities. And that's what will allow you to be patient. So to summarize the entire sermon in four words, preach and pray, love and stay. That's my exhortation to John And that's the exhortation I would have to all of you as members of this church as you care for John. Let me just speak to you as the congregation for a moment. I spent almost all my time here talking to John. But you too, congregation, are being given a precious stewardship today. May I simply say a word to you about money, about marriage, and about moderation? About money, about marriage, and about moderation. First, about money. You look again at 1 Peter, at chapter 5, at verse 2. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly as God would have you, not for shameful gain. I've heard congregations say about pastors, we'll keep him poor and God will keep him humble. That is a suspicious and ungracious attitude For you to have towards someone that you would call as your pastor. Would you entrust him with your souls, but not with the resources that God gives you? Galatians 6. 6 tells you to share all good things with your instructor. John here is your primary instructor. Realize that his prospering as your pastor is not being forbidden here as greed. Pray and act so that his dear children will have nothing but good things. To say about the way Chevrolet Church treated their parents when they were small. Let me just share with you one thing that so many of you, as members at CHBC, have done so well for Connie and I. You have been generous to us. You as a congregation, speaking to you as the CHBC members that you still officially are for six more days, you have been ridiculously generous with me and Connie. We have been well cared for. We have not had to worry about what we would need to do for the education of our children or for other things. Because you gave in such a way that you allowed us to concentrate on stewarding our families And stewarding the church. Do the same thing for John and Leah. 1 Timothy 5:8 tells us that anyone who does not care for his immediate family is worse than an unbeliever. Well, care well for the Josephs. Entrust them with all you can. And watch their model as faithful stewards. You will not regret the culture of generosity that it engenders in a community. Second, about marriage. One of the main ways that you care for your pastor is to care for his family You realize if Satan wants to get rid of John from this work here, he merely needs to aim at Leah. Because while John is sort of tooled up for this and is ready for this work, even conflict that it involves Leah is a wife and a mom, and she's going to think like other wives and moms. And if John sees Leah being hurt badly by something in the church, Because he fears God, if he's a good steward, he'll get her out of this situation. So you realize you have an interest in protecting Leah. Leah's main role in the congregation is not to support the Chevrolet Baptist Church. Her main role is to support John and the family. And you all help her best do that as you protect her and appreciate that. So don't put pressure on Leah to care for the church directly. Instead of her husband and her family. John is the only husband Leah has. So he has particular responsibilities for her that predate the responsibilities he's taken on for you. Congregation Leah loves you best by loving her husband most. Keep that in mind. And a last word to you, dear congregation, and that is moderate. Be moderate in your expectations of John, as prodigiously gifted and eager a young pastor as he may be. Let me share with you the words of one faithful pastor who had labored for decades with a congregation up in New Jersey as he took his leave of them. He said, For your own sake and your children's sake, cherish and revere him whom you have chosen to be your pastor. So his successor was there, and it was a service like today's. So he was handing them over to the young pastor sitting there. Already he loves you, and he will soon love you as bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh. It will be equally your duty and your interest to make his labors as pleasant to him as possible. Do not demand too much Do not require visits too frequent. Should he spend in this way half the time which some demand, he must wholly neglect his studies, if not sink early under the burden. Do not report to him all the unkind things which may be said against him, nor frequently in his presence allude to opposition, if opposition should arise Though he is a minister of Christ, consider that he has the feelings of a man. John is a solid man with broad shoulders. Less broad than they used to be, but still with broad shoulders. But friends, there is enough sin in any congregation to break the strongest pastor's spirit if not sustained by God in the congregation's wise kindness. Moderate your expectations of John. Shift your dependency to God in prayer. I've spoken for quite a while now. I think I'm just within the suggested range You've been very patient, as have those working with the children, I'm sure. Preaching, praying, personal discipling, patience. One day before the American Revolution, there was a day of remarkable gloom and darkness, an eclipse over the New England states, known for years afterwards simply as the Dark Day. Uh a day when the light of the sun was extinguished. They didn't understand exactly how it happened. It was by an eclipse. The legislature of Connecticut was in session. And as its members saw this unexpected darkness coming on, they shared in the general awe and terror. And it was supposed by some, by many even, that the last day, the day of judgment, had come So someone in consternation moved that they adjourn the legislature. And then there arose an old Puritan legislator, Mr. Davenport of Stamford, and said that if the last day had come he desired to be found at his place doing his duty, and therefore moved that candles be brought in, so that the house could proceed with his duty There was a quietness in that man's mind, the quietness of heavenly wisdom and inflexible willingness to obey present duty John, you and I should do our duty in all things like that old Puritan. You can't do more than your duty. You should never desire to do less. The ministry has private discouragements and public disappointments of plenty. And God's kindness too, it often has compensating blessings, even in this life But we will never be faithful ministers in anything other than appearance if we only consider the ministry in terms of this life. I love that quotation of John Brown in a letter of paternal counsels to one of his pastors, newly ordained, one of his pupils that he'd taught to be a pastor, newly ordained over a small congregation. He wrote. I know the vanity of your heart, and that you will feel mortified that your congregation is very small in comparison with those of your brethren around you. But assure yourself on the word of an old man that when you come to give an account of them to the Lord Christ at his judgment seat, you will think you have had enough. We must remember what momentous work we're about, and that on one day he will, even through ministries of brothers like you and me, bring many sons to glory Live and minister in light of that day when he shall come with trumpet sound. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you for every opportunity you give us to know you and to serve you. We thank you for this congregation, for establishing it. We thank you for those you've called to specially serve it. We thank you particularly for our brother John. We pray that you would fill him with your Holy Spirit, assist him to all of these duties that we've considered from your word Bless him and this congregation through him, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.