Well, good morning, friends. How is everyone doing? It's good to see you all this morning. I'm going to open us in a brief word of prayer, and then we'll dive into our passage. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our prayer this morning is a simple one. It is this, O Lord. Your hands have made and fashioned us. So give us understanding that we may learn your commandments. We pray this in Jesus' name. Well in uh 1908, the Daily Telegraph, a newspaper in England, posed a question to several prominent public figures. The question was this. What is wrong with the world? What is wrong with the world? It's a question that every human asks at some point or another. Clearly, as we look around us, something is broken. Something is not working correctly. And so we ask ourselves, what is wrong with the world? And so the Daily Telegraph reached out to several prominent public figures asking them the same question. And these prominent public figures, based on their status, their wisdom, were supposed to provide some answer uh to this problem. They were supposed to help us maybe make some progress towards seeing what the true problem is with the world. So that maybe some people at some time might finally find an answer to that perplexing question. Uh not much is known about the answers that were offered by the prominent figures that were uh reached out to, uh though I'm sure all of us could easily come up with a list of things that they came up with. It's an economic problem, it's a social problem, poverty, things like that are what's wrong with the world. The problems are out there. I wonder if you were asked that question this morning. I'm gonna ask you now, what is wrong with the world? Take a minute. Think about that question. What is your answer to that question? What is wrong with the world? John, you can go ahead and give an answer. I am. Well, John, did you somehow get a copy of my manuscript? Of all the responses given to the Daily Telegraph's question, there was one answer that stood out. It was the shortest answer that was given, and it's believed to have come from English writer and philosopher G. K. Chesterton. Who, in response to the question, What's wrong with the world? wrote what dear brother John just said. He said, Dear sirs, I am yours truly, G. K. Chesterton. What's wrong with the world? I am. We are. That's an amazingly honest and accurate answer And if you're here and you might wonder why would you say that that's an accurate answer, I would say this. It's because in our passage this morning, we find that Jesus Christ of Nazareth, the Son of God taught the very same thing. So I want to invite you to open in your Bibles to Mark chapter 7. We're going to be looking this morning at verses 1 to 23. And if you're using the pew Bible that you find, or the seat bible, I guess we could call it, that you find in your seats, and you don't have a Bible of your own, we want to encourage you to take this Bible as a gift from us to you. I'm going to go ahead and read Mark 7, verses 1 to 23 now. This is God's word Now, when the Pharisees gathered to him with some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem, they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands properly, holding to the traditions of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other traditions that they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots and copper vessels and dining couches. And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands? And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites. As it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. And then second, the true religion of Jesus Christ, verses 14 to 23. But before we begin, I want to direct your attention to one thing. If you were following along in the Bible, Why don't you go ahead and look with me at chapter 7, verses 15 and 17? You to notice something there. There's no verse 16. What gives? What gives? Why is that? Well, the reason for that is because in some manuscripts there is a verse 16, and that verse 16 reads: If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. And this was a very well-known saying of Jesus. He would often say it after parables, commanding people to listen to what he said and seek to understand it. But as more manuscripts have come to light of the Gospel of Mark, it's clear that the earliest manuscripts don't have Jesus saying that It may have been a scribal edition where they just took a common saying of Jesus that he would say after parables, and they put it in here after a parable. And so you see there that uh it's been taken out. If that causes you to question anyway, well, can I trust my my Bible? Well I think yes you can. The Bible's not trying to hide from you anywhere where there are uh have been clear additions to the text. And the the Bible seeks to make clear where those things have happened and to clarify those for people, which can give you great confidence that what we have in our Bibles is confirmed by the manuscripts that are available of these texts. And what Jesus said and taught in chapter 7 is confirmed by the text and manuscripts of the Gospel of Mark. Greg Gilbert also has a book that I've given away here at church called Why Trust the Bible. Next time I give it away, if you're interested in it, I will give it to you. And if you want a copy of it, you can just come find me after the service. I'd be happy to give you one So, let's look then at the false religion of the Pharisees. Look there at the beginning of chapter 7. The passage begins. with a group of Pharisees and scribes gathering around Jesus. So we don't know exactly where Jesus is. It's possible that he's in the region of Genasareth, which is where he landed with his disciples after walking to them on water. You see that he lands in Gennesareth at the end of chapter 6. But it's not clear if that's where he is now. But wherever he is, there is a group of Pharisees and scribes who have gathered around him and his disciples. Now, if you've been following along in our study through the Gospel of Mark, then you know that we've run into the Pharisees and scribes on a number of occasions, and you also know that these are a group of people that are totally opposed To Jesus and to the work that he's doing. The Pharisees and the scribes see Jesus as a threat to the religious authority that they have accrued through their positions in the culture. And they were so opposed to him that back in chapter 3, they even began plotting to murder him. So when we see the Pharisees and scribes. arrive here in this scene, we we kind of need to hear in the background some sort of evil ominous music like dun dun dun the Pharisees and the scribes have come again. Because if you read through this passage and you're just looking at chapter 7 and you hear them ask this question about why his disciples eat with unwashed hands, and then he's like, you hypocrites. You're like, whoa. That's a little a little harsh, but what you actually see as you read through the whole Gospel of Mark is that the Pharisees and the scribes were purely concerned, at least as portrayed by Mark, with an outward form of religion. The problem to them was out there. And so when they arrived, we should expect confrontation and debate. And that's what we find. The debate in this case revolves around what the Jews would have understood as ceremonial cleanliness. Look at verse 2. The Pharisees see Jesus' disciples eating with defiled hands, meaning unwashed hands Now, for you and me, we might look at this and say, okay, maybe they should wash their hands before they eat, but is this really that big of a deal to eat with unwashed hands? But we need to understand that in the culture that Jesus lived and ministered in, washing oneself ceremonially was a big deal. And because it was the reason for that was because in the Old Testament, God gave the nation of Israel what were known as cleanliness laws. Cleanliness laws. Laws about clean and unclean animals. Laws about clean and unclean foods, laws about what to do if you came in contact with a dead animal or a dead person, laws about skin diseases and how to protect yourself from from being from contracting skin diseases, laws about how to uh what to do with yourself if you've if you've been contaminated by some sort of bodily discharge and to violate these laws made a person what was known as ceremonially unclean. And if a person was found to be ceremonially unclean, they were not allowed to come into the presence of God or to fellowship with other Israelites. It's as though they were being cut off from the presence of God and his people. And in certain instances, for a person to be considered clean again So that they could come back into the presence of God and the people of God, they would have to undergo certain prescribed washings. But to be ceremonially unclean was a shameful experience. We even remember the lepers who had to go about shouting, unclean, unclean, stay away from me. So to be considered ceremonial unclean was a big deal to them. And so what happened is the rabbis, the teachers of Israel, from whom the Pharisees descended, the rabbis Seeking to protect themselves and to protect the people of Israel from even coming close to violating God's commandments, they built a fence around the commandments by creating more rules and more laws. They said they said God does not allow us to come in contact with a dead animal. Therefore, we were actually going to say, don't even step into the field where a dead animal lies. Right, they're gonna create rules upon rules to create a fence around God's law. And by creating layers and layers and layers of extra rules, they were seeking to ensure that nobody would even come close. to violating one of God's commands. For instance, in the book of Leviticus, the only command to clean a cooking pot So imagine you're on your stovetop cooking some spaghetti. The only command to cook a cleaning pot or pan is given in reference to a pot or pan that's been touched by something designated as unclean. And in that case, the pot or pan was to be destroyed. That's the only time you were to clean a pot or a pan was if something unclean touched it. In that case, the pot should be destroyed. No other commands in the book of Leviticus about cleaning pots or pans. That's all God commanded. But In the Mishnah, which is the compilation of authoritative Jewish writings on these various man-made laws, there are 30 chapters. 30 chapters about how to go about ceremonially cleaning pots and pans so that you wouldn't become unclean by touching them. 30 chapters. Some of you are looking at your or thinking about your your kitchen right now, and you're thinking, please don't ever let a Pharisee or a rabbi come into my kitchen. Everything will be unclean, right? 30 chapters alone on the washing of vessels and pots. God only gave one command. And they came up with 30 chapters. And there were four chapters dedicated to various forms of hand washing. And God only commanded one person to wash their hands in the nation of Israel, and that was the priest who went into the temple. We even see Mark's emphasis on the amount of rules that they came up with. So look at verse 3. There's a parentheses there. This is one of those things that that tells uh scholars and people who study Mark's gospel that Mark is writing for a predominantly non-Jewish audience because he's explaining Jewish customs. Because if he was writing to Jews, they would have understood what was going on here. But in verse 3, he says, The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands. And if they come from the marketplace where there are unclean animals and unclean people and unclean food They're going to wash even more. And then they have rituals for washing all of the pots and all of the pans and all of the chairs. And you notice what these are. These are not God's commands, are they? These are verse 3 the traditions of the elders. None of these traditions were part of the law that God gave Israel God never said that a person couldn't a person couldn't eat with unwashed hands. He never said that. That wasn't part of his law. The only law that God gave involving the washing of hands was for priests. Who were ministering inside the temple. No one other than that was commanded by God to wash their hands. But the religious teachers in Israel said to themselves, Look, if it's the if the priests are commanded to wash their hands before entering the temple Well then logically all the people should wash their hands. And not only all the people, but all the cups and pots and copper vessels and dining chairs. All of this should be washed and the list goes on and on. And these traditions, the traditions of the elders, they grew up like ivy. Have you ever seen the wall at Wrigley Field, the outfield wall? Well, you can't see the wall. Because ivy grew up all over it. It covered over them. These traditions grew like vines all over God's laws until God's laws could no longer be seen. And it was the traditions of the elders that became the standards for righteousness and holiness. So in verse 5, look down at verse 5, the Pharisees challenged Jesus. They asked him, hey. Why don't your disciples follow our traditions? This is what it means to be holy. This is what it means to be righteous in the nation of Israel. They must follow our traditions. You notice, even they say, why do they not walk? According to our tradition. It's interesting when you see how Mark talks about how the Pharisees viewed their traditions, the people of Israel were called to observe their traditions. And hold fast to their traditions and walk according to their traditions. Do you know in the Old Testament, the only thing that people are called to observe, hold fast to, and walk according to? Yeah, not the traditions of the elders, but God's word. You see how their traditions grew up over God's word and replaced God's word as that which the people of Israel should Follow. And that's why Jesus responds the way that he does in verse 6. This searing response. He quotes Isaiah, calling them hypocrites. He says, Isaiah prophesied about you guys when he said you hypocrites. Now he's not saying that Isaiah had these Pharisees in mind when he was prophesying. He's saying, you, by trusting in your traditions, are like the type of people that Isaiah was talking about. What does it mean to be a hypocrite? It means they're religious actors. They're roleplay. They act righteous, but on the inside they are unrighteous This is a game for them. This is all about external external circumstances, external appearances, keeping out what is evil, because what is inside is good and holy. That is the tradition of the elders. And worse than that Some of their traditions flat out contradicted God's word. Jesus cites an example of it. It's not just that the traditions of the elders were getting in the way of God's word, it's that the traditions of the elders flat out contradicted God's word. So look at verses 9 to 13. Jesus goes back to the Ten Commandments. He goes back to the bedrock of Israelite morality, to the law that God gave to Moses to give to the people of Israel. that prescribed for them how they were to live as his people. These were the commandments that they should be holding fast to. And one of the laws that God gave them was to honor your father and mother. That's one of the ten commandments Honor your father and mother, that you may live long in the land and be blessed and prosper. That's the only commandment with a promise. But he also goes on beyond that, and he talks about another law that was given, showing how serious it was to violate the law of honoring father and mother. And he recites that the punishment for not honoring father and mother in Israel was death. What do you think? This is a serious commandment. This is a serious command. And so to violate this commandment is serious business. Well, why is he talking about how serious it is? Because the Pharisees are teaching people that they can violate this commandment This is what he means by that. Implicit in the idea of honoring father and mother was the fact that people were going to think to themselves, that means caring for my parents' physical needs. If my parents have physical needs, I will be there to support them and take care of them. It wasn't just a lip service God's laws were never meant to be just lip service. It was meant to be lived out. It was meant to be true heart religion. But the Pharisees had created a loophole in their traditions to get around it. It's this loophole known as Corbin. If a person wanted, they could designate their entire estate to be given to the temple when they died. And as long as the person designated that when they died their estate would be given to the temple, they could keep control of all of the resources and not have to give any of the resources to their parents. This was known as Korbin. And this is why he says, this is why he says to them in verse 11, you say, if a man tells his father or mother, whatever you would have gained from me is Corbin. That is given to God, then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother. So a person would say to the temple, I vow, I vow before the Lord to give you all that I have when I die. And then his parents, when they said to him, can we, can you, can you help us with your material resources, he says to them, mom and dad, I'm sorry. I have vowed to give it to the temple. This is Korbin. It cannot be given to you because it is now given to God And Jesus says to them, this loophole that you've created as Pharisees by trying to spell out these traditions has flatly contradicted the commandment of God. You're teaching people to violate the law, a law that calls for the death of those who violate it. And it's traditions like these and many others. Notice that in verse 13 He says that by their traditions they make void the word of God that they have handed down, and many, many such things do they do. Many other traditions, the traditions of their elders with their carefully articulated and well-reasoned rules, ultimately stood in opposition to God. The Pharisees had created for themselves a false religion. A false religion. And this religion is marked by legalism. Now, there's a lot here for us to consider regarding creating man-made laws and traditions that get in the way of what God calls us to do. But we should, as a church, seek to hold fast to what God makes clear in his word. That's one of the reasons we use a statement of faith. The statement of faith we think is a clear articulation of what God commands in Scripture. And the reason we don't have articulations about what you should think about politics. or what you should think about drinking or what you should think about dancing or what you should think about any other thing. The reason those things are not in our statement of faith is because you don't need to believe the same thing as another person. To have fellowship in this church. You just need to believe what God says in His Word, that which we think is clear. That's why we as a church need to be careful not to judge other people. Our tradition in this church is that we send our kids to Private school. Public school. Homeschool. Well God never commanded that in his word. And so we should never judge others by things like that. You can think of many other such things But the true thing going on here when we see what happens in the second half of this passage is that Jesus is concerned with the heart. Jesus is concerned with what's going in the heart. And the reason he's bringing out all these traditions is to point out to these Pharisees. Your heart is empty. It is corrupt. Your religion is all about external appearances. Your religion is all about legalism. They think if we just keep these things, we're going to wash our hands, we're going to wash our pots, we are more righteous than the others because we are keeping everything unclean away from us. Therefore, we are more godly than those unclean Samaritans and Gentiles and other Jews who don't live like we do. But we need to think about how their religion was marked by legalism. This false religion is marked by legalism. The Pharisees and the scribes in the Gospels are the living embodiment of what we call legalism. And I just want to open up a question, just like Jonathan did earlier. What is legalism? Anyone can answer. Adults, youth, kids, what is legalism? Don't be afraid to fail here, Grant. Government approved. Well, if the Pharisees are the government, they are the ones who are approving the laws, legalism in that way. Think about religious legalism. What do we mean when we say legalism? One of the reasons I'm asking this question is because the word is never used in Scripture Therefore, we have no clear definition. We can take a word like love and we can go right to the scriptures and we know what love is. We can see what God intends by love. What is legalism, Lois? That's yeah, that is so good, Lois. That's right. Legalism is essentially that our obedience to rules Whether man-made rules or rules from God provides the grounds of our justification before God. And you can see other Pharisees and scribes are doing this. We are the righteous ones. We keep all the laws. We do what God says. Not only do we do what God says, we do more than God says. We go above and beyond in our religion. This is legalism. The heart behind legalism is the idea. It's the thought of saying, I am justified before you, God, because of what I've done. I am good. God says to you, why should I let you in heaven? What's your answer? If your answer is because I've been good enough, that's wrong. That's a form of legalism. Nobody's good enough to come into God's presence. That's what we're going to see in this passage. Lest we look down on the Pharisees for self-righteously thinking that they could earn God's favor. We need to realize that legalism, even this type of legalism, is something that we're all going to struggle with. The Pharisees aren't the first people to struggle with legalism. They aren't the first people to think that they could pay for their own sins. Legalism has its roots in the garden. What do Adam and Eve do after they sin? They call out to God, God help us and provide a sacrifice for us. No, that's not what they do. They take some fig leaves. They cover their own. They say, hey, we're ashamed. We're going to cover our shame ourselves We can figure out a way to make ourselves acceptable to God. And God comes in and says, nope, I'm going to take those fig leaves off of you because I need to put my own sacrifice on you. You can't work your way to me. You can't obey enough rules to come back into my presence. You can't obey enough to be acceptable to me. And all of us in different ways think that we can cover our sins and please God by our obedience to Him. Right? It's going to look different in each of our lives All right, so here's just a question to open up to you guys. In what ways do you view obedience to God's commands as the grounds for his acceptance of you? What are the ways that you do that in your own life? What's on that? What are areas of your life that you think if I obey here, God will be pleased with me? It's the grounds of my His being pleased with me. Jonathan? Consistent quiet times. Some thoughts behind that? Why would you think that? So when you have consistent quiet times, you feel better about yourself because I've made myself You know, righteous enough to come into your presence. You're being a mature Christian. Other forms. Katie. Yeah. Not praying enough. So you think I haven't prayed enough, therefore God is not going to be pleased with me. Other forms. Hey look, there is no temptation that is not common to all. You're not going to say anything that other people don't struggle with. What's another form of legalism? Doing good works. I've done this. Others don't do this. Therefore God is pleased with me, right? These are all forms of legalism, subtle legalism, where we start viewing our relationship with God in terms of our transactions and our ability to accomplish the righteousness that He requires of us. We start to thinking, because I've done this, therefore he should do this. That type of legalism that turned into this false religion of the elders. And for the kids in the congregation, I just want to say this is almost certainly going to be a struggle for you. If you're being raised in a Christian home, it's it's very easy to think that that you're Standing before God and your standing before your parents is based on your ability to be obedient to commands. Now here's what I want to say: God does call us to be obedient to his commands. But he calls our attitude of desiring to be obedient to come out of gratitude for what he's already done for us. That is essentially what the Pharisees misunderstood. They saw God's law as extracted from their relationship with him. He had already saved them out of the nation of Israel or out of the nation of Egypt. He had already made them his people. Then he said, Because I've saved you. This is how you should live. Then they looked at those laws, forgot about his salvation, and said, we can save ourselves if we tick this off, tick that off, and tick that off. You should never forget about the salvation that God has worked for you. The commandments that He gives you in Scripture are called to be obeyed out of an attitude of gratitude. For what God has done for us. They're never the means of our justification, and they will never accomplish our salvation. Paul Tripp says it so well. He says, if obedience to rules were all that was necessary for God to be pleased with us, Then Jesus wouldn't have had to die. Jesus wouldn't have had to die. Jesus died because there is something tragically wrong with us that no amount of obedience or rule keeping could ever repair. The Pharisees didn't understand that. They thought that they could earn God's favor. Theirs was a false religion That promoted the belief that they could somehow earn God's favor by keeping external rules and not actually dealing with the heart. And so in the next section, Jesus corrects that belief and teaches the essence of true religion. So let's look at the true religion of Jesus Christ. Look at verses 14 and 15. Apparently a crowd has gathered around Jesus. And the Pharisees clear and the Pharisees, and clearly anyone walking by this conversation would have would have done what we do on the highway. They would have rubbernecked, right? Jesus is super famous, and you see him being confronted by the religious authority. So as you're walking by this debate that's going on, you maybe I'll just stick around and listen to what's going on here, right? So this crowd forms around Jesus, and Jesus then takes this opportunity to publicly rebuke the Pharisees and teach the people. Now remember in verse 3, Mark says that it was the Pharisees and all the Jews who held to the traditions of the elders. Now he's not saying every Jewish person down to the last one, but he's saying it's characteristic. of the whole nation of Israel that they walk according to the traditions of the elders and not according to the law of God. And so he's going to teach all the people who are in an earshot. So in verse 14, he commands the crowd to hear and understand. This recalls the parables of the sower, right? Where he says to them, All of you, listen. Listen to me. Think of the Old Testament. Hear, O Israel. Obey, O Israel. Jesus says here, hear and understand. He's telling them to internalize and respond to what he's about to teach them. In verse 15, he says, there is nothing outside a person that by going into him and defile him. It is the things that come out of a person that defile him. So he's reaching back to the beginning of the passage in this exchange about what defiles a person when the Pharisees ask him why his uh disciples eat with unclean hands. In their mind, they see defiled hands, touch food, transfer the the defilement to the food. Food then goes into the mouth, and the defiled food goes into the body, thus defiling the body, and the whole person now has become ceremonially unclean. And Jesus says then that's not the case. That's not true. It's not what goes into a person that defiles them. It's what comes out of a person. And now this is a, we need to remember, this is a parable. The statement obviously puzzles his disciples because in verse 17, after they've left the crowd, the disciples ask him, hey, what did you mean by that? What did you mean that it not what goes into a person, but what comes out of them? And honestly, it's understandable why they're puzzled. Because while it's true that the Pharisees may have created hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds of man-made laws. It is also true that God gave Israel commandments about what they could and couldn't eat. And there were certain foods that made a person unclean. And even as we think about the food, we hear the crock pots in the back. None of those foods will make us unclean. Praise the Lord, because of Jesus Christ. Thank you, Jesus. But listen, the laws that God gave to Israel about what not to put in their body, those cleanliness laws, What not to come in contact with, those cleanliness laws, as well as the Ten Commandments, served a particular purpose. They served a particular purpose that the traditions of the elders started obscuring. The traditions drew attention to external cleanliness. While God's commandments and his laws were meant to show us how unclean we were internally. That's the point of the law. The point of the law is a teacher to drive us to Christ. We come to the law, we see ourselves in the reflection of the law. I have lied, I have stolen, I have committed adultery, I have coveted. I have failed at every point of the law. I have come in contact with unclean things. I need a savior. That's the point of the law. They came to the Ten Commandments and they were supposed to see how far short they had fallen of God's moral purity, and so trusting God's provision of a sacrifice They were supposed to see the laws of cleanliness and see the demands for perfect cleanliness as unattainable and reflective of God's holiness. And so look for God's means of provision for cleansing. But their traditions had blinded them to the purpose of the law. The law was given to reveal that the problem is not external uncleanliness But internal unrighteousness. The problem was not out there. And you need to protect yourself from being contaminated by it. The problem is in here. It's inside of us. That's why Jesus questions the understanding of the disciples. Notice he says to them, do you also not understand? He's saying, are you also like the Pharisees that you think these traditions and please me and that I will be happy with you because of them? They were concerned with external religion. They thought that defilement was something outside of them. They were under the illusion that inside they were good people, and all they had to do was protect themselves from what was outside of them. Remember the Pharisee in Luke 18, that Pharisee that Jesus talks about when he describes what the Pharisee says in the temple. What does he say in the temple? God. I thank you that I'm not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week and give tithes of all that I get. I've done all the right things. Aren't I righteous, Lord? Right? They believed. That they were righteous, and the only thing that they needed to do to maintain their purity was to avoid the corrupting influences around them. But Jesus says to his disciples, hey, they're totally mistaken. Look at verse 18. Jesus uses the example of food. He says, essentially, food can't make you unclean because food goes into your stomach, then it's passed out of your body. Food never comes in contact with the heart. And in the Bible, the heart is not primarily an organ. It is that in the Bible, but the heart is primarily described as the seat of desires and thoughts and intentions And from the overflow of the command center of our soul come our thoughts and our desires, our intentions and our actions. And it's the heart, this command center of the soul, that Jesus says is what contaminates us. Why is that? Look at verse 21. Because out of the heart come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft. Murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slammer, pride, foolishness. Good Lord, the list goes on and on. Out of the heart come all of these things. Hey, when you're looking at this passage, sometimes we could we we got to preach through the whole Bible. We want to see everything that God says. And we come to passages like these that talk about self-righteous Phariseeism, which we're condemned by. Hypocrisy, which we're condemned by, and how unclean the heart is, which we're condemned by. But it's good for us to see these things and to be taught these things because we need to be reminded that a righteousness is not our own. So as you look at this list. Look at this list. Look with me at verse 21 and 22. It takes two verses because it's so long. How many of those have you done this past week? Right? Evil thoughts Sexual morality Theft, maybe you've taken something that isn't yours. Could be anything. Doesn't have to be a large theft. Murder, which Jesus defines as being angry with someone in your heart. It's not just killing a person. Coveting? Desiring what someone else has Raise your hand if you're guilty of violating this list at some point this week. Gosh! We're unrighteous. It's out of our heart that this comes. It's our hearts that make us unclean. Guys, we have a problem with God The problem is us. What's wrong with the world? I am. You are. There are problems outside of us, but they involve humans who have evil hearts who cause these things to happen The problem is us. What Jesus taught about human beings is what the entire Bible teaches, that mankind is radically corrupt. Think to yourself, no one has ever lived a perfect life. Why do you know that? Because you know everyone's just like you. Nobody has ever accomplished it. We all fall. None is righteous, no, not one. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Our very nature, our hearts are unclean. The problem is not outside of us. The problem is in us. Right? We use that phrase. It's what's inside that counts. We use that as a positive phrase to say, hey. It's what's inside that person that counts. They're a good person, but you notice the irony of that comment in light of what Jesus teaches about human nature? Yes, it is what's inside that counts, but what's inside counts against you. Right? It makes you guilty before the Lord. It makes you guilty before God. What's inside of us completely condemns us and makes us unclean. We are all unrighteous before God. None of us should ever be like the Pharisees who think that they are good because of what they do. None of us is. And you see how contrary Jesus' teaching is to human philosophy, don't you? Right, the prevailing paradigm of secular psychotherapy says that the problem is out there. Tabula rasa, you were born into this world as a blank slate. Blank slate. There may be something about your nature, but you need to avoid the wrong type of nurturing You need to avoid things that will make you loathe yourself. You need to avoid things that will make you angry. You need to avoid the things that will make you think less of yourself in comparison to others. But you can't avoid them because they're not out there. That's what Jesus teaches. You can't avoid them. A therapist will always be in business. People will always have problems. But we need a new heart We need a new heart. That's the issue. It's not avoiding what's outside of us, but changing what is in us And that's so hard for us to consider, right? Because if the problem is spiritual and internal and not physical and external, then no amount of good actions Good deeds or pious rituals can repair our relationship with God. Any religion, any philosophy That doesn't come to terms with the corruption of the human heart and how that has broken our relationship with God is a false religion and a false philosophy. There are even false forms of Christianity. I said earlier. What will cause God to accept you when you come to heaven? The last two gospel conversations, I've asked people that. And these people have said that they are Christians. And I asked them, why will God accept you when you stand before him? Because I've done good things. Is that enough? Is that enough? Not if God is just Not if God is just. Imagine that you're in a courtroom and you and you said to the judge, you've robbed this person who's the plaintiff against you, and you say to the judge, yes, I have robbed this person, Judge, I am guilty. But you know what? Ten years ago I I sold some Girl Scout cookies and and I did some good things for my parents. I helped around the house. If the judge said, okay, you're free to go, what do you think the plaintiff is going to say? No way. No way. That's unjust of you, Judge. We shouldn't expect God to free us from the condemnation that we deserve because of the evil things that we've done to him and to others. Just because we've done good things, that doesn't deal with our problem. The problem is our heart, and we need a new heart. And the wonderful news for you today of the gospel is that God has accomplished what you and I so desperately need. He sent his son into the world, the only one to perfectly live by the commandments of God. He fulfilled all of the law. He never violated any of it. He never sinned against God and he gave his life willingly as a sacrifice on the cross to take the punishment that we deserve God says, you are guilty. You are guilty. But my son and I with the Spirit have agreed that the Son is going to come and stand in your place. And he takes your punishment in your place so that if you turn and trust in him, I will reach in. Pull out that old stinking heart, and I will put in you a new spirit and a new heart, and I will give you new desires. Such that you desire to follow me, and you will obey my law out of an attitude of gratitude, not because obeying my law accomplishes the righteousness that you need. Jesus has accomplished it. He's done it all for you, friends. This is the wonderful news of Mark 7, 1 to 23. True religion is this. It is not a list of do's. It is a list of done. It has been done for you. True religion is coming to terms with the fact that we are desperate and in need of a savior and that God has provided it in Jesus Christ. True religion says, if you want to be truly religious, true religion says the problem is not out there. The problem is in here. I am guilty. I have sinned. I have fallen short of the glory of God. But praise be to God. The free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ. You can imagine how condemning this passage would have seemed to his disciples. We've fallen short of all those things, Lord. We've done all those things. We have impure hearts. How are you going to fix it? And Jesus says, follow me. I'm going to the cross. After I go to the cross, I'm going to the grave. And after I go to the grave, I'm getting up Because I'm the only truly religious person that's ever lived. I've done it for you. And if you follow me, give my righteousness So that even when your evil hearts condemn you, you can know that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Praise be to God. Isn't that good news for us today? What's wrong with the world? We are. Praise be to God that God sent Jesus Christ into the world. Fix that problem for us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we confess that we are unworthy And that the only one who is worthy is Jesus Christ. We have all been hypocrites this past week We've all said that we should be holy and strive to be holy and then fallen short and not done the things that we said that we were going to do But Lord, we rejoice that Christ is not a hypocrite. We know that this church is full of them, but we rejoice in the fact that Christ died for us. He died so that people like us, who are unclean, can be brought to you. Thank you, Lord, for your kindness to us. We pray that you would help us to remember that today in Jesus' name. Amen.