Uh one author said this, he said, uh Christmas waves a wand over this world, and behold, everything is softer and more beautiful. I trust that's a sentiment shared by many in this room. There is just something about the Christmas season that makes this world a little bit softer. And a little bit more beautiful. It's as though, right, a wand has been waved and our world is transformed for a short time That transformation really starts with the music of the Christmas season. Christmake Christmas music really begins to change how we view the landscape of the world around us, right? So I am personally most affected by Christmas classics like Mariah Carey's All I Want for Christmas is you So obviously I'm not the only one in here who loves that song. I have played it probably or heard it about 150 times this Christmas season, and I love it, and I can't get it out of my head. And it changes the world around me. It makes everything softer and more beautiful. Right, but the transformation of the world around us during the Christmas season is due in large part to the way that Christmas me Christmas decorations Change the visual landscape around us. Right? Consider the beautiful garland lining doors and windows The velvety red bows, the wreaths, and the Christmas trees, right? You can add to that the inflatable decorations. Some of you may not be fans of those. I am Surely you've seen these in your neighborhoods. If you live in Chevrolet, it's the house on Parkway, just down from Cheese Park. You've got the inflatable Santa Claus. The frosty, the snowman, there's a helicopter, there are elves, there are reindeer, right? But the the single decoration that really rises above all the others as the one that makes the world softer and more beautiful are the lights. Right? Christmas lights have a transforming effect on the landscape, don't they? Kind of mesmerize us. I took my kids to uh my wife and I took our kids to Watkins Park uh down in Kettering I think it was last week or the week before. They have the festival of lights. And it's just kind of like something like two and a half million lights set up in the park. And you just, I don't know about you, I just want to sit there. I just want to stay there. It's a as though the world is transformed for a time. That's why people flock to homes or neighborhoods where there are houses decked out in Christmas lights, right? Light Light has a powerful and transforming effect on the world around us, and especially so when that light is set in contrast to darkness. It's in the darkness that the transforming power of light can be most clearly And the transforming power of Christmas lights on the darkness around us really points us to the true Christmas light who came to transform the darkness of this world and really is still transforming that darkness today. Who is that true Christmas light? Well, we just read about him in John chapter 1. I'd encourage you to open up to page 14 of your bulletins where you'll see John chapter 1. Look again with me there. John's gospel begins with a description of a man who is also God. John calls this man the word, the life, and the light. That man is Jesus of Nazareth. And we notice that John says that Jesus, as the light, shines in the darkness. What does he mean by that? What does he mean by the light shines in the darkness? Well, what John intends to say is that our world is shrouded in darkness. Not physical darkness per se. You know, we have the sun that comes up, we have electrical lights that we can use. What he means to say is that the world is shrouded in spiritual darkness. What do what you think about that? It seems to me that we live in a spiritually dark world, don't we? Evidence of this really is all around us. You think of this past week, we had another horrible shooting in Jersey City. Our world continues to be plagued by racial hatred and animosity. Cruel slavery is thriving in many parts of the world Sex trafficking, robbery, oppression. We could spend hours citing examples of the spiritual darkness It's a spiritual darkness that lies over the world that we live in. But, and this is important for us to consider during the Christmas season, according to Jesus, we not only live in a world of darkness. But a world of darkness also lives in us. Mark Twain once said, everyone is a moon. And has a dark side, which he never shows to anybody. I'm guessing that if you're anything like me, you know what Mark Twain is talking about, right? We all we all have this darkness within us We think and do things that we know aren't right. And whether it's anger, hatred, selfishness and greed or cursing other people. Maybe we've taken things that don't belong to us. Maybe we've cheated other people or intimidated other people to get our way or we've are are enslaved to some addiction. But it's not just things that we think and do as though just things regarding sin. It is that, but this darkness also includes things like sorrow Sadness, emptiness, meaningless hopelessness, despair. One author by the name of David Foster Wallace described the darkness this way in his own terms. He said, We're all lonely for something we don't know that we're lonely for. How else do we explain the curious feeling that goes around inside of us, feeling like we're missing somebody we've never even met? That feeling of just something missing. Just something that hasn't clicked into place yet. That's part of the darkness that John is referring to here. This darkness brings with it a lingering dissatisfaction. A lingering frustration that things just aren't the way that they should be. Kind of like we can imagine the way that life should be, but just can't find a way to create it or obtain it or realize it And really, the reason that nobody can break through the darkness and into the light is because all of us have this world of darkness living within us. This is what we would call a universal human condition. So if you're here and you you're not a follower of Jesus, we're so thankful that you come and spend this time with us this evening. If you hear me say that there's there's darkness inside of you, I don't intend to say that there's something wrong with you that's not wrong with me. I'm standing next to you and saying, hey, this this darkness is something that all of us Sharing, right? That's what Jesus taught, and that's what we believe. I wonder if you've ever thought about the fact that this darkness inside of us is a universal human condition. Alright, I want you to imagine with me. Imagine with me that we go up to Atlantic City. Uh we go there together. We head into a casino, maybe the Borgada, we decide to sit down at a blackjack table. there in Atlantic City. And we know because we're familiar with how card games go, we know that in the long run, Blackjack is a game that the House will eventually win win. But we think, hey Maybe we'll get hot, maybe we'll hit a lucky streak and we'll win some money. So we sit down at the blackjack table and we begin playing. And the on the very first hand, the dealer flops for himself blackjack Ah, we're disappointed, but hey, it's bound to happen right, you know. It just happened to us on the first hand. So we keep playing. And the second hand comes And the dealer flops blackjack again. Ah, okay, twice in a row. Well, let's give it another try. We'll give it another try. And the third hand comes, and the dealer flops blackjack again. And then the fourth hand and the fifth hand, and again, and again, and again, the dealer keeps flopping for himself blackjack. How many hands would pass before you said to yourself, something isn't right here. This game is rigged. Those cards, let me see those cards. The deck must be stacked against us. How is it that you just keep flipping blackjack for yourself every single time? Now I want you to imagine that it's not just five hands in a row Or ten hands in a row. Imagine with me that you live long enough to sit there for seven billion hands And seven billion hands the dealer flips blackjack for himself. You would no longer, I would venture to say, think that this is a coincidence, right? You would think Something must be causing this. What does that illustration mean for us tonight? I'm not trying to persuade you guys to play blackjack, right? What I'm trying to say is this, friends, there are 7 billion people on our planet. And seven billion people have this darkness within. Something isn't right. Why is it that all of us share in this darkness? Something must be causing this. And what Jesus tells us in the rest of the Gospel of John is the reason is that all of us have rejected the light. God is that light. God made all of us to live in the pure light of His presence, but our first parents chose to turn away from him and in doing so they became estranged from him and all of a man humanity became estranged from God together with them, and they fell into a world of darkness. And it's a darkness that lay not only the world that they lived in, but it's a darkness that also lived inside of them that filled their own hearts as well. And that darkness has been passed down onto every generation of mankind. In every continent, in every country, every county, every city, every town, our first parents, like our first parents, we have all rejected the light. And it's important for us to think about today because we live in an age in which like self-help, kind of this uh uh kind of a form, a version of new age spirituality is really picking back up this this form of self-help self-help, self-realization, self-actualization. But the reality is no matter how many self-help books we read No matter how many self-improvement plans we hatch or self-realization techniques we deploy, no matter how much meditation or clean living or clean eating we practice, the darkness remains. I'm not trying to say that there's anything wrong with self-improvement. I try to do stuff that the Bible doesn't say to just kind of improve my life all the time. Try to be better with keeping a schedule and be more structured and things. There's nothing wrong with that. But those things will never, ever get rid of the darkness in my heart. I can't, and we can't find a way into the light on our own. What we need is someone who exists outside of the darkness to pierce the darkness for us. What we need is for God to pierce the darkness for us and for God to provide us with the true light. And it's a true light that we need to truly transform us. And I want you to see, friends, that this is what the Christmas season is all about. This is what God has done for us. in Jesus. You notice if you look down back over that passage on page 14, notice that John calls Jesus the true light. That means that as the true light, Jesus is the only one who can light the path back into God's presence. An illustration here might be helpful for us. A pastor friend of mine who travels overseas regularly and who interacts with people of different faiths was recently in another country, and as he was there He found himself sitting outside of a temple with two other guys, each of whom, each of those two, was from a different religion. And those two guys were sitting by this pastor friend of mine, and they were talking, uh, together with him, but kind of amongst themselves also, about how all the religions of the world were essentially the same. Right? They all try to provide light to get us back to God. And they were saying that that all the religions of the world are really, they're just superficially different. And finally my pastor friend spoke up and said You know, it's almost as though you guys picture God or whatever it is that you want to call him at the top of a mountain, and we're all at the bottom. of the mountain and you may take this path up and I may take that path up, but in the end we'll all be in the same place And they responded to him and they were like, Yes, yes, yeah, you under you understand what what we think about religion. And he responded to them and said, Well, what if I told you that the God at the top of the mountain didn't wait for us to come up the mountain. He actually came down to where we are And they responded to him and they said, Well, that would be great. I mean, of course, wouldn't it be great if God came down to earth and told us all about himself and told us how we could be reconciled to him? And he said to them, Friends, this is the difference. This is the difference between Christianity and really every other world religion. And I have, if you're from a different faith background, I have great respect for the different religions of the world. But this is the difference What we find in the Bible is the story of a God who has not left us alone to try to find our way up to him. He has come to us and he has made the way back to himself possible through Jesus Christ. I want you to see this, friends. Though we live in a spiritually dark world, God has not abandoned us to the darkness. God pierced the darkness of this world by sending his son Jesus to be the true light the true light who transforms the darkness around us and the darkness within us. How does he do this? Though he was the true light, which means he was perfect, he never sinned, though Jesus was the true light, he came to rescue us from the darkness. by taking our darkness within and our sin upon himself. On the cross, Jesus bore the punishment that we all deserve for turning away from God, for choosing darkness instead of light. And on the cross, Jesus' light was snuffed for us, but only for a time. Because the darkness, as we see in John chapter 1, the darkness cannot overcome the light. Three days after Jesus was buried, he rose from the dead, proving that he was and is the true light, who has the power to transform the darkness within us. How do we share in the transforming power of Jesus' light? John says it there at the end. John says that happens when we receive Jesus. To receive Jesus simply means to believe wholeheartedly in his death and resurrection and to give your life to following him. If you're interested, friend, in hearing more about what that would mean for you. I'd encourage you to come find me after the service. I would love to talk to you about that. I want you to think about this. While Christmas lights have the power to transform our landscape for a time, their power is impermanent. Come January 1 or January 2nd at the latest, those lights will be taken down, and the darkness will remain. My encouragement to you during this Christmas season would be to look to the true light. Who was born in Bethlehem, whose true light shone brightly throughout his life, whose true light could not be quenched by the darkness. And whose true light is still shining today, transforming the lives of all who follow him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you rejoicing that you have pierced the darkness of this world and the darkness within by sending the true light, the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray, Father, that you would grant the Spirit to allow that light to transform the lives of all who are here, to transform the lives of all in Maryland and in the U. S. and around the world. That the light of Christ would shine brightly, and that the light of Christ in our lives would also shine brightly to draw others to the light of Christ. And we pray this, all in that true light's name, in the Lord Jesus' name. Amen.