The reading for this morning's sermon comes from 2 Timothy 2, verses 20 to 26. Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable use. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies You know that they breed quarrels. And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth, and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. This is God's word. Amen. He is risen. He is risen indeed. Praise the Lord. We're going to be in, as you know, 2 Timothy 2, verses 20 to 26. That's on page 996 in these black Bibles. On page 996. I was pressed for a title for the sermon, and I think I named it um Useful to the master. Useful to the master. The title of the sermon, useful to the master. Typically don't do titles. I just run with it and then you all get the point, but uh useful to the masters is the title of today's sermon. And we're going to think about that in 2 Timothy 2, verses 20 to 26. My uh my brother, good friend Um Joseph, he already um read the the passage for us. So, quick question, couple questions. Who in this room likes to be useless? If you are an athlete, which person here likes to ride the bench? Or if you're employed, which of you enjoy being kind of overlooked for like a simple task or not being heard? Your child, which one of you does does not like when your parents asks for you does it looks over you when they you they want some help? Who likes to be treated as useless or like a waste of space? I'm I'm gonna go out on the limb and say since we're all creating God's image Since we have the capacity and ability to work in a dignified way that many of us want to be useful and not useless We want to leave some type of imprint on this in life, leave a legacy. Want to make an impact on someone, somewhere, some point. And so the question for us is, how does a person become useful? Or how can how can you be useful? Can you be useful? Given some people's current situations and stage in life, some some might think that use usefulness Has passed them by. Others might see a situation that's so big, so dark, so hard in life that they may imagine they can they can't even imagine how they could be helpful in that situation Today we're going to ask the Lord to teach us what it is to be useful and the path to usefulness. And he's going to do that by his grace through the passage that was read today in 2 Timothy 2, verses 20 to 26. Now, Timothy was a disciple of Paul. Paul was like Timothy's spiritual father. And Paul is writing this letter to try and get Timothy to remain steadfast in the ministry in the midst of suffering. And he wants him to be remained steadfast and to be faithful, and he also wants him to be And so as we listen to uh the Lord through Paul speak to Timothy about usefulness, he's Also, we're also going to ask the Lord to apply that to ourselves. And now the way that Paul opens up this teaching on being useful for the Lord is through an uh illustration. The illustration was in verses 20 and 21. In that illustration, it talks about a great house that had many vessels and many instruments in it. Some of the vessels like those which are gold and silver are used for honorable tags. Let's say like carrying wine To uh uh a wedding feast or to the king. And then there's other vessels in the great house, like which are wooden clay are used for a kind of less honorable task or dishonorable tasks. Let's say carrying waste out uh to the trash. Main point is not to distinguish between um uh honorable tasks or dishonorable tasks. The main point is to to kind of emphasize the type of instruments or the type of tools That are fitting or appropriate for each task. And that's what's appropriate for honorable tasks. Now, things could be used in different ways. A plate is a plate, a cup is a cup, right? And technically, any plate in any cup, any plate in any cup can be used to serve a drink. Serve some food to some dinner to some dinner guests. But I'm gonna go out on the limb again and say that if you have some future in-laws or people that you want to be your future in-laws to come over for dinner And you want the dinner to be impressive and elegant, you're not going to pull out the the red plastic cups and the plastic plates if you really want them to be your in-law. And I'm gonna go out on the limb and say that if you want to uh drive the family vehicle to uh uh a nice prime or to some elegant place again that if you had a choice between uh uh the big family van with the Skittles and the seats or the mini-size van That's sleek with leather seats. I'm just trying to contextualize because y'all got all these children. So I'm sure that the only choices is a big van and a minivan. Just trying to be contextual here. Y'all probably want to choose the mini sleek van, right? So it's and so we get the illustration, right? We we get the point that relatively speaking, honorable instruments are used for honorable tasks. So let's see how the the illustration, the point is is applied. And we'll see that in verse 21. You can look at that verse with me. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use. Set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work So now he's applying kind of the natural principle to spiritual things. Now let's get an idea of who's who in this uh this portion of the scripture. Who is the master? The master is the Lord God. The master is of the house is the maker of heaven and earth. The ruler over everything is the ruler over the house And Paul considered himself to be a God's servant. That's because God is the master. And now what is the house? Well, the house is the church of God. So in 1 Timothy chapter 3 verse 15, Paul tells Timothy that he wants them to know how to conduct themselves in The house of God, which is the church. Now also in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19 When Paul tells the Ephesian church that they are saints, he tells them they are saints and members in the in the household of God. God is the master of the house. The house is the church. It's not a physical building, it's the people. People who have professed faith in Christ, repented of their sins People who have begun to walk in obedience to Jesus Christ and people who have committed themselves to fellowship with one another, other Christians. That's what Church of God is. It's comprised of a group of people who confess with their mouth Jesus is Lord and who want to walk in obedience with one another Now, ideally, everybody in the visible church on this earth, ideally, everybody in the church that are members of the church would also be people who are going to heaven. Ideally, everybody who confesses with their mouth that Jesus is Lord really believes it in their heart, but As we know in the scriptures, the Bible says that that's not always the case. There will be some people who say, Lord, Lord, but in the end, the Lord would say, I never knew you. The church is unfortunately going to be comprised of people who really are servants of the Lord Jesus And who are wolves or who are professing to be servants of the Lord Jesus. It's been like that throughout church history. And even had but it was even like this in Timothy's church. And so we see in verse 17 a little further up that there were two individuals, Hymenus and Philetus. Who were false teachers. They began running well, began professing Jesus Christ and and holding to the gospel that was handed down to them through the apostles, but then they departed. They began to teach false things, to teach a twisted gospel. And so it's these individuals that Paul has in mind when he's talking about dishonorable use Those dishonorable vessels. And they're useless. They're causing friction in the church. They're not building up, they're tearing it down. And in many ways, because there's friction in the church, that's called it, that's one of the ways that Timothy is suffering, right? Timothy is feeling pain because these people are starting quarrels and dividing the church. They're trying to break down the household of God. And that's calling causing Timothy some some suffering. Now if you had to interact with somebody who was quarrelsome or who were divisive who was divisive or who likes to bring strife You know how tempting it is to sin. There's a strong urge to fight fire with fire or to fight Twitter with Twitter or to gossip with gossip and you and you really just want to you really just want to say how about we stop talking and step outside Now some of y'all don't know what step outside is, that's good. I'm glad y'all don't. But you just you just you just want to kind of just take the gloves off And you're enticed to engage them in accordance to their rules and not the rules of the Lord. And instead of trying to win them back, you're tempted to just kind of wipe them out. That's a temptation when you're facing people who are quarrelsome, who are divisive, or angry, who's trying to break down something that you're trying to build up But the But Paul tells Timothy, and therefore we are told, that our aim should not be to wipe them out, but to wipe ourselves out. Timothy, if you want to be useful to the church, if you want to be used by God for his glory, have to cleanse yourself. The same way that honorable instruments are used for honorable tasks, Paul urges Timothy to keep his conduct, his teaching, his character honorable and above reproach. And in doing this, he will be allowing the Lord and opening up for the Lord to use him. So God's servants must cleanse themselves, and with that cleansing comes this wonderful promise that they'll be set apart. For God, to do his will, and to be ready for every good work and to be used by him. Sure the Lord could use a donkey to convey his message. He could use a false prophet like Balaam to communicate some truth. He could work through kind of a unsaved king to deliver his people, but it's of the Lord's utmost desire and plan to use holy people for his task. Not perfectly pure people, but people who actively and consistently try to cleanse themselves of sin and try to cling to God for the glory of God I love that it says, if anybody. If anybody cleanses themselves. If anybody cleanses themselves. It means that if it doesn't this include a certain people with certain education, certain experiences, certain skin tones, certain generation, from an eight-year-old in the playground to an 80-year-old on the playground. You have the potential to be mightily used by God. Anybody can be used by God From the young business owner to the retiree, anyone who cleanses themselves can be useful, can be useful to the master, can be useful to the Lord. And they could be ready for every good work. Now, gotta keep this in context. If you want to do good work in your English class, you have to study English. You want to be a good employee. You have to learn what's going on on your job. The good work that the that that Paul is having for for Tim of Timothy It's the good work of the work of ministry and glorifying the Lord and serving one another and serving people with the word and loving people sincerely. That's what the good work is. And that could be glorifying the Lord on your job in particular ways. It could be for uh somebody taking care of the of widows. It could be a person providing for their household spiritually uh and materially it could be a person uh who uh as a pastor of a church Coming together to teach the church and equip them. Evangelism, all of these are good, the work that God has prepared for us to do, for his glory, to expand his kingdom. And he says that we will be ready for every good work as we cleanse ourselves and pursue holiness. And we will be useful to the master. Now, if one of the reasons you're not a Christian, if you're in here, you're not a Christian, this we're we're glad you're here. We're glad you come to to sit and And learn, and we always at this point, at some point in our lives, trying to learn to see what this is about. If there's any reason if there's if the reason you're not a Christian or contemplating, because you don't want to uh have the Lord as a master. I get it. Nobody likes to be controlled But one thing to remember is that everybody's mastered by something. You're mastered by your sin, you're mastered by your cravings, you're mastered by certain desires, maybe mastered by certain goals. There's something that's taking your life, that's driving your life in a particular direction. And that's what's mastering you. And what I'm suggesting, what the Lord tells, is that there is, I'm telling you, there is no greater master than the Lord. God. There is no greater master and ruler than the Lord God Almighty. Some of you have bad bosses. Some of you are bad bosses. But put that aside. Some of you have bad bosses. And your bosses just don't know how to use you well. The Lord, God Almighty, He intricately wove you, put you together, He knows exactly how to use it Some of your bosses really don't care, have your best interest in mind. They just use you for the bottom line and can get you out of here. Those the Lord saves are his delight. He has precious thoughts about those he says Some of your bosses could fire you in a minute the moment you make any type of mistake. The Lord He holds you fast in the midst of your mistakes. He's a good master Some bosses will throw you under the bus and blame everything on you. This master put himself on a cross and took the blame for you. Willingly put himself on an old rugged cross Bearing the shame and the guilt of all those who would place their faith in him, so that even though they are sinners, they could be counted as saints. So that their sins would not be counted against them, but that they could be made complete, justified, sanctified, destined to be glorified This is a good master. Lays down his life for them, for his sheep. Trust in this master. Turn from those other masters who were not doing anything but Bringing you death, carrying you to damnation. Bringing upon you the wrath of God. Turn from those masters and make the Lord your master. And if you've done that, then then then because your soul cries out, hallelujah, and all praises are unto thee, then you should seek to then be used by this master. And so how do we come useful? Again, it is cleansing ourselves. Now when I say cleanse ourselves, some people may think, okay, well that means I have to close my Twitter account, my Facebook account, my Instagram Probably thinking I can't watch the voice. I I gotta clear my iTunes. Can't go to Happy Hour. I have to break up with my boyfriend and and girlfriend. I gotta Move out of the house of my unsaved roommates. I have to smash my TV, I have to throw away my video games, I have to stop playing sports. I have to and the list goes on and on and on. And some of those things you might need to do But that's not primarily where the work needs to begin. If you want to be cleansed, the Lord says, He instructs us, and we can see it right here in the text, it says Flee youthful passions. So verse 22. So so so you want to be cleansed? Want to be useful? So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace. Along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. The Lord knows that the problem is not mainly outside of us, but it's within us. It's our desires, our passions that drive us to sin. It's how the heart that the mouth speaks, and how the heart flows the rivers of life. And so Paul tells Timothy to flee those youthful passages down to context. Timothy was probably tempted to try to get the last word to kind of uh be quarrelsome with with uh these false teachers. Uh To be impatient. But he says flew those things. And since the youthful passage is general, and since in some ways we're we're all God's servants, we could We can insert many different youthful and sinful passions. The desire to fit in with the wrong crowd, the desire to get vengeance, the desire to be rich at all costs. The desire for comfort at all costs, the desire for someone else's goods, their house, their spouse, loving this world, loving yourself over God and over others. These are all youthful, sinful passions that need to be cleansed. We have to depart from iniquity And you know when a person flees from something, that means uh something dangerous is following. And because our flesh makes war against our spirit, And because we have false teachers in the world, because this world is under the the the prince of the power of this air It's a war. And it takes activity and real effort Effort given to you by the grace of God, but real effort exerted by you and me to flee. To flee Youthful passions And we must flee those things that we just know are clearly, inherently bad. And then we must flee those things that may feed bad desires that are within us. So if a happy hour, which could be neutral, feeds your desire for some type of immorality, then you might have to flee it. If your unsaved roommates feeds your desire in any way to sin, then you might have to hand over the keys. The computer or the internet or the iPhone or the Twitter cow fees any sinful desires within you. If it feeds anxiety. It feeds covetousness. If it feeds lust. If it feeds worry. If it feeds fear. I recently told my wife, like you might want to stop watching CSI. Because when she walks out of side looking around, fear If that feeds fear, then we might need to stop it. It's neutral. It may not feed fear for you. Definitely not Jaren. But if it does feed your fear, then you might have to cut it off We have to flee youthful passion. But that's not the complete picture because if if we just are running and fleeing, then We might find ourselves tucked away in our rooms, the lights off, with no access to the outside world, with no friends, and and doing nothing. And that's not the complete picture of how we cleanse ourselves and pursue holiness. We are to not only flee, but we're also told to run towards holiness. We're supposed to pursue holiness. Righteousness, faith, love, and peace. Righteousness, ethical one Living according to God's Word. Faith, a life of trusting in God's word. Love, a life of affectionately giving up yourself for others and for God according to His Word. Peace, trying to end strife between one another, end strife, helping others in their strife before God. We're supposed to pursue these things. Go after them, run after them. Pursuing these things is is is pursuing Christ-likeness We have to flee and we have to pursue. And pursuing is not easy. That's why we need help. And so that's why Paul instructs Timothy. He says, do it along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. The fight for purity is to be done amongst other people. With other people. Who are striving to cleanse themselves of sin. Doing it with other people is essential. We hear the warning in Hebrews chapter 3, verses 12 to 13, that we should exhort one another daily, as long as it's called today, that that that nobody may be hardened By the deceitfulness of sin, exhort one another daily while it's called today, so no one is hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. Which means if you're not being encouraged by other folk, other fellow believers, you're more susceptible to being deceived It's necessary that we teach one another and fellowship with one another if we want to grow in holiness, if we want to be useful. And fellowshipping with one another is not easy either. It's not easy because some of you are annoying. And some of you still trying to grow in particular areas Some of you still flawed. And I'm saying some, and I really mean all. are flawed. All are still trying to grow. And to somebody, everybody is probably annoying in some way. And that makes it difficult for a church kind of to live together. But listen to this quote from Tim Chester. In his book, You Can Change, he says, God is using the different people The contrasting personalities in your church to change your heart. He's using the difficult people, the annoying people, the sinful people. He placed you together So you can rub off each other's rough edges. It's as if God has put us like rocks into a bag and is shaking us about so that we collide with one another. Sometimes sparks fly, but gradually we become beautiful, smooth gems. Remember the next time someone is rubbing you the wrong way, that is God smoothing you down. God has given you that person In his love as a gift to you to make you holy. In his wisdom and love, God has placed all of you here with different personalities and backgrounds and song preferences and voting convictions in this same body for your holiness. In this body, he's placed everybody here. With different opinions and different convictions for your holiness That's how we should think of the body of Christ as we live together and as we encourage each other. with the word. So, so so so don't shortcut God's holiness project in your life by just fellowshipping with people that's just like you. You're shortcutting holiness. There's a reason why when people get married, they say the most sanctifying part. Very sanctified. Because it's two people who have some things in common and have many things not in common. But those things that are not in common come together and you're rubbing each other particular ways and then you're being sanctified. And that's how the church should be. We should rub each other, be close to one another, fellowship with each other, with sincerity. With real love, having real conversations, learning about each other's past, and learning how the Lord has glorified each uh one a person in their life. Learning about each other's goals and ambitions and sharing life together. Sanctifying one another. Pursue holiness by by c by by by fellowshiping with everybody, not just with people that look just like you. And we are to do this in the in the body, and also we're supposed to Paul gives Timothy some more instructions about fleeing and and and and fleeing sin and running two things. He says In verses 23 to 25, he talks about how he should flee being argumentative. And so he should avoid foolish controversies. That doesn't have faith, love, and the God's glory at its aim. It shouldn't avoid foolish controversies. And instead the Lord's servant Whether it's a pastor or any servant, must be kind to everyone, able to teach, and patiently enduring, correcting his opponents with gentleness. The Lord's servant must be humble. They must humble themselves and serve others, and they must humble themselves before God's word and patiently teach God's word. It's the humble person that can be kind to everyone because they desire to put others' interest above their own. It's the humble person that patiently endures evil because they commit their lives to God. The humble person corrects their opponents with gentleness because they know that they're a step, they're a little bit of grace away from falling into that similar sin. It's the humble person that's that's willing to submit themselves to God's word, to teach God's word, knowing that their opinions don't really matter. More than God's word. So they humble themselves before God's word and declare it to other people, trusting that God will do the word. That's a humble person. Want to be used by God, we need to be holy and we need to pursue humility. And look at what the Lord might might possibly do. Look at verses twenty-five and twenty-six. God may perhaps grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. You all know that there's many lost people in the world. Many people who are in bondage to Satan to do his will. They're ensnared by Satan. People who are deceived by their own lusts and and really uh are aren't aware that their lifestyles will is leading them to eternal punishment. I know that people make sinful choices. And because of sinful choices and wicked deeds, people are deserving of damnation. And I know that sometimes those wicked deeds have affected us personally. But we ought to always have compassion and know that these individuals are ensnared to the devil. The world has been blinded by Satan. They've been deceived by the devil. They've been fatally bit by the serpent. They're lost. They're dead. But praise the Lord that they're not so dead that the Lord can't save. And praise the Lord that That he has given us this promise that as we cleanse ourselves, that he would be willing to use us It's sad because we had to go to another we didn't have to go, we went to another vigil, another vigil last week Two weeks ago, our church did. We try to go to vigils in the community when people are murdered. And so right up the street from where our church is, somebody was um got into a fight, somebody brought a gun, um, and he killed him. And we all went to the vigil. Um candlelights, dirt with the f face on it. Little kids um thinking they heard their father's voice, but they had to tell little kids that no father's daddy's not coming home Last two on Tuesday, we took a walk, a peace walk, through the uh through Clay Terrace, which is right near where we have church service for a young girl who last year, you may have known, um was killed in Clay Terrace, Makiah Wilson And whenever I attend those events, I ask myself, can I really be used to make an impact here? Can God really use a small 15-member church plant to reach the community, to reach the nations for the gospel? Can the Lord use Chevley Baptist Church? To start a a revival in Chevrolet? Can the Lord use it to heal broken marriages and families and To come alongside and encourage and equip each other who may be going through depression or loneliness or despair or drug abuse or addiction. Can the Lord use you to call your uh wayward child home? Yes. Anybody can be used for every good work. They cleanse themselves When we pursue holiness and make ourselves ready to be used by God, then God will be pleased to use us It's not about your church plant strategy. It's not about music. What people need to focus on is holiness And as you pursue holiness and pursue peace and pursue righteousness and pursue love The Lord might be pleased to have his hand on this church and have his hand on our church to do marvelous things for his glory. To do marvelous things in your household, in your child's life, in your life Should seek to be ready by pursuing holiness. I pray that everybody in here wants to be used by God. It's a lot of work to be done. I pray that you all will allow the Lord to use you. We don't know what God is going to do in this lifetime. We don't know what God is going to who God is going to save before he returns. We don't know how many people he's going to be, who how many people are going to be saved. But wouldn't it be great if he used you to do the saving? If he used you to build up his church. I think it'd be great. So me personally, I'm gonna commit myself to try to s to be holy. The Lord would use me. And I pray that you all would commit to doing the same thing. Let me pray. Redeemed us, purchased us, called us, made us your own. And that because we're yours, we are set apart for you. For your glory, we ask that as we have become holy, we ask that we will now cleanse ourselves and walk in holiness. Legal, we want to be used by you. Time is short. Hell is hot. People need to be saved. You need to be glorified. We want you glorified. Use us, dear God, for your glory. It's in Christ Jesus' name we pray. Amen.