Well, as John said earlier, happy Independence Day. To any Americans here this morning, I trust most of you probably are. Uh I told someone yesterday, a neighbor yesterday, that I was preaching today, and I assumed it would just be me and my wife. So grateful to see all of you, nonetheless. In fact, I even called one of you, not going to say who. I called one of you this morning at about 10 o'clock. And I said, I finished the first half of my sermon. I got to cut about a thousand words And he said, you sure you don't want to cut 1500 or 2000? Make it more punchy? So glad to see you again. I I I admit I've always loved. America, I would say I am a patriot, uh, in some sense of that. The the English writer C. S. Lewis defines love of country as love of the familiar, love of home The Roman philosopher Seneca said, no man loves his city because it is great, but because it is his. I get that. Trust some of you might get that as well. Lewis agrees. He says, A man who really loves his country will love her in ruin and in degeneration. England, with all thy faults, I still Love thee. Reading that right now, it occurs to me England is probably not the one country I should mention today. There it is. To love your country like this, friends, I'm saying, can be a good thing It helps you to preserve what is good from the past. It can draw you out from yourself and teach you in different ways to love neighbor. And not just to be drawn into yourself, even sacrifice yourself for our neighbors. Isn't that what love of country in the best sense is At the same time, I think we all know that love of country can turn ugly, particularly when it causes you to consider yourself or your fellow citizens better. than people of other nations, or when it causes you to have a certain ideal of what a true American is they belong to this religion, they belong to that ethnicity, that skin color, to be a full citizen. And we know that's when nationalism becomes chauvinistic Fascist, racist. So as as we go about this afternoon celebrating the events of 1776, most of us recognize there are good versions. And bad versions of love of country. And in fact, it would probably be a worthwhile exercise this afternoon to To think through some of the ways, some of the things that distinguish a good love of country from a bad love of country. That's not my purpose this morning. My purpose is simply from this lesson, simply to say we all understand, I think there are good loves. And there are bad loves, right? Now many people today try to deny that fact. Love is love, people say. Yet I think when we stop and think about it, we know there are good loves and bad loves. The Bible teaches this over and over, as does our text this morning. Go ahead and turn to 1 John chapter 2. Verse 7 to 17. And as you may recall, I said to you a few months ago that as I had opportunity to preach, I would simply return to the next passage. in the book of 1 John, and that's what I'm doing this morning. And we come to chapter 2, verse 7 and following. The whole book I explained to you last time. Repeats three tests, you might say, over and over. There's a knowledge or a truth test, there is an obedience test. And there is a love test. If you truly know the truth, you will live. Obey by the truth. And if if you obey the truth, you will Love. And if you love, you will know. And round and round it goes in this three-point triangle. And the emphasis of our this morning, of our text this morning is love. I'll read it to you. Verse 7. Beloved, I'm writing to you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining. Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness, and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes. I'm writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake I'm writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I'm writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father. I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. Do not let the world or the things in the world, or do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world. Desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God bides forever So we see there is a good love and there is a bad love. It's not enough to say, oh, but they love Or to say, I did it out of love. There is a love which leads to death It fixes itself on passing things. And there is a love that leads to life. It fixes itself on that which is eternal. You'll see on page 7 of your bulletin, I've provided an outline of how I would break this down and how we'll think about it this morning. The first thing that you'll notice is the command to love, and that's what we find in verses 7 and 8. He tells them in verse 7 that he's writing no new commandment, but an old one, one they'd heard from the beginning. And by that I think he means the beginning of their having become Christians. He's referring to the gospel and the commands that come out of the gospel. But interestingly, you'll notice there in verse 8, he then turns around and says the opposite: that he's writing them a new command. Did you notice that? Well, which is it, John? New or old? Well, I think it's both. Keep your finger here. Turn back to John's letter, chapter 13. John's letter, book of John, chapter 13 and verse 34, Jesus says, a new command I give you Love one another. As I have loved you, you must love one another. So Jesus announced this as a new commandment, which to them, having heard it since the beginning of their faith, is an old command. Well, how do we know that this is the new old commandment that John is talking about? Well, we see that in the following verses, verses 9 to 11, which we'll get to in a moment. For now I want to simply reflect on what these verses are saying, which is, this is a commandment. God commands Christians to love. The way of obedience, let me back up to our three tests, the way of truth for a Christian, which is the way of obedience for a Christian, is in fact the way of truth Love. We may not want to love. We may not feel like loving. We may not think we have the resources in us to love. But the way of a Christian is the way of love. We're commanded to love. Now some of you may have heard the story of Hori Tin Boom. Holocaust survivor and author of the hiding place. This is a fairly common story, but I think it's worth retelling. Corey and her sister Betsy, you may recall, were arrested and placed in the Ravensbrook concentration camp. Eventually she would be released, but her sister Betsy died there. Two years after the war, in 1947, Corey was in a church in Munich giving a talk on forgiveness. It was the truth they needed most to hear in that bitter bombed-out land, as she would later say, of the occasion She concludes her talk on forgiveness, she says, and people began to exit, and then she writes this, and that's when I saw him, working his way forward against the others One moment I saw the overcoat and the brown hat, the next, almost in a kind of flashback, a blue uniform and a visored cap with its skull and crossbones It came back with a rush. The huge room with its harsh overhead lights, the pathetic piles of dresses and shoes in the center of the floor, the shame of walking naked past this man. I could see my sister's frail form ahead of me, ribs sharp beneath the parchment of skin. Betsy, how thin you were. It was the first time since my release that I'd been face to face with one of my captors, and my blood seemed to freeze. You mentioned Ravensbrook in your talk, he was saying. I was a garden there. No, he did not remember me. But since that time he went on, I have become a Christian. I know that God has forgiven me the cruel things I did there, but I would like to hear it from your lips as well, Freulein. Again, the hand came out. Will you forgive me? I stood there, I whose sins had every day to be forgiven, and could not Betsy had died in that place. Could he erase her terrible death simply for the asking It could have not been many seconds that he stood there, handheld out. But to me it seemed like hours as I wrestled with the most difficult thing I ever had to do. For I had to do it. I knew that. The message that God forgives has a prior condition that we forgive those who have injured us If you do not forgive men their trespasses, Jesus says, neither will your Father in heaven forgive your trespasses. Still I stood there with the coldness clutching my heart. But forgiveness is not an emotion. I knew that too. Forgiveness is an act of the will. And the will can function regardless the temperature of the heart Jesus, help me. I prayed silently. I can lift my hand. I can do that much. You supply the feeling And so woodenly, mechanically, I thrust my hand into the one stretched out to me. And as I did, an incredible thing took place The current started in my shoulder, raced down my arm, sprang into our joined hands. And then this healing warth warmth seemed to flood my whole being, bringing tears to my eyes. I forgive you, brother, cried. With all my heart. For a long time we grasped each other's hands, the former guard and the former prisoner I had never known God's love so intensely as I did then. Listen to Jesus' words again. A new command I give you love one another As I have loved you, so you must love one another. How did he love us? Romans 5. 8, and this is love. While we were yet sinners, Offending against him, rebelling against him, opposing him, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ's love is a forgiving love, a forbearing love, a pass-over sins love And in the same way, we are called to pass over one another's sins and offenses against each other Even from a guard in a concentration camp who would now call himself a Christian We're commanding love each other like that. But she didn't do what she said she was going to do at VBS She promised she would do those things, but she didn't do them. You're commanded to love. He's not followed through on his promises Commanded to love. You don't know how obnoxious he can be. You're commanded to love She really hurt my feelings. She never takes the time to ask me about me. She just talks about herself all the time. You're commanded to love And brothers and sisters in Christ, if you are a Christian, I know, I am confident that this kind of love has already begun in your heart. It already has begun to characterize you. How do I know that? Look at verse 8 again. This is true in Christ and in you, John says, because the darkness is passing away. And the true light is already shining. It's already begun to shine in your lives and hearts. And I know it, and you know it. Corey Tin Boom is not finally better or More heroic than you or me. The point of that story is not yay, Cory Tim Boom. It's yay, Jesus, yay, Holy Spirit, for giving such love to dead hearts. Dead hearts like hers, dead hearts like yours and mine And so I trust for every Christian in this room, you can look back to the time when you became a Christian and you can see the beginning of the changes in your own heart. Things that you formerly didn't love. Other Christians, you began to love. And some of the things that you loved before, sin. You began not to love. And you began to fight against the darkness is already passing away. And brothers and sisters, take comfort in that. But I trust each one of you can look to your own testimony or look to the testimony of your spouse or or maybe your children or your parents or others who Whom you know have come to Christ, and you can see those changing loves. The Lord is merciful. He changes our hearts so that we can obey the commandment. See? The command is a command to continue going in the way you've already begun. Command is a command to pursue more of what I know, brother and sister, you already want. This is an old command. It's a new one. You are to love But as I said a moment ago, there's more than one kind of love. There are right loves and there are wrong loves. Let's jump to the end of our passage where we see wrong loves. Look at verse 15. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. Notice how verse 15 points to two different, you might say, worlds or even universes of love Right? And notice also these are mutually exclusive universes. If anyone loves The world, living in this universe, the love of the Father is not in him. Separate universe. Okay, so what is love of the world? Does that mean love of created things, trees, mountains, babies? Or love of the good things that God gives? Steak and ice cream. No, I don't think it's what he has in mind. The world here, the world as John uses that word, is referring to, and you could even see it in the uh the previous verses, sort of the comprehensive sphere That the evil one has control over. You can see that in the language, you've overcome the evil one. The world is the comprehensive sphere over which the evil one has control. It's the fallen world in its rebellion against God. And then John illustrates for us three different pictures. Of what this rebellious world, this fallen world looks like in verse 16. You see there the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, the pride of life. Desires of the flesh refer to our bodily desires, such as desires for food or drink or physical intimacies, desires which in some sense may be God-given and are good things. But which always threaten to control us. We want them more than God. They become gods And little by little they become gluttony or alcoholism or sexual immorality Desires of the eyes refers to the cravings provoked by the things that you actually see. Now this can refer to sexual lust again, yes, but also can refer to covetousness first. Stuff and the things that other people have that you want to have. It can refer to your desire for the praise of people, living in their mouths, instead of living in the word of God. It's the impulse to live by sight. And not by faith. And then finally, Pride of Life, a striking phrase coming out of Pride Month Refers to putting your confidence in security and boasting in worldly things, such that you don't put your confidence in God, do you feel good about yourself? Do you want to feel good about yourself according to your talents, your achievements, your status, your body type, your job, what you wear? That would make you feel good. You don't need him in the morning. Now what's striking about each of these forms of love of world is how slowly and Subtly they creep in. Remember, these are two universes we talked about. And if you love the world, you don't have the love of the Father. Nonetheless, he's telling these Christians, hey, Christians, watch out of this as this, as if these things can continue to creep in. I can watch that. It's not as if it's pornography. I can I can buy that or wear that. It's not like I'm thinking that's gonna save me We make little excuses. I need to spend more time financially planning for the future. That's wisdom, right? Even as my heart goes more and more to storing up treasures on earth. One author writes, A love for the world begins in the soul. It's subtle, not always immediately obvious to others, and often undetected by people who are slowly succumbing to its lies. It begins with a dull conscience and a listless soul. Sin does not grieve him like it once did. Passion for the Savior begins to cool. Affections grow dim. Excitement lessens for participating in the local church. Eagerness to evangelize starts to wane. Growth in godliness slows to a crawl. Something I've learned about love of the world and the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and the pride of life. Is that as you experience it, it can change from decade to decade in your life. The temptations of teenagers are different than the temptations of 20 somethings and the temptations of 20 somethings different from the temptations of 30 somethings and then 40 somethings and I trust it continues I think I've shared with one or two of you how over the last year I've I've spent a lot of time sanding and then staining my deck and then buying pots and flowers and little bushes for it and kind of beautifying our back deck. Something I noticed myself doing this week after week last summer and fall and into the spring is In the mornings when I would get up and have my quiet time, and I'd sit there where I sit for my quiet times and try to read the Bible, I'd look out at the deck and then the backyard, and I couldn't concentrate, I can't concentrate on my Bible And I think about all the different things that I'd want to do, more strategies, more things to buy. And if I put a patio up there, maybe a little fire pit. And this would happen almost every day. And I could consume an entire quiet time, 30, 45 minutes, thinking about all the stuff that I wanted to do. Now am I telling you it's sin to think about your deck and to plan and to strategize for your deck? No, of course not But I want you to picture a man who, on the one hand, he has God Himself before him, and on the other hand, he has his deck before him And you spend a little time with that man, and all he ever talks about, and he talks to his wife and his kids and friends about, and all he fills his mind with is not God, but the deck. You would say that's a person who's beginning to be blinded. Doesn't see spiritual things We fill our minds with, we fill our hearts with, we fill our mouths with, we spend all our money on the things we most love. What do you most love? The deck or the one who gave the deck. The one who gives all good gifts. Now calling this the desire of the eyes is kind of my middle-aged man Version. But for you yourself, the question is, if if I were to place you right next to an unregenerate person, a person in whom the Spirit of God does not dwell And I looked at all of your thoughts and all of his thoughts and all of your ambitions and all of his ambitions and all the things you watch and all the things you listen to and How much time you spend thinking about money and the things of this world and the opinions of colleagues and all the things he watches, listens to, ambitions, how much concern he gives to the opinions of colleagues. Would I be able to tell a difference? Or would they basically look the same? The question I think we need to ask ourselves from time to time. Is the one thing that we want is to dwell in the house of the Lord and behold him in his temple and to behold and gaze upon his beauty? Is that what we want before all things? There are two universes. One in which love of world controls your heart, and one in which love of Christ controls us. And that brings us to a third point, a right love, in verses 9 to 11. Look there again, verses 9 to 11. Whoever says he is in light and hates his brother is still in darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light. In him there is no cause for stumbling. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded his eyes. The love of Christ shows itself, expresses itself, gets put into practice through love of Christ. Don't say you're in the light loving Christ and that you're a Christian if you do not love Christ's people. And you hate, fellow Christians. You're still in the darkness, says John. You're self-deceived. Few things can better picture the differences between this universe Of worldly love and that universe of the Father's love, then how we love our fellow believers. The big flashing sign which shows it What does John mean by hate here? What does he mean when he says anyone who hates his brother is still in the darkness? I don't think he's just Specifying the emotion of loathing or despising as an I hate that guy Such that we can feel like, I don't feel like I hate them. I'm probably fine. I don't think that's just what John is getting at. Rather, if you look down at verse 19. which will cover Lord willing next time I preach from this book, you'll see that John has in mind those who have separated themselves from John and the church or churches to whom he's writing. Hatred, in other words, is the posture of unrighteous and proud separation. Hatred is the posture of unrighteous and proud separation, while love is the posture of embrace and forgiveness. Love is the posture of embrace and forgiveness. Now, to be sure, there is a form of righteous separation. And there is a form of wrongful love and embrace. Don't forget the third point of the triangle I mentioned earlier, which is, or first point, which The point in this passage, however, is that love is embrace and hate is separation. And by separation, I don't necessarily mean, well, we've decided to go to another church. Rather, I mean an attitude of heart that breaks fellowship with a fellow believer and in some sense despises. feel superior to these other Christians. And to be sure this can happen inside of a church. It can happen with the people with whom you share a pew Think of Corey Tin Boom again faced with the extended hand of the Ravensbrook guard who says he's a Christian. Does she love him and accept his hand? Or does she reject him and despise his hand? Likewise, if a fellow believer has offended you, do you accept? their hand. Or maybe they haven't offended you. Maybe you just think you're better. They don't live up to your puffed up version of yourself. Do you recognize that fact? Work to climb off the high horse that you're sitting on Where do you kind of enjoy the view from up on your horse? Looking down at other Christians. As you probably know, this last year has of pandemic and elections has been a terrible, div terribly difficult one for many churches due to political divisions and divisions over how to respond to the pandemic. Many pastors have quit. I know a number of friends who have quit their jobs just exhausted. And in my travels, other pastors will often ask me, how are things going at Chevrolet Baptist? And every time I say to them, strangely unified. Brothers and sisters, I trust you have different and have had different opinions about various political matters and who to vote for. And what to think of these or those marches. I trust you've had different opinions on masks and social distancing and gathering and the things that we should do. But, brothers and sisters, you have been a model of love and unity and charity and forbearance for one another. And it's easy to commend you to other pastors and other churches. Sometimes I'm tempted to tell them, well, obviously they receive superior eldering. But I know the truth. The truth is that you have the Spirit of God in you And you commend yourself with love and care. And as you have been loved by him, so you love one another. All of your elders can testify to this. I've spoken to them. How encouraging it is to see God's work in your lives, brothers and sisters. By the same token. Let me remind you to watch out for smaller and subtler separations or hatreds of heart. The despising of a sister, the disdaining of a brother. The disregard for a spouse. Think of Peter's words. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love Covers a multitude of sins. A multitude means a lot. A lot of sins. Many sins. Love covers many a lot, a whole bunch of sins. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly Since love covers many, a bunch, a lot of sins. Keep fighting that for that, brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptist. Jonathan, you don't know what it's like to try to love this person. This person has been offensive to me. I trust that's true. I trust I don't know what it's like to be in all of your shoes. I trust I don't know how hard it is to forgive some of the people in your life. I believe that the sins and crimes committed against you, the offenses committed against you, have been very real. They are offensive So offensive that Christ died for them, had to die for them in order to forgive them. They are big offenses. The things committed to you are big offenses. I do not mean to diminish them or downplay them, if anything. I would say they're bigger than you probably think, again, because the Son of God had to die for them. But it's right there that we hold on to the Son of God died for them. And the Son of God had to die for you too. There is no superiority or inferiority at the foot of the cross. And so we live at the foot of the cross. Because it's only there we find what we need to love one another, even as he has loved us And that brings us to the fourth point, the source of love, verses 12 to 14. John Knows how hard it is to love like this, and so he reminds them of the gospel. Look at verse 12 and following. I am writing to you, little children, by which I I understand him to mean young believers, new believers. Because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. I am writing to you, fathers. I understand him to mean mature Christians, because you know him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men meaning Christians somewhere in the middle, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father. I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. Just looking at these verses, notice what he he points to after the word because each time, right? Because your sins are forgiven. Because you know him. Because you have overcome. Because you know the Father. Because you know him. Because you are strong and God's word is in you and you've overcome. What does he point to? He points three times. You know. You know. You know. And twice, you've overcome. You've overcome And at the beginning of it all, you're forgiven. You know him. You're forgiven. You know him. You know the one in heaven who was from the beginning, who forgave. You know him, saints. There's two universes of love. And members of Chevrolet Baptist Church, you have been forgiven of sin and entered the universe. Of God's love. And you know him. So let me remind you of what you know. You know God. Is there anything better than God? Anything in this world, in that first universe, better than him Any grudge, any bitterness of heart that you're holding on to, that's better than him. The Father. Anything that makes you feel superior to other Christians, that's superior to him You know the Father, who is from the beginning, forgiven you, He loves you. If you're visiting this morning and you do not understand yourself to be a Christian, realize that what I'm talking about right now is the very heart of Christianity. This is the gospel itself, that God created us good. To love him and follow him and pursue him. But we we've chosen to pursue ourselves and our own loves. We've chosen the wrong universe, you might say But then the Son of God, Jesus Christ Himself, came, put on flesh, lived the life that we should have lived, the perfect life we should have lived, went to the cross Paid the penalty on the cross that you and I, friend, deserve, so that all who repent of their sins, turn away from their sins, Trust him and follow him in this universe of love. I'm done with the universe of worldly love and I'm I'm Father, I need your forgiveness and I'm holding on to your love. My only hope now, Father, is your love and your forgiveness We'll have eternal life. We'll know him. We'll know that love. If you have questions about this, friend, I'd love to talk to you afterwards. Talk to the friend who you came with this morning. Nothing more important than you can hear. There's two universes of love. One's about you. It's a passing universe. It's a universe that leads to death. And there's a universe of love, which is eternal And friend, all you gotta do is repent and follow after him. Put your faith in him. Again, please, please talk to me afterwards if you have more questions about this. This afternoon, I do hope we all enjoy Independence Day celebrations in one form or another And I believe that we should thank God for the good things that He has provided this country, even as we work against some of the bad things. I'm not going to tell you that you have to adopt my view of American history, how good it is, or how bad it is in the balance. Our judgments about American history are not what unite us at the Lord's table. We're free to have different views of that. But to fail to thank God for the good things He's given, I would say, is to despise a gift. From the Lord. That said, love of country at its best is finally a pointer, a school, a lesson in leading us toward an even higher love, C. S. Lewis believed, the love of God and God's people. Let me quote from an essay on this topic by Eric Patterson. He said, Thus, for Lewis, the rightly ordered love of patriotism points us to ultimate loves, including love of God. And here you might remember the little mouse, Reap a Cheap? The Chronicles of Narnia. He says, Lewis's famous knight, the mouse Repacheep, in the Chronicles of Narnia, is a case in point. Reapach loves his comrade knights loves his homeland and serves his country valiantly, but these loves pull him up and outside of himself, not into himself. His love of Narnia ultimately creates a deeper longing in him. He wants to seek the higher love, which in this case is a portrait of heaven called Aslan's country. I guess what I'm saying is as we celebrate Independence Day Kind of be like we're to be like Repacheep the mouse. But the good things about this country point you to a higher country, Aslan's country, the Father in Heaven's country. And let all your loves and all your hates be ordered by your membership there, the universe. The Father's love. The universe, friends, in which you've been forgiven, and in which you know him who is from the beginning And who will endure beyond the end? Father, we thank you for the good things that you give us. Things like our family, things like food that we'll enjoy this afternoon, things like even this nation. And yet, Lord, help us to not turn these love in on themselves as if they are the ultimate things, but to remember forever that they are merely good gifts from you. Help give us give ourselves over to the love of you and to your people. Forgive us for where we have failed to do that. Thank you for the forgiveness we've known that we've experienced in the love of Christ. Now help us to love Him and one another In Christ's name, Amen