Good morning friends. How's everyone doing? Good. It's good to see you all here on this rainy day. Good to see you all being able to smile on this rainy day. Uh sometimes it's difficult. Difficult even for me. Wake up and see the rain outside and just kind of want to stay in bed, right? Chilly and rainy outside. It's kind of the perfect perfect setting to stay in bed. Hold on one sec Uh kids, one more thing before we get started. And this is not I know when I use the word kids, I'm kind of grouping you all together, and you're not all the same. Different ages, different levels of maturity, but for the kids, from the youngest to the oldest, the youth, the teenagers even here. We have those bulletins on the back table. They're kind of sermon guides for you all to hopefully be able to follow along a little bit easier in the sermon. So if you don't have one of those. you can run back to that back table now uh and grab one. So I hope it's useful for you all. And uh if you ever fill yours out and you want to share it with me. I would love to see that. You can just come find me at the door after the service. Some of the kids come by and they show me their sheets, and I love seeing what they're getting from the sermons. So I'm encouraged by that. Friends, I'm going to go ahead and pray for us one more time, and then we're going to dive into God's word. Let's pray. Righteous are you, O Lord, and right are your rules. You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness. Your testimonies are righteous forever Give us understanding this morning that we may live. We pray this in Jesus' name. So I want to start out with a hand raised question. Let me see a show of hands. How many of you have seen the movie Amadeus? Raise your hand. Raise them high. Keep them up. Alright, so we have a decent number of people in the crowd who've who've seen the movie Amadeus. I want to throw this another question out to one of you. This is for you to answer. You can just shout it out. Who are the two main characters in the plot of Amadeus? Who are the two main characters? What's your name in the back? Claire? What are the names? Mozart and Salieri. Well done, Claire. So if you haven't seen the movie, Amadeus is a Well, uh it's a little bit old now, so it came out in the mid-1980s, and the movie itself revolves around, it's a plot revolving around two men. A very talented composer by the name of Antonio Salieri. And because it involves Mozart, we might think this is a true story, but it's a largely fictional account. But it revolves around a very talented composer, Antonio Salieri. And an even more talented, wildly talented, prodigious, uh prodigiously talented composer by the name of Mozart Uh and what we find out in the story is that Salieri uh is a uh he he's a God-fearing man. Uh we learn in the plot that he is somebody who who loves the Lord or claims to love the Lord, and he he fears God so much that he even pledges to make great sacrifices in his life. If God would only give him the gift of being one of the greatest composers alive. And it seems like, as you're watching the movie, it seems like God does answer his request. Uh Salieri is promoted to become the high court composer for the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II, which basically is like the highest job in the land for a composer, and Salieri is rejoicing in his position. But that's Right about the time that we meet his arch nemesis, Mozart. Mozart comes onto the scene, not a God-fearing man at all, a completely immoral man, really, just wildly, just living life all over the place, doing whatever he wants to do And his talent just completely blows Salieri's talent out of the water. And immediately the Holy Roman Emperor sees Mozart's talent and forgets about Salieri and what happens to Salieri. He becomes consumed by envy. Envy. He sees what Mozart has. He sees Mozart's talents. Not only does he want Mozart's talents, but he doesn't think that Mozart should have those talents. He's the God-fearing man. He's the one who's committed to following the Lord. The Lord should be answering his prayers. Why on earth would somebody as immoral as Mozart be given the gifts that he has? He deserves it. And we watch as the movie unfolds. You see how Salieri's life is consumed with envy and he just descends into this envious abyss until we come to the end of the movie and the end of his life where he is a frail decrepit man passed away in an asylum and he still can't get out of his mind. Mozart, I want his gifts. Envy had literally consumed him. I bring that plot up and I bring that movie up because we find in our passage this morning we're studying Psalm 73. And in our passage this morning, we meet a man who is struggling greatly with envy. He's on the verge of being consumed by it. He's on the verge of falling into this abyss, the same abyss that Salieri fell into. But what we find in the psalm is that our psalmist isn't finally consumed by envy He comes to a place of contentment and even humility and joy in God. And what we want to look at in our passages is how. How did this man go from a place of envying others to a place of joyful contentment in the Lord? So I want to encourage you to open to Psalm 73 in your Bibles. I hope you have it. Hey, we're going to be looking at this passage. We're really going to be looking at almost every line of this psalm at some point during the sermon this morning. So I want to encourage you. to have your Bible open in front of you. If you're using one of the Bibles we provided, you'll find Psalm 73 on pages 485 and 486. And if you don't own a Bible of your own, we want you to take this Bible as a gift from us to you. We think there's nothing more important in your life than to have a copy of God's Word and to study it for yourself. So please take one of these copies for yourself. I'm going to go ahead and read Psalm 73 in its entirety for us now. Psalm 73. A Psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, steps had nearly slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked For they have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore, pride is their necklace Violence covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness, their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens and their tongue struts through the earth. Therefore his people turn back to them and find no fault in them. And they say, How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the wicked, always at ease. They increase in riches. All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning If I had said thus, I will speak thus, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. When I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end Truly, you set them in slippery places. You make them fall to ruin. How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors, like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when you rouse yourself. You despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant. I was like a beast toward you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you. But for me, it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. This is God's word. Now friends, what Psalm 73 so beautifully captures for us is a change in perspective. A change in perspective. We see two perspectives in the psalm. We see an envious earthly perspective. That then changes to a humble heavenly perspective. And what we want to focus on this morning is not only understanding those two perspectives. but coming to better understand what it is that could have possibly caused that change to occur. So for all of us here this morning, whether we're struggling with envy or not this morning, this is something that we are all going to be tempted to in this life, whether we're Christians or not Christians. This is something that we all will struggle with. And so we want to be armed, equipped for those times in life where we are tempted to look at what others have. hate that they have it and then desire it for ourselves and become bitter towards God when they have those things that we so desperately want. So we want to understand this morning. how we can be prepared for those times. So first, the thing I want us to look at first is the psalmist's envious earthly perspective. Look back at verse 3 with me. The psalmist shares about a struggle he had with envy. He's looking back on a past struggle. And he says, For I was Envio of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity, the wicked He's envious of the prosperity and the ease and the comfort of people who don't follow the Lord. So just a quick question for the kids. I want to want to ask to see if you guys know what this means. What is envy? Does anyone want to try to provide a definition for envy, Lois? Envy is jealousy. How would you define jealousy? wanting something that someone else has. I think that's definitely partly, if not mostly, correct. Envy is composed of jealousy. It's wanting what someone else has, but envy takes it a step further. Envy doesn't just want what someone else has, it begins to hate them for having it. It sees itself in light of what others have and sees itself as having less than them and what can happen in someone's heart, especially if they follow the Lord, what we see in our passage this morning is envy then creates bitterness. It creates bitterness. It's a little bit more caustic, a little bit more. toxic than jealousy. It's not only desiring what other people have, but hating that they have it and becoming bitter because of it. And we see that he desires what other people have. He's already told us that he's envious of their prosperity, but he gives us some specifics. Look at verses 4 and 5. He focuses on the comfort they experience. He says, they have no pangs until death. This is basically saying they live an easy life until they die, right? We all are going to die someday. But these people seem to have it made. Their whole life is just ease and comfort until they die. Then he says in verse 5, he says uh or verse the end of verse 4, their bodies are fat and sleek. It's not an image that makes sense to us, but this is a foreign culture to us. It's like saying in our day, it's like saying they're healthy and strong. They have everything they need. They have an abundance. Their life is easy. They're healthy. They're filled with bigger. Then verse 5 They're not in trouble as others are. They're not stricken like the rest of mankind. You see him. He's seeing this happen. It's not just in a moment. It's over and over again. He's seeing and continuing to see their prosperity. And he looks at them. He just says They they seem to live life outside of the curse, outside of the fall. Everyone else has problems. The people who follow the Lord, we have hardships, but they have easy, perfect lives, and the psalmist is envious of them. But then you see what also happens if we look at these verses. He starts looking at their character, and he's not envious of their character. He's not wanting to be like them. What's he doing? He's hating them for having the prosperity that they have because he's saying they don't deserve it. Look at what he says in verse 6. Verses 6 to 11 is a catalog of all the ways they don't deserve it. Verse 6, they're prideful and violent Verse 7. They constantly plot evil. You see this image of the fatness of their eyes. If kids, have you ever seen a uh a cartoon where the the characters' eyes are popping out of their heads because they're They're amazed or surprised at something. Well, the image of fatness of the eyes is these people look at constantly plotting evil and they do it and they think of more. Their eyes are just always popping out of their head. They're constantly thinking of ways of carrying out wickedness. And he said, he kind of defines that for us in verse 7. Their eyes swell out through fatness, their heart overflows with follies. They're just kind of always thinking of evil. Then in verses 8 and 9, they threaten and oppress people. And if that's not bad enough, look at verse 11. They mock God. I mean he's looking at them and saying that they don't deserve any of this. They don't deserve the prosperity they have. And because he doesn't think that they deserve it, notice what happens in his heart. becomes bitter towards God. Look at verse 21. As he's thinking back on this struggle that he had with envy, notice how he describes himself. When I was embittered. I was pierced in my heart. He's bitter with God. And notice why. It's not just that they don't deserve their prosperity. It's that he deserves it. Look at verses 13 and 14. Well, in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. You notice there what's going on there It's kind of a subtle a subtle revealing of works-based religion. He thinks, I have done the things you've asked me to, therefore you deserve to give me this kind of prosperity, right? It's works. based religion. And he thinks this is pointless. Why am I doing these things if it's not gaining me the prosperity that I desire? And there's a sense here in which he's saying, look, Lord, I've done what you've asked me to. I've done these things. I'm trying to follow you. I'm trying to be pure in heart. And in verse 14, look, all you've rewarded me with is hardship. He experiences afflictions all the day long. Every morning he says, this is what his life consists of. I'm sure some of you are here, and you know, many of you I trust are following the Lord and desiring to follow Him. I'm sure that this psalm makes sense to you. I I think there's a way in which we can relate to this psalmist. Think about maybe one one particular circumstance. Let's say you're an employee and uh at your job as you follow the Lord, you're trying to do everything above board. Right, you're trying to be honest in the way you go about your work. You're not trying to be underhanded. You don't lie about other coworkers. You're not trying to deceive others. And you have another co-worker who does Just kind of all over the place, whether it's a a guy or a girl, they they are dishonest. They don't do their work well. They take shortcuts and then time for a promotion comes and bam, who does the boss choose? Not you. All in vain. Lord, am I washing my hands in this innocence for nothing? I deserve that job. I deserve that role. That was for me. See how easily we can relate this psalm to to real life. Maybe you've been sacrificing your desires financially. to give to the work of the ministry here, being generous with what you have. But then you look at your neighbors who don't follow with the Lord and they they spend their money on vacations and exotic dinners and they're traveling the world and they're Instagram about all the amazing places they go and I could be doing that if I would give my money to that. Lord, they are experiencing ease and comfort. And I I can't see any of the fruit that's happening at this church. What am I giving my money to? You see how we can relate this psalm right into real life? And so a lot of us tend to respond the way the psalmist does. This isn't fair. I've done everything that I'm supposed to do. I deserve the prosperity that they're enjoying. It should be mine. All I have are hardships. And in one sense, responding that way is understandable, but we need to be a people who are warned by the dangers of envy, and so we become proactive in fighting against envy. I mean, consider the poisonous effects of envy. Notice. This takes place over a period of time. This is a prolonged struggle that he has with envy. Notice how it affected his entire experience. He went from seeing the prosperity of others. And surely at first it was just like, okay, it doesn't make sense, but okay. And then he's just, then he's seeing it over and over again. He's like, no, wait, this this isn't this isn't fair. Then he begins seeing them and judging them. No, they are wicked. They don't deserve what they have. And then he gets to the point where it affects his relationship with God. God, what is wrong with you? You're not giving me the things that I deserve. You see how it's poisoned his whole perspective. But those are the things that just happen on the outside. There are other effects that envy has that are right underneath the surface but are no less devastating. I want you to notice first how envy distorts reality. Envy distorts reality. When the psalmist sees their prosperity, he concludes. They don't experience troubles that everyone else experience. They seem to be immune from the troubles that afflict the rest of mankind, but is that true? Of course not. There isn't a person on earth who falls outside of the curse who doesn't experience the aches and the pains of this life. But envy is like an Instagram filter over your eyes, right? It's the perfection filter. You apply it to everyone else's life and you begin to see the people that you're envious of is like, no, no, no, it's not just that they have everything, but their life is perfect. It distorts true reality. Nobody's life is perfect. Nobody is immune to the troubles of mankind, but that's not what envy does. It corrupts how we see reality. But I also want us to see how it erodes our joy. It erodes our joy. Notice how he describes himself in verse 21. He's embittered. Bitterness has now filled his heart. Tim Chales is an author and he noted that envy is unique among the sins because envy is one of those sins that you never enjoy. Now as Christians say no sin is enjoyable. True but not true. Some sins actually produce a fleeting joy, a temporary joy, but envy doesn't. Envy produces only bitterness. Most other sins offer at least a fleeting taste of joy, but envy produces bitterness, and it produces bitterness because we begin to see ourselves only in comparison to those who have more than us. We don't see the good that we have. It just produces bitterness and unhappiness in us. And it blinds us to the good things we do have. We've talked about how it causes us to focus on those who have more than us. And I think a great illustration of this comes from a man named John Gilgud. He was a brilliant actor and theater director in the 20th century, uh, a British man. Uh he racked up leading roles. and awards all over the place for his acting and his directing. And he, I think, wanted the lead role in uh Hamlet, but he didn't get the lead role in Hamlet. It came to a man named Laurence Olivier. And Gilgudd said this about Olivier's performance. When I saw Lawrence Olivier play Hamlet, and I heard the critics rave, I wept. I wept. The man had everything an actor could want. Worldwide acclaim, leading roles, and awards, but he was bitter. Because he only saw himself in comparison to Olivier. And what Olivier had. He wept. That's what envy does. Produces bitterness. But envy isn't just directed at people who don't follow the Lord, is it, right? I I I think it's actually going to be more common for us who are members of Chevrolet Baptist Church to direct our envy at other members of the church who are following the Lord. So Thomas Mann, a German novelist, said this about envy. We're most we're most always or almost always most vulnerable to envying those closest to our own gifts and callings. Musicians generally envy musicians. So think of Gilga, the actor, envying the other actor, Olivier. Musicians generally envy musicians, not politicians. Politicians envy other politicians. Sports people other sports people professors other professors ministers other ministers Right, so think about the people, how many people are in similar stages of life to you today, and the various ways that you can fall prey to envying them. And this is why we need to think about how dangerous envy is and be proactive in fighting it in our hearts because envy Envy turns the Bible's teaching on its head and threatens to destroy the unity of the church. Right, Thomas Aquinas, when he thought about envy, he came up with a brilliant definition. If you want to walk away with a one-sentence definition, envy, he said, is sorrow at another's joy. Sorrow at another's joy. That is envy. And so you see how envy is so destructive to the unity of the church. You see how it It tips the Bible's teaching on its head. We're called to rejoice with those who rejoice and to mourn with those who mourn. But we can't possibly rejoice with them when they have what we want. Instead, envy sadly trains us to rejoice when others mourn, and mourn when others rejoice Dorothy Sayer said this about envy. She captured this sentiment well. She said, envy is the great leveler. It is the great leveler. If it cannot level things up. It will level things down. Rather than have anyone happier than itself, it will see us all miserable together You think about if we're envious as one another and people are coming in, if you're visiting with us today, uh we're so thankful that you're here. Jonathan welcomed you this morning already. I want to I want to welcome you to our gathering. And to Chevrolet Baptist Church, we're thrilled that you're here. We hope that you find Chevrolet Baptist Church to be a warm, joyful, and welcoming place But what you can find is that if if we're a people who are envying one another, it's not gonna be those things because we're gonna be mournful and bitter that others have what we don't have, right? So you see how important it is for us as a church to fight against envy. Not all envy does. I want you to see in our passage how envy, if you're a Christian, can threaten faith. Look at verse 2. He's looking back on his struggle with envy and he says, my foot had almost slipped. This is the Old Testament language used for backsliding. You were in the Old Testament on one path or another. You were on the path of righteousness or the path of wickedness. And he's on the path of righteousness, one who's fighting to follow the Lord, and he's almost slipping and stumbling onto the other path. He's in danger of walking away from God to get what other people had. Envy, right? Seems like such a small. thing that has such devastating consequences, right? It can be like a little spark in your heart, in your soul. That if given fuel, it can turn into a fire, and if given even more fuel, it can turn into an inferno that consumes your entire faith I think a great illustration of this. This is remarkable. I I when I first read the story, I had to reread it to actually to actually grasp what was being said. But there's a town in Pennsylvania, a county or a town, Centralia, Pennsylvania. And what happened in Centralia, Pennsylvania was that 56 years ago, 56 years ago, uh Centralia is a mining town. Uh but when coal went out of fashion uh during the middle of the 20th century, uh the the mining industry in Centralia dried up, so they had a bunch of unused strip mines. And in 1952, I think it was, 56, right around there, uh, or 1962, um, a residence, some residents of Centralia took their trash, threw it in an old strip mine And lit it on fire to burn it, to get rid of it. But what happened was the burning trash ignited a large seam of coal underneath the strip min. It ignited the coal underground, caught fire, and over the last 56 years there has been an inferno churning under the town of Centralia. And back when the fire first started, there were 1,000 residents and a town. But the fire began causing sinkholes. And it caused sulfur to come up through the road and it caused the roads to disintegrate. It destroyed the whole landscape. And it went from a thousand people in 1962 to 13 people in 2009. And now it's a completely abandoned town. What? They just lit some trash on fire, and now there is a fire burning under that town that has consumed the entire town. And it took what 60 years to do it. Envy, friends, like that trash you light on fire. It can catch your soul on fire. And it may burn slowly, but it will burn consistently and it will burn hotly until it can be. consumes everything. We need to be careful about envy in our hearts. But we also should recall that this psalm doesn't end with the psalmist abandoning his faith, does it? It doesn't abandon, he doesn't abandon his faith. Instead, it ends with him remembering God's goodness to him. So how does he make this change? How does this change in perspective happen? He moves to a humble heavenly perspective. Look at verses 16 and 17. But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task. He's essentially done with his life. Until, until verse 17, I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end. Sanctuary refers to the tabernacle and later the temple. It was the place that God dwelled specifically and specially among the people of Israel. And it was coming into God's presence in the tabernacle that caused him to begin changing his perspective. And the reason that it began changing his perspective is because in the sanctuary of God, he was reminded of the judgment that would one day come on the wicked, on the people that he was envying. And the reason that the sanctuary would have reminded him of that is because as he came through the main entrance of the sanctuary, as the tabernacle lay in the distance, he would have been confronted by the bronze altar. And what was the altar? It was the place where God poured out his wrath on sin, as animal sacrifices were offered for sin. And as he sees the place where sin is punished. Where God's holy and righteous anger is poured out, his whole perspective begins to change. Look at what he says in verses 18 to 20. Truly, you set them in slippery places. No longer are they stable in their prosperity, but now after seeing how God judges sin and what he will do to those who Fill up on the comforts of this world rather than following him. He he begins to see no that you're actually in slippery places Now they're destroyed in a moment. When he looks at their lifestyles from the perspective of the final judgment, he doesn't see health, wealth, and happiness anymore. No, standing with God at the altar, seeing God's judgment against sin, he sees the judgment that God has planned for all who faithlessly choose not to follow him. and instead fill up on the comforts of this life and the fleeting joys of sin. The final judgment brings his envy into perspective. Right? It brings his envy into perspective. Now, while we don't have a physical sanctuary to visit, Right? Or a bronze altar to see God has actually given to us today a clearer picture of the judgment that He has planned against sin than an animal being sacrificed upon the altar outside of the temple. You see the sanctuary of God and the altar as a place where God would punish sin and the animal that was offered to pay for sins all find their fulfillment in Jesus Christ. Jesus was the true dwelling place of God. In Christ, God became flesh and dwelt among us, literally tabernacled among us. He was the true tabernacle of God. And it was on the wooden altar of the cross that we see God's judgment poured out on sin. Right? And it's we see that the animal that was offered to pay for sin finds its fulfillment in the spotless Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. It's on the cross that we see the judgment that God has planned for all who faithlessly reject God and seek health, wealth, and prosperity in this life. And it's on the cross that we see God's judgment also poured out on the envy that we so often entertain. Right, it's only through encountering God's judgment against sin that the psalmist develops a heavenly and humble perspective. He not only has a new perspective on the people that he was once envious of, he also has a new humble and heavenly perspective of himself. Look at verses 21 and 22. He's looking back on his bitterness and he says, when my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant I was like a beast towards you. This is a remarkable statement. I don't know if you if you're anything like me. When I confess sin, I confess sin and While I'm confessing it, I'm also giving reasons why it was kind of justified in my mind, and I maybe even saying those out loud. I confess it, but But you know you did kind of annoy me there, right? Right? I'm sorry for being angry at you, but you kind of deserved it. Is that what he does here No, he looks at his bitterness towards God, completely abandons all self-justification. He says, I was ignorant. I was ignorant. Let this inform your approach to confessing sin. Be transparent. This is what sin looks like in the presence of a holy God. He's looking back on his envy, his bitterness, and his anger towards God for not giving him what he thought he deserved, and now he's saying, I was completely ignorant. And why? Why is he saying that? Because of the way that envy reveals doubt in God. It reveals doubt first in God's sovereignty. It says to God, I don't believe that the circumstances you've ordained for my life are the ones that I should have. I don't believe you have a sufficient reason not to give me what I deserve and what I believe that I deserve. But when he comes into God's presence, he sees how foolish that is. Confronted by the sheer awesomeness of the tabernacle and what it communicated about the majesty of the holy, holy, holy God that we sang about, he sees his bitterness now for what it truly was. And this is Job's experience too, isn't it? Right? You think about the end of the book of Job after Job has complained against God for the truly terrible circumstances of his life. Truly terrible. But he's complained against God throughout the book, hasn't sinned against him, but he's been complaining. And then what does God do at the end? God shows up, and for three straight chapters. He walks Job by the hand through testimony after testimony of his sovereign power and wisdom. And what does Job say when God is done speaking? I cover on my mouth. I'm never gonna speak again. I repent in dust, in ashes God is sovereign. The circumstances that he ordained for your life, though difficult, friends, we all experience difficult circumstances are meant for our good in some way in God's mysterious sovereignty. He is working good through it. And we have proof on the cross because in God's sovereign wisdom he ordained a plan that his son should come to die in our place. A horrible circumstance, but through that brought amazing good, incalculable good, good that you and I will benefit from for eternity. But not only does envy cause us to doubt God's sovereignty, it also causes us to doubt God's goodness. It causes to say, I don't believe that you're good. Because if you were good, you would give me what I wanted. You would give me what I wanted. You must not be good because you've given good things to other people who don't deserve it But when we meditate on that gospel, and we meditate on what Christ did for us, we come into the presence of Jesus. Hanging on the cross, bearing the punishment for the sins that we committed We come into the presence of Jesus who willingly received what he did not deserve. so that we could receive what we did not deserve. And in coming into his presence on the cross, any notion that God has not been good to us should be wiped away. Repent. You have been good I don't get it. I don't see the whole picture. And I can admit that. You are good. Consider his goodness to us in the cross. In Christ, we've received every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. In him, we've received adoption as God's children In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. Glory In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined, according to him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, and in him we were sealed. with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance, none of which we deserve. but all of which he has freely lavished upon us according to the riches of his grace Has God not been good to his people? In light of the cross that we can stand with the psalmist and say about our envy and bitter complaining, we were ignorant, oh God. We're ignorant Listen to what Charles Spurgeon said about this. You want to think about how I can become a less envious person. He said the cure for envy lies in living under a constant sense of the divine presence. Presence. Worshiping God and communing with Him all the day long, however long the day may seem. True religion Lifts the soul into a higher region where the judgment becomes more clear and the desires are more elevated. The more of heaven there is in our lives, the less of earth we shall covet. Fear of God casts envy out of man. The more of heaven there is in our lives. the less of earth we shall covet. This is so true. And this is what the psalmist experience. Look at verses 25 and 26. Look down there. God has become his only desire. Regardless of whether his body fails and he loses all that he has, he knows that God is his strength. Body weak and failing, God is my strength. Not only is my strength, I no longer desire the prosperity and the comfort of the world because God is my portion forever. Forever. But Jonathan talked about this at the beginning, right? Many of us come in each Sunday. I know I do. Try. Not feeling like God is my portion forever feels like I I just don't understand that. That doesn't make sense to me. Maybe meditating some on the gospel has stirred your affections a little, but you can't relate to what the psalmist is saying here. Does that mean that you've failed in some way and that you are there therefore excluded from God's people? No. Long as we're alive, as long as we're alive in this world, we will struggle with sin. We're going to struggle with feeling spiritually dry or distant from God, and we're going to continue to struggle with envy. It's going to be present. Notice who the psalm was written by. It's a psalm of Asaph. It's a little nugget for us. Asaph was the chief worship leader at the temple. Turn to 1 Chronicles 16. David appoints Asaph to lead worship at the temple. Not just like a single worship leader at some you know church out in the country, the worship leader over all Israel. This righteous man struggled with envy to the point of almost falling away. Something that we're all going to struggle with at some point or another. He struggled to believe that God was his only portion, but his struggle occurred over a long period of time, and during that period of time, he was probably in the temple a ton. Right, this doesn't mean he came into the temple one time and everything got figured out, right? This was a prolonged struggle. And as the chief worship leader, he's in the temple, he's in the temple a ton. But finally, over time, it began to click It began to click and he came to understand God's goodness more and more. And that's the way that it's going to happen with us. We're not going to show up one Sunday and just done with envy. Figured it out. God is good forever. This is a recurring struggle. This is why we need to come every Sunday to be here, to be reminded of God's promise to us in the gospel. And his promise to us in the gospel is that he will slowly Sanctify each of us as he brings us on a journey towards understanding that he is our portion and our strength. God knows that you're not going to be perfect. Look at how the psalm begins. Look at verse 1. Surely God is good to Israel To those who are pure in heart. Notice he doesn't say to those who are perfect in heart. To those who are pure in heart. The pure in heart in the Old Testament are those who know that they've sinned. Who've come to God believing his promise to provide a sacrifice for their sins and who commit to following him. That's the pure in heart. The friend, if you're in that struggle, this psalm is for you. You are the pure in heart. And just as though just to those who are pure in heart, we see also, as we continue to struggle with envy and bitterness towards God and doubting his goodness, God displays his goodness to us by personally taking us by the hand and keeping us from falling off the ledge. Notice how he said his feet were slipping. He had almost stumbled. Look at verse 23. Even as you are stumbling, struggling with envy, nevertheless, I am continually with you. Why? You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel. You receive me into glory. Nevertheless, he's saying, even when I was struggling, it was you who was holding me. And it's the same for us. As we continue to struggle and stumble through this life, God holds our right hand. And as he holds our right hand, he guides us with his counsel and he will bring us to glory. The grace of the gospel is that for all who struggle with envy, not that we save ourselves by gritting our teeth and bearing it and overcoming it by our own power. The grace of the gospel is this. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, He saved us. Not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. Surely God is good Israel. Those who are pure in heart. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, not to us, not to us, but to you be the glory. Lord, we are a people who struggle to believe that you are our portion We are people who struggle to believe that you are our strength. Help us, O Lord, to fix our eyes on the riches that you have given us in Christ. To fill us up more with heaven, that there might be less desiring of earth in us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.