Well, friends, it's right for us before we turn to God's word to ask him for wisdom, to ask him for insight. So pray again with me one more time briefly before we open God's word. Let's pray. Unless the Lord builds a house, the laborers labor in vain. Now, Father, it's not our desire to do anything in vain this morning. And so we pray that you would be glorified as the carpenter and builder of this house as we depend upon you for all things. And so we ask that you would grant your spirit To give us insight and wisdom in accordance with your word. Speak to us through your spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if I were to ask you what speech has most impacted the world that we live in, what speech would come to mind? Uh I assume that some of you might think about uh Patrick Henry's Give Me Liberty or Give Me Death speech address. Or some of you may think about uh Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, which as a speech clocked in at a mere 272 words, which if you're speaking at the normal rate, it's which normal rate of speaking is 100 words a minute That's a two and a half minute speech that was very powerful, uh, if it lasted two and a half minutes. Uh or maybe you think about Martin Luther King's uh Martin Luther King Jr. 's speech, I have a dream. Uh why do we why do we think of these speeches? Well, I think the reason that we think of these speeches is because the messages that they proclaimed contained in them to change the power to change the world around them. And each of those speeches very much did change the world around them in different ways. Henry's impassioned speech helped to bring about the Revolutionary War Uh Lincoln's message at Gettysburg called the warring states to remember the principles upon which the country was founded, and King's message delivered to over 250,000 people served as a defining moment in the civil rights movement in America. Yet all of these messages, all of these speeches and scores of other well-known speeches that have been delivered throughout the history of the world. Pale in comparison to the speech or the message that you'll hear this morning Now, I don't mean to say that the sermon I'm about to deliver to you is the most important speech or message that you'll ever hear in your life. Instead My sermon is about the most important message that you'll hear in your life. It would be a bit pretentious of me to say that my sermon this morning is the most important message you'll hear in your life. Your life definitely is not. So what I want you to do is I want you to open in your Bibles to First Corinthians fifteen. We're going to be looking this morning at verses one to eleven. And verses one to eleven of First Corinthians fifteen contain in it the most important message that you'll ever hear in your entire life. It's the the most important speech that has ever been given. And it's pretty brief, but we'll see also How unbelievably powerful it is. And if you're using one of the Bibles that we provided, you can find our passage this morning on page 961. And one other thing that we like to point out each Sunday is that if you don't have a Bible of your own, we want to encourage you to take a copy that we've provided. There really is nothing more powerful. uh or more wonderful that we would want you to have than a copy of God's word for yourself. So you can take that as a gift from us to you this Easter morning. A bit of context to our letter. Paul, the Apostle Paul, wrote this letter to the Corinthian church. The Corinthian church was in uh Western Asia, in the area of Turkey. uh that he'd helped to establish on a missionary journey there about three years earlier. His letter is filled with instruction on a bunch of different topics. The people in Corinth had written to Paul asking him about different uh ways and different ways to apply the gospel in their life. And so he was writing to them about that. But he also wrote to them because he was concerned that they were compromising their faith And in the passage that we're studying this morning, Paul is reminding them of what he taught them years earlier about the message of Christianity. So it seems that they were in danger of letting go, of not holding fast to some of Christianity's core doctrines, some of its non negotiables. And in our passage, he reiterates for them the message of Christianity, the gospel, the good news. And we want to see what Paul says to them. And what we can learn about that message today. So I'm going to read for us verses 1 to 11 of chapter 15. You can follow along. This is God's word. Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved. If you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than 500 brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me Whether then it was I or they, so we preach, and so you believed What do we learn about this most important message that you'll ever hear in your entire life? This message of Christianity? We learn that the message of Christianity is simple. It's true, it demands a response, and it's a message of grace If you're taking notes this morning, which I would encourage you to, so that you can reflect on what you've heard here this morning in the week to come, those are going to be the four points of our sermon this morning. We learned that the message of Christianity is simple It's true, it demands a response, and it's a message of grace. So first, the message of Christianity is simple. Go ahead and look down with me at your Bibles at verses 3 to 8. In verse 3, we see the kind of the beating heart of this message. Paul says, For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. So Paul's recounting when he first shared the good news of Christianity with the Corinthians on his missionary journey there. And what he's about to remind them of, what we see in the passage, is that this is of first importance. Right, so it's maybe helpful for you to know that Christianity teaches many things, but most of those many things are not the main things. But what Paul is about to share with the Corinthians are the main things, the things that are of First importance. They are primary, foundational, and fundamental to understanding Christianity. Get these right and you understand Christianity. Get these wrong and you don't understand Christian Christianity. So what are those things that are of first importance? Look at verses 3 and 4 again. For I delivered you as of first importance what I also received. that Christ died for our sins, in accordance with the Scriptures, that He was buried, and that He was raised on the third day, in accordance with the Scriptures, and that He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve So, though there are four things that Paul mentions in actuality, there are really two things here that form the heart of the Christian message, and these are the two things that Paul says happened in accordance with the scriptures. The first that we see there is that Christ died for our sins. For our sins, both yours and mine. So if you're not all that familiar with the Bible or what Christian with what Christianity teaches, it may be helpful to understand that the Bible teaches that you and I, as surprising as it may sound, are guilty of nothing less than cosmic rebellion. Against the God who created us. Our lives have been marked by all types of things that are breaking God's law. They are violations of God's law. Think of this, think of envy. Strife, anger, deceit, maliciousness. Think of gossip or slander The way that the Bible says that we've been haters of God, as odd as that may sound to our ears, the Bible describes being haters of God as those who are rude, arrogant, proud. It says we've been foolish and faithless and heartless and ruthless, and though we know that God exists, we have chosen to acknowledge him. This is the cosmic rebellion that the Bible Describes taking part place in our lives. So we've all been willing participants in a revolutionary war of cosmic proportions, and according to Jesus, are deserving of God's judgment. Now that's a heavy thing for us to hear. That's actually bad news for us to hear. But that is why the gospel, which means good news, is the gospel. That in spite of the bad news of our sins against the Holy God and the judgment we deserve, God has been merciful and gracious and has sent his only Son, His beloved Son, to take on flesh, to live a perfect life. The life that we should have lived, but none of us have. And then to die on the cross in our place, Christ died for our sins. This is good and wonderful news. One of my favorite illustrations of the reality that Christ died for our sins. comes from the life of a man named P. T. Barnhouse. Pete Barnhouse was a well known preacher and pastor in the middle of the twentieth century. Ah and early on in his marriage when he had young children, Barnhouse lost his wife. She passed away. And on the way to uh his wife's funeral, uh he was in the car with his children, uh, and Barnhouse stopped at a traffic crossing. Uh, and ahead of them, on the road, was a huge truck. And the sun, as you've all experienced this, the sun was at such an angle as it hit the truck that the truck cast a large shadow on the snowy field beside the highway. And Dr. Barnhouse pointed to the shadow and said this to his children. He said, Look at the shadow of the truck on the field, children. If you had to be run over, would you rather be run over by the truck or by its shadow? And the youngest of his children responded first, the shadow. Because the shadow couldn't hurt anybody. That's right, said Barnhouse. And remember, children, Jesus let the truck of death strike him. So that it could never destroy us. Mother lives with Jesus now. Only the shadow of death passed over her. Oh friends, if you are in Christ, because Christ died for your sins, you no longer need to fear death because the truck of death struck Jesus Christ so that only its shadow would pass over you. And we see that the hope that we have in this passage that his death for our sins was the staking the truck of death for us. But it's not only the only component of this simple message of Christianity. Look back at verse 4 with me. Christ was buried after he died, and he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures. The central components of the Christian message, the things that are of first importance, are that Christ died for our sins and rose bodily from the grave. We need to recognize what this means for us this morning. If Jesus did not rise bodily from the grave. Then all of his claims to be the Son of God and Savior of all of mankind would be shown to be false. Right? Jesus would be no different than any other human being or any other religious teacher that has ever walked this earth. Alright, so if you're here this morning and you come from a different religious tradition, uh or if you're here and you you it's kind of your opinion that all religions uh teach the same thing and are are are proved true by the same principles, I I do want to say this respectfully. uh yet clearly to you, that we need to recognize that Muhammad, the founder of Islam, did not get up from the dead. Siddhartha Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, he did not get up from the dead. No leader of any religious or social movement in the history of the world has ever gotten up from the dead except for Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ alone got up bodily from the dead His resurrection certifies for you and for all of us today that everything he taught is true That means that everything that he taught about who God is, who we are, where we came from, what's wrong with the world, how God is going to fix it, and what happens after we die. All of that that he taught is true. It's proved true by his resurrection from the dead. So his resurrection is proof for you today. If you're doubting who he is or or whether what he taught is actually true. It's proof for you today that he is worthy of trusting and following And not only does his resurrection from the dead prove that everything that he taught is true, more importantly, his bodily resurrection from the dead proves that if we turn to him in repentance and faith, that our sins have actually been forgiven. When Jesus was raised from the dead, God was saying, I have accepted his sacrifice. When he said it was finished on the cross, I am proving true right now that it was finished. On the cross, sins completely forgiven, cast as far as from the east is from the west, cast into the depths of the sea, cast to be remembered no more by the living God, so that if you would turn to him and see his resurrection, his resurrection. Resurrection says to you today, your sins have been forgiven. The mercy and grace of God are held out to you this morning to take hold of, whether you know Jesus today or not. That grace and that mercy is held out to you this morning. And not only that, but his bodily resurrection from the dead proves to all of his followers that death has been defeated. When Jesus rose from the dead, he was proving that death for those who follow him no longer holds us in bondage Death could not hold Jesus. And all who have been united to him by faith, death will not hold them either. They will rise bodily from the dead and they will be welcomed into his kingdom. He will restore the earth He will give us a perfect planet to live on. It's great for us to be doing things to take care of the environment. But we also need to remember that this this world will pass away and there is a perfect world coming where environmentalism won't be needed. Right? Because God will establish a new heavens and a new earth. Well sin will not be present anymore. There will be no more curse, no more death. We will live with God forever. And the resurrection, his bodily resurrection from the dead, is proof of that coming resurrection today. And because he rose from the dead, we can also now see the great difference between optimism, worldly optimism, and Christian hope Think about this. J. I. Packer, who is a theologian, said this about the resurrection and about optimism and Christian hope. He said, optimism is wish without warrant. Optimism is wish without warrant. Christian hope is a certainty guaranteed by God Himself. Optimism reflects ignorance as to whether good things will ever actually come. Christian hope expresses knowledge. That every day of this life and every moment beyond it, the believer can say with truth, on the basis of God's own commitment, that the best is yet to come. A friend, if you are struggling it in any way this morning and you're a follower of Jesus, if you are struggling with sickness Or illness, or you're living in chronic pain, or you're living just continuing to struggle with the same sins, but you're holding fast to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me hold out this hope to you today, true Christian hope that is grounded in the resurrection, friend The best is yet to come for you this morning. Praise be to the living God for the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Together, his death and resurrection declare to all that Jesus has defeated sin, he has defeated death, and he has defeated hell. And the victory that he has won, he has won for all. for everyone who would turn from their sins and trust in him today. Oh, whether the uh the message of Christianity, the message of Christianity that we see is simple. You and I have sinned. But God has been merciful and offered us forgiveness through his Son Jesus, who died for our sins. And you can have confidence that your sins have been forgiven because of his resurrection from the dead, all of which happened in accordance with the Scriptures. But not only is the message of Christianity simple, it's also true. Right? It's also true. Easter. Easter and Christmas, the two times of the year. where the History Channel or National Geographic or whatever those channels might be, they're going to put out their specials that come out every year that are going to put forth theories to about what actually happened to Jesus on the cross and what actually happened and how his body disappeared and where it went and all of their theories that they're going to put for Ford are trying to undermine the fact that Jesus actually rose bodily from the dead. But we see in our passage that the Bible itself We see here the Bible itself holds out clear evidence that Jesus rose from the dead Notice how Paul brings out two pieces of evidence to support his claim, right? The first piece of evidence is that Jesus died and then was buried, so he was put into a tomb as a dead body. He was known to be buried. And then the second piece of evidence that Paul brings out is that Jesus was seen by numerous people, hundreds of people. So that same dead body was then seen alive by hundreds of people. Paul then even says to the Corinthians, hey look, you can even go talk to most of those people because most of them are still alive. It's They weren't trying to keep this a secret or put forth some sort of scheme that was taking place in the background. Paul's like, hey, I'm standing out in public. The man died. The man rose from the dead, and hundreds of people saw him. You can go talk to them And it's statements like Paul's about the ridiculous number of eyewitnesses. Statements are corroborated by other passages in Scripture that really have forced otherwise intelligent people to put forward some really poor theories. But think about the theories that have been put forward about the disappearance of Jesus' body. Some have said Jesus wasn't really dead on the cross. That is just impossible. The Romans were experts at putting people to death. Jesus was whipped within an inch of his life. Think of the the horrible things that would have been done to his back with that whip. Then he had to carry across on that same back. Then he was nailed to the cross with giant spikes, where he slowly suffocated for hours before finally being pierced in the side with a spirit. Then he was pronounced dead by soldiers who are experts at killing people Then he was embalmed in a hundred pounds of spices, and then he was laid inside of a tomb, and that tomb was covered by a stone that is roughly 2,000 pounds And were to believe that this Jesus, after suffering as he did, wasn't actually dead, got up, used the same hands and the same feet that had just been pierced, rolled back the stone. Defeated soldiers and somehow disappeared his own body, never to be found again. Right? This is impossible that Jesus wasn't dead. Others say it's not that he was dead, but his disciples stole the body. Well, just all you have to do to read the gospels is find out that there's no way the disciples stole the body. There's no way eleven men who abandoned Jesus when he was killed for fear of their own lives then came and Fought 60 to 120 Roman soldiers, defeated those Roman soldiers, moved the stone out of the way, and then stole the body, and then died for a hoax that they knew was a hoax. Because all of the apostles that we know of, the stories that we have about Peter and about Paul and about James, is that they died for the faith. They died proclaiming Jesus has risen. Now we're supposed to believe that they stole the body, knew it was a hoax, and then died knowing it was a hoax? This is impossible for us to believe. Others say his appearance is was some form of hallucination. That's kind of popular today. But that's also impossible. Hallucinations are private, individual, subjective. But Jesus appeared to Mary Magdalene. Then he appeared to the disciples minus Thomas, then to the disciples with Thomas, then to the disciple two disciples on the road to Emmaus. Then he appeared to fishermen on ashore, then he appeared to James, then he appeared to five hundred people at one time, and based on biblical testimony he ate with people He took long walks with people, he had long conversations with people, but not only that, if these appearances were really hallucinations, all anyone had to do to prove that they were hallucinations was go to the grave and show that the body was still there But all of the arguments that are put forth against the resurrection, I get that people don't want to believe it. They're going to put forward arguments to try to explain it away, but none of the arguments hold water. The only plausible explanation is what the Bible teaches: that Jesus got up bodily from the dead and then ascended into heaven 40 days after he rose from the dead. No objection to the empty tomb that has been made in the last 2,000 years is plausible for us. It's a historically verifiable fact that Jesus' tomb was empty And no other plausible explanation has been offered other than that God, by the power of the Spirit, raised Jesus from the dead. The message of Christianity is simple, and the message of Christianity is true. And third, we see that the message of Christianity requires a response Look back with me at verses 1 and 2. Look at this. The gospel that Paul is reminding them of is the message of the cross and resurrection that we've just discussed. But notice that Paul reminds the Corinthians that they had already received this message. That may sound passive to us. Like they received it passively, but it's actually a wonderful description of them actively embracing the message of the gospel that Christ died and rose again. You see here what Paul is saying, the message of the gospel is not neutral. The message of the gospel is not neutral. Whenever it comes to a person, it does not leave them in a neutral place. The message of the gospel is either rejected as false or accepted and embraced. as true. It calls us to a decision. It requires a response. So if you're here today and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I am extremely grateful that you would spend your time with us this morning. But I want to let you know that the message that you're hearing today requires a response. It calls you to decide whether you agree with God that you have in fact sinned against him. And it calls you to choose whether you will continue in sin or turn from it. What the Bible calls repent and put your faith and trust in Jesus And if you do that, you can sing of the same hope that we sung about this morning, that your sins will be forgiven, because God is just and the justifier of the ungodly. He will justify you through the death of your Son, Jesus Christ. But the consequences of choosing not to believe that Jesus has paid for your sins and risen from the dead are not insignificant. So, to decide for yourself, I am going to reject the gospel message is actually a serious rejection that we need to deal seriously with because Jesus talks often about it in the Gospels. And what he taught was that those who choose to follow him are promised a restored relationship with God now and a future eternal life with him on a restored planet, like we've already talked about. But those who choose not to follow Jesus To not agree with him about what he said about us will have to face the judgment for their sins in their own power. Right, so this is what the gospel says. When you turn from your sins and put your faith in Jesus, you are spiritually united to him by faith He bears the punishment for your sins. Peter says he took his sins in his own body. He took our sins in his own body. And so we're united to him by faith so that when we stand before the judgment seat God looks at us, but when he looks at us, he sees his son's righteousness. The righteousness of Christ, the perfect life of Christ, is imputed to us. It's given to us. It becomes ours. Forensically, like it's it's our own righteousness, so that we can stand before the judgment seat of Christ and not fear But if you reject the gospel, if you reject what Christ has done on behalf of the world to offer himself as a savior of mankind, you then have to stand before the judgment seat of God in your own power. We can't do that. None of us is going to stand through that. I'm sure if you agree with me that if there is a God, surely none of us could withstand his judgment. If you're like me, like all I have to do is look in the mirror and like I know I've sinned. There is no doubt in my mind I am guilty. And my only hope is Jesus. I wonder what you say when you look in the mirror. Would you say that you've sinned? Would you agree with what Jesus teaches about sin? Friend, if so, turn to him in faith. Turn to him in faith, and he will forgive you for your sins. Repent and follow him I I I I I what I would what I don't want you to walk away doing today after you hear this message uh is what uh an author named C. S. Lewis uh described in one of his well-known books. He C. S. Lewis became a Christian as an adult, and he made some remarks about just dismissing the message of Christianity. Dismissing it and just going on with your life. And I wonder if these remarks might be helpful for you today if you don't currently follow Jesus. This is what Lewis said. He said, I'm trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about Jesus. I'm ready to accept him as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God. That is the one thing we must not say. A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic on the level with a man who says he's a poached egg, or else he would be the devil of hell. You must make your choice Either this man was and is the Son of God, or else a madman, or something worse. You can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and kill him as a demon, or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God But let us not come with any patronizing nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to Now it seems to me obvious that he was neither a lunatic nor a fiend. And consequently, however strange or terrifying or unlikely it may seem, I have to accept the view that he was and is God. What do you say this morning? Is Jesus the Son of God? Is he the Savior of all mankind? If you don't currently follow him, I really want to encourage you to think about that question this week. You can pick up from our welcome table in one of those welcome bags the book, Who is Jesus? Talks very clearly about who Jesus is and what he taught and what he calls us to do. But honestly, if we're looking at this this passage and dealing seriously with it, it's not just people who don't know Jesus who need to make a decision. It's those who follow him who also need to make a decision. We need to decide whether or not we'll continue to believe this message. It's clear from the rest of the chapter that the surrounding Corinthian culture was pressuring the Corinthians. To give up believing in the resurrection. And so Paul calls them to continue believing in the whole gospel, the cross, and the bodily resurrection, if they are going to be saved. Notice if you look down at verses one at verse two especially, he says that it's by this gospel that they are being saved. What he means is that the gospel not only saves those who believe in it once, but who continue believing in it. It's our active faith, our active embracing of the gospel message That secures our salvation. We can't make a one-time profession of faith and then go on living however we want and believing whatever we want. I wonder if there if there are some of you here today who understand yourselves to be followers of Jesus who who look back at uh at some at a profession of faith that you made at one point in your life. Or maybe you look back at to some point in the past where you you prayed a prayer to follow Jesus, but but there's no present fruit, there's no evidence of your ongoing faith in the gospel I wonder if that describes any of you today. All right. What Jesus says to us and what the rest of the New Testament teaches is that we can't just say that we follow Jesus. And then go on living however we want. Jesus calls us to live a new life, a life set apart to Him. He gives us His Spirit to do that, which is a great encouragement to us. He gives us grace when we fail at it. Which is another great encouragement for us because all of us fail. There's no one in here who ha who doesn't sin any longer. But he does call us to live a new life, a life set apart. Salvation produces obvious fruit. And if we don't see obvious fruit in our lives, then we we can't be certain that we've actually come to know And so one of the evidences of genuine faith is a continued holding fast to the gospel. It's receiving it, embracing it, and by doing that we are being saved. And for the kids who are here, this is really important for y'all to understand. I want to encourage you guys to think about this. Choosing to follow Jesus, which I highly encourage. Choosing to follow Jesus is not a one-time decision, but it's a decision that you're making for the rest of your life. He's going to call you every day of your life. We've been studying the Gospel of Mark. Maybe some of you kids remember this. Maybe not. It's okay if you don't. That Jesus says that every day we're to take up our cross and follow him. It's the same for your parents, if they're following Jesus, but if you're going to follow him, that's something that you need to do too. It's not a decision that we make once and then forget about for the rest of our life, but we choose to follow him daily. I just want to encourage you guys again though. If you're struggling with sin, you're struggling with doubts and things like that, remember it's not about you living a perfect life. It's about the fact that Jesus lived a perfect life in your place, paid for your sins, gives you a spirit, and then shows you grace when you fail, kids. So I want to encourage you to think about choosing to follow Jesus, choosing to follow Jesus is a lifelong decision. And really, we can take encouragement, even though that may sound daunting, about the fact that God gives us his Spirit to empower us to put our faith in Jesus day after day. And faith is the response that the message of Christianity demands. Active faith is the response that Christianity requires. But finally, we see in our passage, our final point, that the message of Christianity is a message of grace. It's a message of grace. Look with me at verses 8 to 11. Look at what Paul says there. Paul's just listed all of the people that Jesus appeared to, and what's going on is that the Corinthians have been really struggling to respect Paul. They don't think he's a great speaker. They don't Kind of they don't regard him with the same authority as they regard the other apostles. And so what Paul does here is he he lists all the apostles that Jesus showed up to, but then he lists himself right beside those apostles to say, hey I am an apostle. I am an apostle. So Christ appeared to me on the road to Damascus. He granted me authority to go out and preach the gospel. He changed my life from being a persecutor of the church to being someone who now preaches the gospel and seeks to serve him with my whole life. But it's because uh of the fact that the Corinthians doubted his authority that Paul lists himself Next to the other apostles. But then he also can't help but say there in verses 8 to 11, last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach, and so you believe. I just want you to notice in those final verses how many times the grace of God is repeated. Paul wants them to know that the message of Christianity, the death and resurrection of the Son of God, is a message of grace. What is grace? Kids, can any of you tell me what grace is? What is grace? Anyone want to give it a shot? Don't be shy. Forgiving someone who's wronged you, is grace something that's deserved or undeserved? Yeah, grace is It's undeserved. It's undeserved kindness. The reason that the message of Christianity is a message of grace is that we've sinned against God. We've offended him. Have you ever had somebody really, really offend you? Maybe do something very harmful to you? They could have said something very insulting to you. They could have been physically harmful to you. Do you want to immediately forgive them and shower love and mercy upon them? Well, if you're like me, no. I hope that most of you are like me, otherwise I'm gonna feel like a pretty terrible person. But yeah, I think if you're kind of struggling with like the normal human response is I want judgment, I want justice, I want want to show anger Now you would think that that is what God would show to us, and he does show his anger and how angry he is towards sin and pouring it out on his son. But he pours it out on the only beloved one, the only one who kept his law perfectly, so that he can show us who sinned against him Grace and kindness. The message of Christianity is a message of grace This is a remarkable message. It's remarkable that Paul is an apostle at all. We've already talked about the fact that he hated Jesus and persecuted the church around him. But but we need to see that what it is that could possibly change a man who was so opposed to Jesus could then become an apostle of Jesus Christ. What is it that could take a man who hated Jesus to become a man who serve Jesus and we have the answer plainly given in the text. Notice Paul describes who he was. He was a persecutor of the church. Then he describes who he is. I am what I am. If you look down at the passage with me, what is it that stands between who he was and who he is? The grace of God. It's the grace of God that takes people who don't love the Lord and turns them into followers of Jesus Christ. It's the grace of God that has the power to truly change people. I wonder if there are things about yourself that you want to change today. Right? Maybe you recognize some destructive attitudes or behaviors in your life. Maybe it's nothing destructive. You just want to be less of a procrastinator or more patient or more gentle with your speech. I'm guessing all of us have things about ourselves that we want to change. I think one of the things that proves how how interested humans are in changing themselves and growing as people is when you look at the list of bestsellers. I looked at the list of best sellers recently and I think eight of the top twenty were self-help books. Because people are are wanting to help themselves, they're wanting to change themselves. Some of the books that were on there were books that were meant to help you become who you were meant to be. Books that were meant to help you tap into your gifts, books that were meant to help you not care as much. There are books populating the list of bestsellers because we innately know that there is something wrong with us And we want to change what's wrong with us. We're not who we should be. But with all due respects to the author of these books, the problems that they address and the help that they offer are really only superficial, right? The problems that we have are much deeper than they understand. And those remedies for those problems can't really be found within us or outside of us in this world. We need somebody outside the world. to come and help us. Our problem is that we're separated from God. Our sins have brought spiritual death, right? So we're physically alive with our bodies. But the Bible says we are spiritually dead, and the only thing that can change that is God's grace. It's God's grace that reaches down into spiritually dead people and makes them alive. God's grace is his undeserved kindness to take our dead souls and breed spiritual new life into them. Really, friends, the grace of God is what sets apart Christianity from all other religions. Every other religion on earth basically teaches what we need to do to make ourselves right before God. What we need to do to make ourselves acceptable before God. Judaism teaches that we make ourselves acceptable to God by keeping the law, the Ten Commandments. Islam teaches that we make ourselves acceptable to God through the five pillars, being obedient to the five pillars, that would be faith. Prayer, charity, fasting, and making a pilgrimage to Mecca. That's how you become right with Allah. Even though Buddhists don't believe in God, they teach the eightfold path to enlightenment. You notice what all these religions teach. They teach what we have to do to make ourselves acceptable before God, what we have to do to become enlightened. And Christianity is completely different from all other religions because it teaches not what we have to do to make ourselves acceptable to God, but what God has done for us. And what has God done for us? Through the resurrection and death, death and resurrection of his son is show us grace. He extends to us grace. And that grace is offered to you today. And to all who have accepted Jesus' sacrifice in their place, that grace has brought us into new life now. That grace has brought us into new life now. If you're a follower of Jesus, What you're celebrating today is not just that Jesus died for your sins and rose from the dead, but that with him you also have died to sin and risen to new life in Christ. And that new life, that resurrected life, should manifest itself in your life today in an increasing graciousness towards others How else should a people who have received such undeserved grace, such overwhelming grace? We looked at 1 Timothy a couple weeks ago, such abundant grace that overflows to us daily. Even when we continue to struggle with sin, how else should a people who have received such amazing grace respond to others? How are you doing in your life responding to offense or insult or unwanted intrusions upon your time? How are you doing responding with grace to others in your life? Would other people describe you as a gracious person? And I hope that my wife would. I have reason to doubt that she would, because I so often struggle with uh impatience or frustration and things like that. I wonder if that's I wonder if that's In your life as well as a follower of Christ. Consider, friends, the grace that we have received in the Lord Jesus Christ and through him A grace that not only saves us, but if you notice what Paul says, he says, I worked harder than any of them, but it was not I. It was the grace of God in me. It's not only grace that saves you, it's grace that sustains you, it's grace that propels you day after day. What the Bible actually teaches about us as followers of Jesus is that everything bad in our life Comes from us, all of the sin, what I mean? All of the sin in our life comes from us, and all of the good in our life comes from God. No more boasting! No more, you know, I'm a I'm the one who's actually doing this. Even Paul, with all of the churches he had planted, with all of the people he had seen come to face, he said, I worked harder than most, but it wasn't me. It was the grace of God in me A friend, it's the grace of God that carries you day after day. The message of Christianity is a message of grace. We say this so often. It's not a message of do. It's a message of done. It's been done for you. It is finished, and the sun has risen from the grave. New life today, grace abounding. Grace with with with like there's no measure to his grace. There's no measuring cup on earth that could fill up in it the grace of God. It overwhelms and floods all things. His grace is handed out to you today. And his grace is extended to us not only when we're failing, but it's grace in our walk that propels us. It's grace in our walk that propels us. Friends, the message of Christianity is a message of grace. This is a glorious message. It's a simple message It's a true message. It's a message of grace. This is the most important message you'll ever hear. How will you respond to that message today? That's probably Heavenly Father, we come before you rejoicing in and loving the grace that you've shown us because we failed. We struggle every day, we we continue to struggle with sin. But we hold fast to the grace that you have offered to us in your Son Jesus Christ. We pray that you would grant the Spirit to cause us to be a people to to actively embrace and continue to hold fast to the death and resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ, who rose bodily from the grave triumphant. O Lord Jesus, we praise you as the one who rules and reigns in heaven above, and we ask that you would come back today to establish your kingdom here on earth Oh Father, we pray that you would grant the Spirit to open our eyes to the glory of your Son Jesus Christ to all of us who are here, whether we follow your Son or not. We pray that the Spirit would make us worshipers of Christ and help us to follow you with the grace and strength that you provide. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.