Well, friends, we are going to turn now to the preaching of the word. So if you have your Bible with you, I want to encourage you to go ahead and turn to Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 to 14 is what we're going to be looking at this morning. I don't think there has ever been a period of human history In which there were more competing claims about what the best diet is than there are today. The best diet is paleo. You need to eat like your hunter-gatherer ancestors No, no, no, the best diet is whole 30. You need to eat only whole foods. Absolutely no dairy or grains. No, no, no. The best way to go is the primal diet. It's like the paleo and the whole 30, but you can have dairy. No, no, no, the best diet is vegan. All animal products are terrible. No, that's too extreme. The best diet is is plant-based. Mostly plants, maybe some meat. No, wrong, wrong. The best diet is the carnivore diet. All meat, all the time, every day, all day. Oh, is it keto? Is it low carb? What diet should I choose? You can imagine how overwhelming it is to try and figure out what to eat when there are so many competing claims and so much competing information out there. There are so many competing claims that most people end up not making any changes to their diet because they don't know what to believe. You know, in a way, the same thing happens if we change the question from what's the best diet to What type of life pleases God? Well the type of life that pleases God is the reflective life, the life of quiet solitude No, no, no, the type of life that pleases God is a life of activism and social change. Oh no, the type of life that pleases God is a life of constant prayer. No, the type of life that pleases God is a life of missions work. Or to please God, you need to have people in your home five nights a week to show hospitality. To please God, you need to share the gospel regularly. To please God, you need to homeschool or shop at certain stores or watch certain shows. The competing claims about what type of life pleases God is enough to make a lot of Christians throw up their hands and shout, I give up. Is there such a life that pleases God? And if so, is there a simple and clear description in the Bible of what that life would look like? Well, luckily there is, so if you haven't already, turn with me to Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 to 14. We're continuing this morning in our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians Which is a letter that he wrote to a church that was hearing a lot of competing claims about what type of life pleases God. Some religious teachers who were coming around the Colossian Church were pushing the need for strict observance of the Jewish law You can only eat certain foods. You need to celebrate certain feasts. You need to honor certain holidays. Others were teaching differently. They were teaching the need for asceticism, getting rid of every worldly comfort and every pleasure in your life Living a life of mortifying worldly comfort and pleasure. They were pushing the need for having visions and worshiping angels. And so Paul writes his letter to cut through the noise, to dispel all the competing claims. And to describe clearly for us, or the Colossians also, the type of life that pleases God I want to encourage you to follow along as I read verses 9 to 14 for us now. This is God's word. And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will. in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. Bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Since we have much less time than normal, I normally preach for somewhere around fifty to sixty minutes. We have about half an hour today, and as I've been doing in weeks past, we're gonna break this So what we're going to do this morning is focus on verses 9 and 10. I said Colossians 1:9-14 teaches us very clearly the type of life that pleases God. And from verses 9 and 10, we learn that the type of life that pleases God Is a life of growing in knowing his will and growing in doing his will. The type of life that pleases God very simply is growing in knowing God's will and growing in doing it. The first thing we see is in verses 9 and 10 is that the type of life that pleases God is a life of growing and knowing God's will. Look again at verse 9. Paul prays that the Colossians would be filled with the knowledge of God's will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. If we're going to rightly grasp what Paul is praying for, we need to understand what he means by God's will. In the Bible, the will of God really only ever refers to two things. It either refers to God's hidden will, which refers to the hiddenness of exactly how God is working out his plan of redemption in Jesus Christ. So you think of questions like, why do certain things happen and how are they bringing about God's purposes? We don't know. But we know that God is working behind the scenes to bring them about. That's God's hidden will. But it can also refer to God's revealed will. God's revealed will encompasses Everything that he has communicated to mankind about how we're to live in this world, right? Our life verse For distinguishing between God's hidden will and his revealed will is Deuteronomy 29, 29, right? You should write it on a card in your house and put it up on your mirror. This should be your life verse for understanding the will of God. Deuteronomy 29, 29 says, The secret things belong to the Lord our God. That's God's hidden will. There are certain things that God just does not share with us about how He's at work in the world. And that's okay. He's God, we're not. We don't need to have all the knowledge. But Deuteronomy twenty nine twenty-nine says, the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever So that we may do all the words of his law. Notice that God's revealed will is all of his commandments given to the people of Israel, so that They would do the words of his law. So when Paul prays that the Colossians and that we would be filled with the knowledge of God's will. He is, in effect, praying for them to grow in knowing how God calls them to live in the world. And we see Paul speak of God's will this way in others of his letters. Think about 1 Thessalonians 4:13. For this is the will of God for you. What does God want with my wife? What is God's will for me? Your sanctification. Right? It's not particular decision. What car should I buy? What what job should I take? It's your sanctification in the midst of your circumstances. That's God's will for you. That you obey His commands in the midst of all the different circumstances you might face. in life. For this is the will of God for you, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that you control your own body in holiness. Or 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. Give thanks in all circumstances. Why, Paul? For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. God's will, in the context of chapter 1, verse 9 of Colossians, refers to God's commandments. for how we are to live as his children. Growing in knowing God's will means growing And being filled with a greater and greater understanding of how God calls you and I to live in the world. But you'll notice that Paul qualifies it. He qualifies it by praying that they would be filled with the knowledge of God's will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. Like, what does that mean? It sounds kind of new agey. Like, I understand that I need to know God's commandments, but what's up with this spiritual wisdom and understanding? Is this some some secret thing that I need to find? I think it only sounds that way because of the translation. I think a better translation and one that other translations use is Be filled with the knowledge of God's will with all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives And Paul is saying this. The reason he's praying this for them is in direct response to the false teachers claiming that's special And secret knowledge and rituals and spiritual experiences were necessary to please God. And Paul's answer to those claims is an emphatic no, that is not what is needed to please God. You don't need to speak in tongues. You don't need to experience a second baptism of the Holy Spirit. You don't need to have visions. You don't need to be a prophet. You don't need to have unique, unique insights into all mysteries to please God, according to Paul. If you want to live a life pleasing to God, all you need to do is grow more and more in understanding God's will. And grow more and more in obedience to it, in doing it. And where do we find God's Spirit given revelation of His will for our lives today so that we can be filled up by it. Where do we find it? In His Word. God's word is the perfect revelation of His will for us and the perfect treasure of spirit-given wisdom for godly living. And you don't need to be afraid of his word. I think some people, some Christians are are afraid to open it, like they just can't understand it. They can't they kind of view God's word like they're trying to understand the like the Goonies map and key to Chester Copper Pot's treasure, like it's this mysterious thing, and we need to have the secret decodering to try to figure out where the treasure is. That's not God's word. You don't need a secret decoder ring to understand it. You don't need secret knowledge to understand it. You don't need a PhD. or a master's or a bachelor's or a high school degree or a GED. All you need to understand and know God's will is a humble heart That is receptive to hearing God's word and desires to live it out. If you want to live a life that is pleasing to God, You'll need to plant your roots regularly into the living streams of God's Word. This is what Paul means by be filled. Right, this is a regular returning to and filling with God's word. Just as the flowers and field need daily sunshine, and the crops need regular rain. God has so created us that we flourish most and bear fruit when we hear from him, often in his word. I wonder if you at times have noticed a dryness, a spiritual dryness, a spiritual apathy in your walk with the Lord. I wonder if you've noticed a lack of desire for God in your life. If we're talking in financial terms, we would call these lagging indicators, right? Spiritual dryness, apathy, lack of desire for God are often lagging spiritual indicators of what we've been filling ourselves with. If you're experiencing spiritual dryness and apathy and lack of desire, I wonder what place God's word has in your daily life compared with things like social media or work or entertainment. I asked this because it it really is surprising how quick The human body physically begins breaking down when it goes without food. I mentioned a few weeks ago about a survival show called Alone that I've been watching. And as I've watched more and more episodes, it's been eye-opening to see just how quickly these contestants who are in the wilderness, they have to find their own food, hunt for it, trap it, do all of that, and that takes a lot of time And then they don't always catch anything or or find any fish or anything like that. It's been eye-opening to see just how quickly these contestants start breaking down from a lack of food. They lose significant amounts of weight. They lose cognitive power, they're more easily confused, their motor skills are decreased, and in some of the contestants, this happens in a matter of days without food. In the same way, friends, even just a few days without being filled with the knowledge of God's will in his word can leave us spiritually famished and off kilter. So I wonder how you can carve out a bit more time to be filled with the knowledge of God's will in his word I know some of us are in seasons in life where time is really scarce, right? Think of mothers of young children or people with extremely busy work schedules You know, if that's you, uh I don't lay this on you as a law, right? This is something I'm preaching to myself. God's word is good. It is a perfect treasure And revelation of his will for us, and through regularly taking it in, he is growing us by his spirit to become more and more like his son Jesus. But if that's you, I want to encourage you to aim to be filled by much smaller bites. Right? Read for five minutes. Recite a verse that you know by memory. You already know some truth from God or a promise from God. That may seem insignificant to you. I don't know if if if you're anything like me, it's kind of like unless I can sit down and read for an hour, it's like I don't read at all. It's like it's just w like Why do I need an entire hour? It's like I need to have a five-course meal every time I sit down. What I want you to remember is that small bites may seem insignificant to you, but we need to remember that our God took a single loaf of bread and fed thousands. He can surely multiply the effects of reading a small portion of scripture or reciting a verse from memory in ways to fill you that you don't expect. Or you can get creative about the ways to take in word the word in your life. Laura Hardin put me onto an app called Dwell a while back. It's an audio Bible app that is excellent. It's one of the best that I've found. It makes listening to the Bible super simple. Download that and be filled by God's will by listening to the Bible as you have little pockets of time throughout the day. God is pleased when we're filled with the knowledge of His will, which we find in His Word, but not if being filled with the knowledge is an end in itself. No, God is pleased not only when we're filled with the knowledge of His will, but when that knowledge leads to action. God is pleased when we do his will. I want you to look again at verses 9 and 10. Paul prays that they would be filled with the knowledge of God's will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so, or so that you might walk. In a manner worthy of the Lord. The purpose of turning to God's word to be filled is not So that we would know a lot of facts about God and be able to recite verses and tell people things about God. The purpose of being filled with that knowledge is so that our lives would be changed, that we would Walk and live and act in a manner worthy of the Lord. That's why Paul uses the word walk. He's talking about action. Knowledge leads to action. Walking in scripture describes the totality of the nature and character and direction of a purpose of a person's life. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seed of scoffers, but his walk leads him to meditate on the law of the Lord daily, and then he bears fruit like a a fruitful tree that is bearing fruit in season. The character of our lives is to be one in which we grow more and more in walking in God's ways. So I want you to see the natural progression here as we grow more and more in being filled with the knowledge of God's will for our lives and his word We will be instructed more and more with how God calls us to live. And being instructed with how he calls us to live, we will now seek more and more in dependence on the Spirit to live as He calls us to live. One pastor said that knowledge and wisdom in the Bible are never divorced. If you know, you will show Those who know God's will show God's will and his work in them in the character of their lives. True knowledge leads to true living. Talking the talk leads to walking the walk. Right knowledge leads to right living. Right thinking appears in right living. Knowledge of Jesus isn't static. It moves. It now walks and lives in a manner worthy of the Lord. Now next week we're going to consider more specifically the the specific applications of what Paul is talking about in bearing fruit, increasing in knowledge, being patient, giving thanks. For today we're going to consider We just want to meditate on the fact that a changed heart will produce a changed life. A new heart will produce a new life. For the teens, and even the youth who are a little bit younger than teenagers, that is an important passage for you to consider as you think about following Jesus. I'm guessing your parents have been teaching you the word. They're filling you with knowledge about God, about yourself, and about how God calls you to live in the world. And that's good. We're called to be filled with a knowledge of God's will, but true saving knowledge will always appear in a new life. In a new heart, in new desires. You'll walk a little bit differently. Before you may have walked with swagger, and now you walk humbly Right? There's a different character to your walk when you have saving faith in Jesus. So do the teens and the kids a little bit younger than that, I want to know and ask you. How have you seen your knowledge of God's Word change your walk in God's world? Do you want to worship God? Or do you feel like you have to worship God because your parents do? Do you want to read God's word? Or do you feel like I have to read God's word because my parents want me to? Do you want to pray? Or is it something you feel like you have to do to please them? Do you want to fight against sin? Or is it something you feel like you have to do to please your parents? You see the difference there? There's a change in heart, a change in desires. The knowledge of God's will as it produces a new heart in our life, then produces a new walk in our life. A true, saving knowledge of God will change our walk, our desires. And if you see those changes in your life Praise God. Praise God. Continue in that more and more. And this is something that all of us need to hear. We're called not just to know, but to show. Not just to be filled with knowledge, but to be changed by that knowledge. An increasing knowledge of God disconnected from His Work and love towards you in the gospel will cause your head to grow, but a growing knowledge of God connected to His love for you in the gospel will cause your heart to grow, and your life will change as a result of it. And for some of you who've been following the Lord for a long time, those changes may be maybe less pronounced as you mature in the faith. But that's to be expected. If you're looking at your life, you're like, ah, I'm not growing as much as I as I did in the past. What's going on? What does that mean? Well, I think in some sense, as you mature in the faith, that's to be expected. Right, you think about humans. When a baby's born over the first 20 years of their life, they change tremendously. But then what happens over the next 20 years? Not a whole lot. The changes are more subtle. They're not as easy to spot. And that's in the same way as we mature in the faith When we come to the faith, it's often the case that our life can change a lot very early on as we're learning all about, oh, this is how God calls me to live in the world. This is how my walk and my life in this world are supposed to change. But then as you grow and mature Those changes are less drastic. They're not as obvious. They may be more subtle. The call to those of you who are in that stage of your walk with the Lord is just to continue walking. Continue going more and more. Continue growing and knowing and growing and doing. Think about what Paul says to the Thessalonians in his first letter to them. Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you received from us how you ought to walk and to please God, just as you are doing. That you do so more and more. Friends, when I when I think of Chevrolet Baptist Church, when I think of the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church, I see you all doing this already. I think about this even in the context of the remarkably difficult difficult year that our world and our country has had. I've talked to numerous pastors. uh who have just lamented and felt the pressure and stress of congregations that are divided. Divided about how we should respond to the coronavirus. We're gonna wear masks, or we're not gonna wear masks and their churches are like tearing apart at the seams. Divided on how we should respond to George Floyd and think about systemic injustice and matters of of race and and unity as God's people. I've I've I've heard from these pastors over and over again about how their churches are splitting apart the seams. And I am just so thankful that when I think about CBC and interact with you, I see unity. I see peace, I see love, and I see a desire to continue growing in the Lord and coming closer as one people. And I want to encourage you, keep Going, keep doing that. It pleases the Lord. It honors him. It glorifies him when we know his will and keep going. As we come to know Jesus more and more, God will work by the Spirit to make us more and more like Him. This call to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord is not obedience to an arbitrary set of commands that God has just given, but is for the purpose Of us more and more fully reflecting the image of Jesus Christ. God's purpose in your life is Christ in you. The hope of glory. And as you grow in knowing his will and doing it, the image of Christ in you gets polished and refined and made more evident. and more clear, and the ever increasing likeness to his Son in our lives pleases God Did you notice that? When we walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, look down at verse 10. So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Now I want to be clear that I'm not saying that we earn God's favor. That is not what I'm teaching this morning, or that we earn God's pleasure by living holy enough lives. That's not what Paul is saying, and that's not what I'm saying. We need to see these verses and understand these verses. In the broader context of the passage, we need to remember that verses 9 to 14 follow on verses 3 through 8. And in verses 3 through 8, we learn that the Colossians had already been saved. The gospel came to them. They repented. They believed. And in repenting and believing, they had been united to Jesus Christ by faith. And if you have been united to Jesus Christ by faith, Than you have been imputed with, given the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ, which is God's complete pleasure with you. He is perfectly delighted in your righteousness through Christ. God clothed you in his robes so that in God's sight you and I are perfectly righteous. You've been adopted as his beloved children. He has forgiven you of all your sins. And when you and I He has forgiven you of all your sins, past, present, and future, and he loves you with the same love that he loves Jesus with. He can't possibly love you any more than he already does today But now, as his children, verses 9 through 14 make clear, he has purposes for you and I He intends for you and I to live increasingly Christ-like lives that you and I would more and more fully reflect the image of his son Jesus. And when we do that God is pleased. God is pleased. He delights to see the image of his son more and more fully revealed in our lives. Each night when I put my boys to bed, I say to them, and I say this to Grace, but I'm I'm saying my boys because they're the only ones who understand me right now. Grace is too young. But I say to them, You are my son. You will always be my son. And there is nothing that you can do to make me love you any more or any less. I will always love you. Because they are my children. They have my love completely and fully forever. But that doesn't mean that I'm not grieved when they sin or delighted when they obey. I am But when they do those things, they aren't earning or losing my love. In the same way, through Christ, God has set his seal of love upon you. What does a psalmist say? His banner over me is love That's the banner that you rest under today. His steadfast love will always be yours. He is the father who runs to his prodigal children, the one who, Zephaniah says, takes great delight in you. Who rejoices over you with singing. Oh friends, you cannot earn or lose his love. That is the good news of the gospel. And now he he desires and delights to see the image of Christ more and more fully formed in you and me. I don't know about you, but my conception of what God thinks about me on a daily basis hovers somewhere between disdain and outright displeasure. Right? I rarely consider the fact that God takes pleasure in me. And he does God takes pleasure in you. In Christ, you are pleasing to him. He delights in you. When we walk according to the flesh, we cannot please God because we're living according to the flesh. But when we walk by the Spirit, God is pleased with us because we are filled with the Spirit and He sees in us the image of His Son. And that pleases Him. Oh friend, do you know God is pleased with you today if you've repented and put your trust in Jesus If you're here and you don't know God, you don't follow Christ, this is God's will for you, that you would repent and believe. And in repenting and believing, you would be brought from being far off and separated from God. without hope in the world to being brought into God's very presence and you would know the pleasure of the living God through his Son, Jesus Christ. And that hope can be yours today. But for those who trusted in his son, God is pleased with you. He delights in you He is pleased with your faith. And he rejoices to see your progress in becoming more and more like his son. I played baseball at Virginia Commonwealth University, and during my years of playing, my dad was extremely faithful in watching my progress. He was so faithful that he came not only to all of my games, but he came to my practices, which is frankly unheard of and weird. in a sense, right? Like no parents show up to their kids' practices in college. And his faithfulness and desire to watch my progress and to delight in me earned him the nickname Superfan. My teammates called him the Superfan. Why did he do it? He did it because he loved me so much and he delighted in my progress. He loved to see me growing and improving. Bit by bit. It pleased him I wasn't earning his love. He already loved me. I'm his son. But he rejoices in my progress. Friends, this is the type of love. Far greater even that the Father feels for us. He doesn't walk around frowning at us. He takes pleasure in our obedience. Even in our smallest Obediences. Don't think that you have to be a martyr or a missionary or win thousands of people to Christ for God to be pleased with you He is pleased with you in Christ, even of the smallest amount of faith, and that the most minor obedience has caused him to rejoice We've been teaching our daughter Grace, who's two years old, to say thank you whenever something is done for her. And as training any two-year-old is there are ups and downs, more downs than ups, a lot more downs. Than ups, but it's so much fun, so tiring. Oh my gosh, God give us patience and endurance, right? But I'll tell you what, the first time I heard her say Thank you, Noxie. To her brother Nox, when he did something kind for her, without having to be prompted to say thank you, I was like, yes! Great job! Praise God, Grace. It's wonderful to see you saying thank you. Now grow and grow more. And more seems like a small thing. It's just a thank you, but It's a two-year-old, it's an infant, a child that she's growing. We want to rejoice in those victories in the same way, friends. These small obediences God is pleased with in your life. God, I really, I I really want to I I really want to vent right now and tell this person how upset with them I am, but I am fighting. I'm fighting to control my tongue and to not give in. Do you know what that does to the Lord? How the Lord responds to that in heaven? That pleases him. He's delighted in that. Yes. It says angels in heaven rejoice over one sinner repenting. There's a party in heaven when sinners turn from sin and turn to trusting the Lord. God delights in his people. He's pleased with even small evidences of growth because that growth is far more beautiful than you and I can imagine. God By his spirit is making us more and more like Jesus I hope you feel God's pleasure with you this morning if you've trusted in Christ. Since you're human, you've probably struggled or sinned recently. So thinking God is pleased with you probably seems far-fetched or hard to imagine. But here's where we need to remember that this passage not only flows from the gospel and out of the gospel, this passage returns to the gospel. I want you to consider what God has already done for you as you work out your salvation with fear and trembling, as you grow in knowing his will and doing his will more and more. Don't think that your failures mean that you are separated from God and that God is now displeased with you and wants nothing to do with you. Look at what he has already done. Look at verses 13 and 14. Notice what God has already done for us. He has qualified you. Past tense. Completed action, no more ongoing progress. You are not attempting to qualify yourself, you are not working out your qualification. God has qualified you fully and completely. And how has He done that? By sending his son Jesus to live the righteous life that we should have lived, but none of us have, to die the death in our place, to bear the punishment for our sins, to be buried in the ground, and to rise triumphant from the grave. Proving that God accepted his sacrifice, and proving that anyone who turns to him in faith will receive and know the pleasure of God And be welcomed into his presence for all of eternity. And we have that promise because we see that attached to God qualifying us is the fact that he has transferred us. Once and for all, from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his beloved son, to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. Oh friends, God is not only pleased with you, He is so pleased That he is giving you the fullness of his inheritance, which is his son himself. That when you come into the presence of God You will no longer need to be filled more and more with the knowledge of God's will because you will be standing in the presence of God Himself. And God will fill you with His joy and you will know His pleasure for eternity. That is yours today through faith in Christ. So friends, how should we respond to this? Keep going. More and more. Grow. Plant your roots in the knowledge of God's will. Get to know him more and more now. And walk more and more in dependence on the Spirit, in obedience to God, that you might show off the glory of your Father in heaven. And when we do this more and more, we can know God is pleased with us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we so often fall into thinking that we're supposed to to work out our salvation with fear and trembling, but when then we fall into the trap of thinking that it's our works that save us, and when we When we don't do the things that we should, we feel condemned, we feel ashamed. And when we understand that when we sin, there's a good sense of shame. There's a good sense of guilt. But we can repent and turn from our sin and trust in you and know that day by day your goodness and mercy follow us. Your mercies are new every day And so we pray that you would help us to rejoice in the gospel that we have been saved by grace as a gift through faith in the works of Jesus Christ. But now you have called us to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Oh, help us to do that more and more. Fill us with a knowledge of your will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding so that we would walk in a manner worthy of you. That's our heart today. We desire to do that, but we're weak and we need your strength. Carry us along by the Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.