I'm excited to have this opportunity to open up God's word with you. Let me open us or go to the Lord one more time in prayer and ask him to bless our time of the word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray for hearts that are full of good soil. That as the seed of the word is planted, that it would take root and bear fruit, and especially the fruit of eternal life God, we cannot do this to our hearts on our own. We need you to be at work in us. And we appeal to you as a God of love and mercy. A God of kindness, that you would do this for us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well in nineteen eighty three uh one hundred and fifty world class runners converged on Sydney, Australia for what was known as the Westfield Sydney to Melbourne Ultra Marathon. Now, at the time, the Westfield Sydney to Melbourne Ultra was regarded as one of the toughest races in the world, covering a grueling 544 miles. That is a very long distance, right? It's safe to say that the the runners of this race were in tip-top shape, right? Think about how fit you need to be uh to just finish a a 26-mile marathon, let alone 544 miles. The runners that assembled were some of the most accomplished endurance racers and runners in the world. So you can imagine their surprise when on the day of the race, a toothless 61-year-old potato farmer and shepherd named Cliff Young approached the registration table wearing denim overalls and galoshes over his his work boots. The people working the registration table assume that Mr. Young was there just to watch the beginning of the race, until he declared his intention to run. All 544 miles. The shocked and incredulous staff issued Mr. Young his number, number 64, sent him on his way. The spectators that were gathered watching the beginning of the race couldn't believe what they were watching when they saw Young, old farmer shepherd Cliff Young, milling around with the other runners in preparation for the beginning of the race, right? What is this old man doing? Doesn't he know what what kind of race this is? And their shock turned to outright amusement and mocking after the starting gun went off. The starting shot fired and the field of runners took off, leaving Cliff Young in the dust. And they weren't laughing at him just because he got left in the dust, but because of how he was running. He wasn't so much running as he was awkwardly half walking, half kind of running. What they termed the Cliff Young Shuffle. As spectators watch the beginning of the race, you can imagine that mixed in with the mocking was a hefty dose of pity. Should someone stop him? Does he know what kind of race this is and how long it is and the type of terrain that he's got to cross? Did someone tell them he's going to make a fool of himself or worse, severely injure himself? This is all of which uh all of which made what happened over the next five days so surprising. But we'll come back to that We'll see that Mr. Young's story is an illustration of what the Apostle Paul commands the Colossians to do in our passage today. So I want you to turn with me in your Bible to Colossians chapter 2. Verses six and seven. We're continuing our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians, and we're really at a turning point in the book. This is common in most of Paul's letters, where the front half of the book will largely be theological in nature. He'll be explaining Deep truths about the gospel, there will be application mixed in, but it's predominantly theological in argument, and then in the second half of his letters There's a lot of application. And this is really the turning point about okay, everything that I've been teaching you about the power of the gospel, that the gospel's been spreading around the world, and that at the heart of the gospel is the preeminent Jesus the firstborn over all creation and over the church who was rec who reconciled you to God through his death on the cross. Because of all of that Now here's what you do. Right? We saw last week that Paul was wanting to encourage them to continue believing in the gospel because false teachers were coming around. Teaching them that the gospel was not powerful enough to save them. And so we'll see that Paul's instruction to them in our passage today is clear. Coming on the heels of that section on being on guard against false teaching, we have Paul's words in Colossians 2, verses 6 to 7. So I want you to look down there with me in your Bible, and I'm going to read the passage for us. That this is God's word. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord So walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith Just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. The message for you and me today from today's text is simple, really. Keep going in the faith. If you have put your faith in Jesus Christ, keep going in him. I want you to notice, look back at the passage. Notice how Paul Points back to when they first believed in Jesus and he says, Hey, in the same way that you received him, walk in him, keep going in him. We must continue in the faith. And there are really three things about continuing in the faith that I want us to consider this afternoon. So for those of you taking notes, these will be the three points of our sermon. First, I want you to see that we are called to continue the way we started. Second, continue because it's necessary. And third, continue by remaining rooted in Christ. So first, we must continue the way we started. I want you to look at verse 6 again. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus, so walk in him In the same way that you began the race, continue the race. You should continue today The same way that you started. Specifically, he's pointing the Colossians to when they first received Christ Jesus as Lord. He's calling to look back on that period of time in their lives when they received Christ Jesus as Lord and to continue in the strength of faith that they had. When they first believed. Paul is saying, if we we'll learn about this as we go through the letter of Colossians. He's saying, hey, remember Remember when Epaphras, who was from Colossae, he was in Ephesus, and then he returned to Colossae and he came back as my co-worker in the gospel, and he came to you and he told you about the kingdom of God. And Epaphras told you about God's holiness and your sins, and about how God offers forgiveness of sins and a new heart and eternal entrance into his kingdom through the life, death, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And remember how when you heard the gospel, you were cut to the heart. You were convicted of your sins. And you wholeheartedly put your trust in Jesus. You turned, Colossians, you turned from worshiping False gods, and you put your hope in the living God who gives life and breath to all. And when you did that, you received Christ Jesus as Lord. Do you remember how you walked then? Keep going the same way today. Keep walking the same way now. This is really the exact same thing that he reminded the Thessalonians of in 1 Thessalonians. He talks about when the Thessalonians first received Christ Jesus as Lord, saying, For we know, brothers, loved by God, that he has chosen you. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit And with full conviction, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord because you received the word What accompanied the Thessalonians and the Colossians receiving Christ Jesus as Lord? Power. The Holy Spirit, full conviction not only of their sins, but that Christ Jesus was worthy of giving their entire lives to. Brothers and sisters here today, do you remember the full conviction that you felt? Not only of your sins, but that Jesus Christ was worthy of giving your entire life to when you first received him. Do you remember that? Do you remember when you cast yourself fully upon him, trusting him for everything that you would need Continue today the same way you started. I want you to think about the portraits of what it looks like to receive Christ Jesus that really gives color to this instruction today. But what does it look like for me not only to remember, but to actually see it embodied of somebody receiving Christ Jesus? Think about these glorious portraits in the gospels of when people first received Jesus and how they instruct us on how we should continue today. Do you remember the reckless abandonment of the leper when he first received Jesus? He didn't care how unclean he was by the world's standards. He bumrushed Jesus to lay hold of him and was cleansed in doing that. He saw with eyes of faith that Jesus was the only one who could make him clean. And so he broke every rule in the book of Etiquette just to lay hold of him. Do you remember when the paralytic received Jesus? He didn't let his paralysis stop him Nor did he let a crowd stop him, nor did he let the roof of a house stop him. He saw in Jesus life and wholeness and he had his friends do whatever was necessary to get to Jesus just so he could receive Jesus Do you remember when the Samaritan woman at the well received Jesus? She went out and told her entire town about him Not caring one bit that she had been an outcast in her town because she had been because of the way that she had been living her life. Because who cares? I have met the Lord, and I'm here to tell all of you about what happens When you receive Christ Jesus. Think of the parables that Jesus told. What did the man do who found the treasure in the field? What did he do when he received the treasure? I'm going and I'm selling everything I have so I can get that treasure. Because receiving that treasure is better than life itself. Think about the the Ephesians and the book of Acts, who after receiving the Lord Jesus, what did they do? Burned all their magic books Because they saw we have been walking in evil, we have been walking in darkness, but now that we have received the Lord, we are turning to the light. What do all these have in common? Their receiving the Lord was accompanied by an overwhelming awareness of the glory, power, and goodness of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were also filled with joy, love, gratitude, and zeal. They did whatever it took to have him. And most importantly, they threw themselves on him entirely by faith. If you will, you can make me clean. I can't do it, but you can if you will, and I'm putting my faith wholeheartedly on you to do it. Friends. Can you think back to a time in your life? I am sure you can, when God's light flooded into your heart And you saw Christ Jesus in all of his glory and majesty. And because of your sinfulness, like Peter, you said, Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man. But then, alongside of the knowledge of your sinfulness, came knowledge of the mercy and grace of Christ. You suddenly knew that he was mighty to save. And not only was he mighty to save, but he came to save sinners. And more than that, he came to save you. The same glorious love that he sent his son to the cross for bears you along today. You came to know that though your sins were many, his mercy is more. And you laid hold of him by faith. And the burden of your sins fell away. As Anne Canabee puts it your chains fell off, your heart was freed, you rose, went forth, and followed him. Amazing love. How can it be? That thou, my God, shouldst die for me. Do you remember understanding the gospel for the first time and realizing just how far from the Lord you were and just how far God went to bring you back to himself in the same way that you received him so walk in him In that same conviction, with that same joy, with that same just glorious amazement, like, how can this possibly be? That God would send his eternal son into the world to bear the punishment for my sins. I wanted nothing to do with them. Paul says in Colossians, we were enemies and hostile in mind, but God took those who were enemies. And made them lovers of his son, holy and blameless and set apart. Friends, think about the steadfast love of the Lord that saved you. It is steadfast. It did not end that day. God did not say, I've saved you, now you need to save yourself. That steadfast love continues with you every day. What does Jeremiah say in Lamentations? The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new for you every morning. Great is his faithfulness And fresh helpings of daily mercy from God should cause us to daily be filled with the same joy. And peace and comfort and amazement we had when we first received the Lord. And to the degree that we aren't filled with those things, if we have cooled in our affections, if our joy has waned, if the love of the world has crept back into our hearts, the issue is not with Jesus. But with us. And how do we know that? Because Jesus is the same yesterday, and today, and forever. He is the same glorious and amazing God on the day that He saved us that He is today. But we also gotta be real. This is a fallen world. And we are fallen people. If you are looking at your life, you're like, oh, I don't see the same joy, love, and amazement. I don't say these things in order for us to feel condemned. I'm sure none of us are feeling these things the way that we should be. What does it look like to continue in the same way that you started when you felt those things back then, but aren't feeling them in the same way today? I think this is what it means. Throughout life, we will experience suffering. Right? It's it it's just when suffering comes, it's hard to feel those things the same way. Right? You you don't experience the same level of glory and power and amazement when you go through valleys in life. Think about David in the wilderness. How we spiritually are in the wilderness often in life. Lord, I'm pan like a deer streams for water. I need water. I am dry. What does it look like to walk then, to continue in faith then? It looks like doing what the saints in the book of Hebrews did, right? With the firm conviction of faith that God is able to do all that he promised. Regardless of how dark or bleak the circumstances of life are. You see the saints and Hebrews who who were going around without homes. They were wandering around in in sheepskins and and living in the mountains because they had no place. But they they they had a firm conviction of faith that God was able to bring them into the heavenly city with foundations that can't be shaken. That's what it looks like to continue the same way that you started. That if your body is falling apart, that you, like Abraham and Sarah, though your body may be as good as dead, you have the firm conviction of faith that God is able to raise you from the dead. That firm conviction of faith. This is hard. I am suffering. I'm struggling. The joy is not there. The amazement is not there. The power is not there. The passion is not there. But I believe. I believe that you can do all that you have promised me. That is what it looks like to continue the way that you started Friends, keep going. In the same way that you received him, walk in him Keep going. He is able to fulfill every promise to you. And he will fulfill every promise to you. In the same way you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, walk in Him today. Continue the way you started. And we need to be reminded of when we receive the Lord because of the danger that we won't continue in the faith. Which brings us to our second point. Continue because it's necessary. We must continue. Because it's necessary. It really kind of goes without saying, but not really, because Paul says it. God commands us to continue. Because we must continue, right? God commands us to continue because the crown that awaits is only for those who continue. Right? And Paul presses home the necessity of continuing because of how many people he had seen in his own life and ministry not continue We're gonna get to Colossians chapter four uh i i in a in a couple months, maybe a month and a half or so. And in Colossians four, Paul's gonna Point to all these people who are laboring with him in ministry, and Paul says about Demas, hey, my man Demas is rolling with me in the ministry and he sends you his greetings. There's Demas doing well. When you get to the end of Paul's ministry, when he writes 1st and 2nd Timothy, what do we learn? Demas. In love with the present world has not continued in the faith. Right? But it wasn't just Demas You learn in 1 Timothy, Paul had seen Hymenaeus and Alexander wander away from the truth and made a shipwreck of their faith. Or in 2 Timothy, Paul says, all who were in Asia, all of those people who had professed faith, Have not continued in the faith. The command to continue reveals the necessity of continuing And we need to recognize that continuing is not something that happens on its own apart from conscious effort, right? Continuing is not just us floating along through the Christian life like a leaf falls from a tree before we gently come to rest in that heavenly city. That's not what it looks like to continue in the faith. Continuing in the faith is described elsewhere as a battle. It's a war. It's a marathon that crosses grueling terrain and is filled with dangers. And Paul tells the Colossians and us to continue going because of how many dangers there are in the Christian life. Because of how many allurements there are to lead them and us away from continuing. Because of how many enemies we have that want to keep us from continuing. Just think about all that the New Testament says is opposed to you and I continuing in the faith. The world is opposed to you continuing in the faith. That is what Jesus describes as the kingdom of darkness that is fundamentally opposed to God, right? This Kingdom of darkness that calls evil good and good evil and presents constant temptations to God's people to abandon the truth and swallow the lie. Which is why John in 1 John says, Do not love the world. Right? The world wants to lead you away from the Lord. That's what it wants to do. But it's not just the world that is opposed. You are opposed to you continuing in the faith. What the authors of the New Testament call the flesh. Indwelling sin keeps us from continuing in the grace and peace that are in Christ Jesus When you do the thing that Paul says you know you should not do, and that he himself admits to doing the very thing that he should not do, do you feel the grace and peace of the Lord Jesus Christ? Your own flesh wants you to not continue in the faith, which is why we're told to put to death the sins of the flesh. So the world is opposed to you continuing, you are opposed to you continuing, and the Satan is opposed to you continuing. Right? We have a personal, malevolent being with all of his hordes who is at work to drag us to destruction. You meet him in the book of Job, right? What is he doing in the book of Job? He is traveling to and fro throughout the earth. Peter says he runs around like a prowling lion, right? We do not wrestle against flesh and blood. but against spiritual powers, right? Kids, if y'all want to know what it looks like to continue in the faith, And adults, honestly, I would highly suggest going home and watching Planet Earth 2. Planet Earth, Part 2 by the BBC. Look for the episode on the islands, because there's a bunch of different episodes. And specifically, look for the part of that episode on the Galapagos Islands. And the marine iguanas that live there. How many of y'all have seen this? Raise your hand if you've seen this. This is this is what continuing the faith looks like. If you haven't seen it, words like stunning. Disturbing and harrowing are all appropriate. On a portion of the coast of the Galapagos Islands, there is a colony of marine iguanas. and they they live on top of these massive rock outcroppings on the coast of the island. But when mommy iguanas Lay their eggs, they need to come down off of the rocks and go out to the beach to where the water comes in. They lay their eggs and then they bury them in the sand. How is this like continuing in the faith? You'll see. After some period of time, the baby iguanas hatch from their eggs. They poke their heads out of the sand. And if you watch this episode, the way that they poke their heads out of the sand would lead me to believe that in God's glorious design, God has implanted the knowledge of extreme danger in them. 'Cause they poke their heads out of the sand and they are locked and loaded. Right. Head is on a swivel. It's like they know something is coming for them. And they come into the world that way because coiled under the rocks on the beach is a colony of racer snakes waiting for the baby iguanas to be hatched. And when I say waiting, I mean the snakes are also locked and loaded. They are ready watching the beach for any movement on the sand, and the baby iguanas need to make it from the shoreline to the top of the rock formation where all the other marine iguanas are in order to be safe. And as soon as that iguana makes a break for it the snakes come flooding. And when I say flooding, I'm talking about like not like three or four. It looks like hundreds of snakes coming from every direction. Chasing these baby iguanas and the baby iguana, it's running across the beach. One snake pounces on it, starts to curl it up. You see it, and you're like, No, get through, get through, buddy. And he pops out and he keeps running. You're like, Yes! And then more snakes are chasing and this thing is literally jumping from rock to rock while snakes are also snakes can jump. These things are jumping, trying to catch it, nipping at its heels until it makes it to the top of the rocks. You're just like, yes, baby iguana. But friend, that is what it looks like to continue in the faith You have something worse than racer snakes who is chasing after you. Right? What does the author of Amazing Grace say? Through many dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come. Already, there's more to come. Right? You need to continue because continuing is a necessity. Right? Actively continuing looks like having your head on a swivel. It is living locked and loaded, right? Living with a heightened awareness that we have something worse than racer snakes coming for us. We must continue in the faith. But continuing with a heightened awareness of all that's opposed to you continuing in the faith does not mean continuing in fear. It's simply being realistic, taking seriously what God says about this world. And in the midst of that heightened awareness of all that is opposed to us, we can be confident That we can continue and make it to the safety at the top of the rocks. Why? Well, because God tells us how to continue so that we finish And that brings us to our third point. We continue by remaining rooted in Christ. Look again at the passage. Therefore, just as you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Now here's how you do that. Rooted, built up in him, and established in the faith Just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. How do we continue in the faith? How do we safely make it across the grueling terrain to the end of the race? We continue by remaining rooted in Christ. Paul uses a couple different metaphors here, right? One from horticulture Rooted in him, another from architecture, built up in him. But they work together to communicate that if we're going to continue in the faith and move from one degree of maturity to another, eventually becoming established in the faith, not tossed to and fro Right? Eventually reaching the finish line? We need to remain connected to, rooted in, Christ. Paul is just repeating what Jesus taught in John 15, right? What does Jesus say? Abide in me and I in you. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. Did you notice what you can do when you don't remain rooted in Christ Nothing. You can do nothing. And that includes continuing in the faith. We can only continue if we remain rooted in Christ. And how do we do that? By using the gifts of common yet glorious and supernatural grace that God has given to us. so that we can remain rooted in him. Think about how God uses the weekly gathering today, right now. To help us remain rooted in the faith. I don't know about you, but I am often convicted of my own attitude towards the Sunday gathering. It's almost like an instinct. The way that I word it in my mind from the very beginning is all messed up and jacked up. I say things in my mind like, I have to go to church today. No, I don't have to go to church today. I get to go to church today. Right? I get to go see God's people. That's like saying I have to go to the amusement park today if I'm a kid if you're a kid, right? You have to go to Six Flags today. No, I get to go to Six Flags today. It's gonna be amazing, right? I get to go to church today. I get to go and hear the living God speak I get to hear his living and active word, the word that pierces, convicts, builds up, and establishes. I and you get to hear the words of eternal life. We get to pray to God the Father through the Son by the power of the Holy Spirit. We get to ask God for all that we need, and we know that if we ask Him anything according to His will, He hears us and we have what we ask for. Luke led us in a pastoral prayer earlier, and I think everything that Luke prayed was according to God's will. And we know that in one measure or another, what to one degree or another, God will answer those prayers. Right? We get to pray to God. We get to see the saints in whom is all of our delight, right? I get to see all those who are also laboring for that heavenly city. We get to encourage one another in the faith and be encouraged by them. We get to sing loud songs of praise, loud songs of lament, because those are also appropriate, and we do it all to worship God. We get to do that every Lord's Day. Right? J. C. Ryle was speaking about how we we often look at it as a duty, and he's talking about the privilege of the Sunday gathering. And the privilege that it is to strengthen us so that we can continue in the race. And he described the blessing of the weekly gathering this way. We shall all do well to remember the charge, forsake not the assembling of ourselves together. As is the manner of some from Hebrews 10. 24. He says this. Never to be absent, committing, never to be absent from God's house on Sundays without good reason. Never to miss the Lord's Supper when administered in our own congregation. Never to let our place in our seat be empty when means of grace are going on. This is one way. To be a growing and prosperous Christian. The very sermon that we needlessly miss may contain a precious word in season for our souls. The very assembly for prayer and praise from which we stay away may be the very gathering that would have cheered and established and quickened our hearts We little know how dependent our spiritual heart is on little regular habitual helps and how much we will suffer if we miss our medicine. I don't know about you. I look back over the years of being a Christian and I think about the regular attendance on Sunday services. There is like, ah! Precious few that I look back on and remember like that sermon, that message, that song, or that thing. But what is God doing in all of it He is working, shaping, maturing, building, grooming, sculpting, writing, making the portrait complete. And you can't see the work that's going on, but it doesn't mean he's not doing it. Right? The weekly gathering is for the upbuilding of individual saints into one body, one congregation. But those common yet glorious and supernatural means of grace extend beyond the Sunday gathering, right? We can partake of them daily. And we need to partake of them daily, right? If you've ever run an actual race, those rest stops where you get your Gatorade, you get your little gel pack, you get your piece of fruit, maybe your snack bar, right? And you get recharged for the next leg of the race, those are like your daily means of grace. Right? If you ran a marathon and you saw every you saw another person in that race passing every single table Maybe when they pass the first one or the second one, you're like, wow, that that dude that dude's a superhuman. Like I'm not gonna be like him. But then you see them passing every table. You know what you're gonna find out? They're gonna fall out at mile 15 or 16 You can't keep passing the charging stations if you want to finish the race. Daily, God gives us his word, he gives us prayer, he gives us fellowship with the saints. so that we can continue in the faith. You think kids, I want y'all to think about it this way. You know at Lowe's or Home Depot or if you went to a uh a a plant nursery You can buy the little plants in the plastic shell, the very little, and you bring them home. What are you supposed to do with those plants when you get home? What are you supposed to do? Plant them, right? Kids, if you don't plant that plant in soil and then water it, what's gonna happen to it? It's gonna die, right? Want you to think about your own spiritual life that way. You like the little plant, plastic shell around it. Gotta put the plant in the soil. And then water it by the daily means of grace. If you do that, you will grow up, rooted, built up in him, bearing much fruit Right? We gotta continue rooted in Christ. Right? That's what we're like if we pass up the word. We're like the person who doesn't plant that plant in the soil. Right? We get to daily take up God's word and read. We get to daily lift up prayers to the Father. We get to daily fellowship with other Christians. In this season, we use Zoom and things like that for it. And in doing so, we're being daily strengthened to continue in the faith. And briefly, Paul mentions that part of remaining rooted in Christ is abounding in thanksgiving. You see that there at the end. Thanksgiving is the fruit that buds from a tree that is rooted in Christ. Would you say that you are abounding in Thanksgiving? Alright, think about what that word communicates. Abound, just overflowing. It's always coming off of your lips. I know that I'm not. Right? Not nearly as much as I should be. And I think the reason that I'm not, and possibly the reason that you may not be, is because we regularly forget what we actually deserve And we regularly forget all the things that God has done for us that Paul has gone to great pains to remind the Colossians of already Right. Ingratitude, Brian Davis uh says when he was preaching on this passage, Brian Davis says, ingratitude grows out of a sense of entitlement. When we think we are entitled to certain things, it's and we believe that we're entitled because we've forgotten all that God has done for us, right? We forget that before God lavishes grace on us, we were without hope in the world. We forget that before God chose to open our eyes, we lived in darkness and walked around in ignorance. We forget that before God set us free, we were a slave to our sins. We forget that before God gave us new hearts, we were already condemned because of our sins. Against him. Think of what God has done for you and what he has done for us that Paul has already taught us in Colossians. He gave us a hope laid up for us in heaven that cannot perish, spoil, or fade. He sent to us the word of truth and caused it to bear fruit in our lives. He has given us ears to hear, a new heart, through which the fruits of the Spirit are abounding more and more. He has filled us with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. He is fully pleased with you, not because of your performance, but because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ that frees you from self-condemnation because you and I will never live up to God's standard, though we should absolutely desire to and seek to out of an overflow of our love for God. But God is fully pleased with you in Christ. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness, transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. He has redeemed us and reconciled us. He has Promised to present us holy and blameless and above reproach before him. And those are just the reasons we have to give thanks from Colossians. Not to mention the rest of the New Testament and the whole Bible. We have every reason to be abounding in thanksgiving. But it's inevitable that when we talk about having the same joy we had when we started, When we talk about being reminded to stay rooted in Christ and being thankful that all of us have failed, right? All of us have failed. Does this mean that we won't finish the race? Uh no, it doesn't. John Bunyan The well-known Puritan struggled with this as he walked with Christ throughout his life until one day he had a revelation of sorts. He said this. One day, as I was passing into the field, this sentence fell upon my soul. Thy righteousness is in heaven. heaven. And with the eyes of my soul, I saw Jesus at the Father's right hand. There, I said, is my righteousness. So that wherever I was or whatever I was doing, God could not say to me, Where is your righteousness? For it is always right before him. I saw that it is not my good frame of heart that made my righteousness better, nor my bad frame that made my righteousness worse. For my righteousness is Christ. Now my chains fell off indeed. My temptations fled away, and I lived sweetly at peace with God. Now I could look for myself to him and could reckon that all my character was like the coins a rich man carries in his pocket when all his gold is safe in a trunk at home. I saw that my gold was indeed in a trunk at home, in Christ my Lord. Now Christ was all. My righteousness, my sanctification, my redemption Our friend, even when you and I continue to fail, we can look to Christ seated at God's right hand and know That if we have put our faith in Christ, our righteousness is in heaven. And because of that, you can continue hobbling. Shuffling to heaven. And that brings us back to Cliff Young and the Sydney to Melbourne Ultra Marathon. Though the field of runners pulled away from Cliff and his awkward shuffle at the beginning of the race, it didn't stay that way. It was common wisdom at the time that to win the marathon, a person would have to run for 18 hours, then stop and sleep for six hours, and then repeat that for five hours. five days. It seemed that all of the runners knew that, except for Cliff. Cliff, the sixty one year old toothless farmer and shepherd who showed up in denim overalls and galoshes and work boots. Never stopped running. Over the course of five days, he shuffled and shuffled and shuffled. While the other runners were sleeping, Cliff continued shuffling, literally never stopping And eventually winning the race. Not by a slim margin Either. The next closest runner was nine hours and fifty-six minutes behind him. All because He continued the way that he started. Shuffle me. That's a call for you and me today. Continue the same way you started Continue because it's necessary. And continue by remaining rooted in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, help us continue. We are weak. We're like Cliff Young. Best we can do is shuffle. Grant us to be strengthened, to shuffle until the end. By your grace and your strength at work in us, that through our weakness, your strength and power would be made known to all And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.