Well, good morning everyone. It's wonderful to see you all here. How's everyone doing? Good, all right. Uh one more thing I just wanted to announce kids again so last week we started uh we created a question sheet for kids to answer to follow along with the sermon. Uh that sheet is available to you on the back table. So kids if you don't have one of those sheets Be sure to grab one before we get started. That way you can follow along. It'll have questions that follow along with the sermon just to help you understand and track with what's being taught a little bit more. Uh friends, I'm gonna go ahead and pray for us one more time, and then we're gonna get started. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning as a people who rejoice in the fact that your Holy Spirit Has given us new life in Jesus Christ. He has regenerated us and has caused our hearts to turn from rocky ground. to good soil. Yet in this life it is the case that we continue to fight against weeds and thorns and thistles growing up in the soil of our hearts that block us and keep us From hearing your word. Father, that is the case right now, but you are sovereign. You are greater than our hearts You rule over our hearts. And so we pray to you now that you, by your Holy Spirit, would clear away the brush. That we might receive the seed of your word, and that word would bear fruit in our lives. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, Adonairam Judson is widely known as one of the first, not the first, but one of the first American missionaries to travel overseas to preach the gospel. However, the route, or the route, whichever way you like to pronounce that word, the route that Judson took to get to that place in his life where he desired to take the gospel to the nations is an interesting one. Judson was born in 1788 in Malden, Massachusetts, to a congregationalist pastor. His dad was somewhat stern and humorless. His mom had a uh living and vibrant faith, and both his father and his mother desired that Judson would follow in his father's footsteps and one day become a pastor and local preacher. Yet is Judson grew, he had a much greater hunger for fame than he did for following Christ And while attending what we would know now as Brown University, Judson became fast friends with a man that went by, or a man whose name was Jacob Eames. And he and Eames were caught up in the atheist rationalism that was sweeping from Europe over to America. uh following the Enlightenment, they were swept up in this way of thinking, this atheistic rationalism, which led Judson to openly reject the faith that his parents had been sowing in his heart and in his life for years. And so after rejecting the Christian faith that he'd been raised to believe Judson wanted to pursue the fame that he so greatly desired, and so he uh took up to to follow his plan to become a playwright and tried to move to New York City to become a playwright. However, a number of circumstances came to pass in Judson's life. That caused him to again consider his beliefs about God, his own skepticism about God that he had kind of taken in that atheistic, rationalistic move. And he already started considering what happened after death. And while he turned for help again to his parents To answer questions that he had, and his parents again pointed him to the salvation that is to be found in Jesus Christ. They continued sowing seeds in his life and before long. Judson truly repented and put his faith in Christ. And that took him on a journey which led him to commit himself to taking the gospel to the nations. And in July of 1813, Judson landed in Burma, which is modern-day Myanmar, and he landed there as a missionary of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And almost as soon as he landed, even before he landed, Judson and his wife began suffering. He and his wife lost a child almost immediately. They suffered near constant sickness from tropical diseases. They suffered from the corruption of the Burmese government. Judson himself was imprisoned and treated Inhumanely and just unbelievably ungodly ways for a period of time. But not only did he suffer physically, he and his wife saw no conversions in their work. For six years. For six years they suffered like this, sowing the seeds of the gospel on rock hard soil. I wonder when you hear that, how do you think it's possible that he and his wife could sustain that sort of suffering without seeing any conversions? And yet continue in the work. What do you think motivated them to continue? How about you? Right? You may not be suffering like the Judsons did, but maybe you can relate to the lack of visible fruit Or conversions that they experience. You just, you don't see it happening around you. What's all this talk about? Revivals and people being saved. I've never seen anything like this. Right? Maybe you have a parent who you've been sharing the gospel with for years, but it seems like they are just as hardened as ever to the gospel. What if you have a child? Maybe you have a child that you've been sharing the gospel with, and it just seems like they never respond to it. You sow the seeds and they just seem to bounce right off. Maybe you even have a child who's openly rejected the faith like Judson once did. What is going to motivate you to continue sowing the seed of the gospel? Could be a neighbor or a friend that you've been trying to love them as Christ would and share the gospel with them and they just never seem to care or respond You can relate to any of those situations or others like it. Let me ask you a question. What has the power to motivate you? to continue sharing the gospel, sowing seed, even if it seems like nobody around you is believing What has the power to motivate you to continue to share the gospel when it seems like so many don't respond? What's your answer to that question Luckily, we don't have to come up with our own answer. We can find an answer in God's Word. So if you want to see the answer that God gives to this question, let me encourage you to turn with me and your Bibles to Mark chapter 4. We're going to be looking today at verses 1 to 20. Verses 1 to 20. This is a section of scripture that's known as the parable of the sower. If you've been a Christian for any length of time, I just want to go ahead and say to you, you've probably read this parable a bunch of times. You're probably very familiar with it. And I just want to say there are a number of different ways that this parable can be preached I see at least three different sermons, if not more, that can be preached from this passage. You can talk about the different types of soil, the hardness of heart, the cares of the world, the things that keep people from believing. But what I want us to focus on today is the answer to the question, what is going to motivate you, Christian, to continue sowing the seed of the gospel? even if it seems like nobody is believing. And I think our passage this morning gives us a wonderful answer. If you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles, you'll find Mark chapter 4 on page 839. And if you're here and you don't own a Bible, I want to encourage you to take one of the Pew Bibles. It's a gift from us to you. As Christians, we believe that the God who exists truly spoke. through his word in the Old and New Testaments of the Holy Scriptures, and that He's only spoken through those and through His Son Jesus Christ. And so there's nothing more that we would want you to have than a copy of God's Word. So please go ahead and take one of those uh if you don't own one. I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage for us now. This is God's word. Again he began to teach beside the sea, and a very large crowd gathered about him. So that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea. And the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land. And he was teaching them many things in parables. I want to stop here real quick. If you've been reading this passage this past week or you've read it in the past, you might think to yourself, wait. How is it possible that Jesus could get into a boat and sit on the sea and teach to a crowd that is on the shore, a very great crowd, and that crowd could hear him? I think that's a legitimate question. How is that possible? How could there be acoustics good enough to provide that type of setting? And the truth is that would be a hard thing to do. But the reality is, geographically speaking, just south of Capernaum. Where Jesus was centering his ministry, there is a bay that is known today as the Bay of Parables. And the reason it's called the Bay of Parables is because of the way that the land gently slopes down to the sea. There's a pocket of land that's tucked away, and you could very easily fit a crowd of thousands on that land, sit on the sea, in a boat on the sea, and speak to those on land, and they can hear you perfectly because of the natural acoustics of the land. And it seems likely that Jesus was teaching from this bay called the Bay of Parables. You can look it up if you're interested in learning more about that. But verse 2. He was teaching them many things in parables. And in his teaching, he said to them, Listen, behold, a sower went out to sow And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil. And when the sun rose it was scorched, and since it had no root, it withered away Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain. And other seeds fell into good soil and produced grain growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold. And he said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables, and he said to them, To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God. But for those outside, everything is in parable, so that they may indeed see, but not perceive, and may indeed hear, but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven. And he said to them, Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? The sower sows the word. And these are the ones along the path where the word is sown. When they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. And these are the ones sown on rocky ground, the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while. Then when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away. And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things, enter in and choke the word. And it proves unfruitful. But those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit. Thirtyfold. Sixtyfold. And a hundredfold. So what has the power? To motivate you to share the gospel when it seems like so many don't believe. What has the power to do that is God's sovereignty over salvation God's sovereignty over salvation. God's sovereignty over salvation has the power to motivate us. To persistently proclaim the gospel. God's sovereignty over salvation provides the motivation for persistent gospel proclamation So we're going to look at what this passage teaches us about God's sovereignty over salvation, and then consider two applications that come from that. So first, God's sovereignty over salvation. We see when we look at this parable, if you look down at your Bibles with me, we see how central God's sovereignty over salvation is in this parable because of where Mark puts Jesus' teaching on it, right? It's right smack in the middle of the parable. So Jesus tells the parable up front, the sower goes out and sows some seed. Verses 3 to 9, he tells the parable of the sower. Then at some point after that, the crowd leaves, and he's alone with a larger group of disciples and the twelve apostles, and they ask him about the meaning of the parable. And before Jesus tells them what the parable means in the second half of the section, he says to them, To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God. But for those outside, everything is in parable, so that they may indeed see, but not perceive. And may indeed hear, but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven. Notice first. He says to you, that is to his disciples, to you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God. What is that What is the secret of the kingdom of God? Well, the secret of the kingdom of God is understanding the Word of God and responding to it in faith. The secret of the kingdom of God is hearing the Word of God, understanding the Word of God, and responding to it So Jesus has been teaching throughout Mark's gospel up until this point, he's been teaching the message of the kingdom, and he's been doing that through open proclamation. And through parables, types of teachings, and the secret of the kingdom of God, that in the person of Jesus Christ, God has sent the Savior of the world to offer Himself for the forgiveness of sins. That message has been revealed. That is the secret of the kingdom of God that's being revealed in his teaching. And so to say to you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, he's saying to you has been given the right understanding of the Word of God and the ability to respond to it in faith. And we've seen a number of people do that already in Mark's gospel. When he calls Simon and Andrew, they follow him. When he calls James and John, they follow him. When he calls Levi, Levi, Levi follows him. Jesus says, to you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God. And then he goes on to explain the parable to them so that they would understand the word of God and respond to it in faith. Then he continues, to you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside, everything is in parables. All right, listen to what's going on here. Jesus is saying that there is an inside and there is an outside. You'll remember last week we taught about the family of God, the family traits of the family of God, and we we saw how when Jesus' mother and brothers came to speak to him, where were they standing? They were standing outside while the crowd around him was allowed inside. And Jesus says to those, inside, whoever does the will of God is my brother and sister and mother. He's taking this idea of inside and outside, and now he's going to start explaining why there are people inside and why there are people outside. There are those who are given understanding. And there are those for whom everything remains in parables. So listen, everyone hears the parables Those on the inside and those on the outside. It's not just that Jesus teaches in parables to those on the outside, but then these other people get different types of teaching. Everyone hears the parables. Those inside are given understanding by Jesus Christ. He explains to them the meaning of the parables. To those outside, everything remains a parable. They're not giving the explanation of it. And why is that? Look back with me at the text. Why is that the case? Jesus says in verse 12, See those first two words. Why is this the case? So that they may indeed see, but not perceive. And may indeed hear, but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven Alright, so that is an odd statement. It sounds a lot like Jesus is saying that everything is left as a riddle. Or a parable for those on the outside, in order, in order to keep them from believing and being forgiven. Is that what he's saying? Is that what Jesus is saying here? And if so, how do we square that with what Scripture teaches about God's desire for all to be saved? Right? He does not delight in the death of the wicked. We read that in Ezekiel. John 3:16, God sent his son into the world so that whoever believes. It seems like it's for whoever. How do we square what Jesus is saying here with those real with those truths? And the reality is that this is a difficult passage to understand. We just got to be upfront about that. Not everything in Scripture is easy to understand. And part of the difficulty about it is how we interpret and how we interpret the passage depends on how we interpret those words so that. When we read those words so that in English, it sounds a lot to us like we're hearing the intention of the person is being communicated. I went to the store so that I could pick up some water because I was thirsty, right? That's how we communicate purpose and intention. But the underlying Greek term that is translated so that can mean a number of different things. It can communicate purpose. Absolutely. It can also just communicate basic cause and effect, as in this was the result of the thing that had happened, without communicating intention. Or some people look at this phrase so that, and they think Jesus is saying, so that it may be fulfilled. And why would they say that? Because then Jesus goes on to cite a passage from Isaiah. And I think that is what's going on here. Jesus is saying, so that it may be fulfilled, and now I'm going to quote from Isaiah, and I'm going to show you how what Isaiah was saying is now being fulfilled in my ministry. And in the passage he cites, What is going on is in Isaiah chapter 6, Isaiah has just seen the glory of the living God. The the the the robe of his his uh garments have filled the temple, and Isaiah has seen the holy one in his temple. And the Lord says Who is going to go for me? Who is going to take my word to my people? And Isaiah says, here I am. Send me. And so God says to Isaiah, okay, this is what you're to say to my people. Keep on seeing, but not perceiving. Keep on hearing, but not understanding. Then he goes on to say a few more things, and he says, lest you should turn and be forgiven. And what he's saying to Isaiah is that you're supposed to go to the people of God, the people of Israel, and you're going to say to them, here is the word of God again. I'm gonna say this to you, and you're gonna keep on seeing it, but you're not gonna perceive it. You're gonna keep on hearing it, but you're just not gonna understand it. And why is that the case? Because the people of Israel had hard hearts and they had rebelled against the Lord. They refused to accept what Isaiah was going to say. And Jesus is grabbing that verse. And now he's applying it to the context that he's in. He's saying, I've taught about who I am Which he has taught about who he is. I've proved who I am. I've healed lepers. I've healed paralytics. I've Forgiven sin, I said, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. I've taught who I am, I've proved who I am, and they continue seeing but not believing. They can hit they continue hearing me. but not understanding me. They do not respond in faith. And then he says, lest they should turn and be forgiven. And again, we're confronted with another problem. How do we interpret the word lest? Because it sounds like Jesus saying, I do not want them to turn and be forgiven. This is why I'm speaking to them in parables. But this passage is translated in a number of different ways. And in some translations, most commentators look at this word and they say it means otherwise. Otherwise, you would turn and be forgiven. If you would actually hear my word and respond to it in faith, you might turn and be forgiven Kind of an ironic, lest you would turn and be forgiven. God forbid, you would do that. You would hear my word and respond to it in faith. And so he says, lest they should turn and be forgiven. But now you might say, we see in this passage, Jesus' plain teaching of the truth and their inability to seek forgiveness due to the hardness of heart that comes through rejecting God's word. But you might say, John, Jesus is intentionally keeping the truth from them by teaching them in parables The reason they can't understand him is his fault. Because Jesus says to them, for those outside, everything is in parables. If Jesus would just teach a little bit more clearly, then they would get it. But I don't think that's what's going on here. And I don't think that's what that's what Jesus means when he says, for those outside, everything remains in parables. It is simply not true that the people did not understand Jesus' parables. We turn to Mark chapter 12. In Mark chapter 12, we're not going to turn there now. In Mark chapter 12, Jesus tells a parable to the Pharisees. Who are opposing him and they're coming closer to killing them. And he tells them a parable about the wicked tenants. And he says to me, Hey, I got a I have a parable for you. A man built a vineyard. And then he leased that vineyard to some tenants. But because he was the owner of that vineyard, he deserved the fruit of the vineyard And so the man sent his servants to the vineyard to gather some of the fruit. But the tenants beat and killed the servants. And then he continued to send more servants. And those tenants continued to beat and kill the servants. And the owner of the vineyard got to the point and said to himself, Listen, I'm going to send my son. Surely they will listen to my son. When he goes to them, then they will give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. And the son goes, and they take the son, and they beat him and kill him. That's how you can paraphrase that parable. That's what Jesus says to the Pharisees. And what does Mark record in Mark chapter 12? The Pharisees, having perceived that he told the parable about them, sought to arrest him. They perceived. They understood. Who are the tenants? God is the Father. You are the Son. We get it. Now we want to kill you. They understand the parables. It's not that parables are impossible to understand. It's that when you listen to them and hear them, you either give thought to them. or you don't and you walk away and continue rejecting the word of God. And as I've been studying this passage, it's kind of forced me to deal with one of the harder things. It's One of the things that's harder to understand about Scripture, but I think is clear throughout Scripture, and that is the way that God has sovereignly superintended and decreed to use his word. Both his word in Scripture and the Word made flesh in Jesus Christ. And what the Word does when it comes to people is the Word either softens or it hardens. You do not remain neutral to the Word of God. You either hear it, understand, yes, I am the sinner, and you repent. Or you harden your heart and you go about your way. What does Peter say about Jesus, the word made flesh, that he is a stumbling block? People come to the Word. They see the Word in Scripture. They see the Word made flesh in Jesus Christ, and they're confronted with their sinfulness. And they either say, like Simon and Simon and Andrew, James and John, and those who repented, we understand that you are saying that we are sinners and that you are our Savior, and we now repent and believe. Or they hear it, they understand it, and they reject it. That is what's happening here in these parables. They perceived, they cognitively understood the parable, they just don't respond in faith. To what it is teaching. Jesus' parables present the truths of the kingdom of God in a way that people can understand. The fact is, many people choose not This is what Paul meant when he said, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. He's not saying they don't understand the logical propositions that make up the gospel message. He's saying, no, we've got you. We don't believe It's folly. You're telling me I'm gonna believe and be saved by some dude who lived 2,000 years ago who claimed to be the savior of mankind? God forbid how many other people have done that? and then was crucified in a trash heap outside of Jerusalem? You think I'm gonna believe that? I get what you're saying. I reject it. That's what's happening. It's not that they don't understand the parable of the Savior of mankind crucified on a cross But how is it possible that so many would reject it while some of you, I trust, are sitting here and when you look at Jesus Christ. You don't just see a crucified Savior, you see the risen and reigning Savior of all mankind. How is it possible that you could have that understanding that you could believe while so many who hear the same message Reject it. What is the answer that Jesus gives? Look at verse 11. It's because to you has been given. the secret of the kingdom of God. If you believe, you do not believe because you were wiser. You do not believe because you were better. You do not believe because of a mistaken understanding of the parable of the sower, which says, I must have been the good soil because I've borne fruit. You believe because Jesus Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit and God the Father decreed to allow you to believe by giving you faith. God, in the power of the Holy Spirit, came into your heart. He took the rocky ground. He took the hard heart, the path that was in your heart He took the thorns and the thistles, he cleared them away and he planted good soil. And then he took the seed And put it in the soil, and he caused that seed to grow. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever and ever. To you, saints, it has been given the secrets of the kingdom of God like a gift Have been shared with you by God Almighty. God chose to reveal to you the glory of his Son Jesus. In him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of your grace, his grace. Which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight. Dot dot dot Making known to us the mystery of his will To you who believe it has been given the secret of the kingdom of God. God is completely sovereign over salvation. Could he open the eyes of the blind? Absolutely. We must confess completely with all confidence God could open the eyes of anyone he wants. And we can hold fast to that truth with confidence because he can. And he has chosen to open your eyes. But I was raised in a Christian family, and my parents raised me to hear the gospel. Who put you in that family? I could say to myself, I walked away from the Lord and I just saw Him work in all these different ways, and then finally I believed. It's God's sovereignty in salvation that caused that to happen. Our faith is a gift. To you, it has been given, sovereignly given, mysteriously given, but given He gives faith. He gives understanding. He is sovereign and he is able to open the eyes of the blind. And since God is sovereign over salvation, How should we respond? I think two things that the passage teaches us, two applications I want us to consider. First, Because God is sovereign over salvation, we should sow the Word. We should sow the seed of the Word. We should be motivated to share the gospel. Why is that? Because God in his sovereign wisdom has chosen to use the sowing of the word as the means by which he grants faith and deeper understanding. God has chosen in his sovereign wisdom to grant salvation through the preaching of his word. It is the seed that goes into the soil of the heart that sprouts up and bears belief and faith. Notice even the centrality of the word in Jesus' explanation of the parable in verses 13 to 20. What does he say? The very first thing. Verse 14, the sower sows the word, not his testimony, not kindness and acts of service. The sower sows the The word. All those things are important and can be used and should be used in many ways, but the sower sows the word and each of the soils Hears the word. When they hear the word, it's taken away from them. When they hear the word, it falls on rocky ground. When they hear the word, it's choked out by thorns and thistles. When they hear the word, it bears fruit. When they hear the word, when they hear the gospel, each of the soils represents those who hear the word. It is the word that brings faith. God has chosen to reveal the secret of the kingdom to those who are being saved through the word. It is by preaching the gospel that God has chosen to save sinners. So apart from the gospel being preached, explained, spoken, or articulated, saving faith is not possible. Listen to what the Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians. He says this, has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through its wisdom, it pleased God, it pleased through the folly of preaching to save those who believe. Do you ever feel foolish sharing the gospel? It is because it pleased God through the folly of preaching to save those who believe. There is a sense in which Even Paul says it's through the folly of preaching. It's not because it's actually foolish, but God in his wisdom wants to shame the wisdom of the world by giving such a foolish message to give salvation to the nations. It's through the folly of preaching. that those are being saved. He chose to save through the folly of preaching, proclaiming, and teaching the word of the cross. I want you to consider this story. William Haslam was ordained to the ministry in the Church of England in the middle of the 19th century. And he served in the Church of England for a number of years. And it was some un unknown number of years after ministering in the church that a revival of sorts broke out in the town in England that he lived in. And a lot of people were coming to his church and were were sharing testimonies of these amazing conversions through reading the word and through hearing the gospel preached. And they were testifying. to a newfound understanding of God's love and mercy in the person of Jesus Christ. And hearing these conversions troubled Haslam Not for their souls, but for his own. Because Hazlum, a preacher of the gospel, could not relate to what they were sharing. And one Sunday he became so troubled that he wondered whether he could even get up to preach. But he finally determined that he would get up and say a few words and then dismiss the congregation. Then Haslum got up to preach and said this as he recounted what happened that Sunday. As I began to preach the word, something was telling me. Something was telling me all the time, you are no better than the Pharisees. You do not believe Jesus has come to save you any more than they did. I do not remember all that I said, but I felt a wonderful light. And joy coming into my soul, and I was beginning to see what the Pharisees did not see Whether it was in my words or my manner or my look, I do not know because I cannot remember. But all of a sudden, a local preacher who happened to be in the congregation stood up And put up his arms and began shouting, the parson has been converted! The parson has been converted! Hallelujah! In another moment his voice was lost in the shouts and the praises of three or four hundred of the congregation, and instead of rebuking them for this extraordinary brawling as I would have done in former time I joined in the outbreak of praise and then gave out the doxology, praise God, from whom all blessings flow, and the people sang it over and over again. While preaching the word, William Haslam was saved. It pleased God. Through the folly of preaching to save even preachers from eternal damnation Or consider this story. Think about the power of God's word. Consider this story from Charles Spurgeon's ministry in 1857. A day before preaching in the Crystal Palace to a crowd of 23,000 people without amplification or microphone. Spurgeon went into the building to decide where the preaching platform should be placed so he could test the acoustics of the building. And he cried out in a loud voice, Behold the Lamb of the God of God which taketh away the sins of the world. And his voice reverberated through the empty building, except the building wasn't empty. There was a workman working in the rafters of the building doing some repairs, and when Spurgeon's voice came to him Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. The workman was converted This is what God's word does. And it doesn't just happen in the 18th century or the 19th century. It happens today. I sent out an email this past week to a bunch of pastors just to see, hey guys, can you send me amazing stories and conversions that you've heard? And Alex Duke. A member of North Shore Baptist Church in Bayside, New York, said, yes, here's one in our church right now, a woman named Kassania Kim, who's Belarusian. I think that's what you would call it. And Kassania was there translating the messages that were being preached into Belarusian so that they could Hear the gospel and she did not believe. And as she was translating the messages for them, she was saved That is what God's word does. I look at my own life. I look at my January 5th of 2010. I am sitting in front of my computer listening to John Piper. Read John 3:16 and then explain it. And before the guy is even done with the first explanation of the first clause of that verse, God opens my eyes so that I would believe in Jesus Christ. Friends, look at your own life and recount the ways that God's word has come into your heart and brought conviction and brought salvation. It is through the power of his word that he saves. The gospel is the power of God for salvation to all who believe. So what should we do with the word? We should sow the word Friends, I got so many emails just like Alex's that recounted amazing conversions in people's lives in various churches. We could spend hours going through them. This is what the word does. It is like a fire that consumes. It is like a hammer that shatters. When God wants to bring faith, he will give Faith and he gives it through the preaching of his word. And the second thing we should do, the second thing we should do is not just sow the word, the second thing we should do is. Sow the word widely. So the word widely. Look again with me at the parable, especially look at verses 3 to 9. If you are part of the original audience and you're listening to Jesus deliver this parable, you are thinking to yourself, This sower is incompetent. This sower has no idea what he's doing. Why do I say that? Well, because in the Mishnah, the authoritative Jewish writings, there are specific instructions given for how to go how to go about sowing seed in a field. And this sower does not follow those instructions. Right? He's sowing it on the path. He's sowing it on rocky ground. He's throwing seed in thorn patches. He's sowing it everywhere. We shouldn't make the mistake of reading this parable and think, uh it's it's It's seed that's falling out of his hand accidentally when he goes to throw it on the good soil. The passage says, just like it fell on the good soil. It also fell on thorny ground, rocky ground, and on the path. Same verb. It fell in all four places. So we could say it's a mistake, but you'd also have to say it was a mistake that he actually hit the good soil, and congrats, he's still incompetent. Right? The guy is sowing seed everywhere, and he's sowing seed everywhere intentionally, even when it seems, it would appear, there's no way that's ever gonna bear fruit. It's impossible for the word to bear fruit in or for this that seed to bear fruit in thorny sow. What's wrong with you, sower? Right? Jesus audience surely would have been thinking this. This sower is completely incompetent Why on earth would he intentionally sow seed in those places? And the answer to that question lies in understanding what the different soils represent. Right? Each of the soils represents spiritual conditions in a person's heart. Pop quiz. Kids. Can you see what's going on in the heart of another person? You can just shout it out. Thank you, Kessid. No, you cannot see what is going on inside of another person's heart Right? The path refers to when the word is sown and Satan comes in and takes it right away. Do you and I see that happening? No, we do not The rocky ground refers to the soil that seems like it may have some good soil, but the word is sown and it it bears a little bit of fruit right away, but because it can't reach down into the ground because of the rocky soil, it it doesn't last Can you see that happening in someone's heart? No. Can you see inside of someone's heart, uh, this person is full of the deceitfulness of riches and the cares of the world, and it's going to be choked out inside of them. The word is not going to last in them. So I am just going to pass on this person. I'm going to look for the one who was good soil, right? You cannot see that happening. The reality is all of us is hard soil. Kids, all of us is hard soil. All of us needs God to change the soil of our hearts so that the word might bear fruit in our lives. So when for the kids, when Jesus is telling this parable, And he says it to the original audience. He leaves them with just the parable. He doesn't give them the explanation. So the original audience is meant to walk away and think to themselves, which soil should I be? I should be the good soil. Well, how do you become the good soil? You turn to God in faith and repentance You ask him to grant you a new heart. You tell him that you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and desire to be saved, and he will give you a new heart. And that's what the original audience should have done when they heard the parable. But we, as Christians, we make a huge mistake when we by our own wisdom Try and determine whether or not a person is a good candidate for hearing the gospel. What complete foolishness! None of us can see what is actually going on in a person's heart. The reality is we have no idea how people will respond to the gospel. We have no idea who will believe and who will reject it. We have no idea who will reject it only to later believe. We simply do not know I think a wonderful story to communicate this. It came in the ministry of George Whitfield. So Whitfield, if you're not familiar with him, is like one of the most famous preachers ever. Uh he preached in the uh I believe it's eighteenth century, nineteenth century, and attracted massive crowds wherever he went And one of the towns that he made a lasting impression on through his preaching ministry was a town called Bristol in England. And in particular, in that town, there was a group of individuals known as the Hellfire Club. And you could guess by their name that they were not fans of George Whitfield, the members of the Hellfire Club, were not fans of Whitfield. They hated him. They couldn't stand him. And everywhere that Whitfield went, because he preached a lot outside, they would go and disrupt his meetings. They would stand up and mock him. and insult him. And if you look up renderings of George Whitfield preaching online, if you look for images of it, you'll see depictions of this in in artwork. And uh one of the members of that group, the Hellfire Club, a man by the name of Thorpe, was apparently quite skilled at mockingly imitating Whitfield. And so one day this guy Thorpe got a hold of one of Whitfield's sermons and he took it to the local pub. And while he was there with the other members of the Hellfire Club Thorpe decided he would stand up and deliver Whitfield's sermon in a very derisive way. He wanted to poke fun at Whitfield. And in the middle of the sermon, Thorpe stopped speaking, sat down, and as Thorpe tells it trembling and brokenhearted, confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord. And then do you know what happened to Thorpe? He went and became a preacher and an evangelist, and he bore fruit 30fold, sixtyfold, and a hundredfold Tell me. You're present at Whitfield's preaching. And you see the Hellfire Club. Are they good soil? God does not look at the outside. You cannot tell what is going on inside somebody's heart. And even if what is going on in their heart is hatred towards God, do you not think that God Himself can change their heart and save them? Was the Apostle Paul a good candidate for salvation? He was a terrorist. Was Levi, the extortionist, money-rubbing tax collector, a good candidate? Were you a good candidate? This is what God does. We cannot tell who's going to believe and who's not going who's not going to believe. We sow the word widely. And don't be surprised if when you're doing this, don't be surprised if many people, most even, don't believe. Look at the parable. How many bad soils are there? Three. How many good soils are there? One. I think Jesus is trying to say that there's gonna be a difference. There's gonna be a difference in how people respond. And it might be over, it might seem overwhelmingly bad. And I want us to understand the way bigger structures work in the Gospels, in all of God's writings, understanding how he structures passages to teach things, kind of macro level. I don't know how many weeks ago it was that I taught when I taught on Jesus calling the apostles to himself. It was about a month ago. Jesus calls the apostles up on the mountain. He gives them their mission. You're going to be with me, and then you're going to go out and preach the gospel. And then the passage ends. And the very next passage is on Who is and who is not in the family of God? And then the very next passage is on God's sovereignty over salvation. Or the question, why is it that so many don't believe? You have these different soils. And it's as though God is saying, Jesus is saying to the apostles, I even know what your questions are going to be when I send you out on this message to pre on this mission to preach the gospel. You're going to ask, how do we know who's in the family of God and who's not? Whoever does the will of God is in my family. But Jesus, why is it that when we go out and we preach the word widely, so many don't believe? Well, it's because Satan comes and takes it away. Some people care more about this life, and some people are kind of pretend Christians. But But be prepared. Some will believe, and some will bear fruit 30fold, 60fold, and a hundredfold. He's preparing them for the message. If you want to understand why your experience in this life is that so many seem to not believe, Mark is teaching you right here. Your mission is to go out and preach the gospel. How can you tell that people believe? They do the will of God. Why is it that so many don't believe? Well, it's because so many people's hearts are full of thorns and thistles and rocky ground and they simply do not want to believe. But take heart God is sovereign over salvation and can save anyone he wants. Is that an encouragement to you today if you're a Christian? Are you encouraged by that? That's it? Are you encouraged by the fact that God is sovereign over salvation and can save anyone he wants, and so you should share the gospel more widely? Does that encourage you? It should. It should. God can do that. Do you want to see stories like Thorpe happen in and around Chevrolet Do you want to see stories like Cassandra Kim or the Workmen in the Crystal Palace? Do you want to see those stories happen? Preach the word. Let the lion out of his cage. God uses the word to do the work for which he has purposed it. Preach the word, and you will see amazing stories of conversion. Every story of conversion is an amazing story of conversion because everyone is being brought from death to life. God does it through his word. Do not let the fact that many will not believe prevent you from speaking up. You cannot know who will and who will not believe. Think of this. Think of a person whose liver is failing. And if they don't receive a new liver, they're going to die. And then that person's doctors receive news that a liver has come available, seems like it's going to be a match, and they should put it in. But the doctors hesitate. Because they don't want to put the liver in out of fear that the body would reject it and then the person would die. What's the problem with that? The person is going to die anyway. If they don't at least have an opportunity to get the new liver, there is no hope That they will ever live. And friends, we need to come to terms with the fact that God has spoken very clearly in His Word that all humanity faces a terrible judgment at the hands of God for their sins against him. For their rebellion against him. Friend, if you're here today and you don't follow Jesus, you and I and us all, we have all rebelled against God, but God is merciful. And he gives understanding. And he gives understanding to those who repent. And if you turn from your sins and trust that Jesus Christ Paid your penalty on the cross, you can have the confidence that you are forgiven because Christ got up from the dead. That is the confidence that you can have today. We should not let our fear of rejection as Christians prevent us from at least attempting to tell them about what Christ has done for them. If that is you, pray. Pray that God would give you boldness. Pray, and I mean this in the kindest way possible, that God would allow you to get over yourself. I have to pray the same thing for myself. If you're not interested in sharing the gospel, pray that God would motivate you. He does work through his word. And in some people's lives, you may be saying, John, I am doing this. I am sowing the word. Well, in some people's lives, it may take a long time to see fruit. And honestly, it may be the case that you never see fruit in that person's life in your lifetime. Charles Bridges was reflecting on this text, and he said, some seeds may lie dormant in the ground until we do, and then spring up. You may never see fruit in the life of the person that you're sowing seed in in your lifetime, but that does not mean that God cannot save them after you're gone. Let us never give up sowing seed of the gospel widely because we never know when God will cause the seed to come to life. In the 1700s, there was a farmer, some of you may know this illustration, it is amazing. There was a farmer from New England named Luke Short. Luke reached the ripe old age of 100, and he was out one day because he was still spry enough at the age of 100 to go out into his fields and tend to his fields. And while Luke was in his fields, he sat down and took a break. And while he took a break, he thought back on a sermon that he had heard John Flavil preach. eighty-five years earlier, when he was fifteen years old. And as Luke Short was sitting in that field reflecting on that sermon, He thought and meditated on the horror of dying under the curse of God, separated from Jesus Christ, which is what Flavil was preaching on. And sitting there in that field, God saved him. And he turned to Christ and believed. Do you think John Flavel ever knew about Luke Short? Not unless he lived to about 160. No, he didn't. He died and went into the ground, but that is the everlasting seed. My word shall stand forever. Flesh may come and go, you may live and die, but the seed does not die with you. Some seeds may lie dormant in the soil until we do, and then spring up. So the word. So the word widely. God saves through his word. God's sovereignty over salvation provides the motivation for continued gospel proclamation. Adonairam Judson knew this well. In fact, it was the way in which God saved Judson that motivated him to continue sharing the gospel even when no fruit was present because When Judson met Jacob Eames in college and rejected the Christian faith, it was only part of the path that God sovereignly had him on to bring him to faith. Because after Eames and Judson parted ways, and Judson went on his partying ways, seeking to become famous He one at one point after he became depressed and disillusioned with the emptiness that life had brought him and his chase of fame had brought him, Judson determined that he would return back to his parents and on his trip back to see his parents, he stopped at an inn on the way. And as he stopped at the inn on the way, the innkeeper let him know there is a man in the room next to you who is unwell, who is dying. And we do not know how long he will last, but you can have a room. And Judson stayed in the inn, and he went to his room, and all night he heard the man clawing and grasping to hold on to life. Then the sounds stopped. And Judson finally fell asleep. And he woke up the next morning and he went down to the innkeeper and he asked about the fate of the man who was in the room next to him. I I heard the sound stop. Is he okay? Inkeeper said no. He passed away. Do you know his name? Eames. The innkeeper Keeper said. Jacob Eames. The man who had led Judson into unbelief remained in unbelief. Well, God sovereignly chose to give understanding to Judson in his kindness and mercy, because all have sinned, and it's only mercy and grace that grant salvation And it was Judson's being floored over the sovereignty of God that could lead him back into the same inn next to the man who had led him to atheism. To die in his presence, but to not know it was actually him. It was understanding God's sovereignty over salvation. That left an indelible imprint on Judson from that time forward. And much later in life, after many years of suffering in Burma and beginning to see conversions in Burma, Judson would say this If I had not felt certain that every additional trial was ordered by infinite love and mercy. I could not have survived my accumulated sufferings. If I was not certain of his sovereignty, I could not have endured How certain are you of God's sovereignty over salvation? How certain are you this morning? God's sovereignty over salvation provides the motivation for continued gospel proclamation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you again this morning, pleading with you, O Lord, that you would grant us understanding. If there are any here today who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, We pray, Father, that you would grant them a new heart and give them understanding. Reveal to them the secret of the kingdom in the Lord Jesus Christ and cause them to be saved We thank you, Father, for your grace and mercy towards us who have believed. We pray that you would increase in us a spirit of humility and that you would also Cause us to be filled with a desire to tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done, and that you would be pleased to bear fruit from it. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh friends, we come this way.