The scripture this morning is Genesis 2, 4 through 25, page 2 in the Black Bibles. The creation of man and woman. These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth And the heavens. When there was no bush in the field, was yet in the land, and there was no plant in the field yet sprung up. ground, and a mist was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then the Lord God formed the man of the dust of the ground and breathed life into his nostrils the breath of life and the man became a living creature. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. Formed, and out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. evil. A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers. The name of the first is the Pishon. It is the ri is the the one that flowed around the whole land of Havilah. Where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good. Delium and onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is the Gaihan. It is the one that flowed around the whole Land of Cush, and the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of everything tree of the garden, but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For the day you eat of it you shall surely die. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make a helper fit for him. Now out of the ground the Lord God had fallen Formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. The man gave names to all the livestock into the birds of the heavens and to the beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep. To fall upon the man, and while he slept, took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of ban. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and were unashamed. This is the word of the Lord. It's a pleasure to see you all here and to have this opportunity to open up God's word with you, to hear him speak to us through his word. It's right as we turn now to the word that we ask God for his help. See, and as he the one who gives wisdom and understanding to his people. So would you pray one more time briefly with me? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we have just read from Genesis chapter two, how it is you who Breathed into the man's nostrils and by that breath made him a living creature. We know from the book of Job, Lord, that your breath is the breath that gives wisdom and understanding. And your spirit to your people. We pray that you would grant your spirit now to give us wisdom and understanding. We are your people. We desire to hear from you this morning. We pray that you would open our hearts to receive your word. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. But humans love to tell stories. We are by nature storytellers. And one of the stories that is common to really all of mankind, to every culture, is the story of man's quest to restore. What's gone wrong in creation, to find a way to return to man's original paradise Oh, the most recent version of this story that appeared in the U. S. showed up in movie theaters in November of this year under the name of Frozen 2. Right? You think about Frozen II and how it's this story of trying to return to paradise. In Frozen II, King Agnar of Arendel tells his daughters Elsa and Anna about the Northoldra people. The Northeldra lived in the Enchanted Forest, right? The Enchanted Forest was a perfect paradise where the people of North Eldra lived in perfect harmony with the elemental spirits of the world, the earth. the air, the fire, and the water. But then something went wrong. An inexplicable war broke out between the people of Arendelle and the people of Northaldra, and this war anger the elemental spirits of the world, and those spirits then cursed the forest with a thick and impenetrable fog, an impenetrable fog that that nobody could break through to return back into the forest through In time, a voice calls to Elsa to return to the forest, to return and restore the forest to its original perfection. Now I'm going to stop there so that there's not a mutiny among the the kids or the parents who haven't yet that seen the movie. I don't want to uh risk any spoiler alerts. My point simply is pointing in pointing to Frozen 2 and other stories like it is that this story of man's quest to restore what's gone wrong in the world. is told and retold every year. It's a story that appears in every culture and in every country and among every people group on earth. Mankind seems subconsciously obsessed with and aware of the fact that there once existed a perfect paradise where all was right in the world. But that something has gone wrong and that we need to find our way back into that paradise to fix it. And the reason Really, that we find in the Bible that that mankind seems subconsciously obsessed with and aware of that fact is because there once did exist a perfect paradise where all was right in the world Where always right between God and man, between man and woman, and between man and the creation. And if we're going to understand what that perfect paradise was like And if we're going to understand what went wrong and how we can return to it, we need to turn not just to any story about man's quest to return to paradise, but to the story. It's the story and the account that tells us the way things truly were. And it's the account of the paradise that we find in Genesis chapter 2. So if you haven't turned with me in your Bibles, I want to invite you to turn now to Genesis chapter 2. We're going to be looking at verses 4 to 25 as Sarah has already read for us. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you'll find it on page two of your Bibles. Now we were last in Genesis at the end of November when we studied the creation account in chapter 1. And today we're going to continue in our study through the book of Genesis. In chapter 2. It's a chapter that tells the story of the creation of the first man and woman and the task that God gave to them to care for the garden paradise That God had specifically prepared for them. And in many ways, what we're going to see in our chapter this morning is that we are offered a glimpse into a world that you and I have never known. It's a world that in some ways we would recognize and yet be completely foreign to. And so what we want to do with our time this morning is ask three questions of our passage. And these Three questions, if you're taking notes, will serve as our main points for the sermon. First, we want to ask and answer the question: what was the world like when it was perfect? What was the world like when it was perfect? Second, we want to ask the question, what went wrong? What went wrong? And third, we want to ask, how can we find our way back into it? Those are going to be our points for the sermon this morning. So first we want to ask and answer the question: what was the world like When it was perfect. If you don't have your Bible open, I just want to encourage you to open the Bible. We're going to be looking at this chapter, nearly every verse in the chapter we're going to put our eyes on. So we're going to be looking at it often to try to understand what it has to say to us. So first What was the world like when it was perfect? I think the first thing that we learn in our passage is that mankind experienced a personal relationship. With their creator. I want you to look at verse five and following, where we learn about the circumstances surrounding the creation of the first man In verse 5, Moses tells us that before any bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant had yet sprung up, that is when God created the first Man. Now these these verses in verse five this verse five often causes people to stumble, and understandably so, because chapter one Clearly tells us that the trees and the plants and the vegetation were created before the man was created. So what gives? Is this is this a contradiction that falsifies the Genesis account before it really even begins? Well no, I don't I don't think it does. I think you see there when you look at verse 5, the words used in Hebrew for bush of the field and small plant. in verse 5 are not the same words used in chapter 1 when plant life was created. Moses uses different words to describe those plants. The words used in verse 5 are used throughout the remainder of the Old Testament to refer to plants that require or involve human cultivation. Right, so in the beginning, God planted, created plant life, trees, and vegetation, but then he also appointed man to cultivate the ground to bring forth certain kinds of plant life, it seems Those types of plants are what Moses has in mind, which is why in verse 5, he says that the reason there were no plants of this kind was because it hadn't rained and because There was no man yet to work the ground, to cultivate those types of plants. Right? And by telling us that there was no man to work the ground, Moses is really creating anticipation for the most majestic of God's creative acts. Look at verse. 7. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And the man became a living creature. I want you to notice the sovereign powerful and personal creation captured here. God is sovereign. Man's existence on the earth is entirely, entirely the result of God graciously choosing to create us. And God is powerful, right? He's depicted here as the powerful potter who reaches down. takes the dust, the dirt, and the earth and powerfully, skillfully, and majestically forms it into a man. And his creation is not only sovereign and powerful, it's also personal. Notice the way that Moses describes God's personally creating the man. He stoops down and breathes into the man's nostrils and the man comes to life. Mankind, you and I, owe our entire existence, the very constitution of our body, the breath in our lungs, the beating of our heart to God's sovereign, powerful, and personal. Creation of each one of us. In the rest of the chapter, we're going to see that God personally speaks with a man, personally cares for him by creating the perfect companion. Then in chapter three, we even learn that God lived among him. So when we ask the question, what was the world like when it was perfect? When the world was perfect, God and man lived in a perfect relationship with one another. And not only that, we also see in chapter 2 that when the world was perfect, God prepared a perfect place for the first man to live. Just want to note real quick, this first point's going to be longer than the second two, so that when we get through it and you get to points two and three, you don't think, oh my gosh, this is going to last a long time. This is going to work we're going to be spending the most, the majority of our time. But we see that God prepared a perfect place for the man to live. Notice in verse 8, look down there with me, God plants a garden in Eden. And this garden was a veritable paradise, right? The name Eden even speaks to how wonderful this land was because the name Eden means delight. The land was delightful. It was full of lush greenery and vegetation. Look at verse 9. God filled the earth with every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. I want you to see what this is telling us about God and about his creation. God did not create a boring world. Right? God created a world that was filled with beauty and with all types of food. The trees were pleasant to the sight. He he created it so that it would be beautiful that we would look at it and we would marvel at his creation and say, our God is a glorious creator and he created all types of food. You could eat from the trees in this garden. He created a world that excited the eyes and tickled the taste buds. It was a luscious place, and this luscious garden was fed by a life-giving river. Look at verses 10 to 14. A river flowed out of Eden, four different times. Moses is going to tell us that this river flows. Flowing rivers in the Old Testament chiefly symbolized life. The river of life that gives life to the surrounding lands originates in the garden in the very presence of God and flows outward, feeding the surrounding lands. And because it brings life. to the surrounding lands, those lands we learned are very rich. Notice there, the river breaks off into four rivers: the Pishon, the Gihon, the Tigris, and the Euphrates. Right? But more than just kind of geographical demarcation, what Moses wants us to see is how rich the land was. Notice in verses 11 and 12. He says that the land was filled with gold, and that gold was very good. The land was filled with bedelium and with onyx. The lush and rich land was filled with beautiful plant life, food in abundance. Precious stones and metals. You see the world that Moses is trying to paint for us, this world that would have been lost on the Israelites who were wandering around in the desert wilderness. This world that God originally created was a luscious, beautiful, well-watered garden from which a river flowed that brought abundant life to all the surrounding lands. What was the world like when God created it? When it was perfect? God lived in perfect relationship with man in the perfect land that he created for him. Not only that, but in this perfect world we also see that man served God and kept his commandments. Look at verse 15. There, Moses tells us God's great purpose for creating the man and putting him in the perfect garden. He says there, the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it. In chapter one, when we look back there, we see that God commanded mankind to subdue the earth and to have dominion over it. And now we learn that the subduing of the earth and the ruling over it would work would happen through man's working the land with his hands. and keeping or protecting the boundaries of the garden. But this working and keeping the land was not simply a physical act. It was also an intensely spiritual one. In God's original economy, you need to understand that there there was no division between the sacred and the secular. You didn't leave your faith at home and then and then go off to work, right? The man didn't leave his faith at home when he went to work in the garden. Instead, his work was a manifestation of his service to and worship of God, and one that entailed his obedience to God. And why do I say that? Well, because of the way that the words work and keep are used throughout the rest of the Old Testament. The word for work is used elsewhere to describe the worship and service of God that happened at the temple. The same type of work the priest would do in his service to God there. And the word for keep is used elsewhere to refer to obedience, to the keeping of God's commandments and to the obeying of God's word. the physical work that man would do would be a manifestation of his spiritual worship of God. And that worship required and entailed obeying God's commandments, which is why immediately after telling us Why the man was placed in the garden, Moses tells us that God gave the man a commandment. Look at verse 16. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day you eat of it, you shall surely die. I just want us to note here, when we think about paradise, I don't know about you, I often think about paradise as a place where I can do whatever I want. I can be free to do whatever I'm free, finally. No more restrictions, no more laws, no one telling me what to do. But the God who created us says that freedom does not come through doing what you want to do. Freedom comes through obedience to my law. Even in paradise, there is a law to obey. Life and the ability to stay in that paradise comes through obeying that law. And I think people often have questions about how how do we understand the tree of the knowledge in good and evil? What's going on there? Is this a real tree? Are these trees of life, the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge? Are these real trees? I think they are real trees. I think they do have real food on them. And that food symbolized obedience or disobedience, right? It's the best way to understand the tree of the knowledge of good and evil is to understand it as a real tree with real food. That represented an alternative to a life of faith and trust in God. Man can either choose to display his trust that God knows what is best for him. by eating from the vast array of trees that God has given him, including the tree of life, or man can choose to disobey God and display his belief that he is sufficient. To decide for himself what is good and what is evil, what is right, what is wrong. To be the master of his own fate, the judge of his own life, to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil is in effect. to decide to become his own God. But as we see in the text, to decide that would be a catastrophic choice, right? It would result in death. Eat from the tree of life and have eternal life. I think we're meant to understand that if Adam and Eve had obeyed God and eaten from the tree of life, if they had fulfilled all of his commandments, if they had exercised dominion and subdued the earth, that they would have lived eternally. But they chose to eat instead from the tree of death. That's insanity, right? This death would result in what was a spiritual death and what would become an eventually physical one. Yet what we see for a time, we don't know how long, but for a time in this perfect world. Man worshiped God and served him and kept his commandments. And finally, we see in this perfect world that God created the perfect partner for man. He created the first woman. Look at verse 18. I think we should notice if you if you look at chapters 1 and 2 alongside one another. You read through chapter one and you recognize that clearly the climax of chapter one is when God creates mankind. Right? He goes through each of the days, he forms, and then he fills, and then it's clear that the climax of chapter one is the creation of mankind as God's crown jewel of creation. And when you lay chapter two out right next to it, you see chapter two follows a very similar pattern, which means that the climax of his creation of mankind, the glory and beauty is seen in the creation of the woman. Look at verse 18. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. All right, we need to stop right there and feel the weight of this statement over and over again in chapter 1 God saw things that he had created and he said that they were good. Everything that he created, he saw and said that it was good. They were perfect, right? There was no fault. No flaw, no imperfection in them. They were complete and whole. But when God looks to the man and sees the man alone, he says, this is not good. The man is incapable on his own of fulfilling the commission that God has given to him. To fulfill that commission requires the creation of the perfect And so in verses 19 and 20, Moses interjects that scene of Adam giving names to the animals that he had created. And the primary purpose for this scene is to show that Adam's perfect partner won't be found among the animals, right? I love, I'm an animal person, I love dogs, I love pets and things like that, but but dog is not Man's best friend, it's not man's best companion. No animal could fulfill that role. The only one who could fulfill that role is the glorious beautiful and wise woman that God had created for the man. And that's what we see happen in verse 21. God causes a deep sleep to fall on the man. Performs surgery on him, removes the rib, covers over the portion of skin that he had removed the rib from, and out of the rib, God forms a woman. And then, like a father walking his daughter down the aisle at her wedding, God brings the first woman to the first man in the first wedding. Now I want to stop real quick and say that because Genesis 2 teaches us so many foundational and supremely important things about what it means to be made. male and female and what that means for our God-given purposes and roles in life, we are going to spend an entire sermon next Sunday talking about what it means to be made male and female and what that means for how she how we should live in this world. So we're not going to cover all of that today We're going to do that next Sunday. But for today, we're able to at least see that the creation of the woman for the man speaks to her essential and indispensable role in carrying out their commission. To subdue the earth and to exercise dominion over it. And it it it seems here in the text that they carried out that commission with perfect unity. Look at verse 25. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Right? I don't know if you're married You experience this in your life, you like you you read this and you're like, gosh, I wish I knew what that was like. I feel like you know, in so many things my wife and I are on the same page, but There's just this fundamental fissure, this kind of brokenness that has made its way into the relationships between husband and wife. And it just seems like, hey, I'm going to take this car. No, why don't you take that car? Hey, I'm going to buy this thing. No, why don't you buy that thing I've got this idea for our budget. I've got this idea for our budget. Well no, why why can't we just get on the same page? There's this fundamental tension that exists now between God between man and woman, between husband and wife, that simply was not there in the beginning. They were both naked and were not ashamed. Their lack of shame in spite of their nakedness speaks to their perfect unity, transparency, holiness. There was nothing between them except So what was life like when the world was perfect? What Genesis 2 tells us is that mankind lived in perfect relationship with God with one another and with the perfect and luscious land that God had prepared for them. But that's not the world that we live in, is it? This isn't the world that we live in. So we should consider our second question. What went wrong? I think if we look carefully at our text, we're going to see ominous hints in the passage that this perfection would be short-lived. For instance, look with me at verse 5 again. When Moses tells us that no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, he's actually talking about two different kinds of plants. The first is some sort of cultivated plant, like a like a grain or something like that. But the small plant of the field refers to weeds and brush, to thorns and thistles. It appears again in Genesis 3 when God curses Adam after things go wrong. There, God tells him that as a result of his work, that as a result of his sins, his work will be marked by toil and futility, and he will eat of the plants of the field. It's as though Moses in verse 5 of chapter 2, before God has created the man, Moses is signaling that all is not well, all will not go well for the man and for the woman And we see another ominous hint that the perfection will be short-lived when Moses describes the trees that God filled the garden with. Look at verse 9. Moses could have stopped after telling us that God made every tree that is pleasant to the eyes and good for food. He could have stopped right there and describing the lusciousness of the garden. He didn't have to say anything more, but he he goes on to mention that in the midst of the garden was the tree of life. And the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. This is the same tree that God would go on to tell the man that he's forbidden to eat from You see, what Moses is doing is he's preparing us for the catastrophic events of chapter 3 when the man and the woman would destroy the perfection of the world by eating from this forbidden tree. So when we ask the question, what went wrong with the world, this, friends, is what went wrong. This is what destroyed the garden paradise. perfect unity between God and man, between man and woman, and between man and the creation. This decision to decide for themselves what was good and right in their own eyes is what destroyed the perfection that we read about in Genesis chapter 2. You see, all sorts of theories and reasons are given for what's wrong with the world today, right? Poverty is what's wrong with the world. We need to redistribute the wealth. Political corruption is what's wrong with the world. We need to elect new and righteous leaders. Lack of education is what's wrong with the world. We need to make quality education available for people. And one could be wrong. Those things, those things may help to alleviate some of the ills we experience in the world. And we should absolutely work within our spheres of influence to see poverty alleviated. to see righteous political leaders elected or education made available, but we should never, ever expect those things To reproduce this paradise because they aren't ultimately what's wrong with the world. What's wrong with the world is mankind's decision to rebel against his maker. And that decision has plunged our world into such ruin that no amount of activism, no amount of good that we do can accomplish or will ever restore the paradise that was lost. Friends, I want you to consider, consider the devastating effects and consequences of sin Consider the devastating consequences of sin. How often do you rationalize or justify sinning? Because it just seems like the consequences of the sin won't be all that great, right? Who's going to know if I tell that lie? What's the harm if I if I cut this corner at work? I can be rude to this person online. I'm never gonna see them face to face. I can demean my wife or undermine my husband. I've done it before, and nothing major really came of it. I wonder if you have thoughts like these about temptations to sin? If so, let me point you to Adam and Eve's sin as an example of a seemingly insignificant sin. That had devastating, catastrophic consequences. You ever thought about this? All they did was eat a piece of fruit. All they did was eat a piece of fruit. We just took a piece of fruit and ate it. It's not that big of a deal. There's nothing wrong with us doing it. If I do it like it, maybe maybe something bad will come of it, but not Not something terrible. How could something terrible come from something so insignificant? But eating a piece of fruit wasn't all that they did, is it? No sin is ever that insignificant because when they chose to eat the fruit, they were in effect walking up to God's throne and trying to shove him off of it, thinking that they were wise enough To rule themselves. And friends, that is what we do every time we sin, regardless of the apparent significance of the sin in our own eyes. Right? And let's be real. Even seemingly insignificant sins can have devastating consequences that ripple throughout history. Consider the consequences of their seemingly insignificant sin. Consider the consequences of their sins and ours. Our relationship with God has been completely destroyed by our sins. We're banished from his presence, unable to worship and serve him as we were made to do. Our relationships with one another are destroyed by our sins. The man and the woman immediately experience shame and fear. They immediately begin blaming God and blaming one another. Sin creates a foundational fissure in the foundations of our relationships with one another. And it destroys our relationship with the created world. How often do you think about the effects of your sin on God's good creation? The world that he made. He looks at us and says, you have ruined it. In the New Testament, the Apostle Paul, what does he say about the effects of sin on creation? He says that creation itself is groaning, awaiting the day when it will be set free from its bondage to kick to decay. Hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, volcanoes, tsunamis. The creation is groaning because of our sins. Of friends, do not miss the terrible consequences of sin. Though it may just seem to you like it's just a piece of fruit, it is far more dangerous than that. Sin destroys our relationships with others, banishes us from God's presence, and threatens to keep us from entering into the present the paradise that God is preparing for those who trust in Him. And what are the ways this past week, even, that you've been tempted, tempted to eat from this forbidden tree? Tempted to look at the sins that you're tempted by and just think, oh It won't be that bad if I give into it. You know, the consequences can't be that great. You're tempted to give in to gossip? Tempted to sexual immorality? Tempted to being rude to people in your own life, thinking it's just not that big of a deal. You see the consequences of sin. It's corrupted the entire created order. It has corrupted all things. I think for those of us who follow Jesus, you know, we often think about the way that God has reconciled us to Himself through Christ, and because of the grace that we've received in Christ. We can just go on living the way that we want, right? God's just going to give to us more grace. He's just going to keep forgiving us. God is certainly a gracious God. Do you understand that in Christ, God is creating a new Adam and Eve, a new Israel, a new people through the true Adam, Jesus? who will do what he originally created mankind to do, which is to worship and serve him and keep his commandments. This is why the author of Hebrews says about the example of the Israelites in the Old Testament. He's talking to Christians who are in danger of thinking that sin is not all that dangerous. The Christians who are in danger of walking away from Jesus thinking, oh, the world is not that bad. He says to them, see to it, brothers and sisters, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God. But encourage one another daily, as long as it is called today, so that none of you may be hardened by sin's deceitfulness We have come to share in Christ if, indeed, we hold our original conviction firmly to the very end. Now friends, if you are tempted to take lightly sin in your own life, let me encourage you not to. Sin drove the first man and woman out of the presence of God. destroying their relationship with him completely. Destroying their relationship with one another. Destroying their relationship with the created order and sin Threatens those who profess the name of Christ if they would continue giving themselves to it. Do not be tempted by the deceitfulness of sin. Don't be hardened by its deceitfulness. In the same way that the woman looked at the tree and thought to herself, oh, it seems pleasant to the sight. It's going to be good to taste. It wasn't. It brought death into creation. Kids, I want to I want I want to talk to y'all also. When you grow up in this world, one of the things that's gonna happen is you're gonna be offered by the world all these things that seem tempting. The world is gonna say to you, it's gonna hold out the the beautiful fruit of Be your own God. Live your own life the way that you want to live it. But I want to encourage you not to eat of that fruit. That fruit will only bring death. It will only bring pain. It will only bring decay. God has called us to trust in his word. So I want to encourage you kids that when you're tempted, you're comparing the way that the world is calling you to live, that is tempting. I have been there. I have done it. It is, it seems like it is gonna be so awesome. You're gonna get to do whatever you want, but it brings pain. And it brings sorrow and it brings separation from God. So I want you, as you're comparing what God's word says about how you should live with the way the world is calling you to live, trust in God's word. Eat of the tree of life. Not only trust in God's word, but listen to the wise and older Christians that God has put into your life, whether it's your parents or other wise Christians. And trust yourself to God's word. You eat from that tree, and that tree will bring you eternal life. And it is a good tree to eat from. What went wrong with the world? Sin is what went wrong with the world. Our rebellion is what went wrong with the world. So the question we need to ask now is who can restore the creation back to its original condition? Given that the world was created perfect but was ruined by our sin. Who can restore us back to its original paradise? Well, I think the answer that's clearly given in the text is that the only person capable of restoring the creation back to its original condition Is God Himself. I want you to notice how Moses, time and time again, directs our attention not to the man or to the woman as the central character in the story, but to God himself. Look at verse 5. Moses tells us that there were not plants because God had not caused it to rain. Then at verse 7, God forms a man of dust from the ground. Then God breathes into his nostrils and makes him a living creature. Then in verse 8, it's God who plants the garden. In verse 9, it's God who makes the trees to spring up in the garden. In verse fifteen, it's God who takes the man and puts him in the garden. In verse sixteen, it's God who gives the man his law. And in verse eighteen, it's God who declares that it's not good for him to be alone. In verse nineteen, it's God who forms the creatures from the ground. In verses twenty one and twenty two, it's God who forms the woman from the man's side and God who brings the woman to the man. Genesis 2 is first and foremost a story about the creator God, who sovereignly, graciously, and powerfully creates man and woman to inhabit the luscious land that he created for them. So that they could worship and serve him and dwell in his presence forever. If there is any hope for restoration, that hope is in him Now you might say, John, this this passage, this chapter, doesn't say anything about God saving or restoring his people. And I'd say, well, you know, that's actually true. It doesn't say anything directly, but it absolutely implies it. And why do I say that? I want you to look again down at the text and notice the name that Moses uses for God over and over and over again. He calls him the Lord God. Exclusively in chapter 2, he calls him the Lord God. When you see Lord in all caps, you're looking at a transliteration of the divine name of the God of Israel, Yahweh. Not once in Genesis chapter 1 does Moses refer to Yahweh God. He refers to him as the creator God, just God. God in the heavens above created all things. God did this, God did that, God did this, God did that. But here in Genesis 2, when describing God's sovereign gracious and personal creation of his people, he uses the personal name of the God of the Israelites, Yahweh. Why is this important? Because the book of Genesis was written for the people of Israel. Moses wants the people of Israel to know that the God who created the heavens and the earth The God who created mankind, the God who created the perfect paradise for man and woman to live in, even though man had sinned against him and was banished from his presence. That God, Yahweh God, was acting to reconcile humanity to himself, to one another, and to the creation. And why is he telling them this? Because they were banished from God's presence in the wilderness, yet he had rescued them out of slavery in Egypt and was bringing them into the land that he had prepared for them. A new garden, the land of Canaan. Right? Yahweh was actively carrying out his plan to restore creation to its original paradise through them. If they would but pay attention to his word, they would hear echoes of Eden all throughout their own story Think about this. Think about the parallels between Genesis 2 and the people of Israel. You read the story of Genesis 2 carefully, and you will see in it the story of the nation of Israel. Notice first, Adam was not a native of the garden. God formed him from the dust of the ground outside of the garden and then put him into the garden. He was formed outside of the Garden Paradise and then transmitted into it. In the same way, the nation of Israel was formed in the wilderness outside of Egypt when they covenanted with God. And then were brought by God into the promised land, a promised land that he prepared for them, specially prepared for them, like the Garden of Eden. And just as the garden was a veritable paradise, a luscious and fruitful land full of verdant pastures and flowing rivers, so the promised land of Canaan was said to be a land flowing with Milk and honey. A luscious land. You think of a land flowing with milk and honey. You're a people dwelling in the wilderness, and you hear from God, I am bringing you into a land of milk and honey. Bring that land as soon as possible. It was just like the garden. Not only that So just as the river boundaries of the Garden of Eden were the Tigris and the Euphrates, so the river boundaries of Canaan were the Tigris and the Euphrates. Just as the Garden of Eden was the dwelling place of God, the place where God and man would have fellowship with one another, so God, Yahweh God, made his dwelling place among the people of Israel. in the land of Canaan in the tabernacle where man could meet with God. Which is why when you get to the chapters at the end of Exodus and you hear about the construction of the temple and you just start falling asleep because you're like, I can't take these instructions anymore. I don't know what any of this means. You should actually pay careful attention to it. Because in the creation of the tabernacle, God is showing to them, I am creating a new Eden in the midst of the land of Canaan. Why do I say that? The garments that were stretched out, the curtains were made of blues and purples and oranges, colors that would look a lot like the beautiful night sky from the Garden of Eden. Then placed inside of the tabernacle as you approached the Holy of Holies, you had the lampstands. What were the lampstands shaped like? They were shaped like almond trees. What was carved into the roof of the temple when it was created? What was carved into the roof of the temple and surrounding its entire roof were pomegranates and fruits. God is saying to the nation of Israel, the Garden of Eden, the restoration of paradise is happening among you. I am bringing this restoration of paradise back to man through you, the nation of Israel. Not only that, but the tabernacle itself was filled with precious metals. The lampstands in the tabernacle made of gold and silvers, the bronze basins just like the rich land of Eden. And just as the man was called to work and keep the garden, so the priests of Israel will Israel were called to work and keep the tabernacle. They were given the task of worshiping and serving God. And just as the man and woman were given God's commandments, Do not eat from the tree of which of the of the knowledge of good and evil, so the nation of Israel was given the Ten Commandments You see what's going on here? Moses wants the nation of Israel to know that the God who created a perfect world The world that was ruined by sin was restoring that world through them. They would be the place where people could experience what Eden was like As they served and worshipped God and kept his commandments, as they lived in right relationship to God, to one another and to the creation, people would come to know what God's original creation was like. But you see, there's another parallel between Israel and Adam. Just like Adam, the nation of Israel failed. Though God brought them into a rich land, a land flowing with milk and honey, though they lived in the very presence of the living God, though they had his commandments, though they were giving a ch though they were given a choice by God to choose life. and blessings or death and curses through obeying or not obeying his commandments, they, like Adam, chose death and curses. They chose to disobey God. And so, like Adam and Eve, they were eventually banished from God's presence and exiled among the nations. But even though Adam failed, and even though Israel failed, God would not fail. He would accomplish his plan of redeeming mankind and all of creation. By sending the true Adam and the greater Israel. By sending his own son, Jesus Christ. And he sent Jesus not into a luscious garden, but into a wilderness to gather his exiled people. And even though Israel failed, Jesus would succeed, and he would succeed by his perfect obedience You see, it was in the wilderness where Jesus would show just how much greater than Adam and Israel he was. They had been given everything. They were brought into a rich and fruitful land, and yet in the midst of abundance, they chose disobedience, while he chose obedience in the midst of scarcity. He was in the wilderness fasting for 40 days and 40 nights. And though he was hungry and spiritually weak, he never ate from the forbidden tree He exercised dominion over the beast of the field by exercising dominion over the serpent Satan and not giving in to his temptations. And he did that by worshiping and serving God and keeping his commandments. perfectly. He only and always chose the path of life. And he chose the path of life, even though it would lead to his own death. Yet his death was required to redeem mankind and all of creation. In his death He bore the punishment that our sins deserve so that you and I could be brought back into the very presence of God. Though we were forbidden from eating from the tree of life because we ate from the tree that brings death, Jesus was nailed to the tree of death so that we could eat again from the tree of life. Three days after he died on that tree, Jesus rose again from the dead, and he proclaimed the forgiveness of sins to all who would turn from sin and trust in him. Now, friend, if you're here today and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus and you are just groaning under the weight of sin in your own life, groaning over the brokenness in this own world and you long to see the creation restored, let me encourage you, implore you even kindly to turn in faith to the Lord Jesus Christ. Repent of your sins and trust in him. And I want you to see how even in the Gospel of John, we see how Jesus does the work of the original God in the garden. When God stooped down and he breathed life into the man and the man became a living creature, Jesus shows that when you turn in repentance and faith towards him That he will give you new spiritual life. Because in the Gospel of John, when speaking to his disciples just before his death, what did Jesus do to them? He breathed on him and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you turn in faith to the Lord Jesus Christ, he will renew your spirit. He will give you a new heart and a new mind. He will give you desires to worship and serve God and keep his commandments. And he will set you apart as one of his people, the church. And it's that church that he's preparing now so that he can bring that people into the land that he's preparing for them in the future. when he returns. And what will that land be like? Well, it will be like a restoration of the garden, except far greater. What did the Apostle John say about this new creation in Revelation 22? It will be a place filled with precious stones, gems, and metals It'll be a rich and abundant land. And in the midst of that land, there would be the river of the water of life. Bright as a crystal flowing from the throne of God, through the middle of the street of the city, and on either side of the river would be the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. You know what tree doesn't exist in the new heavens and the new earth? The tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Because in that land, there will be no more sin. The creation will be fully restored. Man reconciled to God Man reconciled to one another and man reconciled to the created world. That world is coming, friends. Turn to Jesus today. If you trust in him already, keep going. Walk by faith. That faith will one day turn the sight. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, sometimes it is so hard to believe that you are restoring the world. It is so hard to believe when we see just the ridiculous amounts of sin around us. Wars in the world, nation against nation, man against man, man against woman. The world seems to be tearing itself apart. Help us to trust in you. Help us to continue worshiping you and serving you and keeping your commandments. Help us to turn away from eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Help us to trust in your ways and in your word. And we pray, come, Lord Jesus, come. Restore your creation today. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.