Good morning. It is a privilege to have this opportunity to open up God's Word with you and just to be together with you. As we look forward to celebrating over this next month, remembering the fact that the eternal Son of God took on flesh, became a man, came to earth so that we could have peace with God. I'm just encouraged to have this time together with you and to see that foreshadowed even in our passage this morning. Before we open up God's word, I'm going to pray for us one more time, and then we will begin. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we we just sang that as summer flowers we fade and die. Fame, youth, and beauty hurry by. Are we just saying that we will not boast in wealth or might or human wisdom's fleeting light? But Lord, we are so prone. To actually chasing after those things and putting way more hope into them than we should. We are prone to walking by sight Rather than walking by faith. Lord, we know that from the Lord Jesus' lips, we can do nothing apart from you. We cannot walk by faith apart from you. We pray that you would help us this morning to turn from walking by sight and turn towards walking by faith and faith in. The finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, go ahead and turn with me in your Bible to Genesis chapter 13. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you'll find the passage on pages 9 and 10. And I want to encourage you to open to the passage. I'm not sure if that's your normal practice when you come to church, but I want to encourage you to open. to the passage so that you can follow along as I read. And I also want you to keep your Bible open in front of you throughout the sermon as we'll be looking often at the passage in our time this morning. Last week we were looking at Genesis chapter 12, and that was after a long hiatus from the book of Genesis, and I said that the main point Of the whole book of Genesis is to show how God protected and kept his promise to bless and save mankind. In Genesis chapter 3, right after Adam and Eve sin and plunge all of mankind into sin, God promises to send an offspring of the woman, a savior. Who will crush the serpent's head? And the rest of the book of Genesis and the rest of the Bible shows how God protected and kept that promise. The first 11 chapters of Genesis show how God protected and kept that promise over 2,000 years of human history. 2,000 years of human history covered in 11 chapters. Not a lot of time dedicated to that part of the world. And then in chapter 12, time slows down drastically As Moses zooms in on one man. Can any of the kids tell me what one man becomes the central character of the book of Genesis for the next 10 chapters to go with Caleb? Abram, that's right. Abram, the next 10 chapters of Genesis cover 25 years of Abram's life. Compare that. 11 chapters cover 2,000 years, and the next 10 chapters cover 25. These 25 years are really important in understanding the unfolding of God's plan of redemption, right? God wants us to see how central Abram is in his plan to keep his promise. To save the world. Last week we saw how God kept his promise even when Abram was faithless. And this week, as God sheds more and more light on his promise to save, we're going to see a study in contrasts between two characters Between Abram and his nephew Lot. And this study, in contrast, has a lot to teach us about how we should live today. It has a lot to teach us, not only about what it looks like to walk by faith versus walking by sight, but also about the destinies that await those Who walk by sight versus walking by faith. Let me read the passage for us now that this is God's word. So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negev. Now Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver and in gold. And he journeyed on from the Negeb as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai. To the place where he had made an altar at the first. And there Abram called upon the name of the Lord. And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks, and herds, and tents. So that the land could not support both of them dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. At that time, the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land. Then Abram said to Lot, Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left. And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere. Like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt in the direction of Zoar. This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley. And Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other. Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled among the cities of the valley, and moved his tent as far as Sodom. Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord. The Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward. For all the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth. So that if one can count the dust of the earth, your offspring also can be counted. Arise, walk through the length and breadth of the land, for I will give it to you. So Abram moved his tent. And came and settled by the oaks of Mamre, which are at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the Lord. The main lesson for you and I today from Genesis thirteen is this Those who walk by sight will dwell in a land of destruction, while those who walk by faith Will dwell in the land that God has promised to his people. What we're going to do with our time today is contrast what it looks What it looks like to walk by sight, and what it looks like to walk by faith, so that you might know whether you will live in a land of destruction. Or whether you will live in the land that God has promised to his people. So point one, if you're taking notes, will be walking by sight. And point two will be walking by faith. So first walking by sight At the outset, I think it's important to understand what I mean by walking by sight. That phrase might not be familiar to everyone present today. In the Bible, Walking is a metaphor for how a person lives their life. And to live or to walk by sight is to live life completely unconcerned about the eternal consequences of your decisions. Right? You you see the world in front of you. And you make decisions based on what you think is good for you, regardless of what God thinks about it. And in our passage This way of living and its disastrous consequences are exemplified in lot After traveling to Egypt in chapter 12 because of famine, Abram, his wife Sarah, and his nephew Lot leave Egypt and head back to the land of Canaan, and they leave Egypt with Great wealth. Want you to go ahead and look down with me at chapter 13, verse 2. Abram was very rich. He has livestock, which was very valuable at that time. He has silver, and he has gold. But so also was his nephew Lot. Maybe not as rich as Abram, but go ahead and look at verse 5. Lot also had flocks and herds and tents. So you have two men with lots of animals of their own to tend to and kids. Let me ask you all the question: What do animals need to survive? What do animals need to survive? Cooper Grass, food. Yep, what else do they need to survive? Food? Water. Food and water. They need food and water. But Abram and Lot are going back to a land. that was experiencing a famine. So there isn't lots of food and water for their animals, but not only that, look at the end of verse 7 At that time, the Canaanites and Perizzites were in the land. They're competing for those precious resources with each other. And with the other inhabitants of the land. Now, kids, I want to ask you all another question. Especially, if you're between the ages of five and nine, go ahead and raise your hand for me. This question is especially for you. Help me think about this. If I got a group of 10 of you together and I put you in a room that only had enough toys for two of you, what's going to happen? Shout it out. Shout it out. There's gonna be a fight. Give me that toy. No, give me that toy. No, I want it. No, I want it. Kids, what you're gonna find out from this passage. And you probably see this in your parents' own life, adults aren't all that different from you, right? They are gonna fight for the resources. Just like there would be a fight for the toys, there was a fight for food and water for their animals. Look at verses six and seven. The land couldn't support Abram and Lot. They had too many flocks, and as a result, a fight broke out. There was strife. between Abram and Lot's herdsmen, and between Abram and Lot. So Abram Makes Lot an unbelievably gracious offer. Look at verses 8 and 9. He offers to Lot the first choice of the land. If you take the left, I'll go right. If you take the right, I'll go left Now, common sense would tell us that at this point you would expect some sort of groveling from Lot. Like, oh no, no, brother. I could never do that to you, my dear uncle. Like, you no, no, no, you sh I really want but you should take the right or the left but do you see any groveling in the passage none he doesn't grovel at all Lot jumps all over the offer and in so doing becomes to us an example of what it looks like to walk by sight and its disastrous consequences. I want you to look at me at verses 10 and 11. Look at the description we have. And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw. That the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere, like the Garden of the Lord Lot saw a portion of the valley. I think that the expectation or the understanding here is that they are standing at least on a high place overlooking the Jordan Valley. The highest mountain peak in that area would have been somewhere around three thousand feet. If you've ever been to Skyline Drive and you've looked over a Shenandoah Valley, something similar to that is going on here. Lot looks over a portion of the valley that hasn't been affected by the famine, sees how abundant it is, and he says I'm taking that. That looks good to me. As is so often the case in scripture and especially Especially in these early chapters of Genesis, there is so much more going on here than Meets I. Moses wants us to connect Lot's actions here With Eve's sin in the garden. Not only because he describes the Jordan Valley like the garden of the Lord, but because of how similar Lot's actions are to Eve's. Remember what happened in the garden. Satan tempted Eve. He said to her, You won't surely die if you eat the fruit. God knows that when you eat of the fruit, your eyes will be opened. You will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food And that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit. and ate and gave some to her husband, and the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. The fruit that she saw looked good, but the thing that looked good wasn't actually good. And judging for herself what was good rather than relying on what God says is good led to her being Cast out of the presence of God. She was walking by sight. In the early chapters of Genesis, it's God who sees something and determin determines whether it's good. So when Eve saw that something was good, she was taking the role of God for herself, no longer walking by faith, no longer heeding God's word, but walking by sight. And deciding for herself what was good. And here you have Lot lifting up his eyes, and Lot saw how abundant the Jordan Valley was. He decided for himself what was good rather than thinking to himself, hmm This land looks really good, but God just promised Abram the land of Canaan, not this area God promised that blessing would come through Abram, not the citizens of this area, that looks really great. So maybe maybe I should stay with Abram. That's not what Lot does. He sees that it looks really good, assumes that because it looks really good, therefore it must be good, therefore he's gonna walk by sight and take the land. And like Eve before him, he was deceived Because the land that looked like the garden of the Lord, Moses tells us, also look like the land of Egypt. Remember, Genesis is not written to Abram. Genesis is written to Israelites, living hundreds of years after Abram. Genesis written to the nation of Israel who had just come out of Egypt. What would Egypt have symbolized to them? A lush and abundant land that was also a place of bondage. The Jordan Valley that is so abundant that it appears like it's the dwelling place of God is actually gonna end up to be a place of bondage. And not only is it a place of bondage, it's also a place of destruction. Look at where Lot ends up living in verse 12 Lot settled among the cities of the valley and moved his tents as far as Sodom. Notice what Moses tells us about Sodom in verse 13. Now the men of Sodom were wicked. Great sinners against the Lord. The place that appeared abundant to Lot's eyes. The land that was a delight to his eyes, lush and full of life, was also full of spiritual wickedness. If the first 13 chapters of Genesis have taught us anything, it's that what you see is not always what you get Eve saw a delightful piece of fruit and got the worst decision that has ever been made in human history. Lot saw a fertile land and got spiritual corruption. What you see is not always what you get. Or to put it another way, all that glitters is not gold. A thing may look amazing, it may look flashy, it may look like it will bring you physical pleasure, it may look like it'll bring you power, wealth, and prestige, but appearances Can be deceiving. Beware of walking by sight Beware of making decisions in life without considering the eternal consequences of those decisions. J. C. Ryle preached a sermon on Lot's choice from Genesis 13 and said, beware of Lot's choice. Don't just think about material prosperity. Think about your soul, your immortal soul. Friends, think think. Think about the choices you make in life. Think about the house you choose to live in In addition to all the things a person considers when buying a home, consider whether that house will help you towards heaven or lead you towards hell. Is the house located somewhere that enables you to be a meaningful member of a church and to hear the gospel preached on a regular basis? Or will it lead you away from fellowship with God's people wherever that fellowship might be? Think about the job you choose. Don't just consider the salary or the potential prestige that might come from the job. Think about your soul, your immortal soul. Will the job be a source of constant temptation? Will your job force you to endorse sin Will your work, will your work schedule keep you from attending church on Sundays? Ryle says: look at the job in every light. The light of the world as well as the light of God. Beware of Lot's choice. Are you orienting your schedule and your life around the church, around attending church, especially on Sundays? Do you view being fed each Sunday as the most vital part of your week? Right? If someone were to look at your schedule, would they conclude that your highest priority is being with the church or being somewhere else? Beware of Lot's choice. It is not an inconsequential decision to be somewhere else on Sundays. Now we all know that there's travel. There's sickness, there's other things that come up. But what is the the the normal orientation of your life right to my teens My preteens even. I want to press this point, Lot's choice on you. Remember this in choosing your friends. It is not enough to ask if you will be popular by the friends that you choose, or if you enjoy their company or not. What will their friendship do to your soul? Right? Do they encourage you to be more like Christ or less like Christ? Do they encourage you to love God more or love the world more. Apart from finding a church that preaches the gospel and encourages you in the faith, there may be no more important decision in your life, teens and preteens, than what friends you choose to allow into it. They will shape the course of your life. Beware of Lot's choice. What you see is not always what you get Beware of walking by sight and not considering the eternal ramifications of your decisions. These are not small matters. The decisions you make in life have the power to lead you closer to God or further away from him. I want you to notice how Lot's choice moves him further away from God. Look at the little detail that Moses includes in verse 11. So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. When Adam and Eve are sent away from the presence of God, they're sent east. When Cain is cast out of the presence of God, he settles in the east. When the people of Babel come together to build a monument to their greatness, they do so in the east. To move east in Genesis is to move away from God. And to move away from God is to move towards destruction. He ends up living in Sodom Where he comes perilously close to being completely destroyed when God brought judgment on Sodom Not only is what you see not always what you get, what you see is often not what will always be. The abundance of the Jordan Valley was temporary. Did you notice that Moses wants the Israelites to get that point for themselves? He didn't even leave it hidden in the text. After describing the abundance of the Jordan Valley, he tells him in verse 10, to put the parentheses right there, let you know, hey, just. . Just as a comment, I've just described how abundant the Jordan Valley was. . But just so you know, this was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah because when they looked at the Jordan Valley, they saw a place that was desolate And Moses wants him to know, that place that looked abundant is no longer abundant, right? It came under God's judgment Dear Israelites, when you see the prosperity of the nations around you and you're tempted to worship their gods and go after the things they go after. Remember that the abundance that you see is not always what will be. Just as Lot was Deceived by the prosperity of the Jordan Valley and didn't foresee the judgment that was coming on it, so you also shouldn't be deceived by the abundance. and the prosperity of the nations. That abundance is only temporary. Judgment is coming. Don't walk by sight. Walk by faith. Friends, this is the same lesson for us today Chasing wealth, living for power and prestige, doing everything for you Giving in to all your temptations, saying yes to all your impulses, judging for yourself what is good for you making self-expression your God to test the limits and break through no right, no wrong, no rules for me. I'm free. It's a terrible song, by the way. Super catchy. Terrible message. Teaching you, walk by sight. No, if you do that, you might experience the fleeting pleasures of sin for a time. But walking by sight leads us away from God and to destruction. Those who, like those who lived in Sodom, Those who walk by sight will eventually experience destruction. Instead of walking by sight, we should choose rather to walk by faith That brings us to point two, walking by faith. If Lot is an example of walking by sight and its disastrous consequences, Abram is an example of walking by faith and its resulting blessings. And walking by faith here Looks like manifests itself in giving up your rights to make peace with those around you. Go ahead and look with me at verse 8. They had their conflict going on, and Abram said to Lot, let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen For we are kinsmen. Abram wants to make peace with Lot He doesn't want their relationship to be characterized by strife, by quarreling, by fighting. And then look at what he does next to make peace. Look at verse 9 again Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left. You just have to think about the context here. They are in the land of Canaan. They've come out of Egypt. They're back in the land of Canaan. Canaan is the land that God promised to give Abram. And now Abram is giving Lot first dibs on the promised land if he wants it. He's essentially saying to Lot, God promised me this land, but if you want it, I'll give it to you in order to find peace with you. This is an unbelievably open-handed, big-hearted, generous offer. He's willing to give lot all that rightfully belongs to him in order to make peace. It doesn't only rightfully belong to him as the one who received the promise from God, but also in a in a in a kind of worldly sense, in the normal sense of the word, he was the older uncle. It would have been his. Lot is his nephew. In both senses, the kind of heavenly promise and the earthly kind of contractual, he gets it. He's giving up all of his rights and saying to you to Lot, you take it. If you want it, so that we might have peace together, right? You first. That's Abram's mentality here. We shouldn't overlook the faith it took to make this offer. Nearly every commentator who looks at this passage says that Abram is choosing to believe here that God would keep his promises to him. And that way that God would give him the land no matter what Lot chooses to do. His faith in God's promises to him enables him. to be open-handed and big-hearted in his generous offer towards Lot. His faith in God's promises enables him to be a peacemaker Friends, throughout Scripture, there is a direct correlation between faith and peace. Between faith and unity. Where peace and unity are present, so also is faith present. Where peace and unity are absent, so also is faith absent. Those who walk by faith will have, should have, a disposition of being peacemakers Who willingly give up their rights for the sake of unity? Does that describe you? Does that characterize your life? Kids, would your parents say you are a peacemaker Do you look for ways to make peace with your siblings? Or do you look for ways to get what you want Would your siblings say that you're the type of person who willingly gives up your rights for their sake? Or do you always take the best seat, the first piece of pizza, the best controller, the best clothing? How does that describe you? Husbands and wives, would your spouse call you a peacemaker Do you approach marital conflict thinking, I'm willing to give up my rights, regardless of how much this conflict is my fault? Or do you approach it with a disposition of I'm gonna stand my ground until they admit everything they've done wrong? Church members, would other members of this church describe you as a peacemaker? In the midst of disagreements in the church, do you look for subtle ways to exert influence, steer conversations, poison wells so that you eventually get your way Or do you approach disagreements in the church with a willingness to give up my rights for the sake of peace? Now listen, there are obvious qualifications that we're going to make when we talk about dealing with conflict and peacemaking, right? I'm in no way saying that you should Always let other people have their way or always take the blame for conflict when it happens or anything like that. There will be times where you say, no, I think this is the best way and this is what we should do and I know you disagree with me but I really do think we should go this this way. There will be times in conflict where you say, hey, I I'm gonna admit all the ways done about fault here, but you also need to own X Y and Z. I want to lean more heavily on us being willing to give up our rights and pursuing peace because our problem is not usually always, you know, giving up our rights, always letting other people have their way. It's that we almost never do that, right? And at least maybe I'm speaking for myself here. My my first instinct is, no, I want this. Rather than wait, I don't need to come to this conflict demanding my own way or proving that I'm right. God has given me so much in Christ. Yeah, hey, I'm coming open-handed, big-hearted to this conversation. Let's talk through this. Right? That's what we need to hear more often in the church and in our personal lives. There will inevitably be times where seeking peace leads to different courses of action, but underneath it all, there should always be among God's people an open-handed, big-hearted desire for peace. in the midst of conflict. What did Jesus say in the Sermon on the Mount? Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Those who walk by faith should display a desire to seek peace and a willingness to give up their rights to achieve it But we also see that those who walk by faith look to God for instruction and direction. trust their judgment uh according to what what they think is right and good for their lives. And we see this in the very clear contrast between Lot and Abram Recall that in verse 10, Moses tells us Lot lifted up his own eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered. Rather than seeking God, Rather than remembering all the promises God made to Abram, Lot lifted up his eyes and judged for himself which land was best. He was walking by sight. Now look at verse 14. The Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, lift up your eyes and look. Lot lifted up his own eyes and decided for himself what was good, but Abram waits for God to instruct him to lift up his own eyes. Doesn't presume to know what is best, but instead entrusts himself to God and to God's instruction. He is walking by faith Right? He's saying I'm I'm willing to give up what is rightfully mine to seek peace, and I'm not going anywhere until the Lord tells me to go. I'm not lifting up my eyes to presume to know what is best. I am looking to the Lord and to his instruction to guide me in this life. That is what it looks like to walk by faith. Think even of Jesus when he came in the gospels. He said, I don't speak anything of my own accord. I speak only what the Father tells me. Abram, lift up your eyes and look. That's how you know that the land is good for you because God says it in his word. That land is for you Walking by faith looks like entrusting yourself to God's instruction and direction in your life. And those who walk by faith will live in the land that God has promised them. Look at verses 14 to 18. The Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are. northward and southward and eastward and westward, for all the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth. So that if one can count the dust of the earth, your offspring also can be counted. Arise. walk through the length and breadth of the land, for I will give it to you. So Abram moved his tent, and came and settled by the oaks of Mamre, which are at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the Lord. If you were here last week, I wonder if you noticed how the promises God made to Abram in chapter 12 have expanded and grown. The promise of a great nation in chapter 12 has expanded into a promise of offspring so numerous that they will be uncountable, like the dust and the grains of dirt on the earth. And the promise of a land of his own in chapter 12 has grown into northward and southward and eastward and westward. All the land that you see, I will give to you and your offspring forever. Moses is pressing home the contrast between Lot and Abram, isn't he? He wants the Israelites and us to see that we have a choice. We can do what Lot did, we can walk by sight, we can trust our own judgment, decide for ourselves what is right and good, and ultimately be deceived by the world and all it offers. and end up living in a land of destruction, or we can walk in the footsteps of Abram's faith. We can walk by faith in God's promises. We can willingly give up our rights and seek peace with our brothers and sisters in Christ. We can trust God's promises. We can look to his word for instruction and guidance and ultimately Come to dwell in the land that God has promised to his people. We need to see how Moses sharpens the contrast between these men. So that the Israelites and we today would learn from their choices. I think he wants us to see something of the permanent implications of their choices. He wants us to see that a separation is taking place between those who walk by sight and those who walk by faith Look again at verse 9. Abram says, Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. Now look at verse 11. So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other. Abram in the land of Canaan, Lot In the land of Sodom. Now look at verse 14. The Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him. The promises are not for those who walk by sight. The promises are for those who walk by faith Moses wants us to see that those who walk by sight will be separated from those who walk by faith. Only those who walk by faith will inherit the promises God makes to his people. Now we know from both the Old Testament and the New Testament. That God divinely intervened in Lot's life and graciously rescued him from walking by sight. But the less the lesson that Moses had for Israel and has for us wasn't, hey, roll the dice. Walk by sight, and maybe God will divinely intervene in your life and rescue you. No, the lesson He wants to press home for us is if you walk by sight, you will be separated from God and come under His judgment And unfortunately, Israel didn't learn from Lot's example. Though they were brought into the land that God had promised to Abram's offspring. They were eventually cast out of the land, exiled, because they walked by sight and not by faith. They weren't peacemakers, but they oppressed and took advantage of their own people. They were tantalized by the nations around them They chased after the gods of the nations and sought wealth and power just like the nations around them, and so they were sent east. into Babylon and Assyria, exiled among the nations, separated from God and from the promised land. But I thought God promised to give Abram and his offspring the land forever. Did God not keep his promise We have to look to Scripture to answer that question, to see how Scripture answers it. And the consistent testimony of the Old Testament is that God kept every one of his promises to Abram. And yet the testimony of the New Testament is also that God's promises to Abram were a type, a shadow that found their ultimate fulfillment, not in Abram. But in Abram's offspring, not the nation of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ, the true Israel and true son of God. We see even in our passage, don't we, how Abram is a type of Jesus As Abram willingly gave up his rights to make peace with Lot, his kinsman, so much more did Jesus willingly give up his rights What did Paul say in Philippians 2? He did not count equality with God, though equal with God, and having every right to display his equality with God. He did not count equality with God, something to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant. Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. And why did Jesus willingly give up his rights? And humble himself to the point of becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. To make peace. With us. For we are his kinsmen. He is not ashamed to call us his brothers This gospel, the gospel of peace, is what motivates peacemaking It's through faith in Jesus and all he has done that God gives us new hearts To recognize all he's done for us in Christ and empowers us through this gospel by his spirit to willingly lay down our rights in order to make peace with one another. Because the reality is, friends, when we read Genesis 13, the temptation is going to be to see yourself in Abram. I'm a Christian. I have faith. I'm walking in the footsteps of my father Abram. But friends, the Bible teaches that even Abram and all of us were like Lot. Where did Abram come from? He was an idol worshiper in Haran when God came to him. He was walking by sight just like all of us were when God divinely intervened in our life through the preaching of the gospel and by the preaching of the gospel graciously gave us new hearts and new minds to now open our eyes and see Why was I walking by sight for so long and chasing after this world when God has so many glorious promises to give to us? We walk by faith, not because we've earned it by our faith, but because God has graciously intervened like he did for Lot in rescuing us from the destruction of the world. And now, because of all that God has done for us and all that yet awaits us We can say, looking at those promises, trusting in God's sovereignty, I don't know how it's going to work out in this conflict. I don't know what the ramifications are going to be, but I am coming to this conflict with a heart that is open to you. Big-hearted. You first. Take whatever you want. God will provide. God will sustain. God will give me all that he has promised me. If Jesus was willing to lay down his rights and die to make peace with me, his enemy. How much more should I be willing to lay down my rights to make peace with my brothers and sisters in Christ? It's through faith in the finished work of Christ that God gives us eyes to see beyond the deceptive abundance of this world to the forever land. That God has promised to those who love him, those who the New Testament calls Abraham's offspring. And like Abram, I hope you see this, Abram did not fully possess the land in his day Abram died in faith. And we also may die in faith As we like Abram put our hope in a city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. By faith, we desire a better country, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called our God. He has prepared for us a city. And just as Abram walked by faith and so dwelled in the promised land So at the resurrection, all those who die in faith, all we who have died in faith will hear the words that Abram heard in verse 17. Arise. Arise and walk through the land, for I have given it to you That land is coming. The choice is before you. Will ye walk by sight Will you be your own God? Enjoy the temporary abundance of that this world offers and experience eternal destruction Or will you walk by faith? Turn from being your own God. Trust in Jesus for the forgiveness of sins and know that you will dwell with God forever What you see is not what will always be. What's your faith in Jesus Christ today? Let's pray. Again we ask help. For those who are walking by sight today, we pray that you would open their eyes to a new way. To a way of walking by faith in your Son, Jesus Christ. Help them to see the world as you see it. Help them to see the world to come as you see it. Help them to believe in your promises Help us today to continue walking by faith. Lord, we are weak. You are strong Keep us from stumbling, we pray. We ask that you would do this for the glory of your praise and for our eternal good. In Jesus' name. Amen.