All right, good morning, CBC. It is a privilege and a blessing to be uh subbing in for John Joseph this morning. Uh and And to be bringing to you God's word for us to look at and to listen to and to apply in our lives together this morning. So I'd like to start with a question. What is the secret to a great partnership A common goal, shared opinions, similar personalities, or shared history, a clear plan for a future goal Well, this this coming week is the 10-year anniversary of marriage partnership for my wife Laura and I. So this topic of partnership is one that I've been thinking about a lot recently, and hopefully we'll be be thinking about a lot this coming week. How do we in our different places and in our different circumstances work toward better partnership? As Christians, how should we think about our life together as a local church? Well, friends, the answer to many of those questions is what the Apostle Paul addresses this morning in our passage. This morning we as a congregation have the privilege of looking to God's Word to know what partnership can and should look like for us as Christians, even when circumstances are difficult. And even when suffering is intense? What sustains our joy and our confidence and our love for each other as followers of Jesus Christ? Well, please turn with me in your Bibles to the book of Philippians. It begins on page 980 of the Bibles there on the chairs. If you're here this morning and you don't own a Bible, you don't have a Bible of your own, or if you don't have a Bible that you can really understand. in English, please take one of the one of the Bibles on the chairs as a gift from our church to you. We think there's nothing more important for you than to have a God a copy of God's word that you can understand Well, in his letter to the Philippians, Paul refers to the partnership that he has with the church in Philippi. You can read about how that partnership was begun. In the book of Acts, chapter 16. In fact, I would strongly encourage you to read that this afternoon. It is the very colorful and very fascinating story of how Paul first preached the gospel. where the w the gospel was first preached in Europe in m in Macedonia, which is in modern day Greece, probably around fifty We don't know how long Paul was in Philippi when he helped to plant this local congregation, but we do know from our passage and from the letter itself that it was long enough to have very clear Close relationships. The letter to the Philippians, which includes our passage today, was probably sent by Paul when he was imprisoned in Rome around ten years after he had helped him. To establish the church at Philippi. Paul wrote this letter to the Philippians to thank God for them and to thank them for their generosity to him in supporting his ministry, even when he was in prison and even when he was suffering. Paul also wrote to encourage the Philippians toward cum humility and unity in Christ. And we see all of those themes in our passage for today, which is Philippians chapter 1 Verses 3 through 11. Let's read it together, but let's begin at verse 1. Let's begin at the very beginning of the letter. Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who were at Philippi, with the overseer. Okay, pause. So Paul is speaking to all of the Christians in Philippi with the overseers and deacons. All of the Christians in Philippi. It says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you Always in every prayer of mine for you all, making my prayer with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace. Both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ. Christ Jesus. And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is excellent. And so Be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. Well, amen. Paul thanks God for and prays for the Philippians while providing us with a beautiful model. of what encouragement and prayer should look like between believers, especially during times of deep and intense suffering. Suffering. Paul unpacks for us what gospel partnership really looks like. So the main point of our text this morning Is that gospel partnership, even during difficulty and suffering, shows itself in three ways? Gospel partnership, even during difficulty And suffering shows itself in three ways. Number one, we remember God's past work With thankfulness and joy. Number two, we recognize God's present work with deep affection And love. And number three, we hope in God's future work with confidence And I pray that as we consider how Paul prayed for and encouraged the Philippians, we would ourselves be encouraged. And strengthened by the Holy Spirit in our own lives and in our own relationships with each other. Well, first, we remember God's past work With thankfulness and joy. Look at verses three and four. Paul begins by thanking God. As he remembers and prays for the Philippians. And this prayer, friends, is not just something to check off a prayer list. No, he prays always and in every way with joy. And we can see why Paul prays with such joy in verse 5. He says, because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. Well beginning from a very small group of believers, the Philippian church had grown and it had been strengthened. Even in the midst of suffering. And Paul affirms the good work that God had begun in them in verse 6. So, what is that good work that Paul refers to there in verse 6? Turn back with me a couple of pages, a couple of pages to Paul's letter to the Ephesian church. Ephesians chapter 2, starting in verse 1. The letter right before Philippians is the letter of Paul to the Ephesians. Paul beautifully and clearly recounts God's past work. So he says, And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you had once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the Passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. Christ, by grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in you. kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own Doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. So, friends, the good work that God had begun in the Philippians, as with the Ephesians, was a good work of salvation by his grace. Back in our passage, Paul uses the same word for partnership in Philippians 1, verse 7, when he says that the Philippians are all partakers with him of grace. So here is the key to great partnership as Christians. We realize, we rejoice in, and we're thankful for God's grace. In salvation from our sins through Jesus Christ. This grace is given to us as a gift to all who would turn from their sins, repent of their sins. sins and turn to Christ in faith. Through Christ, friends, God has made the dead living. He has made the disobedient Obedient. He's made the children of wrath into children of love. He's made the rebel a citizen. He's made the poor rich in him. And all of this he has done as a gift. Well, if you're here this morning and you you don't claim to be a follower of Jesus, we are so glad that you're here. Thank you for coming and sitting Through this long service. We are truly glad that you're here. We don't think there's a better place for you to be this morning. I wonder, though, what do you think of the pat about the past in your own life? Is it full of the good times with all of your best relationships and your deepest pleasures? Or is it full of pain and sadness? Or regret? Probably some mixture of the two? Well, friends, that's because God has made us in his image. This implies our Value and our dignity. There is good in this world because that image still exists in each of us. We are made to reflect His Glory, and we do in a beautiful painting or an eloquent speech or in a tender moment with a child. We reflect God's goodness in seeking justice And in seeking righteousness, because God is perfectly just and he is perfectly righteous. But if we're true Truly honest with ourselves, God's perfection is very bad news for us. Because none of us measure up to His Standard. We all fail because we have rejected God's good and right authority. We're all capable of both great and horrible things, whether it's in our thoughts or in our words or even in our actions. Our nature, as C. S. Lewis said, Is both honor enough to raise the head of the poorest beggar and shame enough to bow the shoulders of the greatest emperor on earth? Well, even though God's perfect goodness is a death sentence for us, there's good news this morning This room is full of people who have realized that we cannot perfectly obey a perfectly good God. And instead we have looked to him. Him to help us. Our sins demanded punishment from this God. But rather than destroy us, as God rightly could have done, as George prayed earlier. God came to rescue us. Jesus Christ came, fully God and fully man. God in the flesh And he lived in perfect obedience to God's law and God's good authority, as we should have. He was hated. He was opposed. He was arrested. And he was killed. But friends, in his death According to God's perfect plan, he took the place of the very people who hated him In Romans 5. 8, Paul remarks on how amazing it is that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Us. Well, Jesus' sacrifice was accepted. And to show this, God raised him from the dead on the third day, validating both his life and his sacrifice. And Christ now reigns in heaven and will one day return to reign forever in loving union with his people. Well this is the good work that God had begun in the Philippians. One that Paul remembered with great joy. A joy that was undiminished by imprisonment or opposition, as he knew that life's circumstances could never determine their ultimate state. Well, friend, I urge you this morning, turn from your sins and trust in Christ. Children of this congregation, turn away from From your sins and trust in Christ. Be reconciled to God. No matter your age, no matter your background. No matter your past sins, turn away from your sins to Christ. In him, there is fullness of joy. Well, if you're here and you're you are a follower of Jesus this morning, what encouragement there is to remember what God has done for us and what and for other people? How do you remember what God has done in others' lives? When you think of other Christians, do you feel this kind of joy or fear? Maybe Anger or indifference? Maybe you don't really care? Friends, our relationships can And should be characterized by loving partnership as we remember God's grace in each other One of the most practical ways that we show this commitment to this gospel partnership is by joining a local church. If you're a follower of Jesus, the local church is where your gospel partnership is carried out day by day, week by week. I praise God at so many examples that I've gotten to see, I've had the privilege of seeing in your lives of this This kind of loving, prayerful, thankful, remembering joy. I've been encouraged by your partnership in the gospel until now, as we've seen God begin and And sustain a gospel witness here in Chevrolet. It's such a joy to see how many of you have joined us in this work from many other neighborhoods in the area as well, as we have sought to pursue. gospel partnership together. Friends, you make our work as pastors joyful work. Just as Paul's was, because of your love for one another and your love for Christ. Remembering God's past faithfulness Sustained Paul as he prayed for the Philippians from jail and as he was suffering. And that's one of the ways that Paul encourages the Philippians. Even in the midst of difficulties, we should remember God's past work with thankfulness and with joy. Take a moment to think of the person who knows you the best. If we were to ask them today, after the service, what really brings out Jeremy's emotions? What makes Brent excited or angry? What would they really say if they were telling the truth? Sports, the approval of others, work success or failure, grades Relationships, making a lot of money, buying things, food, exercise, what makes you excited? Ed Welch says in his book, Side by Side, that our emotions are our first response to the world around us. They appear without any apparent thought. Yet they are much more than mere reactions, in that they say more about us than they do about our circumstances. Our emotions reveal what is most dear to us. Well, if you're anything like me, your emotions are often driven more by life circumstances than they are by God's work in others. But Paul directs us in verses 7 and 8 to the second way that gospel partnership shows itself, even during suffering. We recognize God's present work with deep affection and love. Well, Paul remembers the Philippians with joy there in verse 3. He prays for them in verse 4. He sees their partnership up to now in verse 5. And he is presently sure of God's past and future work in verse 6. Then in verse 7, Paul begins to really focus in on why he feels so strongly about them. It says, it is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace. Both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. Jesus. Well in Paul's time, that word translated affection in verse 8 had to do with your gut, your insides, which was considered the seat of your emotion. Kind of like what we say about a gut feeling. Paul's heart and his gut are both involved here. Uh even from a faraway prison, he demonstrates a A deep love for these Philippians. Despite all of Paul's external circumstances, he is emotionally affected by the way that the Philippians were with him. Him, from their frequent gifts of money and their pastoral care to their support for him as he was brought before trial In front of governmental authorities, Paul sees the Philippians as providing him with essential support in his gospel ministry. Well, as one commentator on this passage says, the sign of our professed love for the gospel is the measure of sacrifice we are prepared to make in order to help eternal Well friends, this is one of the many reasons why we promise together as a local church to support the work of the ministry elsewhere. We are really excited about what God is doing here in Chevrolet and the surrounding neighborhoods. We're really excited about the God's word being preached here on Sundays. We're really excited about the Thursday evening Bible study. We're really, really excited about VBS. We're really excited about good weather for VBS also. But God is doing lots of other things. God is working mightily all over the world, even right now. So we've had the privilege of giving to other local churches in the area, in the region, and and And to support gospel ministry in other areas of the world, from South America and to the Middle East to East and Central Asia, in many places where right now it is just as dangerous. To preach this gospel as it was during Paul's time. But we don't just recognize and support the work in other places. How are we recognizing God's gracious work right now in each other's lives? Well, one pastor recently said the judgmental heart owns a hundred microscopes and no mirror. We're often much better at seeing the problems in other people than in our own shortcomings. Let's pray that we would have kindness and generosity in our relationships with each other and even with other Christians outside of our church And Paul is a wonderful example of this in his letters, as he begins most of them, nearly all of them, by thanking God for specific ways that God had worked in that area or in that That person, even in letters where Paul would bring a sharp and a stinging rebuke. Well, since Paul was so invested In the Philippians, and he had made it a normal practice to recognize God's present work in others, his response to their love is a strong And emotional response. He is committed to their good. Well, friends, no matter whether your closest friend or spouse would describe you As having no emotions whatsoever, or too many, we can and should encourage one another and pray for one another with affection and love because of the ways that God is working in us right now. I would encourage you To take a moment to think about a way that you've noticed God working in someone else in this room. Take a moment to think about that. All right, once you have a person in mind, now your assignment after the service will be to find that person and to tell them what you've noticed. If you're having trouble thinking of someone, I would encourage you to take some time to practice. Our conversations, friends, should be filled with genuine work toward encouragement. Encouragement, not flattery, but encouragement, recognizing what God really is doing in each other. It probably might seem it might or probably will seem strange or awkward at first, but friend, it shows love. If you aren't sure how to look for God's work in other people, read Philippians and other letters of Paul for some great ideas of how to look and where to look. Friends, even during suffering, even when life gets really, really hard, we should take some time. We should recognize God's present work with deep Affection and love for one another. Alright, if you're 18 years old or younger, raise your hand. This is a listening test. Okay. This question is for you all who just raised your hands. What is the day in the year that you look forward to the most? Anyone have an answer? Birthday? Both? Great. Why do you look forward to those days? Adam, why do you look forward to Christmas? Oh, it's Caleb. Caleb, why do you look forward to Christmas? Amen. Yeah. Reasons to celebrate. For me, when I was growing up, there were three days on my calendar: my birthday, Christmas, and the start of the men's NCAA basketball tournament I loved each of these days because of what they promised: great gifts, good food, celebrations of Jesus An uninterrupted basketball all day long. Friends, what do we as Christians have to look for? Well in our passage, Paul gives us a great idea through his prayer for the Philippians in verses 9 through 11. Which is the third and final way that gospel partnership reveals itself even during suffering? We hope in God's future work with confidence. Well, what is this future work? In verse 9, Paul prays that the Philippians' love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment. As John Joseph preached to us last week from Mark 12, love for God is rooted in right knowledge of Him. And from this knowledge and this love comes wisdom. As we seek to apply the truths of God's word in our lives. And if you think that that sounds like something only a pastor does, think about who Paul is writing to here. Look up at verse one, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi. He refers to you all in verses four, seven, and eight. And all of the references to you here in this passage are plural. Paul is clearly speaking to all of the Christians in the Philippian church. So, brothers and sisters, it is God's plan to grow all of us in love, in knowledge, in discernment, and in wisdom. It is God's plan to grow all of us in love, in knowledge, in discernment, and in wisdom. So, how do we do this? Well, first we we start by doing what we're doing now. We listen to God's word. He has revealed the treasures of wisdom and knowledge in this book. We need to know it well. No matter your bank account, your education level, your age, your ethnicity, your gender, you have access to all wisdom In God's word. That's why it's so central to what we're doing here. The songs that we sing, the prayers that we pray. The sermon that I'm giving right now are all centered on God's word. Jesus prayed for his people. John seventeen, he said, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. Brothers and sisters We will not have all knowledge of God. No one ever will. But by God's grace, through His Word, we will have true knowledge. So how are you doing in seeking to grow and to help others grow in love and discernment through God's Word? Friends, again, I am constantly blessed and impressed by the ways that you help each other to love God through his word. Word. And I would encourage you to abound in it even more. The second way that we grow in love and knowledge and discernment Is by abiding in and obeying Christ. Jesus said in John 15:5 I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears Much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. Friends, when we abide in Christ Obeying his word and growing and depending on him, we reveal God's work to others And to the world. The fruit of righteousness that Paul is referring to here in verse 11 will only come through Jesus Christ. Christ and abiding in him. Well, my three sons love to get packages in the mail Since we live far from extended family, packages often arrive with something for them inside. This creates a lot of false confidence When rather than a new toy or car or plane, the package reveals soap or glass bowls for the kitchen. My sons have very good reason to be excited, but they're often let down. Oftentimes, if we're honest, even days like Christmas and uh and birthdays. Can be letdowns too. Our expectations are often far greater than what the day can deliver. But friends, there is a day coming. There is a day coming for the Christian that will deliver on all of our expectations and all of our hopes. The day that Paul speaks about. In verses 6 and 10, the day of Christ Jesus. For us as Christians, this is the day that all of our smaller joys in this life point to. When Jesus Himself will return to dwell with and reign over his people. Paul's prayer here is. Is that the Philippians would grow and that their growth would lead them to be pure and blameless and filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ. Part of that growth in our lives is recognizing that this righteousness that we have comes only through Jesus and not from ourselves. We no longer trust in our ability to obey God. But our obedience then is a response to the powerful work of God in our heart. And we look forward to the day when we're made perfect and when we will dwell in God's presence. This past week was the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Allied forces invasion of France in nineteen. That was one of the main turning points of World War II. Somebody tell me what that day is called? D day, yeah. In the military, the D simply stood for day. The day before June 6th was called D minus 1, and the day after June 6th was called D plus 1. That day, D-Day, would be one of the most important days of the 20th century. But for us as Christians, the day we should consider most, the day that should shape our today is the day of Christ. And the writer of the book of Hebrews Spends an entire chapter, chapter 11, detailing the faith of God's people who looked forward to a better and heavenly country. Country, even when they were beaten and opposed and misunderstood, and even killed. The author then points to our great example in Hebrews chapter 12 verses 1 and 2. It says, Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. And is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Well, brothers and sisters, our life as believers follows these witnesses, and it follows our Savior. But just as it was for these Christians and for Paul, all of our joy, all of our hope, all of our life is rooted in Jesus Christ. Friends, his name and his work are everywhere in the Bible and in this book of Philippians. For the joy that was set before him, Jesus Endured the greatest suffering imaginable. And friends, if you aren't suffering right now, you will. It's only a Matter of time. It's how the world is. But in our lives, as in Paul's and as in Jesus', suffering comes before God. Glory. But much glory for God comes through our suffering. Look at the goal for Paul in verse 11. That the purified, righteous, wise, discerning, and suffering saints bear fruit that results in God's glory and God's praise Well, friends, as we covenant together as a local church to help one another to grow in love, to grow in knowledge, to grow in discernment, even as we struggle and even as we suffer, as we come from different backgrounds, and as we have different opinions on any number of issues. But we seek unity in Christ. We glorify and praise God. As we give to support the work of the ministry of like-minded friends and other churches. Both in this country and abroad, we give glory and praise to God. In this way, we show that our love for God is greater than our love for this world And the things that are in it. Well, Paul's encouragement and his prayer for the Philippians in our passage today perfectly connects to our taking the Lord's Supper, which we'll Do momentarily. As we eat the bread and drink the cup, we remember the Lord's death until he comes again. We remember and celebrate God's past work for us. As we take it together, we show the unity and partnership that we have in Christ and in his work right now. We recognize God's present work among us. And as we eat, we remember that it also tells us of a coming day, the day of Christ to come, when he He returns for us, and all of our faith in his promises for the future turns to sight at the great Marriage Supper of the Lamb. Well, friends, in light of what God has done for us in the past, in light of what God is doing right now among us and in the world, And in light of his future promises for us, it's good and it's right for us to celebrate our gospel partnership In him. Let's pray Father, we believe. Help our unbelief. Help us, Lord, this morning to remember. Remember what you have done, to recognize what you're doing, and Lord, to not forget. Your future promises. Or give grace to us to obey your word. In Jesus' name. Amen.