Amen. Hallelujah to our King Christ the Savior is born. I don't know if you guys noticed how much this morning we saying about Christ our King being born into the world. And it is true, he is our king. He is the king of kings. And we will look at a passage today that makes that abundantly clear. But before we do that, let me go ahead and open us in a brief word of prayer. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we lift up our voice to you now in prayer. We know that Jesus has The eternal words of life. Jesus is the eternal word of life. To where else can we go? Nowhere. He is the only one under heaven suited to be a mediator between God and man. We pray, Lord, that you would draw our affections. Our mind, our heart, our soul, all of us, upward in the worship of Jesus Christ And in understanding your word. So grant the Spirit to cause both of those things to happen this morning, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 14. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you'll find our passage this morning on page 10. And I want to encourage you to open, not just to follow along, because I'm going to read the passage for us here in just a few minutes, but I also want to encourage you to keep your Bible open in front of you throughout the sermon. Because we're going to be looking often at the passage in our time together. We're in a series going through the book of Genesis. Obviously, we're in chapter 14 today. Last week, I said that the whole book of Genesis is concerned with showing how God fulfilled his promise. to Adam and Eve, and that promise was to send an offspring of the woman who would crush the serpent's head and rescue mankind from sin. Ultimately, that is what the entire book of Genesis is about. It's what the account of Cain and Abel is ultimately about. It's what the account of Noah and the flood is ultimately about. And the Tower of Babel and on and on. It's about how God is keeping his promise. To send an offspring to crush Satan, destroy sin, and rescue his people And in Genesis 12, which we looked at two weeks ago, our understanding of how God would do that took a major leap forward as we met Abram. The man God chose as the one through whom this offspring would eventually come. In Genesis 12, we considered God's promises to Abram. And how he surprisingly, that is Abram, surprisingly responded to those promises with faithlessness, right, when he went into Egypt. But then in Genesis 13, we see a very different side of Abram. As he walks by faith in the midst of conflict with his nephew Lot. And this week, we're going to see another dimension of Abram's faith. As he wins a frankly astonishing victory. And then makes an astonishing choice in the wake of his victory, all of which we will see points us forward to Abram's offspring. The Lord Jesus Christ. And as a result of that, we'll see how this passage should propel you and I today to live courageous and holy lives. Where do we see that in the text? Well, let's go ahead and look at Genesis 14 together. I'm going to read the whole chapter, and then we'll look more closely at it. This is God's word. In the days of Amraphel, king of Shinar, Ariak, king of Elisar, Keterleomer, king of Elam, and Tidal, king of Goyim, These kings made war with Bera, king of Sodom, Bursha, king of Gomorrah, Shinab, king of Admah. Shameebur, king of Zeboim, and the king of Bala, that is Zoar. And all these joined forces in the valley of Sidim, that is the Salt Sea. Twelve years they had served Keterleomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. In the fourteenth year, Ketileomer and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Rephaim in Ashtarath Karname. the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Shavek Kiriathan, and the Horites in their hill country of Seir, as far as El Paran, on the border of the wilderness Then they turned back and came to En Mishpat, that is Kadesh, and defeated all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites who were dwelling in Hazazan Tamar. Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Adma, the king of Zeboim, and the king of Balah, that is Zoar, went out, and they joined battle in the valley of Siddh with Keterleomer, king of Elam Tidal, king of Goim, Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Ariot, king of Elisar, four kings against five. Now the valley of Sidim was full of Batuman pits And as the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, some fell into them, and the rest fled to the hill country So the enemy took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their provisions and went their way. They also took Lot, the son of Abram's brother, who was dwelling in Sodom and his possessions, and went their way. Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew, who was living by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshkel and of Aner, these were allies of Abram. When Abram heard that his kinsmen had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen of them, and went in pursuit as far as Dan And he divided his forces against him by night, he and his servants, and defeated them, and pursued them to Hobah, north of Damascus Then he brought back all the possessions, and also brought back his kinsmen Lot with his possessions, and the women, and the people. After his return from the defeat of Ketaleomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the valley of Shava, that is the king's valley. And Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God most high. And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram by God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And Abram gave him a tenth of everything. And the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand to the Lord, God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich. I will take nothing but what the young men have eaten and the share of the men who went with me. Let Anar, Eshkel, and Mamre take their share. My hope for our time this morning is to encourage you with the fact That there is no enemy you face, that God can't defeat, and that reality can and should propel you to lead courageous and holy lives. What we're going to do with our time is look at this passage under two headings. First, we're going to see Abram's astonishing victory in verses 1 to 16. And second, Abram's astonishing choice at verses 17 to 24. Normally I like to kind of mix in, hey, this is what this passage means for you today, kind of as I go. But today what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna teach through the whole passage. Then we're gonna see how it's fulfilled in Christ. Then we're going to look at what it means for us today because I think it's going to make the most sense to you when presented that way. So first I want you to look with me at Abram's astonishing victory. That's in verses 1 to 16. And what makes his victory so astonishing is how vastly superior the opponents are that he defeats. And we're introduced to those opponents in verses 1 to 7. Right? In the first three verses of chapter 14, if you are following along, we learn that a war has broken out. There are Five kings in the region of the Jordan Valley in the land around the land of Canaan who are vassal kings. Can any of the kids tell me what a vassal is? What does that mean? What is a vassal king? All right, I'm gonna go ahead and give you the answer so that we don't spend too much time on this. It means they're subservient to other kings. They have to pay tribute to kings who are greater than them. They are subservient to four kings from Mesopotamia. Think of modern-day Eastern Iraq and into Iran. The five kings have gotten tired of serving the four kings, and after 13 years of being vassals, they rebel. And the four kings are like, nah-uh. When you signed to be vassals, you signed your life away, and so we're coming to take your life and everything that you have. And the picture that Moses paints of these four kings is terrifying. These dudes were nothing to play with. Want you to look at me at verse 1. They are the first four kings named Because frankly, this chapter is like, what on earth are all these names? And I have no idea if I pronounced them correctly. I'm trying my best. But the first is Amraphel. King of Shinar. We should be like, oh, oh, oh, I've heard that name before. Shinar. Where have I heard that name? Chapter 10 Shinar, the land of Babylon, where the Tower of Babel was built. And who was the first king of Shinar? Not Amraphel, but Nimrod. Any of the teens tell me who Nimrod, what he what is what is he known for? Shout it out if you know it, teens. What is Nimrod known for? Or any of the kids. Y'all tend to be more bold than our teens. Any of you know what Nimrod is known for? In the back, Nathan. Hunting, yes, that's exactly right. He is a mighty hunter before the Lord. Get this, everyone, especially the dudes in here The Bible says he is the first man on earth that God said, you are a mighty man. Talk about a title that you wouldn't mind holding. I am the mightiest man on earth, king of Shinar, and since kings usually gave their crown to their sons, their descendants, It's likely Amraphel was either a descendant or the son of Nimrod. Dude was a warrior And we also have Ariok, king of Elisar. Don't know much about him, but his name means mighty lion. That's terrifying. And Keterleomer, king of Elam. He seems to be the mightiest of these kings. He he rules this federation of kings because in the rest of the chapter we learn that the rebelling kings are going to war against Keterleomer. So he is being depicted here as a king of kings, the one ruling over everybody. And then finally, title, king of Goyim. The word goi or goyim means nations. So his name literally means title, king of nations. He likely rules over some formal empire of his own. And they don't just appear terrifying on paper. They are terrifying in reality. In verses five to seven, we read about when they came into the land of Canaan. From the east. They came down from the north, down through the land of Canaan, and we read about all the havoc they wreaked as they came to make war on those rebelling kings. And I want you to notice A few things in this passage that really underscore how terrifying these kings were. First, when you're looking at verses 5 to 7, Just let your let your eyes go over those. They defeated the Rephaim in Ashturath Karname, the Emim, the Zuzim, the Horites, the Amalekites, the Amorites. You have to understand, none of the kings who were rebelling against them ruled these people. These were other people groups, other nations that they just decided to destroy on their way. To kill the other kings. They're coming into the land, and it's as though they are just wreaking havoc on the entire land. Whoever is in their path is getting destroyed. That's what they're doing. None of these people listed are involved in the rebellion. They basically came and plundered and killed everyone in their path, which leads to the second thing I want to point out about them. They were intentional about the destruction they inflicted. They defeated the Rephaim in Ashurath Karname. That is the northern part of Canaan. And the Horites. as far as El Paran on the border of the wilderness. That's the southernmost part of Canaan. They destroyed from north to south. And in verse 7, if you look there there we read, then they turned back. And they defeated even more people. They were systematically destroying everyone in the land, which leads to the third thing I want to point out to underscore how terrifying this federation of kings is. They weren't defeating nobody's. These weren't JV squads that they were beating, right? I want you to look at verse 5 again. They defeated the Rephaim, the Zuzim, and the Emim. In the Bible, God calls all three of these people groups giants. They were literally Giants later in the Bible we'll meet Og king of Bashan who was the last of the Rephaim and his bed that he slept in was made of iron And he was 13 and a half feet long and six feet wide. He was a giant, and he was the last of the Rephim. This is generations before him. These people were giants. These kings came, destroyed them all, right? Dispatched them in a single verse Gone, gone, gone. Defeat, defeat, defeat, victory, victory, victory, wiping everyone out. Right? And then they wipe out all these other people groups, Horites, Amalekites, and Amorites, before they finally get to the kings who are rebelling. Right? Look at verse 8 and following. The five rebelling kings come out to battle, and basically as soon as the battle begins, it's over In verse 10, the rebelling kings are fleeing for their lives. Some fall into bitumen pits or tar pits. Others fled for the hills. Throughout Scripture, the image of fleeing for the hills is an image of escaping destruction. These kings are bringing complete destruction. Look at verse 11. They're destroying everyone and taking all the people and possessions of these cities as plunder. Then they make a mistake. Look at verse 12. They also take Lot, Abram's nephew, who was living in Sodom. I remember Lot's disastrous choice last week to choose to live in Sodom. We see that that disastrous choice to walk by sight had continuing disastrous consequences as he Taken captive in this battle. But the story isn't over for Lot. Look at verse 13 and following. Someone escapes the battle and tells Abram about what had happened to Lot, and Abram's like. Game on. Game on. Even though these people had come and destroyed everyone, Abram's like, I got this, right? He gathers up 318 men. And leads them into battle against these four kings and their armies. And apparently he's not playing He pursues them all the way from Mamre to the northern part of Canaan, Dan, 200 miles. Abram chases them for 200 miles. I'm gonna get my lot back and I'm gonna get all the possessions back. I may only have 318 men, but I'm going to take them down. Right? This is the same guy. We have to recognize. We need to be clear about who we're talking about here. This is the same guy who was afraid of the Egyptians and so threw his wife under the bus in Genesis chapter 12 This is also the same guy that Genesis chapter 12 tells us God called them when he was 75 years old. You have a 75-year-old man leading a troop of 300 plus. Into battle against four kings and their armies who have wiped out everybody. And he's like, I got him. This is preposterous. What's going to happen here? He's going to be destroyed. He has no chance. Except that's not what happens next Look at what happens, chapter 14, verse 15. He routes them. He divides his forces by night and defeats them. and runs them clear out of the promised land. When it says he pursued them to Hobot north of Damascus, he he is taking them to the borders of Canaan and saying, get out And he defeats them. They run north of Hobot, north of Damascus, with their tail between their legs, back to Mesopotamia. Keeping it, getting them clear out of the promised land, defeating them, and Taking back everything that belonged to the people of the land. He brought back, verse 16, he brought back all the possessions. And also brought back his kinsmen lot with his possessions and the women and the people. He plundered this evil empire. Everything they took, he brought back. This is an astonishing victory, friends. And that astonishing victory is then followed by an equally astonishing choice, which brings us to point two. I want you to look on me at verses 17 to the end of the chapter at Abram's astonishing choice. After Abram returns from his astonishing victory, he's met by two kings. Look at verse 17. After he returns, the king of Sodom comes out to meet him. Apparently, the king of Sodom had the good fortune of falling into one of these pits and surviving the attack. Now. Can any of the teens tell me what we've already learned about the people of Sodom? What did we learn about them in chapter 13? What did Moses tell us about the people of Sodom, Adam? They were wicked, great sinners in the sight of the Lord. That's right. And it seems their king is a living embodiment of his people. Or they are a living embodiment of him. In verse 2, we learn that his name is Bira. Bira means son of evil. And Sodom means burning or flaming. The son of evil Who rules over a place of burning or flaming comes out to meet Abram. And along with him comes Melchizedek. King of Salem. And in stark contrast to the king of Sodom, Melchizedek's name means King of Righteousness, and he rules over Salem, which means peace. Right, so Abram is met by the son of evil who rules over a place of burning, and the king of righteousness who rules over the place of peace. And Abram's gonna be faced with a choice. Look at verse 18 and following. Melchizedek brings out bread and wine, and then he blesses Abram. Look at the blessing in verse 19. Blessed be Abram by God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. In blessing Abram, Melchizedek is reminding Abram of God's promises to him and underscoring how those promises are now coming true. So think of the promises, right? I will bless you and make your name great, and in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. God has blessed Abram. He has flocks and herds and trained men. God is making Abram's name great, especially after the defeat of these four kings. People will know Abram in the land of Canaan, and God is blessing all the families of the earth through him. He's a rescuer of nations. He takes back what was stolen from them and gives it back to the people, right? He's saving them from these destructive Mesopotamian kings. So when Melchizedek blesses him and he comes to Abram offering bread and wine and a promise of blessing. He's saying the promise is still yours. This is what God is offering to you. The same promises he made to you. The king of Sodom, on the other hand, offers to make Abram rich. Look at verse 21. Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself. This is not an offer of chump change This is an offer of astounding wealth. Everything the four kings took, which was basically everything in the land of Canaan. That can be yours. Gee can have all of the plunder In verse 23, Abram tells us, this would have made him rich. This would have made him powerful. This would have made him great. So Abram's faced with a decision. Do I trust God's promises to make me great? Or do I take greatness for myself by accepting this offer? Do I take what the son of evil is offering? Or do I take what the king of righteousness and peace is offering Want you to put yourself in his shoes. Right? Stand there for a minute in your imagination. That you are Abram, but that reality sink in. Do you take the riches? All of this can be yours right now. Tangible, touchable, wealth, greatness. happiness and joy. All of this can be yours right now. Or do you take a promise of future blessing with some bread and wine? That's the decision he's facing. What decision would you make? Well, let's look at what Abram does. Look at verse 22. I have lifted my hand to the Lord God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth, that I would not take a thread. Or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich. Abram turns down immediate riches, immediate power, immediate greatness for some bread and wine and a promise. That's all he's getting here. This is an astonishing choice. And this is especially astonishing considering the fact that some of God's promises to him have not yet come to pass at all. He is still without a child, and yet God promised to make him into a great nation. So he's got some doubts about whether God can come through on all these promises. Yeah, I've seen God do some of it, but I haven't seen him do all of it And yet he's still choosing the blessing, the promise of future blessing rather than immediate riches, power, wealth, and greatness. This is an astonishing choice. Abram chooses God's promises over the world's wealth. And we have to see what this passage meant to the nation of Israel to really appreciate what it means for us today. We have to remember that that a that Moses is writing the book of Genesis not to people living around Abram's time. He's writing to the to the nation of Israel hundreds of years after Abram was alive. They were to be instructed by all of these passages about Abram. They were to draw numerous lessons from them. One of which, especially in Genesis 14, was that when they faced similar circumstances, To the ones Abram faced in Genesis 14, they were to put the same faith in God that Abram did They were to trust God so completely that they would go into battle against vastly superior forces, knowing that God would keep his promises to them and give their enemies into their hands. And They were to be so devoted to God that they would be unstained by the spoils of war. But Israel did not learn that lesson when God brought them to the edge of the promised land Remember, they sent out spies to go over into the promised land. And those spies came back with a terrifying report of giants. The people are giants. We're like grasshoppers compared to them. And all the people of Israel were afraid, provoking God's judgment against them, even though God empowered Abram to defeat the kings who defeated the giants. They didn't even trust God to defeat the giants. And then when God mercifully forgave them and went before them and defeated their enemies in battle, he gave them specific instructions. about what they could and could not keep for themselves. And did they obey? No. They repeatedly kept for themselves the plunder God told them not to keep. We don't believe you will make us great We are going to make ourselves great by taking all of this wealth. Led to their own destruction. Right? And this pattern plays out through the remainder of the Old Testament Israel fails to trust in God's power. They fear their enemies and fall to them in battle, and they fail to keep God's commandments. By becoming spiritually stained by the nations around them. They choose, over and over again, worldly power over God's promises of blessing Until finally, they are exiled from the promised land. Get this, taken into captivity like Lot. By Mesopotamian kings, the kings of Assyria and Babylon. And they, like Lot, would need one like Abram To come to their aid, pull off an astonishing victory to rescue them from captivity. One who would make an astonishing choice to deny the world and keep himself unstained by sin. They would need the promised offspring to come. The one who God promised to send to crush the serpent. and rescue mankind, the promised offspring of Abram, in whom all of the families of the earth would be blessed. In short, they would need the Lord Jesus Christ to come. The son of Abraham, the son of Adam, the son of God. After his resurrection Jesus taught his disciples that all of the Old Testament was about him. All of the Old Testament was given to prepare them for his coming. His life, his death, his resurrection. And I gotta be honest with you, in some Old Testament passages, it's really hard to understand. How a particular passage is fulfilled in Jesus. Think of like death in the pot from the book of Kings. Like what on earth is this passage about? It's about like rotten stew, right? Some passages in the Old Testament are difficult to understand, how they're fulfilled in Christ. Genesis 14, though, is not one of them. Abram's astonishing victory and astonishing choice foreshadow the astonishing nature of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection, and what he accomplished in it. Right, we're getting ready to celebrate Christmas. Can one of the young kids maybe five to nine tell me what do we celebrate? What are we celebrating really at Christmas, Jack? Jesus' birth. That's exactly right. That's astonishing in and of itself. God took on flesh and became a baby But even more astonishing than that is what this baby came to do. He came to make war against a powerful ruler Not Mesopotamian kings, but against the Prince of Darkness, against Satan himself, who made the mistake of taking Jesus' kinsmen captive to sin. They are mine, and I am coming back to get them. That is what Jesus is doing. This passage is preparing us for this work of Jesus, and we don't know We don't know how much of God's plan of redemption Satan really understood. If we take 1 Peter, the angels. long to understand these things. Satan is a fallen angel, I have to assume he does not completely understand this plan of redemption. But you have to think that if he knew this was the Son of God, that a baby came in the world into the world to defeat him, he would have laughed. his face off. Preposterous. I have defeated everyone who has ever lived No one has denied my power and you send a baby to beat me. Give me a break But what did that baby do? What did that baby do? He grew. He grew from a boy, a baby into a boy, into a man. And as astonishing as 75-year-old Abram's victory was over these powerful kings, Jesus's was even more astonishing. A 30-year-old carpenter from Nazareth waging war against the ruler of the kingdom of darkness. A terrifying ruler whom none could stop. Not only that, but Jesus didn't have a trip of 318 men to help him in his battle. He didn't even have his 12 disciples. When the battle got its fiercest, his trainmen abandoned him. Just him And though Abram put his life on the line to win an astonishing victory, we know that Jesus gave his life to win the most astonishing victory of all. Because in his life, In his death and in his resurrection, Jesus defeated Satan, defeated sin Defeated death and defeated hell. He crushed the serpent's head. Once and for all, he did it. And why did he do this? He did it to rescue us, his kinsmen, from the clutches of Satan From the power of sin and from the certainty of hell. And Paul says in Ephesians that when Jesus rose from the dead, he ascended on high. And led a host of captives in his train. The souls of all those he came to save. He brought all of them back from the dead You and me, if you have trusted in Christ and turned from sin, in Christ, the Father rescued us from the kingdom of darkness And transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved son. And why was Jesus' death in our place so destructive to Satan's empire. What gave his death the power to rescue us from our bondage to sin? It was his astonishing choice. at every step along the way to remain unstained by the world, to entrust himself to the promises of God. Rather than power from the world. Abram was offered riches by the son of evil who ruled over a place of destruction. Jesus was offered rulership of all the kingdoms of the world by Satan himself. And he astonishingly chose to believe God's promises of blessings for obedience. And in doing so, he became a blessing to all the families of the earth. By being the one in whom all the families of the earth can find salvation. Whatever nation you come from, Whatever ethnicity you are, whatever your background is, there is one name under heaven by which you can be saved The name of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Only through faith in Jesus Christ can we receive the forgiveness and righteousness that we need to stand before our holy God. And God mercifully offers that forgiveness. And that righteousness to you today, if you would turn and trust in Christ. There is no sin in your life so powerful. No addiction in your life that is so great. No pattern of behavior that you can't seem to break free of that Jesus isn't strong enough to rescue you from. I mean, all the people, you just need to get to know some of the people in here to know, yeah, God can save some messed up people. Because we are all messed up people, saved by grace, who are proclaiming the excellencies not of ourselves. but of Jesus Christ who came to save sinners and who has all the power in the world to save to the uttermost And as astonishing as it may seem to you, if you've never trusted in Christ or are just learning about Jesus, you need to know that he is the all-powerful King of Kings. Who has the power to break the chains of sin and death in your life if you would but turn to him in faith. And for those of us who've already trusted in Christ, We can rest in the fact that God has already won an astonishing victory for us through Jesus Christ And that victory should propel you to live a courageous and holy life. We have to recognize that this account was given as an example to the people of Israel and to us, that if they walk by faith. And courageously believe that God had the power to defeat their enemies, that God would uphold them and give them victory He does it for Joshua and Caleb. He does it for Gideon. He does it for David. Time and time again. He gives astonishing victories to his people in the most unlikely of circumstances to show them that if they would courageously believe in his power to keep his promises, He would bless them and give them victory and having rescued us from Satan, sin, death, and hell And given us new minds and new hearts, God has shown us beyond a shadow of a doubt that He is able to do the impossible He is able to bring us back from spiritual death. And now we can and should live with the same faith that our father Abraham had, to walk by that faith Not that we're called to go to war with other people, not at all. Jesus specifically tells Peter to put his sword away because his kingdom is not of this world But we can live with the same faith-filled courage that Abram showed and waged spiritual war against the powers of darkness And we do that by putting on the full armor of God, right? What does Paul say? Be strong in the Lord And in the strength of his might. Be strong. Be courageous. Not in yourself. Not telling you to trust in your own strength. Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might Don't fear, be courageous, and put on the whole armor of God so that you can stand against the schemes of the devil. You can wage war against the powers of darkness that are wrestling against you. And all the spiritual armor Paul tells the Ephesians to put on is just another way of saying: clothe yourself with Christ. You're united by faith to the victorious King. Now put on Christ and don't fear the kingdom of darkness. You can fight against Satan, sin, death, and hell without fear because your victorious king has promised that none can snatch you out of his hand. And that faith-filled courage should appear in our lives. Right? Think of different ways that it should appear in our lives It should appear when we courageously bring up Jesus, talk about our faith, or share the gospel with a neighbor or coworker or family member that maybe we've been fearing to share our faith with. God says, open your mouth and speak up. Let me do the work. That faithful courage might appear in other ways. Courage may look like continuing as Christians. To lovingly affirm what God says about gender and sexuality and all the things that our our world just doesn't agree with Christianity about, about what God says about us and about the world around us. Courage may also appear when we're with our coworkers and they're laughing about or applauding something that God says is patently sinful, and we decide to speak up. rather than not speak up, which is almost always inevitably interpreted as agreeing with them. It may also look like courage at work if you become aware of some way that your company is sinfully taking advantage of others. or cheating or doing something unlawful. Will you courageously speak up in the name of righteousness, point people to Christ, or will you remain silent? Teens. This type of faith-filled courage looks like standing up. If there's a group of teens that you're hanging out with that's planning to do something that God calls sin. You choose to speak up and embrace the awkwardness because it will be awkward. Embrace the awkwardness and say, hey, listen, I know y'all are gonna do that, but Jesus says that's not good for me. So I'm not gonna do that. Frankly, you shouldn't either, right? It looks like standing up to the younger kids. The kids like between five and nine. This type of faith-filled courage looks like standing up for kids getting picked on. Or not going along with your siblings. If they're choosing to disobey mom and dad, you should say, hey, brother or sister, I know you're doing that. I'm not doing that. Mom and Dad said not to do that. Don't be courageous and speak up. Practice that courage now that it might become more natural to you and do it in full reliance on God Where in your life will you have to show faith-filled courage in the week to come? And how can you be prayed up, armored up in Christ to show it? You don't need to fear the powers of darkness that are at work against you. But Christ's astonishing victory doesn't just propel us to live courageously, it also propels us to live holy lives. Abram's astonishing choice, ultimately fulfilled in Christ's perfect life, is an example to us of the holiness with which we are called to live our lives. Holiness that's captured in all the various commands of the New Testament, right? Be holy, as I am holy Don't trust in riches. Put off the old and put on the new. Don't gratify the desires of the sinful flesh. Offer your bodies as living sacrifices. Do not love the world or the things of the world. The nation of Israel, in fact, is going to be given specific commands later by God about what to do with the spoils of war. Commands that they regularly broke, yet Abram Who lives long before the giving of the law is showing that he has the law written on his heart by his denial of his self and complete devotion to God and God's promises. And in Christ By the power of the Spirit, we also have the law written on our hearts so that we might live a life of complete devotion to God. How are you doing with that? How are you doing fighting against sexual immorality? Pornography, sex outside of marriage, and so on. How are you doing with other forms of self-control? How are you doing with anger Wrath. Bitterness. Malice. How are you doing fighting materialism? More stuff will not bring more joy. Only God can give you the joy that you're looking for. How are you doing fighting pride and arrogance? And walking in humility before God, recognizing that whatever victory you've experienced in life, whatever blessings you're experiencing in life, it's God who gave your enemies into your hand. Right? What does Paul say in First Corinthians? What do we have that we have not received? Every blessing, every gift is a gift from God that does not derive from within such that we can boast before the Lord. If we're going to boast about anything, let us boast in Christ and the riches that He's bestowed on us and point others to Him. When it comes to holiness, the list could go on and on. In short, we're called to live a life of complete devotion to God I lift my hand before the Lord. I will not take a strap or a thread of anything that you offer me. It's a life of devotion that we're called to live. Right? We're to choose God's promise of future blessing over the world's promise of immediate riches, immediate power, immediate pleasure, immediate gratification But when it comes to living with courageous faith and complete devotion to God, the reality that we all must face and readily admit Is that all of us has failed? None of us has done this perfectly. Not even Abram has done this perfectly. He's already failed, chapter 12, did good, 13 and 14, will fail again in the chapters to come. Such is the Christian life. Victories and failures, praise be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord, who gives us salvation. Right? None of us has lived this past week as we should. What then? Will we suffer the same fate as Israel? Will we be cast off by God, exiled from the land forever? No. No. Because of Jesus, God's mercies are new every day. And we see that in chapter 14. I want you to look with me right there in verse 18. And Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God most high. Melchizedek, the king of righteousness and king of peace. Is also a priest of God. In Psalm 110, we learn that Melchizedek foreshadows the coming Messiah. the Lord Jesus Christ because Melchizedek is a priest forever. Different from the rest of the priests in the Old Testament. He has no careful genealogy listed out to prove his credentials. He doesn't come from the tribe of Levi. He's a Canaanite priest who believes in God most high. And the author of Hebrews says, he is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life But resembling the Son of God, he continues as a priest forever Jesus is the true high priest who never dies. The true priest king Seated at the right hand of God, he always lives to intercede for us. And having been made a man Being our kinsman, he is able to sympathize with our weakness, our lack of courage Our lack of devotion to God, our sins and our failings, and He encourages us with the truth That he has paid our debt of sin once and for all, forever. And he always lives to intercede for us. And wait, we can rest in the reality that not only have we been freed from captivity to sin and forgiven of all our sins, but our ever-living high priest and king. Has promised to return, to defeat sin, death, Satan, and hell once and for all. So you are in a place where you have to make a choice as a Christian. Will I turn and take immediate riches? Immediate power? Immediate gratification? Or will I continue to believe the promise? Seeing God keep some of them, still waiting on others. What are you gonna do? Just need to look forward to the end of the story to know what we should do. Then John's vision of the rider on the white horse. whose name is faithful and true will come true. Revelation 19. Jesus will appear. Leading the armies of heaven, not 318 men, the armies of heaven into battle against Satan And we know that he will be victorious because on his robe and on his thigh a name is written. King of kings. Lord of Lords. He rules all, and every king in our world who stands against him including the Prince of Darkness, will be completely driven out of the new and true promised land. He will chase them out forever And everything, including sin and death and all that is unholy, will be banished forever. Friends, that day is coming soon There is no enemy of God that God can't and won't defeat. And that should propel you today to live courageous and holy lives. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we lift up our voices to you in prayer. And we confess that we are weak. We believe. Help our unbelief. We've not lived as we ought. But we trust that the Lord Jesus, seated at your right hand right now, is interceding for us even now. Let our hearts be warmed and encouraged by that. And we pray that you would send Jesus to come Come, Lord Jesus, come. Amen.