Well good afternoon. It's a pleasure and an honor and privilege to have this time together with you to open up God's Word. And to hear God speak, I'm going to pray for us again briefly before we begin, and then we will dive in. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you as the Lord of all creation, and the God who has established a new covenant for his people. Through the blood of your Son Jesus Christ, and who by the power of the Holy Spirit, who is the Lord Is regenerating and giving to people all around the world new hearts and minds to behold your glory and to live as citizens in your kingdom. We ask, O God, that you would bless the preaching of your word today, that those who have already entered into your kingdom would learn more and more about how you call us to call upon you in prayer. And that those who are not presently in your kingdom but are present here with us today, that they would see and behold your goodness, your mercy, and your grace. And that they also would call upon the name of the Lord and so be saved. Do this we ask for the glory of your name It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, friends, uh, as you know, our service today is shorter than normal because of the members meeting immediately following. If you're visiting with us today, this is not a normal Sunday. Uh usually we like to have more time to spend together uh in prayer, in song, in God's word, uh, but because of the coronavirus and we're having to meet in another church's building, we only have a certain amount of time to meet. Uh and in order to get in both the service and the members meeting, everything has to be condensed. If you feel like it's a little bit this is a faster pace than I'm normal, that than I'm normally used to, it is today, but it's not our normal pace. But because of that, we're going to go ahead and dive right in. We're in week three of a six-week topical series on the church, and specifically on the local church. Over the next three Sundays, we're going to consider how the church gathers together each Lord's Day and then scatters out into the world. Then we're going to consider how baptism and the Lord's Supper make the church visible in the world or to the world. And then in the final week, we're going to consider what the New Testament has to say about how the church should be organized. But But in these first three weeks of this series, we've been focused on the really big picture. That is the local church and the church and God's plan of redemption from Genesis to Revelation. In week one, we saw that the church is the fulfillment of God's plan to create a people to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy temple. But the question has to be asked, how did he create his church? And week two, we answered that question. We saw how God creates and sustains the church Through his word. He creates and sustains us through the gospel of his son, Jesus Christ. And so everything that we do on a Sunday during our service, we're gathering around the Word. The call to worship speaks to us. In the Word. We respond by singing God's words back to Him. We pray to God according to His Word. Then we then we preach the Word and respond to the Word and celebrate the Lord's supper. And this week we're going to see that from the beginning, God's people, created by God's word, respond to God's word by calling on the name of the Lord. God's people, created by God's word, respond to God's word by pleading with God in prayer to come through on all of his promises. I want you to notice this connection between the church being created by the word and responding together, gathered in prayer. Notice this connection in John Calvin's teaching. He says this about the connection between word and prayer. Just as faith is born from the gospel. So through the gospel, our hearts are trained to call upon God's name. The spirit of adoption. Who seals the witness of the gospel in our hearts, raises up our spirits to dare to show forth to God their desires to stir up unspeakable groanings and confidently cry, Abba, Father. One thing I want to point out though is we as we talk about prayer and its role in the local church and especially in the gathered assembly, it's very easy to think in a sermon on prayer that you're gonna hear a lot of instruction. about how you can grow in prayer in in your individual life. This sermon is not about that. This sermon is about how the local church, when gathered together by the power of the Spirit, calls upon the name of the Lord. the Lord to keep his new covenant promises. So when we gather together on Sunday, word and prayer. Word and prayer. The church moves forward in the ministry in word and prayer. This is about corporate prayer in the gathering of the church. If the word is the heart, then prayer is the lungs. If the word is the engine, prayer is the gas pedal. If the word is the sail, then prayer is the wind. The twin ministries of the gathered church are word and prayer. The word gives shape to and directs all that we do, and in prayer is how all that we do is carried out The church is built on word and prayer. God's gathered people should pray. So with the rest of our time, we're going to look at how prayer has marked God's people from the very beginning, and then we're going to consider. How prayer should function and what role it should play in our Sunday gatherings. So what I want you to do is open with me in your Bible to Genesis chapter 4 verses 25 and 26. Not one of your classic texts on prayer, but as we'll see, it really is a foundational verse for understanding how God's people We're not going to spend a ton of time on this verse, but it will set the traject trajectory for our time together today and what we're going to see. Is that this little verse, this little seed of teaching, lays down deep roots and then bursts forth from the soil of Scripture and rockets skyward like a gigantic red word? Growing throughout like a gigantic redwood growing throughout the rest of the Old Testament and into the New Testament. So look with me at Genesis chapter 4, verses 25 and 26. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son. And call his name Seth. For she said, God has appointed for me another offspring instead of Abel. Or Cain killed him Haseth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time, people began to call upon the name of the Lord. To understand and fully appreciate the importance of this detail, that after the birth of Enosh, people began calling on the name of the Lord, we have to understand The broader purpose of the book of Genesis. After Adam and Eve fall into sin, God promises to them to send an offspring of the woman. who would crush the serpent's head. And from that point forward, the author of Genesis, Moses, has a laser-like focus On the descendants of Adam and Eve to see which of them will be this promised seed And what we learn not only throughout Genesis, but through the rest of Scripture, is that from Adam and Eve come two lines of seeds Two lines of descendants, the line of the ungodly who reject God's purposes and live for themselves, and then the line of the godly who receive God's grace. And who walk in his ways, and both of those lines appear immediately after God's promise. The faithful able And the faithless Cain, right? Cain murders Abel, so clearly Abel isn't the one who will crush the serpent, and neither is Cain, whose murder of his brother shows that he's opposed to God and is aligned with the serpent. Then we see that Cain's descendants go from bad to worse, culminating in Lamech, who boasts about being a murderer. What types of traits mark the line of the ungodly? Anger, jealousy, lying, and murder. Clearly, the offspring who is going to crush the head of the serpent is not going to come from the ungodly line of Cain So we're left to wonder, where will this offspring come from? So in Genesis chapter 4 verse 25, When we learn that God has given the woman Eve another offspring, Seth, who takes the place of Abel, our hopes are fixed on him. Maybe he is the one who will crush the serpent's head But we learn clearly it's not Seth, because Moses moves quickly from Seth to Enosh. Now what I want you to do, if you have your Bible open in front of you, is just let your eyes scan. over chapter five. What do we learn there in chapter five? Seth dies. Enosh dies Enan dies, Mahalalel dies, they all die. But two things stand out about this line of descendants. First Enoch comes from this line. Enoch, who walked with God. Not only that, but this line culminates in Noah, who will bring relief from the curse. The line of Seth is the line of promise. The one through whom the offspring would come, who would crush the serpent's head. Their line is marked by walking with God. Bringing relief from the curse. But now look back at Genesis chapter 4, verse 26, before we learn that this line walks with God and through them relief from the curse will come. What is the first thing the author says marks the line of promise? What do these people do? At that time, people began to call upon the name of the Lord By telling us this detail in the context of the beginning of Cess line, we're meant to associate calling on the name of the Lord with the line of the promise. Literally, the very first thing we learn about the line of the promise is that they, the people of God, the godly ones who walk in his ways, who've been called by his grace. They respond to him by calling upon his name. From the beginning, God's people have prayed. And what are they praying about Well, all it says here is that they're calling on the name of the Lord. Are these are these generic prayers for felt needs? I don't think so. Here I'm indebted to Gary Millar's excellent book, Calling on the Name of the Lord. Malar says that when this phrase is used in the Old Testament, it is asking God specifically to do one thing Come through on his promises. It is crying out to God in prayer to do what he's already promised to do. So what what what promise would they be calling on him to do in Genesis chapter 4? Well what promise did he make in Genesis chapter 3? To send an offspring of the woman to crush the serpent. So when the when the people in the line of the promise begin calling on the name of the Lord, they're calling for him to make good on his promise. Send the serpent crusher, Lord. Where is he? It's not Seth. Seth has died. It's not Enosh either. Neither is it Kenan or Mahalalel or Enoch. Send him Lord. We're calling upon your name. We're calling upon you to do what you have promised to do. And then we see this idea of calling on the name of the Lord as calling upon him to fulfill the promises he's already made develop throughout the remainder of the Old Testament. After God calls Abram, Abram, who is part of the line of the promise, God makes a covenant with him and promises him a land and a nation. Then what does Abram do? He travels through the promised land, sets up altars, and begins calling on the name of the Lord. Lord, you promised to give me the land. Now I'm calling on you to fulfill your promises to give me this land and my descendants this land. Later Abraham's servant Calls upon the name of the Lord to provide a wife for Isaac. Because without a wife, God couldn't make good on his promise to make of Isaac a great nation, which he had promised to do Isaac calls on the name of the Lord to give his barren wife a child because without a child, God's covenant promises through Abraham couldn't move forward. Later, Jacob calls on the name of the Lord to fulfill his promise, to make Jacob's offspring like the sand of the seashore. By protecting him from Esau at every step along the way, the calling on the name of the Lord is praying to God to fulfill his covenant promises. Prayer is calling on the promise-making God to be a promise-keeping God And as you travel through the remainder of the Old Testament, it is possible to see how every prayer is prayed in connection with God's covenant promises. Moses prays throughout Exodus for God to keep his covenant promises to the people he rescued from Egypt. In the book of Judges. The people sin and are judged. And no book proclaims this more clearly over and over again. The people of Israel did what? Called on the name of the Lord. To keep his covenant promises, and what did he do? He responds by rescuing them. Lord, Lord, you said that if we turn from our sins and repent, you will save us. We are doing that now. Keep your promises. And he does. Throughout the Old Testament, David and Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel, the 12 minor prophets, Ezra and Nehemiah, all pray constantly for God to keep his covenant promises. The book of Psalms, all 150 of them, are in some form or fashion related to God's covenant promises. Psalms of praise are prayed in response to God rescuing his people individually and corporately, according to his covenant promises. Psalms of lament are in response to the pouring out of God's promises of judgment. Psalms of confession are in response to violations of God's covenant. Psalms of thanksgiving are responses to receiving covenant blessings. All throughout the Old Testament, God's people call on the name of the Lord. And what do they pray for? They pray for God to keep his promises. Throughout the Old Testament, God's people call on God's name to keep the promises He made to them. And you're gonna see how this how this comes to bear on our corporate prayer life together as a church. But first, I want you to see that God, God responds by hearing their prayers and keeping his promises. Right? God heard Abraham's prayers and gave him the land and made him into a great nation. God heard the prayers of the people of Israel and delivered them from bondage in Egypt. God heard David's prayers and established for David the eternal throne that he promised him. God heard Solomon's prayers to place on David's throne a successor who would walk in God's ways. And God heard the prayers of the prophets to deliver his people from exile, and God heard the prayers of all his people throughout the Old Testament to send the seed who would crush the serpent's head. And he did that by sending his son. The Lord Jesus Christ, the fulfillment of God's covenant promises. Jesus is the serpent crusher. The one who walked in all of God's ways and who died in his people's place to cleanse them from sin and deliver them from exile. He is the one who, upon rising from the dead, Ascended into heaven, and now sits on an eternal throne over God's kingdom. And he's the one through whom God has established with his people A new covenant. New promises for God's people, the church, to call on him to keep. And those promises, those new covenant promises, give shape to the church's prayers as we call on the name of the Lord in our gatherings. So what I want us to do is consider some implications for what the Bible's teaching on prayer has to say about how we should pray together as a church The first application and implication for us is that we should pray corporately. You might be like, duh, yes, John, we but we That's our practice, you know, since I can remember. Why would we need to focus on this? Because it's important that we understand how important it is that when the church gathers, they call upon the Lord to keep his new covenant promises. We should pray corporately. It's obvious from both the Old Testament and the New Testament that prayer is at times individual and private. Right? Jesus says, you know, when you pray, go into your closet, you know. What the Lord sees in secret, he rewards in secret, right? But I don't think we appreciate how much of the Bible's teaching on prayer assumes that it's corporate prayer. Prayer done by the gathered church. God's people gathered in his spirit, calling out through his son to keep his promises. Right, where do we where might where might we see this corporate nature of prayer? I want you to think about the Lord's prayer. When Jesus' disciples ask him to teach them how to pray, how does he respond? Can any of the kids tell us the first line of the Lord's Prayer? What is the first line of the Lord's Prayer? Just go ahead and shout it out. You don't have to be shy. What'd you say? Our Father, right? Our Father. When Jesus' disciples teach him how to pray, he doesn't say this is and this then is how you should pray. My Father. No, no, no, he says our Father. As he's teaching his disciples, he's assuming a corporate nature to their prayers Yes, you can pray my father because he is your father individually as a Christian, but Jesus is assuming that his people are gonna gather together and when they gather together they're gonna pray and when they pray they're gonna say second first person plural our He is our Father. When Joel is is leading us in prayer before we start the service. He's praying together our Father. He's leading the whole church together by the Spirit to speak to our collective and corporate Father. He is All of our Father were gathered together in his Spirit. So we cry, our Father. We should pray corporately. You see the corporate nature of prayer in the book of Acts becomes even clearer. In Acts chapter 1, all the disciples are gathered together and devoting themselves to prayer. After the Spirit falls, Peter preaches, 3,000 come into the church. And how does Luke describe their life together after they were added to the church in Acts 2. 42? He says, and they Devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, the word, and the fellowship, the gathering, and to the breaking of bread, and the prayers That's his big headline for church life. Acts 2:42. After the church is created by the Spirit, they're devoted to the Word and they're devoted to prayer. Praying for God to keep his new covenant promises that he's established. through his son, Jesus Christ. And the corporate nature of prayer is obvious in the rest of the New Testament. Paul gives instructions in 1 Corinthians 11 and 1 Timothy 2 about how to pray when the church gathers In fact, I think it's right for us to understand all of his commands to pray constantly as equally applicable to our corporate life as a church as they are to our individual lives. Because most of his letters are by and large addressed to churches and not individuals. This is why we as CBC want to dedicate as much time as we can to praying in our services. God expects and intends for his people to gather together and call upon his name to keep his promises. I think if you look at the American church by and large, there's lots of churches that pray together corporately and they do it, they do it well. spend time praying. But I think you could also find many more churches in America today where the prayer is nothing as this kind of substitute for the transition to get the musicians off the stage and to get the rest of the set ready. And so it's Usually brief, not all that much, there's not all that much depth to it. They're not calling upon God to keep his promises to them. It's more uh perfunctory Hey Lord, we are transitioning from one set of the service to another. So hear our prayers in Jesus' name. Amen. But we want to spend dedicated time in our services, lifting up our voices together to ask God to fulfill and keep the promises he's made to his people because he is a promise-keeping God. He intends for us to experience his power by calling out to him in prayer and then watching him work That's why we also hope to start a prayer service. We were planning to start one before the pandemic hit. But with things seemingly returning to normal, we want to start thinking about having a prayer service again. That'll obviously depend on having space to meet But we want to spend even more time praying together as a church because we know that God intends for his people to gather together in the power of the Spirit and by faith to call upon his name, to keep his covenant promises. And nothing, nothing that the church does defies the spirit of this age more than when the church gathers To pray. Nothing proclaims more clearly that we walk by faith than when we gather to pray. In prayer, we are expressly revealing our weakness, our inability to accomplish the work that God calls us to do. Lord, you said that we need to do this in your word. We are attempting to do this, but we know that we cannot do this apart from you. So please help us to do this. Right? The church is at her most defiant when she prays. She defies the task list-focused, results-oriented, metrics to measure success culture that abounds in the world and in the church today. How do we get things done in this church? The very thing we do is stop and pray. We pray for God to keep his gospel promises. And we don't just pray for big things, right? If we are only praying for big things, things that seem so self-evidently beyond our power to accomplish, we're revealing that we can actually get the small things done on our own. Thank you very much. So Lord, save hundreds of converts and grant us a building. But we're not praying for patience in our daily lives. Not praying for grace to just walk by faith. Another day. No, no, no, we need to be praying for the big things God is able to do far more abundantly than all that we can ask or think, and the things that seem common to us. I need to go to work today. Lord, grant me your spirit to help me be faithful at work. What did Jesus say about what we could accomplish apart from him? Kids, apart from Jesus, we can do Nothing. Not some things. Not the easy things. Not like Jesus got your back when you need lots of help, but you're gonna have to make it the rest of the way on your own. Not like, oh no, no, I I I can get through life on my own. I don't really need to ask for help to be patient with my kids. I don't need to ask for help to be truthful with my boss. I don't need to ask for help for these things. This is by this is basic. I can do it. Jesus says to you, wrong. Right, dead wrong. Apart from me, you can do nothing. That's why Paul says, I worked harder than most, but he knew I lifted up my prayers to God for this hard work, so it was not I that was at work, but he threw me. We need to pray for everything. Big things and small things. Little things and tall things All of it and in between, the church prays when she gathers. She defies the culture of this age by stopping and speaking to our all-powerful. all-sovereign God who can do far more surpassing than all that we ask or think. That leads to our second application. We pray covenantally. We pray corporately, we pray covenantally. You can tell a lot about a church by what it prays for when it gathers. J. C. Ryle said this. Tell me what a man's prayers are, and I will soon tell you the state of his soul. In the same way, I think the gathered church reveals the state of its collective soul. By what it prays for. John Stott once described the prayer service of a church he visited this way. He said, I remember some years ago visiting a church incognito. I sat in the back row. I wonder who's in the back row tonight. You know they often slip in there incognito. I'm not going to tell you the church. You won't be able to identify it. It's thousands of miles away from here. And as a side note, John Stott was telling this illustration decades ago, so this church. I don't know where it is today, but this is what he said. When we came to the pastoral prayer, it was led by a lay brother, just a member of the church. Because the pastor was on holiday. So he prayed. But the pastor might have a good holiday. Well, that's fine. Pastors should have good holidays. Second, he prayed for a lady member of the church who was about to give birth to a child that she might have a safe delivery, which is also fine. Third, he prayed for another lady who was sick And it was over. It took twenty seconds. I said to myself This is a village church with a village God. They have no interest in the world outside. There was no thinking about the poor, the oppressed. The refugees, the places of violence, and world evangelization. A village church with a village God. Praying for things like good vacations, health concerns are good things to do. When it comes to praying for health, the Bible encourages it. But too often, prayers for health and good holidays can grow like vines on a church's gathered prayer list. And to those on the outside, we end up appearing to be a village church serving a village God. We serve the God of the universe. The God of the universe. All the earth is mine. The cattle on a thousand hills, the stars in the deepest depths of heaven that you have never set your eyes on, because your cameras will never be powerful enough to see them. Mine So ask me. Ask me to keep my promises. I am a covenant-keeping God. I keep the promises I made to my people Yes, it's good to pray for good vacations and health, but lift your eyes up. Lift your eyes up, children. See that the whole earth is mine Call upon me to extend my kingdom throughout time and space. And I will keep my promises to do it. I wonder if you're here and you're visiting from another church, what do the prayers at your church say about what your church believes about God? When you look at the prayer list at your church, and this is like literally not like self-justification or self-righteousness or anything like that, just literally asking, do they sound more like a church that prays to a village God? Or the king of all creation, who can do anything he wants or pleases. Our God sits in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. We can call upon him. So we pray covenantally. We pray for God to keep the promises he's made in the new covenant. We pray to the God who promised in his new covenant to gather a people from every tribe and tongue and nation. And so we want our prayers corporately when we gather to be dominated by kingdom-focused prayers. Lord, save people on every continent. Save people from groups that are unreached in our estimation, that have never heard the gospel. Save people in Asia and Africa and India and Australia. Save people if there are any in Antarctica. Save them from around the world to gather this people that you promised to create This is why we also pray in the in the pastoral prayer for the spread of the gospel locally and globally. We pray for pastors and churches in our area and around the world because our God is the Lord of all creation. We pray for missionaries to be raised up, for churches to be planted, and for God's name to be hallowed in all the earth. And since God's covenant promises also include our growth as Christians, We pray for that growth in our pastoral prayer. We pray for the gospel to bear fruit in our lives, for sin to be conquered, for us to be able to love God and neighbor because that's what God calls us to do, and He promises to give us the grace to do it It's also why we have prayers of praise and confession. We praise God for who he is as the God of the new covenant, the all-righteous Just, holy, good, wise, merciful, and gracious God, who alone redeemed his people from the pit and is worthy of all of our praises. Our God is enthroned on the praises of his people. So says the psalmist. We praise God for all the ways he's kept his promises to us and shown himself to be good. We confess sin before we take the Lord's Supper. We confess the ways. We failed to live as He's called us to live. And we confess, knowing that God has promised that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. If we confess our sins, says John in 1 John, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins. The author of Hebrews tells us to come to the throne of grace in our time of need to receive grace and mercy and strength. For help when we need it. And that's why we come to him and confess our sins. And a brief word for those of you here who might not be followers of Jesus. A brief word on sin and confession and God's covenant promises and why this sermon on prayer is even necessary and important for you. You see, the Bible teaches that God created the world in holiness and goodness. He created mankind to live according to his commandments. But man and woman, the first man and woman, Adam and Eve, broke his laws. They chose to be their own rulers. He said, we don't need you, God, we can do it ourselves. And the world fell into sin. And all the corruption that you see out in the world and in your own heart is a result of the fact that all have fallen in sin. All mankind is in bondage to sin. And we are under God's judgment because he is a just and holy God. He will punish all who've sinned. But because he is merciful and gracious, he sent his son into the world To be the atoning sacrifice for our sins. Jesus died on the cross bearing the full punishment and weight of our sins. He was buried in the ground. And then he rose from the dead three days later, proclaiming. Victory to all those who were in captivity to sin, to all who would turn to him in repentance and faith, he would extend forgiveness and an eternal hope that you too would live with God forever in his holy kingdom. And so what is the instruction for you today? Well, listen to what Paul says in Romans 10. What does he say in Romans 10? All who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Call out to God to forgive you of your sins. God has promised in his word that he will forgive Turn to him in repentance and faith today. But we need to recognize, lastly, these last two are very short, that God's timetable and ours aren't always the same And our last two here, the third one here is we pray patiently. We pray patiently. How long did it take for God to answer Abraham's prayer for a child? Decades. How long did it take for God to answer Abraham's prayer to make him into a great nation? Centuries. How long did it take for God to answer David's prayer to establish an eternal throne? Even more centuries. Mark Dever described the posture of the Christian life as one of patience. And when it comes to our prayers as a church, we pray Patiently. We pray for a building of our own and we wait. We pray for God to raise up missionaries from among us and we wait. We pray for conversions. We pray for growth in godliness. And we We wait. We're working for those things too, don't get me wrong, but we work and we wait. We pray and we wait. We need to remember that our prayers are often an investment in a future That we won't participate in. Kind of like investing money in a mutual fund that you will never see the payoff from. So that payoff will come. Often our prayers are investments in God's kingdom that won't be realized in our lifetime I think about the story of Luke Short. Luke Short was raised going to church. He heard the gospel proclaimed on a regular basis when he attended church growing up with his family. And then for the large majority of his life. He did not follow Jesus, did not trust in him. I'm sure Luke Short's parents prayed for him, but one day, at the age of like 95, something like that, Luke Short was standing in the field. And he remembered a sermon that was preached when he was a child, and he repented and he believed. Parents, if you're praying for your kids, you may not see the payoff, but that doesn't prevent God from acting on the payoff. His prayers are not limited by our lifetime. But that doesn't mean they won't be realized because God's ability to answer our prayers isn't limited by our lifetimes, which means, lastly, we can pray confidently. We pray confidently. It sounds weird to say that in a way though, right? We just look around. There's a group of folks. Couple hundred people? Nothing particularly special or powerful about us? In the world's eyes, foolish? This is pretty much what every church is like. Some smaller, some larger, but in the world's eyes foolish. But here's our encouragement. What matters about our prayers is not the weakness and foolishness of the people praying them, but the strength and sovereignty of the God receiving them. We serve a big God who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, and who has said that all of his promises find their yes and their amen in Christ. Christ Jesus. We pray confidently in our Sunday gatherings because at every step along the way, when God's people have called upon his name to keep his promises, God As answered. And so we gather today and pray with confidence. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Knowing that in time, God will hear and answer and will bring us to himself. And we know that he will do this because God has promised to do it When that day comes, prayer will no longer be necessary because our faith will turn to sight. Let's pray together. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we pray that you would be merciful, that you would be gracious We pray, even thinking about the Lord's Prayer. Hallowed be your name. Lord, let your name be lifted up and glorified in all the earth today. May your kingdom come on earth. Would you give new hearts to those who are living in darkness that they might be brought into your kingdom, so your kingdom might spread in the hearts of man throughout all the earth? So that your name would be glorified in all the earth. Would your will be done on earth just as it is in heaven? Help us to walk in your ways. Grant us strength to live by your commands that your will would be done in our lives. Father, give us today our daily bread Thank you for the ways that you've already done that and forgive us for how often we take our daily bread for granted. Deliver us from the evil one. Forgive us of our trespasses. Help us to forgive others. God, we know that you have promised to do all these things in your word, and so we're holding you to your promises. We pray that you would keep them and that you would do good to your people, that you would save those who are in darkness, and that you would send your son to come, to rescue your people, and to bring us into your kingdom. Once and for all. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen