I walked into Lowe's the other day and I was taken back by what I saw there when I first immediately went in. Can does anybody have a guess what would kind of surprise me when I walked into Lowe's. No, not the length of the return line. Any other guess Christmas trees! Yes! Lowe's was filled with the glory of fake Christmas trees. And I have to say, Christmas this year could not come too early One of my favorite Christmas traditions every year is watching a Charlie Brown Christmas. Kids, how many of you guys have seen a Charlie Brown Christmas? Yeah, love it. It's a paying tradition. We watch it every year. A big plot element in Charlie Brown Christmas Is Charlie Brown is depressed by the commercialization of Christmas. So Lucy, his friend, gives him, wants to distract him from that and gives him the responsibility of being director of the Christmas play. And one of his responsibilities as a director of the Christmas play is to find a Christmas tree to decorate the stage. Well, you guys know the story. What does Charlie Brown find? Not a grand Christmas tree, but rather a little puny Christmas tree. And when he shows that to his friends, his friends do what is typical and they say, oh, Charlie Brown, you can't do anything right. The frustrated Charlie Brown shouts out can someone tell me what Christmas is all about? And the thumb-sucking blanket cuddling Linus raises his head and says, I can. And then Linus goes over to the stage, right? And then the scene gets black, and there's a spotlight on Linus, and he recites a passage from Luke, chapter 2, verses 8 through 14. It's the story of the angels announcing Jesus' birth to the shepherds. And Linus says, For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior Who is Christ the Lord? This verse is actually the sixth time that David is referred to in Luke's telling of Christ's birth. And it's the third time that the angel referred to David in announcing his birth. References to David show up all over Christmas celebrations. And in our favorite Christmas carols There's an obvious one once in Royal David City, but one of my personal favorites is Ocum Ocum Emmanuel, which refers to Jesus as the key of David Why is David so prominent in Christmas? Well, our passage this morning will help us understand that a little bit. Our passage today is from 1 Kings chapter 8, verse 25 and 26. And as you open your Bibles, before you read that, I want us to get a little bit of context. Our passage today comes from a prayer of dedication for the temple in Jerusalem. Solomon, who built the temple, is dedicating the temple And if we look a little bit earlier in chapter 8, in verses 13 to 22, we kind of get the say this the set is kind of staged there. We see Solomon has gathered all the assembly of Israel. He blesses the Lord, and he declares to the assembly that God chose his father, David, to be over all the people of Israel. He declares that his father David wanted to build the temple of God, but that God would not let him. Rather, God intended his son to build the temple. So look at verse 20. Solomon says, Now the Lord has fulfilled his promise that he made. For I have risen in the place of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as the Lord promised, and I have built a house for the name of the Lord, the God of Israel So then before the assembly, Solomon begins to dedicate the temple with a prayer. Today's passage comes from that prayer. So if you look at me at uh with me at 1 Kings 8, verse 25 to 26, it reads, Now therefore O Lord God of Israel, keep for your servant David, my father, what you have promised him, saying, You shall not lack a man to sit before me on the throne of Israel If only your sons paid close attention to their way, to walk before me as you walked before me. Now therefore, O God of Israel Let your word be confirmed, which you have spoken to your servant David, my father. The point of our passage this morning is that the Lord promises to provide a perfectly righteous king. To rule over his people. So let's look at the passage. We're going to break it down in two ways. We're going to look at the promise, and we're going to look at the king. So starting with the promise, let's look at verse 25. Solomon is recalling the events of 2 Samuel chapter 7. And in 2 Samuel chapter 7, we find David is king in Israel. He has brought the ark of the Lord to Jerusalem. And David has it in his heart to build a temple for God, a place for the ark to dwell. But as we've already heard Solomon say, the Lord does not want David to build the temple. Quite the opposite. The Lord wants to build a house for David. This is not a house of brick and mortar. It's not a house of cedar because David already had one of those. Now the Lord wants to make David or exalt David as king over his people. And different ways than he did with the judges and King Saul. So in chapter 7, we see that God then speaking through the prophet, David, uh, Nathan, excuse me. me recounts how he cut off David's enemies, made a great name for David, put David over Israel, and gave Israel the land in which to dwell in peace. And in verse 12 of 2 Samuel chapter 7, the Lord says to David. When your days are filled, and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you. You shall come, you shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house from my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men. But my steadfast love will not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure for ever before me. Your throne shall be established for ever Now this is the promise that Saul is recalling as he dedicates the temple and we find in our passage today. I'm going to read again verse 25. Now therefore, O Lord, God of Israel, keep for your servant David, my father, what you have promised him. saying, You shall not lack a man to sit before him on the throne of Israel. If only your sons pay close attention to their ways, to walk before me as you have walked before me. Notice what Solomon is doing here in his restatement of the promise. First, he is calling to God And prayer by another authority, namely God's authority, by recalling and restating God's word to God. Solomon understands that the true authority, where true authority lies, and it's not with him. The promise, the authority for the promise of the heir, of the heir to David The force of that promise comes from God's word and his character. So Solomon is essentially saying, oh Lord. God of Israel, you promised David a son to sit on your throne forever. Therefore, you do what you promised. Second, Solomon is acknowledging God's righteousness is just judgment. Look at the second half of verse 25. It says, There will be no lack of David's son on the throne, if only your sons pay close attention to their ways, to walk before me as you have walked before me. God did not promise David exaltation without discipline. God's promise to David was also a promise. A punishment. We see in second Samuel chapter seven, verse fourteen. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men. and with the stripes of the sons of men. Here we see God's righteousness, and he cannot abide an unrighteous king So, second, let's look at the king. The promise to David is not to lack a man to sit before God on the throne of Israel But the sons of David who were to sit in succession on David's royal throne were not righteous kings. They did not pay close attention to the way that they walked before their God. God means to give his people rest. In a land, and for them to be undisturbed by their enemies. Israel is to be established, is to be an unconquerable kingdom where people of God will live under the good and righteous rule. of a righteous king. But this is not the story of Israel, is it? And their kingdom isn't an unconquerable kingdom, and they did not live at rest. They did not have peace from their enemies always without and then they didn't have peace from injustice within Because not long after Solomon dedicates the temple, we start to see the demise of David's royal line. Solomon. God's chosen man to build the temple starts out well. And he has a glorious kingdom. It's full of splendor and blessing. That's the first ten chapters. Of 1 Kings. But in chapter 11, we find Solomon's sin, his idolatry, and the beginning of his end. Solomon does not reign in complete devotion to God in God's way. We see in chapter 11 that he starts to take foreign wives and begins to worship foreign gods. Verse 6 tells us Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and did not follow the Lord as David his father done. And verse 11, God pronounces judgment on his idolatry. The Lord said to Solomon, this Has been your practice, that you have not kept my covenant and my statutes that I have commanded. I will surely tear the kingdom from you and will give it to your servant And this quickly becomes the legacy of Solomon. It didn't matter how much earthly wisdom or riches he had, his disobedience was the most significant legacy. that he get he left the kingdom of Israel and his line. The next thing we know, the kingdom of Israel is divided in two. As a consequence of God's, of Solomon's unfaithfulness to God. In this division of the kingdom, we see judgment and mercy. First, it is God's just judgment. Remember, God warned David that when his sons commit sins against him, He will discipline them with a rod of men. This means real life consequences for their unfaithfulness. For their sin. And Solomon himself knew that there was not going to be an heir to the throne of David. Who could walk before God according to his own wisdom, according to his own flesh, according to his own might Solomon's prayer declared that the perpetual perpetual throne of David Through his son, if only David's sons paid close attention to their way and walked before God as David walked before God. But Solomon didn't do that But we also see God's great mercy that's in his division of the kingdom because of his faithfulness to David. David. In 1 Kings 11, verse 12 and 13, God tells Solomon that for the sake of David, he will not split the kingdom in Solomon's time. God also promises not to tear away the entire kingdom from Solomon because in David because for the sake of David And for the sake of Jerusalem, he will leave one tribe to reign for the sons of David. That is the tribe of Judah. And this is the future of the sons of David. A divided kingdom and to reign over one tribe. After Solomon's death, his son Rehoboam takes the throne, and the people of God are unrecognizable. Rehoboam reigns for 17 years. And during his reign, Judah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. And the legacy of disobedience that marks Judah And Israel, for that matter, extends for the next 350 years. Idolatry, sexual morality And all manners of social injustice mark the people of God. There are twenty kings that follow Solomon, and only a few of them are faithful. And the people of God overwhelmingly, over and over and over again, reject God through idolatry and persistent disobedience. There simply isn't enough time to actually discuss the completeness of the catastrophic unfaithfulness of the kings and the of Israel and the people of God. That fills the whole narrative of 1 and 2 Kings. But by the end of 2 Kings, we see that Judah has fallen to Babylon and the people of God have taken away into captivity. And it is said of the reigning king at the time, Zedekiah, that he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. So we see that Judah and the throne of David and Jerusalem are left. Bear. David has no son and no name in Jerusalem. To the people taken away in exile, it looks as if David's royal line is extinguished. And God's discipline has reached a crescendo. The God did not, would not, in fact, abandon his people by failing to keep his promise. Thomas, David. He left him clues to this fact. And we his church actually revel in those clues every year at Christmas So remember the Charlie Brown Christmas. Linus knows that God did not abandon his people. Linus recounts the spectacular scene. And a familiar story to the angels appearing to the shepherd and announcing Christ's birth. But if we aren't careful, we'll skip over the fact that That the angels are not announcing a totally new message. Under the announcement to the shepherds is another familiar Christmas passage from Isaiah chapter 9. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, the government shall be on his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. And the throne of David, on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice, with righteousness. From this time forth and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. And consider another clue that God did not abandon his promise From Jeremiah 23, 5. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land. In his days Judah will be saved. Israel will dwell securely In this na in this is the name by which he will be called the Lord our righteousness. Now, when the exiled people of Judah and Israel reflected on what the prophets were saying, they would look back at their history and they would say, No king carries this mantle of David. Therefore, they had to look for a new David, a king that would come to rescue his people and to rule with wisdom, justice, and righteousness. And as Chloe read this morning, Luke tells us that Jesus is the King, the new David, the Son of the Most High, whom God gave. The throne of his father David. He reigns over God's people, the church, forever. And Jesus, God has kept his promise Therefore, we see that David and the people of Israel in some way are representative of Jesus And his church. Like the people of Israel, we are persistently tangled in our sin. We are given to selfishness that leads to idolatry and broken relationships. And we are prone to malice, deceit. Hypocrisy and sexual morality, and we have borne the consequences of those sins in our bodies, in our consciences, and in our relationships We need a king that can overcome our sin and can give us rest. Remember, through David, God gave the people a land and for a time rest from their enemies. In Christ, we who are dead in our sins and shut out from the fellowship of God are made alive to become the people Of God. That is the church. The Apostle Peter said this to those who are in Christ. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. How is Jesus able to make us a mercy-born people of God where David and his line ultimately failed? Peter answers this question as well He himself, speaking of Christ, bore on him, bore our sins on his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. For by his wounds we are healed. For you were straying like sheep, like the people of Israel, turning away from God in disobedience, but now we have returned to the shepherd and overseer of our soul. First Peter chapter 2 24 to 25. And this is the gospel that we celebrate every Sunday. So if you're here today and you were not familiar with this gospel, you wouldn't count yourself as a part of the people of God, please find me or Pastor John after the service. We would love to answer your questions and talk to you more about that. So in conclusion, I want us to look at three application points. First, remember how we earlier saw that Solomon's prayer, as he stood before God, he recalled another authority Which was God's own promise to his father David. In the same way, we too go to God on another authority. That is the authority of Jesus Solomon had no merit that was bestowed on him by David. David had other sons, but God chose Solomon to lead the people of Israel after David and to build a temple. And saying what we have no merit on our own. God has chosen us and he's called us and he's marked us out to be his people. Therefore, when we go to Christ, we go We go to God, we go to go in Christ's name, the one who stands before the Father and intercedes on our behalf, and in whom we gives us merit to go to God. That's what Luke told us of the legacy of our brother Tom Bennett. How he prayed all the time, never ceasing. I remember talking with John about Tom. He would tell me how he He was constantly talking to God. Why would Tom walk through his day, go to work, serve his church, parent his kids? And pray all day long because he trusted in the authority of the interceding Christ God's kindness and mercy to us allows us to follow in Solomon's example and Tom's example and to boldly talk to God and confess, intercede, plead with God all day long upon another's authority. upon the merit of Christ. So church, pray all day long with the confidence that Christ gives us access to God. Second, David and Solomon were called to righteousness. Isaiah 9 and Jeremiah 23, which we looked at earlier. Looks forward to the Son of David who was both righteous and would exec execute righteousness. Peter, reflecting on this, on the work of Christ, calls Christ, says Christ died bearing our sins so that we Die to sin and live to righteousness. But like the people of Israel, we could not reject or fully atone for our own sin. He did that work So that we could reject our sin and live to him in righteousness. But how do we do that? How do we Live to God in righteousness. Well, the most fundamental step, the starting point for the Christian to live in righteousness, is to actually gather as the church I I know this is a difficult topic and we are meeting in the middle of November on the lawn of a sister church because of a pandemic that Threatening our lives and also shutting down our buildings and our ability to meet. But to the extent that we are safe, we have to make every effort to meet with each other. If we don't do that, then we're gonna miss the most fundamental step to living to Christ in righteousness. Additionally, we can take we need to take steps to be in contact with one another. Join John's Bible study on Thursday. Most community groups are meeting virtually. Be involved in a community group. And just pick up the phone. Call one another. Check in on one another with one another. Go on a walk. Find ways to gather and to be with one another so that we can emulate our King. Jesus and live to him in righteousness. Lastly, I want to say to you, love mercy. We have a perfectly righteous king, but we are not perfectly righteous people. And in our unrighteousness, we are actually alienated from God. We are not a people. But now you and I Are God's people because we have received merce mercy from a righteous king. That only happened because the true and eternal David, Jesus our Lord, satisfied the justice. And righteousness that God demands. He stood in for us and took the punishment. The penalty of our sin in himself. Therefore, we have no boast. I have no boast. I'm like the fickle and idolatrous people of Israel, following a wicked king. But Jesus called me. And if you are a Christian, he is called to you. Therefore, we should explode with kindness towards one another. We should explode with empathy towards our neighbor. We should love our brothers and sisters in Christ, and we should serve. neighbor. This is following the example, merciful, righteous king. Let us pray Heavenly Father, thank you so much that you do not abandon your servant David. That although David and his royal line did not live righteously or perfectly before you, although that the people of Israel rejected you and were idolatrous and unfaithful Fickle and wicked people. You kept your promise and you brought the people of God a new David in Jesus Christ. And Jesus has called us out. He has saved us. And we revel in that salvation. Lord, make us a people who are merciful. Make us a The people who want to live to righteousness make us a people who gather. We ask all of this. Amen.