Well, good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with y'all. There has been a lot of change, as Joel mentioned, in uh the life of our congregation over the last year. Being on Zoom, meeting outdoors, meeting indoors, meeting outdoors again, moving to Bowie, back to Bladensburg, lots of change all around. But as God's people, one of the things that we always have in our possession is an unchanging word. Wherever we go in this life, God's word is a sure foundation for us. And so I am excited to open up his word with you this morning. Let me pray for us briefly, and then we will look more closely at his word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning through your Son. And we know that he is the perfectly righteous one, the one who from Proverbs obeyed your instruction perfectly. Who searched for it like silver and sought it out like gold, who relied upon your power and your wisdom throughout the course of his life We don't do that perfectly. We trust in His righteousness this morning. But insofar as you call us to trust in your word and to be filled with your word, we pray that you will be pleased to accomplish that in us today. Help us to cherish your word, that it might dwell in us richly. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Words. There is no shortage of words in our world today. Words about what shows to watch. Words about what trips to take. Words about which products you should buy. Words from TV news correspondents dissecting the day's events Words from journalists offering competing narratives about what's going on in our world. Words from government officials about policy changes and words in response to those changes on social media from everyone in the world within Internet Connection. We are drowning in a sea of words, inundated by the never-ending tidal wave of words That comes as a result of living in our hyperconnected social media age, in our increasingly fractured and polarized society A society that we all live within, those of us who are followers of Jesus, and we are being shaped by, the question for us this morning is: whose words do we trust? Are there words that we can trust? Are there words that we should be shaped by? And where can we find them Those are questions that we want to ask ourselves today. And the good news for us is that there are words we can trust. Words that we can build our lives on, and words that should shape our lives. So I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bible to Colossians chapter 3. We're going to be looking this morning at verses 12 to 17, specifically verse 16 from those verses, as we continue our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. Just a brief bit of context for us this morning. Paul's writing to a group of people who had already been given new life by God. God had redeemed them from the power of sin. He had forgiven them of the debt of sin. He had qualified them to receive an eternal inheritance. And reconcile them to himself through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And now, in light of the fact that God had already given them new life and filled them with his spirit Paul is going to give them instructions on what that new life should look like. In verses 5 to 11 of chapter 3, we saw that that new life looks like putting off The old self. Putting to death things like sexual immorality and impurity, putting off lying and anger and all the old ways. And then he follows verses 5 to 11 in verses 12 to 17 by telling them that putting on the new self looks like uh that that putting on that new life looks like putting on the new self. And we'll see that listed there in verses 12 to 17. I'm going to read the passage for us now, and then we'll look more closely at it. This is God's word. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts Kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. Singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, Do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Well, two weeks ago we saw that putting on the new self looks like putting on the character of Christ. That's in verses twelve to fourteen. Last week we saw that putting on the new self looks like being ruled by the peace of Christ. That's verse 15 and this week in verse 16, we see that putting on the new self looks like making Christ's word the center of your life. That's the one point that we're going to unpack this morning. If you're taking notes, that's our only point. Putting on the new self looks like making Christ's word the center of your life. I want you to look with me at verse 16 again. Paul says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you. That is, be inhabited by, be filled with, be indwelled by the Word of Christ. Now the word of Christ here does not refer to like one specific thing that Jesus said. Instead, it's shorthand for all of Scripture. All of Scripture is the word of Christ. It's the totality of God's plan of redemption that unfolds from Genesis to Revelation. What Paul is telling them to do is to invite all 66 inspired and sufficient books of Scripture to move in with you. Right? Take time, getting to know each one of them. And take time getting to know how each one of them relates to the others and let the story that is unfolding throughout all of them of God's persistent pursuit of his hard-hearted people and his eventual death in our place to make us his own. Let that story shape your life and your thinking. Letting the word of Christ dwell in you means letting his word have its way with you. Submitting your life entirely to it and letting it shape your understanding of who God is, of who you are. Of who Jesus is, of what Jesus came to do, and of how you should live in response. Let his word shape those things. And notice, I want you to notice how he emphasizes how greatly the word should dwell in us. He says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Lavishly. Let there be a generous portion, a bumper crop of God's word in your soul. Be filled with a superabundance Of Christ's word. Let his word dwell in you richly. I want you to think of it as though you are inviting the word of Christ into your home. Right? Paul is saying to you, don't put his word on an air mattress in some out-of-the-way corner of your home. Give him the master bedroom, right? Don't invite him for a short stay, but make his word the owner and operator of your household permanently. You move into the guest room. Let him control the house Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. His word should be the controlling Governing and shaping influence over our lives now that we are citizens of His heavenly kingdom. That is the words that come from the kingdom of man that come that come at us every day, all day, need to be subjected to and scrutinized by his word. That is to say another image for you. There should be a giant, no vacancy sign, hanging outside of the door of your heart when it comes to other people's words That are vying for your trust, affection, and allegiance. You should have a giant sign out front of your heart that says, this heart is controlled. governed and ruled by Christ's word. And every word that wants to come into this heart is going to be scrutinized by his word and by that word. So I want you this morning, if you understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, if you've put on the new self to take a step back. Look at your life and ask yourself, whose words are you listening to most? Maybe it's certain trusted friends. Maybe it's particular news anchors. Maybe it's online personalities and podcasters. Maybe it's your own inner voice that you just can't seem to turn off. Whose words do you find yourself regularly listening to? And how do you see those words shaping your outlook on life? In what way are those words influencing you either closer to Or further away from the Word of Christ? Are those words that are coming at you regularly each day that you find yourself listening to, are those words consistent with the Word of Christ? Do they agree with Christ's word? I ask these questions because we have to understand and remember that we are being shaped. Formed and discipled by the words that we listen to. We're being discipled by the words that we hear, either towards faithfulness or away from it. So we want to know whose words are shaping us. And how can you submit the words that you hear on a regular basis that are shaping you to the Word of Christ? Be scrutinized by his word. But if we're going to know whether or not the words we're regularly hearing agree with the word of Christ, we're going to have to be in the word of Christ. And in it enough that we recognize truth from error, life from death, wisdom from folly Right? The Word will dwell in us richly only if we give ourselves to the regular reading of, meditating on, and living out of the Word of God. And if you're going to let the Word of Christ. Dwell in you richly such that it becomes the shaping influence and center of your life, then I would submit that you need to have a plan for getting in the word on a regular day. basis. Right? I want you to think about this with me. If I have a goal of writing a book or learning a language, let's say Japanese, right? The only way that I am going to reach those goals is if I determine what steps need to be taken, and then if I determine what steps are needed to get there, and then schedule time to accomplish those steps. In the same way, making God's word the center of your life so that it dwells in you richly requires some level of planning. Like planning when and where you'll spend time in God's Word. Right? I can't tell you how many times I've committed to the goal of working out three times in the week. Just three times. I'm gonna get it in. This has happened over and over again for the like the last seven years, right? I can't tell you how many times it's happened uh uh where I've set the goal of working out three times a week and not accomplished it Simply because I did not schedule when I was going to do it. Right? I'd start the day with a general goal of eventually working out, but inevitably the troubles and demands of the day ate up my time and my energy, and I ended up Not working out. I'll do it tomorrow. I'll do it tomorrow. And then, oh look, a whole week passed and I haven't worked out even once, right? Plan when and where you will read. Get specific. Like I will read in my living room for 15 minutes every day at 6 a. m. Pick whatever time, pick however long. Get specific on when and where you will do it. Consider even putting it on the calendar. But John, no, no, no, the calendars for meetings that I have with other people. That's exactly right You are meeting with a person. Actually, you are meeting with three persons, the God who is three in one. Consider even putting it on your calendar. And if you're going to dwell, if the word of Christ is going to dwell in you richly, don't just plan when and where you're going to read, plan what you're going to read Some of you might be averse to metaphors and analogies that come from gym life, but just bear with me for another one that comes from the gym. Think about working out again. You may have determined when and where you were going to work out, but then you show up to the gym and you're like, oh my gosh, there are 500 machines here and all these dumbbells. And these treadmills and stuff like what on earth do I do? And you're just overwhelmed by all the options. And so you just did some random stuff and then just got discouraged by it. And you were like, yeah, I'm not really going back there anymore. Right The Bible has 66 books in it. Tons of chapters, hundreds of thousands of verses, I believe, right? That you could start in so many different places. And if you don't come with a plan on where you're going to start, you just kind of open up like, well, what do I do with this thing? Have a plan for what you're going to read, right? There are lots of possible things to read in the Bible, and you'll be helped if you plan ahead what you'll read. I'm gonna read straight through the Bible, one chapter at a time. I'm gonna read a chapter of the Gospels each day. I'm gonna read a psalm each day, whatever it is. Have a plan for it so that when you come to the word you know what you're reading. If you're the type of person who's like, hey John, I've just become a Christian I'm not too sure what to do with the Bible if you're just getting started on your journey of getting in the Word, or if you haven't been in it regularly for some time, my encouragement to you would just be start small. Not like I'm gonna sit down and read the entire book of Genesis today. That will last not even that whole day, and you're not gonna continue that plan very long. Start small Start with one chapter of the New Testament each day. Right? One chapter in the New Testament, I think on average takes like three and a half minutes to read. Everyone can do that. And you know what happens after you have after three and a half minutes? You've set aside 15 minutes Because you're going to read for 15 minutes in your living room. Now you've got 11 and a half minutes to ask God how to work that word into your heart. Right? Start small. Little bits over time, over long periods of time, little drips of water fill up big buckets. You can do a lot by a little each Day, right? And once you're following through on your plan consistently, if you want the word of Christ to dwell in you richly, I would encourage you to consider supplementing your reading of Scripture. With resources that will help you understand Scripture. So all of the books that we give away here each week in one form or another are meant to lead to the Word of Christ. dwelling in us richly. Our giveaway today, the Dwell app, is literally named after this verse, right? To help the Word of Christ dwell in you, right? Find podcasts that help you understand the Word of Christ. Word, like Bible talk or video cast, two excellent podcasts of many that are out there, or YouTube channels like Truth Unites by Gavin Ortland. Draw on the wisdom of others to grow in understanding. If you have stuff that you've been listening to online and I'm like you're you're like, I'm just not sure this isn't really quite lining up with what I'm hearing at church Ask your elders about it. We'd be happy to help you assess whether what you're listening to is kind of what we understand from Scripture. We can help you find good resources. Draw on the wisdom of others. To grow in understanding the word. And don't just plan and supplement, but memorize God's word. Memorizing God's word is one of the most effective ways to be filled with God's Word. Start with a verse a week. A verse a week. Repeat it ten times every day for a week. By the end of the week, you will know it. You won't even need to think about it anymore. It'll just be written on your heart and mind. Use apps like fighter verses to help you memorize Scripture. Our minds are renewed by the Word of God. So having Scripture available to recall and meditate on at all times gives us the opportunity to be renewed in our thinking, whether or not we have a Bible with us. Use your commute to work if you have a commute to memorize a Bible. Or the time when you run errands each day, or even while you work out in between sets to bring another workout uh piece in there, right? In all of this, planning, supplementing, and memorizing, I think the most important thing thing that you need to remember if you want the word of Christ to dwell in you richly is that when you come to God's word, this isn't a tedious obligation. but an invitation to encounter the living God in his living word. Think about what Scripture says about itself. The word is Living and active. We don't come to a dead word. We come to a word that is for us today and is working in us even now. It is sharper than any double-edged sword. The word of God crushes like a hammer, burns like a fire, it strips the forest bare, and in God's temple all cry glory when he speaks The word is food for your soul, breath for your lungs, water to quench your thirst. The word is a lamp to your feet, a light to your path. It is a living word from a living God. So when you come to his word Keep the living Christ before the eyes of your heart as you read. Ask him questions. Speak to him. He hears and answers Ask questions of the text and ask God to give you understanding. All of that will lead to the word of Christ dwelling in you richly. Yet, I think we have to recognize that while this verse has lots to teach us individually about making God's word the center of our life, it also has something to say to us corporately as a church. In telling the Colossian church to let the Word of Christ dwell in them richly, Paul was actually primarily impressing on them the importance of making the Word of Christ the foundation of their life together as a church. We come to Colossians 3:16 and we think this is about my personal life. It's primarily about our corporate life, together as a church. As in, let the word of Christ dwell richly in you corporately. The word of Christ is what they should be gathering around each week. They should gather to hear it taught, to hear it sung, to hear it prayed. To then encourage one another from the word, to instruct one another from the word, to admonish one another from the word, and to see the word celebrated visually in baptism and the Lord's Supper The unmissable truth taught throughout Scripture is that it's God's word that creates and sustains spiritual life Right? Where Christians and churches start to go wrong is in thinking that after they've come to faith through the word, that they now need to employ other means to attract an audience And grow a church. But true and lasting growth always comes as a result of letting the Word of God dwell richly among us when we gather. And that's why we're always seeking to make the word central to our life together as a church. We want to sing the word. Pray the word and preach the word. We want to be so filled with the word that it then flows out of us. And that's what you see even happen in the passage. Look again with me at verse 16. Paul says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another. Believers should be so filled with the word that it flows out of them. And we see it flows out of them in teaching. Paul wants the Colossians to be able, in one degree or another, to instruct one another in God's ways. And one of the things I want you to notice about this command is that it's directed to the whole Colossian church. It's not just pastors. That should be able to instruct others in the Word. I want you to think with me about the author of Hebrews and what he says to his audience. He says In short, y'all should be teaching other by now, but you still need milk and solid food. The whole of them, they were supposed to grow up in understanding the word that they could each open up the word and impart wisdom to one another. From it, right? Yes, God gives pastors to congregations to teach the word, but we should all be growing up into Him who is the head, into Christ. Such that we can all open up the word together and say, hey, here is what I think God is saying to us in this passage. But the word we also see should flow out of us in admonishing one another, teaching and admonishing one another, which just means to call a person back from a destructive or foolish path that they might be Be on. I don't want you to notice. You see that word admonish there. It happens frequently and occurs frequently in Paul's writings. His instruction really normalizes the reality that. At times, Christians will lovingly call other Christians back from a path that may be foolish or sinful. Why do I point it out that it normalizes that? Well, because in our highly individualistic culture where we are regularly told you do you, right, the thought of admonishing another Christian seems foreign and even self-righteous But God has given us this community of believers as a sort of assurance of salvation co-op where we walk alongside one another in committed relationship. encouraging one another towards the heavenly city and calling those back who've turned down a path that won't lead there. Admonishing one another Now, if you're ever in a position where you're going to admonish someone, call them back from a path that might be foolish or sinful I would encourage you to just approach it in a spirit of gentleness and humility. And if you're ever the one on the receiving end of being admonished, I want you to fight against the temptation to respond with defensiveness and whether they are right or wrong, recognize that they are coming to you out of love. And it's out of love that they're doing It in the first place. It's a loving thing to say, hey, I don't think that path is going to lead to the heavenly city. I love you enough to tell you that. So if you ever have someone say that to you, I I hope that you would receive that in love. And if you're ever the one doing it, It do it in a spirit of gentleness and humility. But the word doesn't only flow out in teaching and admonishing. Paul continues, right? It also flows out in singing. Look again at verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. I think it's really easy for us to miss the significance of this instruction. Right? All he's telling us to do is sing to one another, to sing together and to sing to one another. Sing. What's so significant about that? Well, what's significant about it is that throughout Scripture, God's great acts of salvation are followed by his people singing The very first occurrence of singing in the entire Bible occurs in Exodus 15. After God rescues Israel out of Egypt, right? He he brings them through the Red Sea, and after he brings them. Through the Red Sea. How do Moses and the people of Israel respond? Moses leads the entire nation of Israel in singing to the Lord a new song, right? Singing to the Lord a new song. And from that point forward in Scripture, major acts of salvation are regularly accompanied by the singing of new songs. That happens throughout the Old Testament. And when you look forward to the end of the New Testament in the book of Revelation, which predicts the future that is yet to come when God delivers his people once and for all, John tells us that the saints around the throne did what? They sang to the Lord a new song. Worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb. They sang praises to him because of his great deliverance of them. out of this world and into the heavenly city that is to come. What does singing in the book of Exodus and the book of Revelation have to do with Colossians? Paul wants them and us to sing because we have experienced already God's glorious salvation Through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. He has delivered us, saved us from slavery to sin. He has delivered us from all our enemies and given to us an inheritance in heaven that can never perish, spoil, or fade. So how should we respond? We should sing to the Lord a new song. And our singing here each Sunday is only a precursor of that climactic chorus to come when our promised salvation will finally be completed. When the Lord Jesus descends from heaven and gathers us in the final exodus where he parts not the seas But the sky, and gathers his people from the pharaohs of this world, and brings us into the true and new promised land where we will rest in him forever. And we sing because there is perhaps no more powerful way to write the truths of God's word on our hearts than through song. Y'all ever think about the power of song to write things on your heart and your mind? Right? I don't know about you, but I can hear a song That I haven't heard in literally 10 years or more. But if I sang it a bunch growing up, what happens when that song starts? Words flood right back in And I can say to you all, there are lots of songs that I'm glad I remember, and there are lots of songs that I am not so glad that I remember. But that is what happens through song. The words get written on your heart and your mind That's why I want to especially encourage the teens. Teens, if y'all are here, listen, hang, hang with me for just a moment on this. I want to encourage y'all to pay careful attention to the music that you're listening to. to. Now, in no way am I saying to you right now that you should not listen to non-Christian music. That is not what I'm saying. What I am saying, though, is pay attention to what they're saying. singing. Pay attention to the words that they are saying to you. Why? Those words will work their way into your mind Heart and soul, and they will begin shaping your outlook on life. You will begin adopting their opinions on yourself and about the world around you. Listen to their words. And compare their words with the word of Christ. For those of you who are parents. I want to encourage you, parents, especially of youngins, let me encourage you to use songs to teach your kids scripture. One resource that our family loves and has made great use of is called slugs and bugs. Doesn't sound at all like it's gonna be full of scripture. Uh don't know where the name came from, but the guy's name is Randall Goodgame. And he makes slugs and bugs scripture memory albums, sing the Bible albums. He has other albums that are not sing the Bible, they're just kind of sing silly songs for kids to sing along with, but he has Sing the Bible albums, and they are awesome. Most are only on CD. For those of you who don't own CD players anymore, just give them But there's one that's available on Spotify now, volume four, that you can find on Spotify. We listen to them all the time. Our kids love them. And it's teaching them God's word. And sometimes they don't even recognize it. They're just singing along and they are singing scripture. But that scripture is filling up their hearts. Honestly. I've listened to them so much that I can't help but sing certain verses when I come across them now. Like Ephesians 6. Our struggle. Our struggle is. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers, the powers of this dark world. Whoa, whoa, whoa, and against the sphere virtual forces of evil in the heavenly realms Therefore, put on the full armor of God. The full armor of God. Right? Like I don't even have to think about anymore. Like I read Ephesians 6 and I'm like, I can't get slugs and bugs out of my head And look, he doesn't just like focus on like the most famous passages. I mean he's got songs from Deuteronomy about not eating animals that are already dead, but giving them to the alien that might be living in your town. You're like, what? And like I know that verse now. I could sing it for you. I'm not going to subject you to it. But there are so many different songs. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. I could go through the whole album Write the words of Scripture on their hearts through song. Fill your homes with music Sing sing hymns in the morning when your kids get up. Sing hymns with them when you go to sleep, right? You might be like John, you are absolutely crazy and out of your mind. You have no idea what our bedtime is like. There's no way we're singing hymns Let me be clear with you. I do completely understand what your bedtime is like, and I would say sing the hymns anyway. Sing them. They will hear more than you think they they hear when they're running around like you know, jumping on furniture and you know doing all the stuff that kids do at bedtime, right? But those words will work their way into their hearts. And kids, hey, if you're Four, five, six, seven, eight, or nine. I want you to raise your hand with me. Raise your hand. If your parents do sing hymns with you, Try to read along and sing. Sing here on Sundays. There's stuff going on in those songs that you probably don't recognize right now, but you're getting to fill your heart up. You're packing your bags like you're going on a long vacation with truths from God's word. And those words will shape your heart and your outlook on life, and they will teach you to walk in God's ways. I just want to encourage y'all in that. Whether you have kids or not. For your own growth as a Christian in the Word, listen to artists who are going to teach you true things about God in a beautiful and powerful way. If you like hip hop, listen to Shy Lin, Beautiful Eulogy, or Jackie Hill Perry. If you like singer-songwriter types, listen to Sandra McCracken Or poor Bishop Hooper. Poor Bishop Hooper is in the middle of a project of setting all the Psalms to music. They are currently on Psalm 83, and all of them are available for free on Spotify. And they're awesome. If you like contemporary Christian music, listen to Shane and Shane, Matt Boswell, or the Geddes. If you like congregational hymn singing, listen to Shiloh Church choir. H. B. Charles or the T4G albums, immerse yourself in music that will write the truths of God's word on your heart. And Paul's instruction here even guides how we think about the songs we sing at CBC. We want to sing theologically rich songs That draw our hearts upward in the worship of God, right? We want them to be theologically rich. That means they teach us true things about God, about ourselves, about Jesus, about how God relates to us, and about the Christian life. Whether they are new or old, our primary concern is does this teach us true things? So this morning we sang two songs from the 19th century and one from the 21st century. It's not about whether it's old or new. Is it true about God and about us? And can we sing it together heartily as a congregation? And that's why we want them to draw our hearts upward in the worship of God. We want them to be beautiful, pleasing, and singable for the congregation. We want everyone here singing as powerfully and heartily and boldly as possible. And so we try to choose songs that can be easily sung by all. And one thing that is common in some circles is to choose songs that are only happy, joyful, because they want people to come in and feel really super upbeat. And it's right to be joyful in the Christian life. I think some of our songs this morning were joyful. But I would also want to say that the Christian life is full of a whole range of emotions. Sadness, sorrow. Despair, longing, pain, anger, even at some points in the psalm, uh in the psalms. And we want to sing psalms that Express songs that express the whole range of emotions. So there are times where we sing songs that are slower, that express things like sadness and sorrow because we don't want you to come in here to think, oh man, I just need to be a happy, joyful Christian all the time No, like sorrow and sadness is part of the Christian life. And so it should be normal for Christians to sing songs like that from time to time. And I think what I just want to say to the members of CBC and any Christian who's here, I want to encourage you more and more to sing your hearts out to the Lord on Sunday. Days. Right? I think we all know that there's a way to sing that's just going through the motions. I'm just saying, generally speaking, I want you to sing in a way that's fully engaged with the Lord. and what we're singing about him. I think you should even try, as you sing songs, to read and focus on the words because they are basically like musical prayers that we are speaking and singing to the Lord. Right? Sing loudly, sing boldly, and sing with thanks Look at what Paul says. These songs are to be sung in a spirit of thankfulness to God. Just as the peace of Christ was to rule in our hearts, so should Thankfulness rule in our hearts. He's even commanded them in verse 15 to be thankful already. As the word dwells among us richly, and we're reminded daily and weekly that the Lord reigns. And his salvation has come to us through his son. We are to respond with songs of praise and thanksgiving for the great work of redemption the Father has accomplished through the Son by the Spirit. Why should we sing with thankfulness in our hearts to the Lord today? Why should you sing with thankfulness in your heart to the Lord tomorrow and every day to come? Think about what we've learned from Colossians already. We give thanks that the Father, Son, and Spirit agreed in eternity past to create and save a people. We give thanks that the Father chose us before the foundation of the world to pour out the riches of his glorious grace on us. Unmerited favor, completely apart from anything we had done, whether good or bad. We give thanks that the Son, who is co-equal with the Father in every divine attribute, submitted himself to take on the form of a servant and die the death that we deserve so that we could have eternal life. We give thanks that the Son not only rose from the dead in the power of the Spirit, but he ascended into heaven, where he now sits at the right hand of God and intercedes daily for his people. We give thanks that the Spirit has given us new hearts, opened our eyes to behold the glory of the Father and the Son, that He empowers us to put off the old and to put on the new. That he gives us wisdom and understanding of the word, and that by faith he is guarding us until the day when the Father sends the Son again to gather his people from the four corners of the earth. to live with them in a new heavens and new earth forever. We give thanks that there every tear will be washed away. Every groan will be turned to shouts of joy. Every disease will be healed. Every struggle with sin will finally be washed away. We give thanks in the midst of it all because God will accomplish every single promise he has ever made to his people. And when he does, We will sing to the Lord a new song. And when that day comes, the word will no longer need to dwell in us richly by faith. Because the word will dwell with us richly by sight. Until then, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Make the word of Christ the center of your life. Let's pray. Father, it's our plea That we would make the Word of Christ the center of our life. Grant the Spirit to write these eternal truths on our hearts. That we would more and more be guided, discipled by, shaped by your word. And we pray that the day when the word will go from faith to sight, that that day will come soon. Come, Lord Jesus, come. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.