Question, what are you thankful for today? I want to start with that question because thankfulness is uh is a bit like a foreign language to fallen human beings. It's so easy for us in life to get our eyes fixed on what is wrong with our life or what is wrong with the people around us, what it is that we don't have. rather than seeing what it is that we do have and the the many graces that God has given to the people that He's surrounded us with and the great kindness that He's shown us as His people. So I want to start with that question this morning to get your wheels turning. What is it that you're thankful for this morning? Hey, if you have your bulletins with you, even write down a few of those things as we start off our time. I want to ask that question to us this morning, not only because thankfulness is like a foreign language to fallen human beings, but because of what we learn in our passage today. What we're going to see in our passage. is that thankfulness is the only proper response for the great work that Jesus Christ has done for us. And we're going to see that this morning. So I want to invite you to turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter 7. If you don't have a Bible with you, you can use one of the Bibles that we've provided. If you're using that Bible, you can find our passage on page 843 We're going to be looking particularly at Pat at verses 31 to 37. If you're not familiar with reading a Bible, you're looking for the big bowl number seven. And then after that, you're going to look at those smaller numbers. We're going to be looking at the little numbers 31 through 37. And if you don't have a Bible of your own, I want to offer the Bible of ours as a gift to you. There's nothing more important in this world than having a copy of God's word for yourself. And hearing him speak through it, and we think that God has spoken through his word, so we'd encourage you to take a copy of our Bible if you don't have one for yourself. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us this morning, then we'll dive in. This is God's word. Then he returned from the region of Tyre and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the region of the Decapolis. And they brought to him a man who was deaf and had a speech impediment. And they begged him to lay his hand on him. And taking him aside from the crowd privately, he put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting, touched his tongue And looking up to heaven, sighed, said to him, Ephatha, that is, be opened. And his ears were open. His tongue was released. And he spoke plainly. And Jesus charged them to tell no one. But the more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it. And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak. This is God's Word. Well, the main point of our passage today is a simple one. One point for our time together today, and it's this: that Jesus gives Spiritual understanding to spiritually deaf and mute people. And so we should respond with gratitude. Jesus gives spiritual understanding to spiritually deaf and mute people. So we who have received spiritual understanding should respond with gratitude. Let's dive into the text. Verse 31. Look, you'll notice in verse 31 that it said that Mark tells us that Jesus returned from the region of Tyre. You remember in our passage last week? He went north of Galilee, a ways up to the region of Tyre and Sidon, where there he met a Gentile pagan woman who came to him asking for healing for her daughter. So after Jesus heals this woman's daughter, he gets up and goes from there. And it says he went through the region of Sidon into Galilee to the region of the Decapolis, which is kind of odd, because Sidon is twenty miles north of Tyre. So Jesus walks twenty miles north up to t to Sidon, north of Tyre, then he turns around and goes straight back down to Galilee and into the region of the Decapolis. It's like some have said, it's like going uh to Richmond, Virginia from Chevrolet by way of Baltimore. You drive up to Baltimore only to turn around and come back. We don't know why he did that. No miracles are recording in any of the gospel texts that take place in Sidon. Uh but we trust that God that Jesus was doing many things. We know the gospels contain only a bit of what Jesus did in his ministry. But we do know that he went up to Sidon and he comes back down through the region of Caesarea Philippi to the southeast side of the Sea of Galilee, into the region of the Decapolis. And we saw last week that as Jesus went into the region of Tyre and Sidon, it was to show that God's salvation was flowing outward from Jerusalem. The salvation that came first to the Israelites was moving outward to the Gentile people. And so his trip to Tyre and Sidon, that signaled that God's salvation was also for the Gentiles, is being extended into our passage this week. And that's because the region of the Decapolis. was a predominantly Gentile region. The Decapolis, Decca 10, Polis City, was a group of ten cities on the southeast side of the Sea of Galilee. And it was under Roman rule and so was predominantly a Gentile. Some of you may remember if you've been paying careful attention that this isn't Jesus' first trip to the region of the Decapolis. He actually came to the Decapitalist, I think it was in chapter 3 or 4, where he healed the demoniac, the crazed man who was full of thousands of demons. When he healed that man, Jesus said to him, Go and tell everybody what the Lord has done for you. And the man went into the decapolis and told everybody what Jesus had done for him. So Jesus had already been to that region, but we do remember that those people Beg Jesus to leave. Yet Jesus is coming back into that region. And apparently what we find out is that that that Gentile demoniac who was healed by Jesus Did a great job of telling everybody about what Jesus had done because on this trip into the Decapolis, Jesus is now surrounded by a crowd. Look at verse 32. And they brought to him a man. They is plural, meant to signal that a crowd has gathered around Jesus in one of these cities in the Decapolis. And they brought to him a man who was deaf. and who had a speech impediment. I think that we should understand this impediment as so severe that the man was essentially Mute. And you'll even see that at the end of our passage in verse 37, they say he makes the deaf hear and the mute speak. This man's speech impediment, it wasn't just like uh a lisp or something like that. I used to have a lisp It was a speech impediment that was so severe that it prevented him from speaking. He was considered a mute man. This man was deaf and mute. In the ancient world, these conditions would have been viewed differently, though negatively, by different groups of people. So to the Jewish people, Deafness and muteness symbolized or were the direct result of God's judgment against a particular sin. So in the Old Testament, when the people didn't listen, God struck them with deafness. It's symbolizing God's judgment against sin. That was among the Jewish people. But among the Gentile people in the region of the Decapolis and in other areas. Those people would have placed people who suffered from deafness and muteness in the same category as the mentally insane. Right? They were just seen as complete outcasts. Think about the people that we would put in an insane asylum. There's a reason they're being separated. from society. They're not wanted to be around us. And that's the way deaf and mute people were viewed among the Gentiles. There was this this outcast, this Stay away from society. You're not worthy to be among us. There's a sense that they were in the same category. All that to say, the man was a social outcast. But we can rejoice yet again as we've seen the same things pop up week after week that Jesus looks at our categories of what make people an outcast and he completely disregards them. He is willing to engage with the people that we think are unclean, unworthy to be brought into society. Jesus goes to them loves them, shows compassion to them, and teaches them God's truth. And he does this again here. And we can imagine also that the man was deaf and mute. Or maybe we can't imagine what that's like. That's a really hard thing to imagine. Try if you can. Think about the isolation that this man would have felt just by these conditions. Can't hear anything that's going on, deaf from birth. Has never heard anything, can't tell what people are saying around him. Maybe he can read lips. Maybe. But those take teaching and courses. We don't know if those courses existed at that time. Think of the isolation just separate from people and can't make sounds, can't speak, can't tell people what he's thinking, can't say, I need help. And then to make matters worse, the people around them, put them in the same category as those who are mentally insane. Just stay away, right? Think of how isolating this would be. You know, consider the range of sounds that he never would have experienced. Right? Crickets That's one of my favorite sounds. Never would have heard it. The rustling of the leaves when the wind blows. The crackling of a fire. The laughter of a close friend. The voice of a loved one. Even as I was writing this sermon, when I was in the middle of writing this part of my sermon, I could hear birds chirping, while in the background I heard Tom Tom, Tom Bennett. Reading on FaceTime to my son Jack while our daughter Grace was laughing in the background. Never would have been able to hear any of those things. How wonderful those sounds are Think of just the ridiculous amount of sounds that you hear every day that you take for granted that are just glorious Man. Never heard it. Isolation. Isolation. There's an isolation inherent in deafness that this man would have experienced. It's difficult for us to know. Lazy deaf, he's mute. Communicate audibly with those who are around him. See our ability to hear and speak, even loop. Touched on this in his prayer. Our ability to hear and to speak are ways that we reflect the image of God So it's not to say that this man was less than human, but it's to say that these conditions point to the fact that there is something profoundly wrong with his experience He's not able to hear and to speak. Our God hears our prayers and speaks to us. And so we hear and speak. He is a hearing and speaking God and is created of us at the same capacities. These things are not as they should be in this man's life. Something needs to be healed. It's why the crowd is bringing them, bringing him to Jesus. There's a restoration that needs to take place. And that restoration is what the crowd is seeking, right? That's the restoration that they're wanting. They want Jesus to lay his hands on the man. And if you've been reading along at all in Mark, you know that Jesus laying his hands on a person is equal to Jesus healing a person. He does it over and over again. Go back to chapter one. He reaches down and he takes Peter's mother-in-law by the hand. Lays his hands on her, takes her up, she's healed He touches the leper. The leper is cleansed. He lays his hands on Jairus' daughter. She gets up from the dead. Right? He lays his hands on it on people. And they are healed. And that's what these people are asking for. Hey, heal this man. Restore him to full health. But we see that rather than lay his hands on the man, in verses 33 and 34. Jesus takes the man away from the crowd. He takes a man away from the crowd to a private place. It's interesting. We really don't know why Jesus does this. He heals numerous people in the middle of crowds Right? And often these these healings are followed by people just proclaiming how amazing his healing is. But he's taking this man away from the crowd to a private place. It's almost as though he doesn't want to make a spectacle out of the man. He takes him to a private place where he can lovingly help the man understand what it is that he's doing. Right? You got to think about this. The man was deaf. How did news about Jesus spread? How did it spread? Through word of mouth, did this man ever hear about Jesus? No Maybe he was around people who were trying to signal to him that there was a man who was doing mighty deeds. But Jesus is now standing in front of this man. This man has no idea who Jesus is. has never heard about the great works that Jesus is doing, and now you have this man who's gonna do some sort of healing on you. It's probably an awkward situation that might cause the man to panic. I can't hear. I don't know who you are. Who are you? What are you doing in front of me? And why is there a crowd gathered around us? So Jesus takes him off to a private place. What does he do? He does sign language. Think about the simple kindness of what's going on here. He's doing sign language. Look at verses 33 and 34. He puts his fingers into his ears. Imagine they're off to the side in a private place now. This man who he has no idea who who Jesus is is standing in front of them. And what does Jesus do? The man's gets I'm deaf, touching my ears Then he spits. We don't know exactly why he spits. He does it again in a later healing and he applies a spit to the the blind man's eyes. We don't know if that's what he's doing here, but then he spits and then he grabs the man's tongue. I got a heel. Huh. You wonder if the guy started getting it at this point. I mean, are you really gonna do this? And then what does he do? Then what does Jesus do? This is a work of God. This is a work of God signing him through all of this, helping him understand what's gonna happen. And then what does he do? Most beautiful thing of all. Size. I know this is not supposed to be this way. You're not supposed to be deaf and mute. This this pains me that you are this way We're gonna see next chapter. After Jesus feeds the 4,000, the Pharisees come to him demanding a sign. And what does Jesus do? It's the only other place in the Gospel of Mark where he does this. He sighs. He's connecting their spiritual deafness with this man's physical condition. is sighing. This physical deafness is replicated and seen in spiritual deafness. These people who just don't get my teaching. Sighs to the man. fix your ears, gonna fix your mouth, gonna come from God. This hurts me, that it is this way. Passion of Jesus. The same act of entering into this man. We already know that he he healed the woman's daughter in the previous passage without even going to her. He just said to the woman, your daughter's healed. Right? He never even went to the daughter, didn't lay hands on. He can heal in all manner of ways. Parents, as you're thinking about your children, here's a simple application from you. You might have one child who hears the gospel, believes, and you think it was like because I recited the gospel in this way and they believed, but that's why they did it, so all my kids are going to be saved in the same way. Please don't think that. Jesus He saves in all manner of ways. And if your kids don't come to faith under your parenting, don't think it's your fault. Right? It is God who is sovereign over salvation. They may end up more like me when they're 30 and have lived a lifetime walking away from the Lord. But if God saves them, praise God. He uses all different manners. What is the kindness of Jesus entering into this man's experience? He doesn't just say, be opened, Shazam. He comes to him and is compassionate with him. And then we see he speaks Ephatha. Jesus' native language was Aramaic, and so this is an Aramaic phrase that Mark tells us and tells his Roman readers means be opened. What happens? Ears were open. And his tongue was released. The word that Mark uses for released here refers to a prisoner being freed from his chains. It's like the man's tongue was in bondage and now it's set free. The chains are broken. He can speak, and he can speak plainly. Plainly. A man who the crowd describes as a deaf and mute man speaks plainly. As soon as Jesus says, be opened, he's speaking Aramaic to him, or whatever language it is that he's speaking. That should strike us because the man was deaf. He had no concept of language No spoken uh concept of language. He had not spoken plainly or clearly his whole life. Yet instantly, as soon as Jesus says, be opened, it's as a language, and his native language is immediately implanted on his mind, and now he's speaking clearly. Right? That's as though, parents, if you've had a child, you gave birth to that child. And when the child came out of the womb and was handed to you, the baby said Good to meet you, Mom. It's a pleasure to finally see you. I'm quite cold. Would you mind placing me under the incubator? Right? Like, yeah, that doesn't happen. And what's happening here with this man doesn't happen. He doesn't go through speech therapy, right? When I was in elementary school, I had a lisp And I had to get a tongue guard put in behind my teeth that was like a cage for my tongue. I guess it just came like falling out of my mouth. I don't know. But I remember having to go see Miss Lewis, my speech therapist in elementary school. Because she had to teach me to control my tongue and my mouth and how to speak properly. This man isn't receiving speech therapy classes. Right? He goes from mute to speaking instantaneously. Look What? Like all of a sudden, full sentence, he's he's properly putting together subject, object, verb, you know, like he understands the language. And he was deaf This is amazing. This is amazing. And then Jesus Tells him to stop talking. What? What? What are you talking about, Jesus? Look at verse 35 His ears were open, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly. Verse 36, Jesus charged them, including the man, to tell no one. What are you talking about? I've been mute my whole life and now I can finally speak and I just want to tell everyone what you've done. Right? And Jesus' like, be silent. But we see here that the man and the crowd, right, they they disobey. The more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it. And I gotta be honest here, like I would never encourage anyone to sin against the Lord and to directly disobey Jesus. But I gotta relate to the man here. Like I don't I'm not surprised that he disobeyed Jesus. Like, dude, you just healed me, and now I can speak, and I've never even spoken before, and I can hear all these things that I never heard before. And you must be God. And I want to tell other people about you. It's amazing. It's no surprise that they uh disobeyed Jesus. But We want to think again about why why would Jesus tell the man to be silent? Right, we've seen this theme come up a number of times throughout Mark's gospel. There are times where Jesus tells people to go and proclaim. And there are times where Jesus tells people to be silent. He tells people to be silent almost always in the context of uh Galilee, which would have been full with the Israel authorities, and there were proclamations going out about him being the Messiah. The Messiah in the Old Testament was viewed as a kingly figure, and with Israel being under Roman rule, Rome was utterly opposed to anyone ever claiming to be a king. You claimed to be a king, and you got sentenced to death. And so Jesus is wanting people to be silent before the time for his death would come. He doesn't want those reports going out. And then you remember that in the Decapolis, the first time he healed the man, when he healed the demoniac, he let him go. Go and proclaim it. But it's clear that the place is in an uproar now because everybody recognizes Jesus, so now he tells them to be silent. I think he's wanting the reports to be kind of reined in about him until the appointed time for Jesus to go to the cross. Jesus has a mission that he's on, and that mission is fulfilled and and reaches its climax in the cross. So anything that hinders his ability to make it to the cross with the plan that he has determined with the Father in heaven and by the Spirit's guidance. Anything that hinders that must be reined in. And part of what hinders that is humans disobeying him and going about telling people, hey, the Messiah is here. So Rome's gonna be like, what? What'd you say? There's a Messiah, a king, so he's wanting them to be silent. They refused to keep silent, though. The work he did was just too amazing. It was too otherworldly. Right? Notice it says they were astonished beyond measure. Beyond measure. Two words that you see repeated throughout Mark, astonishment and amazement. I'll add a third word, fear. The three responses to Jesus throughout the Gospel of Mark. Astonishment, amazement, fear. Repeated over and over again. But this is the only time in Mark's gospel where, in response to something that Jesus has done, and he, if we've been here throughout the study of Mark's Gospel, we know he's done amazing things. This is the only time in Mark's gospel where we hear this. They were astonished beyond measure. It's like a double compound adjective that Paul that or that Mark uses in the Greek. It's this. Over amazement, this amazement that can't be contained. We would say in the common vernacular, their minds were blown, right? If you get those little gifts or gifs, depending on how you pronounce it on your phone, it's the one where somebody's going Right? That's their response to Jesus' work. And notice what the crowd says about him in verse 37. He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak. This single verse. Teaches us two profound things about the identity of Jesus Christ that we want to touch on briefly. First, he has done all things well. Thinking about scripture, you want to start thinking where where have I heard that before? Where have I heard that before? I think what may be coming to mind if you're thinking about it, maybe Genesis 1. Right here here's here's where I'm seeing this connection. Jesus speaks, be opened, boom, lights come on, hearing, speaking, plainly, people respond, he's done all things well He speaks and whatever he created was good. He has done all things well. Genesis 1, you see, repeated over and over again. God said, and it was so and it was. Good. And then what is the culminating conclusion to Genesis 1? Genesis 1, 31. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was Jesus. Jesus is the creator God. Everything that God spoke into existence was perfect. Be opened. The man's ears open, tongue speaking, right? And the crowd says he's done all things well. Jesus is the creator. Colossians 1. For by him, that is Jesus, all things were created in heaven and on earth. And all that was created was very good. He does all things well. Notice the second thing the crowd says about him. He's not only the creator, he even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak. The word that Mark uses in Greek here to describe this man's speech is mogilalos. And there is another Greek word that is used to describe muteness. That's used throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament. That's called alalos. That's the common word for muteness. But Mark chooses a particular word that is used one other time in the Bible. And do you know where it's used? We read it right before the service. Isaiah 35. Isaiah 35 is a promise to the people of Israel of a future salvation. When God would come as he did in the Exodus to lead his people out of the wilderness and into the promised land. And when they're in the wilderness, as God comes and saves them, the dry lands will become a pool, and the brush will become reeds. It will become a fruitful land when God comes and saves his people. And when God arrived to save them and lead them out in Isaiah 35, what does Isaiah say about what will happen to the people? Then the eye of the blind shall be opened. And the ears of the deaf unstopped, then shall the lay man leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sing for joy. In response to this salvation, the tongue of the mute will sing for joy Jesus is the creator messiah. He's the creator messiah The whole point in God giving the account of creation to Moses to give to the people of Israel, and the reason it's so short, is because what God is wanting to do for Moses and the people of Israel is to connect that the saving God of the covenant is the one of creation. The one who created is the one who gave birth to Israel through Abraham and is the one who's saving you out of his out of Egypt now. The creator God is the covenant God. Jesus Christ is the creator, Messiah, the Son of God, came to save and redeem God's people. You see in the Bible, deafness and muteness symbolize a lack of spiritual understanding. Deafness and muteness symbolize a lack of spiritual understanding. What does Jesus say to people almost every time that he says that he teaches them a parable? What does he say after the parable? He who has ears to hear, let him hear. He knows that they've heard with their ears, so what ears is he talking about? The ears of your heart You're supposed to hear and understand, not just in terms of deafness, but spiritual understanding. What is this man saying to me? And what is it teaching me about my relationship with him and with God? He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And this healing symbolizes Jesus' power to grant understanding to the spiritually deaf and the spiritually mute. Right, you think even back to the parable of the sower, when he says to them, the secret of the kingdom of God was given to you. You didn't earn it. You didn't learn it. You didn't achieve it. It came down to you and was given to you. Just like this man's ears were opened and his tongue was loosened, so us who follow Jesus Christ Did not unstop our ears on our own or unbind the chain of our tongues. It was Jesus Christ, through the power of the Spirit, who freed us And gave us ears to hear and a tongue to speak. This work is all of God. Praise be to God. Right? That's what that's the response that should well up in this. And how did he do this? How did Jesus do this? He did this by becoming like a mute man himself. What does Isaiah tell us about Jesus Christ when he went to the cross to bear the punishment for the sins of his people? Isaiah described in this way. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Silent. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. And though his spit was used to heal this deaf and mute man, what happened to Jesus on his way to Galgotha? He was spit upon by Roman soldiers. And their spit didn't signify his healing, but it confirmed his impending death. The death that he would suffer in our place and for our sins. Yet it is in his death on the cross and through his resurrection from the dead that God used to forgive his people of their sins. And after his resurrection, God sent the Holy Spirit to open the ears of the deaf and loosen the tongues of the mute. Friends, if you're here today and you follow Jesus, then what happened to this man physically is what has happened to you. Spiritually through the Holy Spirit implanted in your hearts. And we see this so wonderfully illustrated in the lives of the disciples, the ones who Jesus says to over and over in the Gospel of Mark, do you not understand? Do you not have ears to hear? Are your heart so hardened? And these disciples who lived with Jesus and followed him walked with him until the point that he was handed over to his death. And what did they do? They clearly didn't understand because they abandoned him and ran away from him and they didn't want anything to do with him. Peter denies him three times. And then after Jesus dies on the cross for their sins and for our sins, and then rose from the dead, he went and he redeemed his disciples. He restored them to full relationship with himself. And then what did they do? They went out and proclaimed the message after the spirit falls on Peter. What is the first thing he does? I gotta tell somebody His tongue was loosened. He proclaimed how God's promised salvation throughout the Old Testament had come forth in the Savior, Creator, Messiah, Jesus Christ. And now the Spirit was going out and gathering God's church and God's people by opening their ears and loosening their tongues. Just as Jesus touched the affected parts of this man's body, so he has reached in, touched our heart. removing our heart of stone, giving to us heart, flesh, to each one of us, to each one of us, God has said, be opened. John, when you came to believe, what did Jesus say to you? Be open. Jay, what did Jesus say to you? Be open. Chrissy, be open. All of you who believe in Jesus, be open. He spoke and it happened. It wasn't anything that we did for ourselves. And so what is the only way that we can respond to this? Gratitude. Gratitude. Thankfulness. That's the way that you respond to this work that God has done for us in Christ. As I was preparing for this sermon, I spent a little bit of time. Watching videos. I pulled up on YouTube videos of people who were deaf, who were hearing for the first time. And they were doing so through cochlear implants, right? They have a cochlear implant. I don't know exactly how the science works, but it's implanted beneath the skull and it provides sound to the ear. And one of the the one of the most amazing things about these videos is the response is the same. Every single time, every single time, as these people are waiting and waiting and waiting and then it opens and they melt down in tears. They can't believe it. They can't believe, oh my gosh, I'm hearing of sounds coming in for the first time. A friend, when your heart is taken out and a new heart is put in your chest, that is what happens. Oh my gosh, I'm seeing you for the first time. You are amazing. You are so wonderful. Oh, oh my gosh. I have sinned so greatly against you and you would save me and show mercy to me. It's gratitude. Gratitude that we should feel for what God has done For us. That is the response that we should see in our lives. John Piper says this about gratitude. He calls it a species of joy. It's a form or type of joy. Right? It's the appropriate response to the receiving of a gift given in goodwill. Right? In fact, the amount of gratitude that we will feel is usually in proportion to the nature of the thing given and the type of goodwill that went behind it, right? So think about this. Let's say someone gets you an amazing gift Just an unbelievable gift. A new car. But they do it for ulterior motives. Right? They're trying to get in, maybe, maybe do something evil, and you kind of know like this. Their motives are really jacked up here, right? Are you gonna feel a great amount of gratitude for that gift? Yeah, probably not Because it's not only the gift that's given, but the goodwill and the intent behind it. And consider the gift. God sent his son to die in our place so that we could be forgiven. Though we deserve death and judgment. For what we did against God. This great chasm, we deserve this. This great chasm exists, but he gave us this. He gave us forgiveness. And why did he give us forgiveness? He gave us this amazing gift, the nature of which is forgiveness. For sins committed against the holy God. And what was the intent of the gift? So that you could experience his lavished grace poured out upon you. I mean the nature of the gift and the goodwill of the gift are inexpressibly glorious. And we have received that gift. He did so so that we could be the recipient of completely undeserved mercy and his intention is our eternal joy. Oh. Thank you Like seriously, thank you. I did not deserve it. We did not deserve it, but he has given it. And the reason that we can be constantly filled with gratitude is because the gift that God has given cannot be eclipsed by even the most difficult circumstances in life One of the things that makes a total eclipse so unique and amazing is because of how rare it is that the circumstances line up, that the earth and the moon and the sun are in perfect alignment, thus blocking out the totality of the sun's light Mostly, right? You know what I'm saying? It's so rare that these circumstances line up in just that way that the sun is blocked out. We realize that when it comes to the gift that God has given us, there is no alignment of circumstances that could ever come to pass in your life by which the completeness of God's gift to you in Christ and saving you and showing you his mercy and and giving you uh a future of eternal joy can never be eclipsed by the circumstances of this life lining up. Your gratitude should never be eclipsed. It doesn't mean that life is not difficult. There are some extremely difficult circumstances in life that people deal with But those of us who have uh received this gift of mercy through Christ have a gift that has been given to us that cannot be eclipsed by life circumstances. Thus, gratitude is a right response in every situation. What is incumbent upon us is to find that which we can be thankful for, because it's not always immediately apparent to us. Right? In response to the greatness of God's salvation on our behalf, we should be a people who give thanks time So you look in the Old Testament, even in the book of Psalms, the most oft-repeated commandment in response to God's salvation throughout the Psalms is Give thanks. Give thanks. But this isn't easy. I mean, we all struggle with being filled with gratitude because it's so easy to focus on what we don't have. Right? It's so easy to focus on what we don't have rather than what we do. And that's been a struggle for God's people since the garden. Think about this first attack. Realize Satan's first attack on mankind involved getting his eyes fixed on what he didn't have rather than what he did have. Right? Did God say that you can't have that fruit? Notice the emphasis on the eyes being fixed on what Eve didn't have. She looked And she saw that the tree was good for food. And it was a delight to the eyes. Her eyes turned from, you can have everything else in this garden, to, I want that. And see that that will that will come right in and steal gratitude. You're no longer looking at all that you do have, Eve and Adam. Look at all that I've given you. So if you are having trouble finding things to be thankful for in your life and your eyes are only fixed on what you don't have, consider that Satan Because he does prowl around like a roaring lion and he is attacking and after God's people may be coming after you to get you focused on the things you don't have rather than on what you do have in Christ. And gratitude will steal your joy. It will turn you into a better and selfish person. That's what it does. Right? You want to think about how you can fix your eyes on those things. Right? And it's not just Satan that's against us. It's our flesh that's at war against gratitude. Right? Notice what Paul says in Romans about those who are opposed to God. Or people who don't follow God. They neither worshiped Him as God nor gave thanks to Him. A lack of thanks was characteristic of those who don't follow God. And ingratitude is revealed in various attitudes and actions, right? Consider one I've already mentioned, mentioned, consider bitterness. We may become bitter towards other people because they've hurt us But even if we've been hurt by others, when we consider the magnitude of our sins against a holy God and the kindness he showed towards us, our gratitude for his grace. to transform our bitterness towards others into kindness. Because of what we've done against God. Or consider selfishness. What is selfishness? It's a person or a trait of people who are concerned most with their own advantage, pleasure, and welfare. And they don't really care about the impact it has on others. Right, so it's sorry if that hurts you. But how can we persist in being selfish and demanding our own way when Jesus willingly gave up his rights? Concerning himself more with our welfare than his own. Going to his death on the cross for our behalf Right? He didn't come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And our gratitude for his selfless act. Should transform us from being selfish people, which we all are in various ways, to being selfless people. See how gratitude is central to putting to death these fruits of the flesh. And we can cultivate gratitude in our own lives in two ways. First, think about how to cultivate gratitude in your life by confessing sin. Confessing sin. I mean both to God and to other people. A person who is regularly assessing themselves in the light of God's holiness and seeing how far short they fall of that standard cannot help but grow in gratitude. Because they constantly see and continually see how far short it is their falling and how great is the grace and mercy that God has extended to them. Right? A person who never confesses sin and never examines himself will almost always become a person who rarely gives thanks. How often do you give thanks? Right? Like really stop and pause and mean it. It doesn't have to be a lot, but how how often are you really giving thanks in your life and giving thanks especially for what God has done for us? The less we give thanks, the more we begin to think, I just deserve it. Right? It just kind of becomes innate. You may not even recognize that in your thought, but I'm not giving thanks because I'm not thinking about how awesome the gift is anymore. Because maybe I see myself as just a person who kind of deserves it. I mean, God's at work in me, but I'm working too, right? No, it's God's Spirit who's at work in you, so willing to work according to his good pleasure. The second way we can cultivate gratitude is by actively giving thanks. So I want to circle back to the question that I offered in the beginning. How are you actively giving thanks? This is something we need to practice. That's why the Apostle Paul continually commanded people to give thanks. He was commanding it because we need to obey that commandment, because if we don't obey it, we stop giving thanks. We become kind of ingracious people, ingratitude, ingrates, right? We should actively give thanks because it's something that takes work and takes practice Kids, it's one of the reasons that your parents probably teach you to say thank you in response to receiving things from them. Because we all, your parents too, they can tell you about how they struggle with it. We all struggle with giving thanks But I want you to think about what are ways that you can leave here today and give thanks for, whether to God or to your siblings if you have them, or to your parents or to your friends. Think about ways that you can actively give thanks. I think the list is endless. Once you start creating a list of things that you can give thankful for, I mean the list won't end. Right? I mean we could just start by giving thanks for the microphone And this pulpit, I don't have to hold these things in my hand. Like these are little things, but these are all graces of God, and they're all around us. They're everywhere. Think about how we can give thanks. Right? Consider giving thanks more often to God. And we want to think again about this salvation that God has worked for us as an opportunity to give thanks. If you're here and you're not a Christian, I am super glad that you're here. There's nowhere nowhere else that I'd want you to be. And I want you to think about how you can give thanks to God for what He's done in Jesus Christ. He sent his son to die in your place for the sins that you've committed against him. We're all here saying that we're all undeserving of God's mercy, yet God has extended it to you in Jesus Christ. And has offered forgiveness to you forever and eternal reconciliation with him. How can you give thanks to God? Well, the Bible says that you can give thanks to God by turning from your sin and putting your trust in Jesus. And when you do that, Jesus says to you, be opened, and your heart will open and you will understand what it is that God has done in Jesus Christ for you. And those who've trusted, consider that the forgiveness he extended to us is complete. It is complete. He didn't extend to us a partial salvation or a partial justification. He didn't just kind of adopt us. He didn't just forgive us for some of our sins, though we are completely saved, completely justified, fully adopted, and totally forgiven. Why? Because Jesus does all things well. Your salvation is one of the things that he has done. Perfectly well. He left no sins on the table to be paid for. He left no justification hanging off to the side. You aren't just kind of God's children. You are God's children through Jesus Christ, fully and completely. Because when he said to you, be opened. He did all things well. And your heart was open. Let's give thanks to God. We have so much to be thankful for. So I want to ask you again. What are you thankful for today? Right. Heavenly Father, you are good. You are good. We confess this with our mouths. We also confess that we don't often lift up our voices enough to give thanks to you, but we know that you love us even so And so we ask, Lord, that you would grant the Spirit to open our eyes to the great work that you've done for us in Jesus Christ and to the many graces that are all around us that come from your hand. As Psalm 145 says, you are a God who opens your hand to all and are kind to all. Thank you, Father, for your kindness. To us. We pray that you would create in us more grateful hearts. Fill us up with thankfulness. We pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.