As we start off, I want to start with a message that maybe you have heard at some point as you have lived in this world over the last weeks and months. And the message goes like this. Get the life you desire and deserve. Overcome any fears holding you back and start living the life you desire by unleashing the power within. This three and a half day event will help you unlock and unleash the forces inside you to break through your limitations and take control of your life. Unlike other personal growth plans, Unleash the Power Within is an immersive experience that will give you decades of proven strategies over one long weekend. No matter what you want in life, joy, love, passion, fulfillment, unleash the power within, will give you the drive and momentum to achieve it Don't settle for an ordinary life when you can create an extraordinary one. Commit to the ultimate weekend of personal growth and set personal development goals you can and will conquer. had unleash the power within. Does that message appeal to you? If I had to guess, I'd say it appeals to something in you. And the reason I say that is because over four million people worldwide have attended Tony Robbins' Unleash the Power Within seminars. And his is only one of many self-help seminars that offer a path to personal growth. You can attend the Titan Summit with Robin Sharma Or the High Performance Academy with Brendan Burchard, or the Live Your Dream seminar with Les Brown. And it's not only seminars The personal growth sector of the book industry has been and continues to be one of the fastest growing sectors of the book industry. From girl, wash your face to atomic habits. To the clarity cleanse, to crushing it, and the list goes on and on And the reason that self-help books and self-help seminars are so appealing to so many people, including most of us, I would assume, is because people want change. People want to grow. But if you're a follower of the Lord Jesus, What if I told you that you already have and know the message that has the power to unlock and unleash the most important changes that all people need? Well, if you haven't already turned to Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 to 8, I want to encourage you to turn there now. As you might be turning there, I want to provide some context to our passage this morning. Paul wrote his letter to the Colossians. Because he was concerned for them. He was concerned because living as they did in the Greco-Roman world, they were being bombarded with messages offering them different paths to the good life and to God. Different paths to true spiritual growth and personal change. And so Paul wants to write and remind them To remind them that the gospel, the gospel that they already know and believe, is the only message that will produce the spiritual change they need and want. You know, the last time I read these verses for us, it was a few weeks ago. When I did that, I tried to make explicit, every implicit reference to the gospel in these verses. And I'm going to do that again. To help us all see how central the gospel's power to change is to these verses. So go ahead and look down with me at Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 through 8. This is God's word. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven Of this, you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which gospel has come to you As indeed in the whole world, the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing, as the gospel also does among you. Since the day you heard the gospel and understood the grace of God in truth, just as you learned the gospel from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit What Paul is teaching the Colossians and what he is teaching us is that only the gospel has the power to produce the change that we desperately need. We're going to break that down into two points, and we're going to consider those two points over the next two weeks. First, this week, we'll see that only the gospel has the power to save. And next week we'll see that only the gospel has the power to sanctify. So, first, we see in these verses that only the gospel has the power to save. Did you pick up on that as I was reading the passage? I wonder if you notice that Paul's prayer of thanks turns into a lesson on the power of the gospel to change people. Right? One moment he's thanking God for his work among the Colossians, and the next moment he's reminding the Colossians of how the gospel is changing people all over the world. And the first change it is producing in people all over the world is Salvation. People are being saved through the preaching of the gospel. I want you to go ahead and look down at verse 5. We're gonna Let's go halfway through verse 5 where we're going to pick up Paul's thought. He's just thanked God for their faith and love, which spring from their hope. And of this hope they have heard before in the word of the truth The gospel. Now look at what he says in verse 6. He says, The gospel has come to you, as indeed in the whole world. The gospel is bearing fruit and increasing, as it also does among you. Since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth, just as you learned it from Epaphras. Let's put this into common English. We better understand this, right? Paul is saying, hey, let me tell you something. Let me remind you something, Colossians. Let me remind you of something, Chevrolet Baptist Church. The gospel that came to you. The gospel that Epaphras preached to you, that gospel, that message alone is being preached throughout the whole world. And wherever the gospel goes, it is bearing fruit and increasing. And you know what? It's been doing the same thing among you. Just remember that before Epaphras came with the gospel, there was no Colossian church. And now there is. And what produced the church? What produced salvation? The gospel. Only the gospel has the power to save. And the fact that Paul is talking about salvation is evident in the words that he uses. Notice he says that the gospel is. bearing fruit and increasing. We tend to associate bearing fruit with bearing the fruits of the Spirit, something that happens after salvation, growing in Christ-like character. And while that's definitely part of what Paul means, and we're going to look at that next week, it's not primarily. What he means. He's primarily talking about the gospel's power to save. The gospel message is like a seed And when we hear it preached, it's planted in the soil of our hearts. And when we understand and believe it, it bursts forth in the fruit of salvation. And that Has been happening, bearing fruit and increasing, along with the preaching of the gospel that it is bearing fruit and increasing. That has been happening for the last 2,000 years Jonathan even prayed about it in his prayer. In America today, the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing in urban context and rural context and suburban contexts. Bearing fruit in the underground church in China. It is exploding in Brazil. It is increasing in sub-Saharan Africa and in all of Africa. Just think about our Zoom calls that we had before we started gathering again in person, where we were joined by pastors and missionaries. We were joined by pastors and missionaries in East Asia and Central Asia, in Africa and Indonesia, in Brazil and the Middle East, all who gave specific examples of the way the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing among them. We should be encouraged about that because it's so easy in our lives to just become focused on what is going on in our world. What is happening in in at Chevroly Baptist Church and in the communities uh surrounding Chevrolet Baptist Church. Sometimes it's hard to tell, but but I want to remind you, here we are gathering this morning, not where we normally gather, but at the the gathering of another church, Greenbelt Baptist Church. A church that preaches the gospel because the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing in Greenbelt. And Grace Baptist Church of Bowie is meeting this morning because the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing in Bowie. And Trinity Community Church is uh bearing fruit and increasing in Bowie. And Capitol Hill Baptist Church in D. C. and Del Rey in Alexandria and Arlington Baptist Church and Stafford Baptist Church in In Stafford, Virginia. You go through every state, every county, every community, and the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing all over the world. And it is doing that today. But when you look around the world, you also have to admit that other religions are also spreading. Islam has been spreading for the last 1400 years. Mormonism and Jehovah's Witnesses have been spreading for the last 150. What makes the gospel unique among the other religions of the world? In 2012, a wildfire ravaged nearly 50,000 acres of a forest in Andilla, Spain, or Andija, Spain. After the fire was extinguished, botanists visited the forest to inspect the damage that had been done. One of them, a woman by the name of Bernabe Moya, said this on their trip to the forest. On our way. . . To uh on our way to what we knew would be a Dante esque scene during that tragic summer, we felt deep sadness at the thought of losing a plot of such value to the conservation of biodiversity. When they arrived on the scene in Andija, Spain, the destruction was devastating. But But they were also shocked to find that smack in the middle of the charred forest. Surrounded by thousands of burned trees, stood 946 cypress trees bright and green and completely unharmed by the fire. Apparently the cypress tree has specific properties that other trees do not, that makes it particularly resistant to fire. Why do I bring that up? Because if you would have looked at the forest, you would have seen a lot of different trees, all that looked healthy and alive. But when they were tested by fire, only one tree stood the test. That, my friends, is the gospel message among all the religions and philosophies of the world. The world as a forest may be filled with other religions and philosophies that are growing and spreading, but in the end, when they are all tested with fire. Only the gospel and Christianity will be left standing and bearing fruit because only the gospel has the power to truly change and save people. When boiled down to their essence, all the religions of the world teach a system of self-salvation You are responsible for saving yourself. In Islam, the good you do needs to outweigh the bad you've done. Mormons need to climb the ladder of salvation. Jehovah's Witnesses believe salvation is dependent on their obedience. Basically, the best the religions of the world can do is clean up the outside a bit, but they have no power to change what is on the inside. Friends, we are all like beater cars. Raise your hand if you know what a beater car is. Raise your hand if you ever drove a beater car. I drove an 86 Volkswagen Golf with a manual sunroof, and that thing was a beater. It was my first car. We Are all like beater cars. The transmission is gone, the exhaust system is broken down, the engine is blown, and the religions of the world come along, and what do they do? They slap some rims on it and maybe a new coat of paint if we're lucky. But it's like, bro, your your engine doesn't even work. What are you putting rims on this thing for? But the gospel doesn't just put rims and a new coat of paint on the outside. No, God reaches in and replaces the entire drivetrain system. Then he provides the engine with his very own fuel. Only Christianity among all the religions of the world teaches that you cannot save yourself. You can't do it You don't have the willpower or the inherent goodness to live the perfect life that God demands. But God, in His mercy, took on flesh He was born of a virgin. He lived a perfect life on our behalf, satisfying God's righteous requirements. And then in love He offered himself on the cross as a sin-bearing sacrifice to take the punishment that you and I deserve. He died in our place. He was buried, and three days later he rose again, proving to all that he is God in the flesh, and that Jesus, Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus Christ. The Messiah, the Savior and Redeemer, calls all people everywhere to repent, to turn from sin, and to trust in Him. And when you do that, friend, when you do that, Jesus promises that all of your sins are forgiven. Past, present, and future. Unlike the religions of the world that puts you on a spiritual treadmill that you can never get off because you always have to be working to save yourself, Jesus says. Take heart, rest in me, bring your burden and your your your weary life to me, and I will take upon myself the punishment for your sins, and I will give you a new heart, and I will cause you to rest in me. That is the gospel. That is good news for people who continue to struggle with sin. No more sprinting on a spiritual treadmill. You can't do it But he can and he will if you turn to him in faith this morning. So friends, if you have not repented of your sin and turn to Jesus, See Jesus standing before you with open arms, nail pierced hands, blood streaming from his side, the Lamb who was slain from before all time, standing, saying, Come and rest in me. Come and be forgiven in me. Friend, if you have repented and trusted in Christ, Jesus says to you today, if you've been struggling with sin, don't Why are you trying to clean yourself up? That's what I'm doing. That's what I have done. Come to me. That is good news for sinners. That is the gospel, and only that gospel has the power to save. Only the gospel has the power to save. Not only will Christ forgive you, but when you turn to Him, God will give you a new heart He will rewire your desires so that you actually want to serve him. He will fundamentally change you, and he will do that through the gospel. The gospel about his son. Only the gospel has the power to truly change people. For the first time in my life, I live in a home where I'm able to have a garden. And while I'm still working on my green thumb, uh we we moved in. There was a single raised garden bed. And so I thought I would I would test out that green thumb and work on growing some plants that and and and uh vegetables that I wanted. So once the weather was right, I I went to Lowe's and I bought some tomato seeds and then I brought them home and planted them. And do you know why? Do you know why I bought tomato seeds? Because I wanted to grow tomatoes Thank you, Captain Obvious, right? What's my point? If you want to see the fruit of salvation happen in the lives of the people around you, you better be planting the right seed. Only one seed, the gospel, can make that happen. Think about this in your own life, the different stages of life that some of us are in. If you're a parent, Are you regularly calling your kids to receive and live in the grace that is in Christ Jesus Or are you trying to change their hearts by external rules? Not that rules are bad. We need them. They show us our need for Christ. But are you trying to change them by your rules In his book on parenting, Paul Tripp said this. When you think your job is to change your child and that you've been given the power to do it, your parenting will tend to be demanding, aggressive, Threatening and focused on rules and punishments. In this kind of parenting, you are working to make your children into something rather than working to help them see something. And seek something, the kingdom of God. In this form of parenting, it's all about you and your children, rather than you being an agent of what only God can do in your children Your hope is that you will exercise the right power at the right time and in the right way, so you will change your children as a result. That process is profoundly different. than working to be a useful tool in the hands of a God of glorious, transforming grace, who alone is your hope and the hope of your children How is the message of the gospel and how is the grace that you have received as a sinner informing and transforming how you shepherd and care for your children? In your relationships with non-Christians, are you taking opportunities to direct conversations towards the gospel? Are you cashing in on the capital that you've built with them by telling them about Jesus and what he's done? But one thing I can say for certain, and I know that we all agree with, is that if they never hear the gospel They cannot be saved. They won't be saved by you telling them that you go to church. They won't be saved by them seeing you with your Bible. They won't be saved by you sharing your testimony with them or telling them about how God changed your life. Not unless that conversation includes a direct call to repent and believe. The only way anyone will be saved is by hearing the glorious gospel of how a holy God sent his son To be the sin-bearing sacrifice for a spiritually dead people. And that God has promised to give eternal spiritual life to all who would turn in faith to Him. Now you must repent and believe. But I also know that some of you have done that with the non-Christians in your life. You have shared the gospel with them Maybe even multiple times, but you haven't seen any change in them yet. But what do you do? Do you just keep sharing the gospel? Is that what I'm supposed to do? Do I just keep beating that drum? What what should I do? Well, if that's you, I want to encourage you now in the long game of looking for opportunities to now come alongside them and love them and serve them and sacrifice for them. Whenever we come across passages about the power of the gospel or the need to preach the gospel, there's a danger. There's a danger in thinking that all you need to do is share the gospel with a person and your job is done. And in a sense That is how it works sometimes. You share the gospel once and somebody believes. Now you can just move on to the next person. That's kind of like treating people like projects, though, project evangelism. But it seems to be the case that most often God works over a period of time in people's lives, sometimes shorter, sometimes longer, to save them. And he does that by having the gospel proclaimed by people who have been evidently changed by the gospel I think about even my own salvation, right? I can look back and see that God was at work over the course of about three years. In other people's lives it's longer, in other people's lives, it's shorter. But in my life, during those three years, not only was the gospel being preached to me, but I saw two men, Art Thompson and Kent Wynne, live evidently changed lives, lives that I wanted, I wanted to see that joy And that hope and that confidence that they had and that they consistently had, not perfectly, but they showed it over the course of years. I wanted that in my own life And then the gospel messages started making sense to me. The sacrificial lives that they were living started to make sense because they were following their sacrifice Savior who gave himself on our behalf. They both shared the gospel with me and showed me what Jesus is like. Tom Wanger is the pastor of a church in Crofton, Maryland. His dad pastored Saverna Park Evangelical Presbyterian for decades. And Tom described how his parents shared the gospel with their neighbors. And they their neighbors didn't instantly become Christians. But over the course of 40 years of living in the same neighborhood, Most of the neighbors around them came to faith. Why is that? Because over those 40 years They heard the gospel from the Wangers and then saw the Wangers love, serve, and sacrifice like Jesus. I wonder if you can look around your life right now, if you have sown the seed of the gospel with your neighbors. God may have you in a prolonged season of coming alongside them to love, serve, and sacrifice for them. It's not to say if there aren't clear opportunities to share the gospel that you don't do that, you definitely do. But maybe God has you in a season of also coming alongside them to love, serve, and sacrifice for them, to show them what it looks like to follow Jesus and to show them how great our Savior is. You know, don't be discouraged if the seed that you have sown, if the seed that you have cast out, doesn't seem to be bearing fruit. It may not bear fruit in your lifetime. You may not see it bear fruit. But that doesn't mean that God can't produce fruit In the 1960s, in the Masada fortress along the edge of the Dead Sea in Israel, a date palm seed A date palm seed of a date palm tree that was roughly 2,000 years old was found. A seed. 2,000 years old. And it was recovered in an archaeological dig. The seed had been perfectly preserved by nothing more than the soil it was found in After the seed was found and carbon dated, it was planted in new soil. Guess what happened? It germinated and is growing today A 2,000-year-old seed finally blossomed when it was planted in the right soil Sometimes the gospel seed will lie dormant in a person's heart for years. We may not even see it germinate in our own lifetime. Charles Bridges once said, the seed may lie under the soil until we do, and then spring up. But we sow the seed, knowing that the gospel is God's power to save, not ours. And that gives us confidence in sowing because we don't need to be alive for God to cause the seed that we sowed to spring up. But if we want to sow seeds of true change in the lives of the people around, that seed must be the gospel. We'll consider next week how the gospel continues to change people even after it saves them. But if we want people to be truly changed, we must sow the seed of the gospel. And then water it with love, service, and sacrifice. If we do that, if we do our part, we can trust that God will do his part And continue to cause the gospel to bear fruit and increase throughout the earth until that kingdom finally comes. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for making us partakers of that kingdom. We did not deserve it. We did nothing to earn it. And yet Paul says in Colossians You have fully qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. And now you have also made us partakers of the gospel and of the ministry of reconciliation. Remind us that the gospel truly is your power to save. Remind us of what Paul says in Romans. How are they to hear unless someone is sent to them to preach how beautiful are the feet of those who bear the good news? Thank you for granting us that powerful message and allowing us to share in that ministry. Help us to share in the ministry of proclamation. And help us to share in walking alongside those uh who are in need of love, in need of sacrifice, in need of service. Help us to manifest the love of Christ to them that they might see the power of the gospel and hear the power of the gospel. gospel, and so believe and be brought into your kingdom. And we pray this all in the Lord Jesus' name. Amen.