Well, friends, we're going to turn now to the preaching of the word. And so I want to encourage you to open in your Bibles to Ruth chapter 1. Ruth chapter If you're not familiar with the Bible, uh the book of Ruth is towards the beginning of the Bible. It's situated between the book of Judges. and 1 Samuel. And it can be very easy to pass right over because it's a short book nestled between two longer books. If you have any issues finding it, uh any further issues finding it, you consult the table of contents in the front of your Bible. In his commentary on the book of Ruth, Sinclair Ferguson said that no detail of the lives of our loved ones is insignificant. To those of us who love them. I trust that you know that to be true as well, whether it's remembering the details of a child's birth. like the time of day or how much they weighed. So we just had our fourth uh child, a daughter Caroline, and she weighed seven pounds, six ounces at birth. It's one of those details that you just remember Or whether it's maybe not your children, you might recall or think about the details of your parents' lives, their experiences from childhood, what moved them, what they loved and who their parents were, and so on. No detail of the lives of our loved ones is insignificant to those of us who love them And that's why over the next four weeks of Advent, we're going to consider the book of Ruth as we prepare to celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ, our love for him compels us to consider the details of his life, or in this case, the details of his family history. Because in the book of Ruth, we find the story. Of a seemingly insignificant family that experiences terrible loss, yet through whom God was working to prepare and preserve the family line of the Messiah The Lord Jesus Christ. The book of Ruth is the story of his in the distant past relatives and how God was working among them to eventually bring about his birth and your and my salvation. Today. The title of today's sermon is From Famine to Fullness. I point that out not because sermon titles are important, they're not, but because the title includes two of the three headings that we're Going to consider chapter 1 of the book of Ruth under. First, we'll look at the famine in verses 1 through 5. Second, we'll look at the return in verses 6 to 8. And then third and lastly, we'll look at the fullness in verses 19 to 22. So those will be our three points for those Of you taking notes this morning. Another brief note before we begin. We're going to end up reading the whole chapter, and we're going to read the whole chapter under those three different points. I want to encourage you to leave your Bible open. We're going to be looking at it often, considering especially the details of the story, of which there are many that are very important for us today. So, first, the famine. Ruth chapter 1. Verses 1 to 5. This is God's word. In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a man of Bethlehem and Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Malon and Killion. They were Ephrahites from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there. But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons These took Moabite wives. The name of the one was Orpa, and the name of the other Ruth. They lived there about ten years And both Malon and Kileon died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husband. Words like dark, desolate, hopeless come to mind when you read these verses. The pain, sorrow, and anguish this family, and Naomi in particular, experienced is unspeakable. We have to think about the fact that this is not a made-up story. This happened in real time, in real space, to a real woman named Naomi. I think when you let the lived reality of what Naomi experienced settle into your soul, it is almost too much to bear. And the tragic nature of these circumstances becomes all the more powerful when we carefully consider the specific details that the author has included Details that we're gonna see are brimming with meaning and importance for us today. I want you to notice first, look down with me at verse 1. This happens in the days of the judges. The judges. That's the time period that the book of Judges, the book right before this, is all about. This is a terribly dark period in Israel's history. Right, if you're familiar with that book, you will remember that the repeated refrain of the book of Judges is that there was no king in Israel in those days. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes It's frankly a difficult book to read, to watch God's people spiral out of control and come under God's promised judgment for their sins. This is the time period in which Ruth is set, and we see clearly in our passage that God's judgment had come. Notice there was a famine in the land. When God made his covenant with Israel, he promised that their disobedience would be met with curses. And one of those promised curses was that he would send famine on the land of Israel. And those curses, that judgment had clearly come. We also need to remember that the purpose of the curses. Was to ultimately bring about a change in their behavior. These were loving warning signs to the people of Israel to show them that they were on the wrong path. So that they might repent and turn back to God and walk in his ways. Yet sadly, at this point in the book of Ruth, neither the nation of Israel, as far as we know it, nor Naomi's family. Cry out to God for mercy. Instead, Naomi and her family seek refuge in the land of Moab Anyone who's familiar with the biblical narrative knows that this is an ominous sign. In Genesis, we learn that the nation of Moab was conceived in the terrible sin of Lot's daughter. Then, as the nation grew, they worshiped false gods. They engaged in sinful practices. Even in the book of Numbers, they attempt to pronounce a curse on Israel before they go to war with them. And the ominous sign of seeking refuge in Moab here in Ruth quickly turns into a sad reality. Naomi's husband, Elimelech, dies. You know, different from our day and culture where widows can survive on their own. And to be widowed in this context put women in a very vulnerable and dangerous position. These are tragic circumstances that have come upon her, even with her two sons remaining. But the dark details keep coming. We learn that Naomi's sons, Malon and Kileon, choose to marry Moabite wives. Just another detail coming out of the first five books of the Bible that we need to be very aware of. When God gave the nation of Israel his commands, one of them was that they were not to intermarry with the surrounding nations, because in doing so they would be tempted to turn away from Yahweh and to worship false gods. Yahweh was not discriminating against the nations around him. He gladly welcomed the nations, as we'll see, to join in professing faith and following him in the congregation of his people. But he told his people not to intermarry with the surrounding nations, because in doing so they would be tempted to turn away from worshiping him, which is to turn away from life itself. And whether or not the sons actually turned away from Yahweh and worshipped false gods, we don't know. But what we do know is that they died. Naomi is all alone. The entire scene is tragic, hopeless, desperate But on a physical level, when we take a step back, we have to admit that their choice makes sense, right? At some point level. There was a famine in Israel and they needed food. There was food in Moab. Let's go to Moab. And while we're here, let's start families. But on a spiritual level, this entire scene is shrouded in darkness. Right? The land of Moab symbolized, symbolized alienation from God Yet Naomi and her family choose. They seek refuge in that land. Right? Think about the Old Testament covenant and the way that God was present with his people. God is the source of life. And in the Old Testament, his life-giving presence was uniquely present and accessible in the promised land of Israel. But rather than remaining in the land of life, Naomi and her family journey away from God's life-giving presence. And what do they experience? Death. You know, apart from her son's disobedience, we really don't know much else about the faithfulness of this family. There's certainly indications of faithlessness, but we need to be careful about blaming Naomi's situation on a particular sin. But what we can say this passage teaches us is that seeking refuge away from God's presence always leads to death. Always leads to death. To my Christian friends who are here, my brothers and sisters in Christ, whenever we choose to indulge sin. We are, in a sense, making the same decision that Elimelech and Naomi made. We are choosing to journey in a land that God has clearly said will not bring life. There will be no life found out there. Do not go out there. Life is found within these boundaries. But when we choose to indulge in sin and partake in sin, that is what we are choosing. To venture beyond God's boundaries into the land of the dead, into the land of darkness. That is what sin is. We may experience the fleeting pleasures of sin. Certainly, Naomi's family found the food they were looking for, but ultimately they experienced death You know, I wonder what ways you are being tempted right now, as in this moment or this general time period, to flee from God's presence And journey again in the kingdom of darkness. Given what we see happen here, what do you think will happen if you make that choice? Now you may be tempted to think that you can dabble in sin for a while and then get yourself right with God later. I'm guessing Naomi and her family assumed they would only go to Moab for a little while, get some food. We'll be right back to Israel. But I want you to look at verse 4 with me. Look at how long they ended up in Moab. Ten years. A trip that was potentially meant to be brief turned into a decade. You may think that you can dabble in sin for a little while and get right back out. But friends, sin is a living power that wants to drag you into the land of the dead forever. What does God say to Cain? Friends, Cain, sin is crouching at the door. He pictures it as a living being that is going to pounce on him and consume him. That is what the power of sin wants to do in your life. Friends, don't think that you can just jump right in and get right back out. That's not what sin wants from you. That's not what Satan wants from you. He wants to take your entire life. Sometimes you think just, hey, take a little bit of the nibble. A little bit won't hurt But he eventually wants you to eat the whole thing. Friend, if you're being tempted or if you're actually living in sin right now and hiding it in the darkness, my encouragement to you is to return. Return to God. And that brings us to our second point, the return. And follow along as I read verses 6 to 18 for us now. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab That the Lord had visited his people and given them food. So she set out from the place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, No, we will return with you to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that they may become your husbands? Turn back, my daughters. Go your way, for I am too old to have a husband If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night and should bear sons, would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying No, my daughters, for it is exceedingly bitter to me for your sake that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother in law, but Ruth clung to her And she said, see, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. May the Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but death parts me from you And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said no more. Friends, this is a powerful scene. And this powerful scene is dominated by the theme of return. Naomi's return to the promised land and to the Lord himself. The Hebrew word shuv, which is translated return, turn back, go back, or brought back, appears ten different times in these verses That may seem to you like simply a neat observation, like, John, that's great. What on earth do Hebrew words have to do with my life today? Well, this one in particular has a lot to do with your life today. Because in the Old Testament, shouv or return is the main word used to describe a person turning back in repentance. to receive God's covenant, mercy, and grace. In Deuteronomy chapter 30, after describing the curses the people would experience if they turned away from him, Curses like the famine, the Lord God said to his people, if you return, Shuv, if you return to the Lord your God, you and your children, like Ruth. And obey his voice in all that I command you today with all your heart and with all your soul, then the Lord God will restore your fortunes and have mercy on you. Naomi's return to the land of life and to the God of life is a story of repentance. Oh friends, my Christian friends, perhaps you have fallen into a persistent pattern of sin. Maybe you've even walked away from the Lord for a season. I'm guessing if I'm you having struggled with sin myself on a regular basis, I I'm guessing one of the things that you have going on in your head is the question, one of the things, one of the questions you're hearing is, can he can he really be that forgiving? Can he really be that merciful? I know he promised to forgive me, but but will he but will he really? Naomi's story is meant to show show you that God keeps his word. God will be faithful to the covenant he has made With you. He was faithful to the covenant he made with Israel. Recall that God promised that if his people returned to him, that he would cause their land to bear fruit. Again. We need to remember the book of Ruth is taking place in the days of the Judges. Throughout the book of Judges, the people sin, then God sends judgment, then they repent, and he relents and shows mercy. Now look at verse 6. Look at verse 6. Why is Naomi returning to the land of Israel? Because she heard that the Lord had visited His people and given them food. They repented and God kept his word and caused their land to prosper again. And what is his promise to you, my friends, if you have sinned? His promise to you is that as far as the east is from the west, so far will he remove his transgressions from you if you repent. They will be cast into the depths of the sea to be remembered no more. Why? Because the sinless Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Bore your sins and mine entirely away on the cross of Calvary, which is why John could say in 1 John, if we confess our sins, he is what Faithful and just, and will forgive us our sins. The Lord Jesus has taken the punishment for your sins fully and completely You don't need to keep carrying around the burden of guilt that weighs you down. You can lay it down at his feet because he's the one who said, Bring to me your burdens, and I will take them to the cross so that you bear them no more. You don't need to fear coming to God. His mercies are new each day. He will be faithful. He will forgive you. Return to God That's what Naomi does. And we also learn that Naomi, surprisingly, isn't alone in her return to God Because her husband is dead and she's beyond the age of having sons who can marry Orpah and Ruth, Naomi tells them, return to your families in the land of Moab. Then the daughters plead with her to stay with her. This cycle repeats itself again. At which point, Orpah decides to leave and return to her family. Look at verse 14. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpa kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her Orpah's kissing Naomi is a way of saying goodbye. She does indeed return to her people and her gods. In this decision, she seems to fulfill the meaning of her own name. Her name means back of the neck. So as she walked away from them, they would have been weeping and they would have seen the back of her neck. But Ruth, whose name means friend, makes a very different decision. After Orpa leaves, Naomi pleads with Ruth to leave a third time, to which Ruth responds in verse 16 With one of the most well-known and powerful declarations of faith in the entire Bible. Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people and your God my God. We have to assume that because Ruth was a Moabite, that she had no access to the scriptures Did not know God's covenant with his people unless Naomi and Elimelech had taught her about God's covenant with his people. But Ruth is essentially repeating Yahweh's own words to Israel. After rescuing them out of slavery in Egypt, he made his covenant with them and he said to them, I will be your God and you will be my people. And here Ruth is saying, He will be my God, and your people will be my people. Well friends, we need to appreciate how powerful a saying this is. Right? Think about this. Orpah and Ruth are from Moab, yet Orpa now has to turn back from where she is. To return to Moab. They've moved beyond the land of Moab, but have not yet made it into the land of Israel, to Jerusalem and to Bethlehem. They are at a crossroads in their lives. Which way will they go? This is what's going on here. Will they return to their families, to their friends, to their country, to their gods, to the place they've always known, or will they follow Naomi to Israel? Possibly never marry, possibly never have children, be an outsider among foreign people, but get to have a relationship with the living God. This is the difficult decision that they are being presented with. But to my non-Christian friend, I wonder if you recognize you are being presented with the same decision today. This book may be 3,000 years old, but 3,000 years later the Lord is still presenting people with with the same decision. Go back to all that you've known or forsake all and follow me. Right? You can forsake You can forsake your life. You can continue living as you always have with the same priorities, the same purpose, and the same path you've been on, or you can forsake all of it. of that and return to God. And friend, it is indeed a return because God has made all of us. He has made you in his image and he has made you to serve him. But all of us have rejected God and chosen to be our own rulers and live our own life our own way. But God calls you and me to repent. to return, to turn from our sin and return to the fullness of knowing Him through His Son, Jesus That is what Ruth is doing here, and make no mistake about it. She is giving up all she has ever known in order to experience the fullness of knowing Yahweh. We have no idea if she ever saw her family again, if she ever saw her friends again, if she ever saw Moab again, but whether she did or not, we know it was worth it. Because she recognized what Orpah did not, that she could return to her country, she could return to her family, her friends, her gods, and if she did, she would walk around spiritually hungry for the rest of her life. And friend, you will too, if you choose to fill yourself on the pleasures of this life, rather than filling yourself on the fullness of God through his Son, Jesus Christ. It's a fullness that's hinted at even in our passage this morning, which brings us to our third and final point: the fullness. Follow along as I read verses 19 to 22 for us. So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem. And when they came to Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred because of them And the women said, Is this Naomi? And she said to them, Do not call me Naomi. Call me Mara. But the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, and the Lord has brought me back empty. I call me Naomi, when the Lord has testified against me and the Almighty has brought calamity upon me. So Naomi returned, and Ruth, the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, with her Who returned from the country of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. But we see that even after a decade, the women of the town recognize Naomi. But because of the grief she's suffered over the past ten years, Naomi tells the women. Call me Mara. Mara means bitter in Hebrew. Given all that's happened to her, we can certainly relate. You can imagine the long, deep lines on her face as she's weathered the past ten years of losing her husband and then two of her sons, or her two sons. Maybe you can relate to Naomi. Maybe you even feel like Naomi today, like your name should be changed tomorrow. Maybe you've experienced great loss in your life. Maybe you feel like your life is one episode, one sad episode after another. If that's you, I want to mourn with you, having experienced tragedy and lost myself. It's a sorrowful and hard thing I also want to point you to the reality that the Bible doesn't shy away from these deep griefs and sorrows that we suffer in this life. No, the Bible deals squarely with them. But I do want to point out something ironic in Naomi's choice that I hope encourages you in the midst of your grief The name Mara, bitter, is ironic. And I doubt Naomi sees this. It's ironic because it occurs at one other place in the Old Testament. When Israel was journeying in the wilderness after they had been delivered out of slavery in Egypt, the Lord brings them out into the wilderness where they are wandering around. And while they're out in the wilderness, they happen upon a stream of water, right? Or a body of water, a pool of water. What happens when you're in the wilderness in the desert in the heat of day and you're wandering around? You get thirsty. So they come to the water and they drink from it. And they find that the water is bitter. It's very bitter water. And so they name the water, the place of the water, Mara, bitter. Why is that ironic? Because of what happens next. Yahweh says to Moses, pick up a log and throw the log into the water So he picks up the log. Gotta imagine, what on earth am I doing this for? This isn't gonna do anything. And he throws the log into the water. And what happens when the log hits the water? The water becomes sweet. Why is Naomi's choice of the name Mara ironic? Because out of her bitterness, the Lord is about to bring sweetness. And that sweetness is going to burst onto the scenes in chapters 2, 3, and 4. The Lord is able to bring sweetness out of bitterness and grief. We'll see it in the book of Ruth. My encouragement to you today, if you are in Christ and you just feel like Naomi, like life is bitter, we know that what we are experiencing now cannot compare with the sweetness and the fullness of what is going to be revealed to us Even in this life, the Lord is able to bring life from the death that you are feeling. But we know ultimately He will bring life from the dead, and we will enter into eternal life in his glory forever. That Fullness is for you today, even if you feel like you're living in bitterness. And he gives that fullness to us through his son Jesus. There are even hints of that fullness in our passage. I wonder if you see them It's right there, swimming under the surface. Notice that they return to Bethlehem. Bethlehem. Which literally means house of bread. They've returned to the place where they can be filled. And not only that, they arrive at the beginning. Beginning of the barley harvest. Notice the progression of the chapter. It begins in verse 1 with a famine and ends with a barley harvest. From famine to fullness, there will be bread to eat. in Israel. But this is more than just some small story that happens to be in the Old Testament. You ever wonder like what why this story? Out of 3,000 years or 2,000 years of history in the Old Testament, like couldn't you have a better story, like a more exciting, a more prominent story that has more kind of like glitter and you know glamour and like wow big things happening why this story well we see clues in our text signaling that this unsus unsuspecting story is actually a major development Development in God's plan of redemption. First, a famine in the land causes an Israelite family to sojourn in a foreign country. We've already seen this. In Genesis chapter 12, immediately after God calls Abraham, major moment in Salvific history, right? Immediately after he calls him, there's a famine in the land, and Abraham sojourns in Egypt. Then again, in Genesis 41 to 50, it is a famine in the land that causes Jacob and his sons to move into Egypt. Major moment in salvation history. Both of these events are massive developments. And here again, we see a famine in the land and an Israelite family having to travel into a foreign land. But that's not all. Look also again at verse 6. The author tells us the Lord visited his people and gave them food. The same wording is used when God visits Sarah and fulfills his promise to give her a son. Or in Exodus chapter 4, verse 31, when the Lord God visits his people, sees their distress, and moves to rescue them out of slavery. In Egypt. The clues tell us that something major is happening in this little story, and indeed something major is. You have to recognize that this Is not ultimately about Naomi's repentance or about Ruth's powerful declaration of faith. It is ultimately about the covenant-keeping God, providentially working in unexpected places, like Moab You just think about this. He's working in Moab among the foreign people, right? As humans, we tend to think the the big show is where it's at. Massive churches where all the glitz and the glamour, tons of people are going. That must be where God is moving. But God is like, no, my ways are not your ways. You think I would be act would be working in Israel, but here I am working in Moab And I am working through an old widow and a Moabite woman, the most unsuspecting people you could possibly choose. God is at work in the most unsuspecting places. Friends, look around right now. What is it, 100 people here? Could God really be at work in this church and in other churches like it? Well, yes, God has promised to be. That where his word is preached and his people gather in the worship of him, there he is with them. Visits them week in and week out, and he is working to bring his purposes to fulfillment, which he will one day do This story is ultimately about the covenant keeping God providentially working in unexpected places among unexpected people to bring about the redemption of the world. Because as we'll learn in the coming chapters, Ruth finds a husband, Boaz. And Boaz fathers Obed. And Obed fathers Jesse, and Jesse fathers David, and many generations after David, Through the family line of David, the Lord would once again visit his people and give them food to eat When in Bethlehem, the house of bread, Mary was found to be with child, and that child was none other than The bread of life, the Lord Jesus Christ. Friends to all who have forsaken this world And return to God through faith in Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus provides spiritual food in the midst of the famine of this world I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall never hunger Are you hungry today? Come to the fullness that can only be found in the Lord Jesus Christ Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray and give you thanks for being a covenant-keeping God. Whose purposes and plans cannot be thwarted. May that encourage us today because you have purposed and planned to carry on your great work of redemption and sanctification in our lives until that work is completed. You've also promised that your son will visit us again from heaven and bring us into your eternal kingdom where we will gather around his uh wedding table And you will give us eternal food to eat in your presence forever. Now feed and nourish us today and keep us until the end, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.