So I want to invite you to turn to the book of Colossians, chapter two. One of the biggest moneymakers in the self-help sector of book publishing these days. are books on goal setting, right? Books like Your Best Year Ever or Start with Why or The Art of Setting Smart Goals. or hard goals or measure what matters. And a reason I think that there's such a large market for books on goal setting or finding your purpose your mission in life is because we are constantly being being inundated with information and messaging and advertising. Right? You get on the web and it's pop-up. Do this Buy this, seek this, think this, pursue this. You get on Instagram and it's curate this kind of life. Eat at this kind of restaurant, take this kind of vacation, and and so on Or you get on Twitter and it's believe this. No, think this. No, you should think this. You should give your life to acting for this and seeking this kind of righteousness. Everywhere we turn, we're being inundated with messages about the type of life we should be living, which can be crippling, right? What should I do? What should I think? Who should I really be? What goals should I pursue? But I also think there's another reason that there's such a large market for books on goal setting and finding your purpose and things like that, a deeper reason that is more fundamental to being human. And that reason is that we were created to live for a particular purpose. Part of being human is needing direction in life Part of being human is needing to be told what our goals should be. You just go back to the garden, right, when Adam and Eve were created. Immediately after God created them, he gave them goals to strive for, a mission in life. Be fruitful and multiply, exercise dominion over the creatures of the earth. Right? You see this happen again in the New Testament. What is the great commission, if not a grand mission statement and goal for the church? Go and make disciples That is your goal and mine, our purpose in life. Now, within that, what does it look like to grow in being a disciple of Jesus? It definitely means making other disciples, but then there's also your personal growth as a disciple. In that sphere, what should you be striving for? What should your goals, what should your goals be for maturing as a disciple this week, this month, this year Well, just as Adam and Eve needed God to tell them what they should give their energy to, we need to turn to God's word to hear from God about what our goals should be individually and as a church. We're continuing today our study through the book of Colossians. And as we think about where we are in the book, chapter one of Colossians. Has been all about the power of the gospel. Right? The gospel is bearing fruit around the world and in the lives of the Colossians, and at the heart of the gospel is the preeminent Christ who rules over all creation and yet who died on a cross. To reconcile us to God. And at the end of chapter one, Paul begins describing his own ministry of the gospel, right? His ministry included suffering for Christ and preaching Christ. All for the purpose of presenting Christians mature in Christ. I want you to look back briefly at verse 28 of chapter 1. Paul says, Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this, that is your maturity, for this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Now, what he's going to do in chapter 2, verses 1 to 5, is he's going to refer to that struggle for their maturity again. But now, rather than focusing on what he's doing to present them mature, He's going to describe what they should be striving for to grow in maturity. He's going to give them goals to strive after. Want you to follow along as I read Colossians chapter 2, verses 1 to 5. This is God's word. For I want you to know How great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face. That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding. and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. For though I am absent in body Yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ. Your goals for maturing in the faith in the coming days, weeks, and months should be to grow in being encouraged in the faith. United in love, filled with gospel wisdom, and on guard against false teaching Because I want to give adequate time to reflect on these. We're going to break this passage up over the next three weeks. We're going to look today at being encouraged in the faith. Next week we'll look at being united in love, and the week after that, we'll look at being filled with gospel wisdom and on guard against false teaching. So our goal for today, for growing in maturity, is to grow in being encouraged in the faith. Take another look at verse 1 Paul's describing his struggle for their growth and maturity, and he says he's struggling not only for the Colossians, but also for the church in Laodicea, which was in the same region as Colossae, and for all Who had not seen him face to face. Basically, what Paul is saying is he wants all Christians to grow in the things that he's about to name. And the very first thing that Paul wants is for their hearts to be encouraged And when Paul talks about the heart, right, he's not talking about the organ in your chest, the muscle that is beating, nor is he primarily describing their emotions or feelings, which is how we would probably think about the heart today in America. In Scripture, the heart is much more all-encompassing than that. In Scripture, the heart refers to the command and control center of the soul. It's the seat of desire, will, and volition. Basically, it's the deepest part of your being. At its most basic, it is what makes you you And Paul wants for the Colossians and for you to be encouraged in your heart. Encouraged in the deepest part of your being. Encouraged, right? We want to think about it today, not as a verb, but as a noun. It is a thing that you possess in your heart, encouraged. Think of other ways to put it. He wants them and he wants us to be comforted in the deepest part of their being. Filled with good cheer. in their heart, deeply contented in the deepest part of our beings. That is what Paul wants us to strive for and after But we got to ask the question, what does he want them to be encouraged by? Right? It's not as though we're reading through this letter, we're looking at one passage today. And when you read a passage like this outside of context, it can seem as though Paul is just dropping into our life from space. Poof, here's the Apostle Paul. Be encouraged in your heart. And you're like, great, Paul, I've just had a terrible week. Why should I be encouraged in my heart? That would be the wrong way to think about this passage. This passage is following all of chapter one. What does he want them and us to be deeply encouraged by? It's everything that has come before this passage. He's in it's an encouragement that he sees as flowing out of his own preaching of the gospel, right? As I give myself to the ministry of proclaiming Christ so that you would become mature in Christ, I want my preaching to produce encouragement In the deepest recesses of your heart and being. And why should Paul's preaching and my preaching and the preaching of all pastors produce deep heartfelt encouragement? Think about what he has already preached in Colossians. You dear saints, have the hope of heaven awaiting you. I know this world is dark and painful and full of sorrows, but it will not always be so. The Son of Righteousness will one day pierce the skies and bring you and I to dwell in the new heavens and new earth forever. Not only that, but because of Jesus, God is fully pleased with you, loves you. Has set his affection upon you. What does Zephaniah say? The Lord sings and delights over his people I know you're burdened by your struggles with sins and the weaknesses of your body, but take heart. The Father loves you and delights in you. He is Fully pleased with you. Not only is he fully pleased with you, but as I have preached to you in Colossians already, he has fully qualified you to share in the heavenly inheritance he is preparing for you. So when you and I say, What do we have to do to make sure that we make it to heaven? He says to you, it's already done. The bill has been paid. The tickets have been purchased. Not only that. But he's delivered you in this life from the domain of darkness, transferred you into the kingdom of his beloved son, and done all that is necessary to qualify you to share in this inheritance He has also redeemed you by the blood of his son. You and me, rescued from slavery to sin. He did it. You've been forgiven in and through Christ, who is Lord over all. He died on the cross to reconcile you to God, and you have been reconciled through faith in him. He took you and I who once were alienated and hostile in mind and doing evil deeds. And he has turned us into saints who are holy and blameless and above reproach. All of this is what Paul labors and struggles to preach to them So that they would be encouraged, and so that you and I would be deeply encouraged in the faith. Having heard of all that God has done for us, having heard about how he has transformed us and qualified us and delivered us and is bringing us to be with him in heaven. That should produce in our hearts the content of encouragement, deep encouragement, contentment, comfort, satisfaction. For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me, that you would be deeply encouraged in your heart. The gospel, preached in all of its fullness, produces maturity. And that maturity includes being encouraged in the faith. And now you see why Paul wants them to aim for the goal of being encouraged in the faith. Because that encouragement flows out of our understanding of the gospel. And so the more and more we grow in being deeply encouraged in the gospel, the more we show off the power of the gospel. And being encouraged in the faith shows off the power of the gospel in two ways. The first is the power of the gospel to satisfy our souls. Augustine famously said, our hearts are restless until we find our rest in thee. Right, before God saved us, we were plagued by restlessness. Wandering hearts looking for satisfaction in the things of this world. But When God saved us, he gave to us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And everything we need for life and godliness. And he gave us his very self so that we would be completely satisfied in him. So that we would be encouraged, comforted, filled with good cheer, and deeply contented in the faith. Now you see how being encouraged in the faith shows off the power of the gospel. You and I live in the midst of a world that is not satisfied. Right. We're surrounded by restlessness. A world looking for satisfaction, fulfillment, hope, and encouragement in the things of this world Looking for encouragement in physical pleasures. Looking for fulfillment in work and family and in travel and in amassing wealth. Looking for hope from political parties, politicians, seeking encouragement in places it can't be found. And the more you and I are encouraged in the faith, the more you and I are deeply contented in what God has done for us in the gospel, the more we display the all-surpassing sufficiency of the gospel. Think about a non-Christian friend that you might have who is struggling to understand the world around them and how it seems like the foundations of our country and our world are being shaken by everything we've experienced this year. They should be saying to you, How is it that you can be so steadfast? How is it that you can remain a level head and you just seem to have a hope and encouragement beyond this? And you would say to them, because my hope isn't in this world. My hope is in the good news of the gospel, that there is a greater king and a greater kingdom coming. So, yes, I struggle in the midst of what we're experiencing this life, but my hope is there because I am encouraged in my heart. About the good news of the gospel. We're called, right, to live in the world, but not to be of the world. And one way we do that. Is by telling the people around us who are seeking encouragement for their hearts in things that cannot provide it, where they can find the encouragement, the good cheer. the satisfaction and the deep contentment they're looking for. Maybe for the teens who are here, I want you guys to think about this for your own lives. As you're growing into adult into adulthood, you are going to encounter a whole lot of meanness, right? You're going to encounter unkindness. exclusivity among friend groups and just a deep desire to fit in and be accepted. And that comes from the restlessness we all have in our hearts. The lack of contentment and satisfaction of the human heart And the more that you grow in following Jesus, the more you're probably going to notice a difference with your peers who don't follow him. Because the more you grow in being encouraged in the faith, the duller the desire will be in your heart to need to fit in. Or to have exclusive friendships, or to find your identity as a student or an athlete or someone who is just really popular. The more you're encouraged in the faith, the less you'll give in to the temptation to do anything to get what the world is offering. Now, I'm not saying that you won't desire those things at all or even struggle with them at times. We all do. But over time, as you grow in understanding all that God has done for you in the gospel, you should feel your grip on this world. loosening over time. We want the way that we live to match what we profess to believe. And so we should give ourselves to meditating on talking about and reminding each other of all that we have to be encouraged by. And when we do that, we also show off the power of the God, the gospel's power to sustain us, right? The encouragement that Paul is calling Christians to pursue is the type of encouragement that cannot be threatened by the trials. and sufferings of this life. It is being encouraged in the faith. What faith? The faith that looks beyond what is seen to what is unseen. The faith that is the assurance of things hoped for and the conviction of things to come. The faith that God is preparing for us a city with foundations that cannot be shaken. Where the curse of sin has been removed, and where we will rise to a better and more perfect life. The faith that mourns the pain and sorrow of this life, but remains deeply encouraged in the midst of it because we know God will ultimately deliver us from it. So, when the rest of the world sees only hopelessness and despair in the face of life's trials, the Christian Being deeply encouraged in the hope of heaven, and the sure foundation they presently stand upon is able to face the trials of life, not stoically But steadfastly encouraged. Encouraged in their hearts. With a hope that cannot be shaken, because our hope is beyond the reach of anything. Or anyone in this world who might threaten it. We can be encouraged in our hearts because we know that ultimately Christ will guide us through all of life's storms. When I was in the Coast Guard, my first duty station was in Astoria, Oregon. And I was stationed on a boat that ported on the Columbia River. just a couple miles upriver from where the Columbia meets the Pacific Ocean. And as an E3, when you get to your first duty station, I don't know if it's different for other guys who've been or or gals who've been E3s here. At least for me, I wasn't guaranteed off-base housing. And because my base was a boat and I didn't get off-base housing, I lived on that boat. The whole time that I was there. That was my home. So whenever when we would pull back into port and everybody would go back to their apartments, I'm like, well, I've still got this little rack to sleep in, and this boat is my home. But it gave me a lot of time out on the deck of the boat to just look around and watch what was going on. And uh we reported just a few miles up from where the Columbia meets the Pacific Ocean, and that is what is called or known as the Columbia River Bar. It's where the massive current of the Columbia slams into the Pacific Ocean, and it is treacherous. Uh according to port officials, it is the most dangerous river entrance to an ocean in the world. So just to give you some context, when you get out of the Pacific Ocean and into the river in the section that is known as the Columbia River Bar, you can very easily and often get hit by 20 and 30 foot swells. In a river, it's madness. But that's what you have when you have so much water slamming into each other. To give you a bit more context, the town at the tip of Washington State that overlooks the Columbia River Bar is named Cape Disappointment. And it's named Cape Disappointment because of how many sailors saw the Cape and were disappointed because they never got to it. They sank in the Columbia River Bar And because of how dangerous it is, there is an association of bar pilots. These are people who've trained for years to navigate the treacherous waterways. And what large commercial ships will will do, because they're the the captain of their ship is not familiar with the bar, is they will stop outside of the bar before they get to it, and they will hire or call upon the Columbia River Bar pilots. And a helicopter will fly over the boat, and you'll see a ladder come down, and then a person will climb down, they'll climb onto the boat, they'll go up to the bridge, and then they take hold of the helm, and the captain steps back. And so the boats uh will be led through the Columbia River Bar by the po the bar pilot who is experienced in navigating those waters. And do you know what the captain's experience as the pilot is leading his boat through the bar? nervousness, but also deep encouragement. Why? Because his boat is in good hands. Right. When you put your faith in Jesus, he is like that bar pilot coming aboard to navigate you and I through the storms of life. When you experience storms, failures, trials, and disappointments, you and I will experience all of the normal emotions that come with those experiences. But you can also navigate those experiences with deep encouragement, knowing that because Christ has come aboard your ship, you will never sink You can be encouraged in the faith because God will sustain you and bring you through every trial you're facing. But there's also another aspect of the encouragement that Paul is calling us to pursue that we do need to consider, and that is that the encouragement that flows out of the gospel that we should pursue as part of our maturity in Christ is not just a me and Jesus affair. It's a deep wide, it's a churchwide project. Deep encouragement in the gospel is a church-wide project. Consider all of the commands to encourage one another in the New Testament. Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians: encourage one another and build one another up. Or in Romans 1, he writes, I long to see you so that I may impart some spiritual gift to you. Ooh, wow The apostle Paul wants to come to Rome and impart a spiritual gift to us. What is it? Is it like divine insight? Is it tongues? Is it healing? What does he say? I long to see you so that I may impart some spiritual gift to you. That is, that you and I may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith. Encouragement in the faith is a spiritual gift that is to be experienced and shared with others in the church for mutual edification and building up of the church. We should be a place. We should be a people where deeply encouraged saints minister their encouragement to one another. Right? It's inevitable in life that we will all experience lulls, flatness, valleys, darkness, and even despair. And so we need to practice coming alongside and genuinely encouraging one another. Right? I'm not talking about coming up to someone and singing happy happy joy joy. Right? Just be encouraged, brother. Right? I'm talking about deep gospel encouragement Reminding one another, encouraging one another to hold fast to the promises of the gospel and of the goodness of God and his sovereignty over this world and his ability to bring us through every storm and trial in life. That every promise of ours in Christ is yes and amen. Right? I'm also not talking about flattery. I'm talking about genuinely, honestly, encouraging others in the faith. I look around this room and I can do this with so many different people in this room and congregation. I'm encouraged by Hugh and Carrie Fike's decision to move to Chevrolet. So that they could be part of a church community where they could be in deeper relationship with others. I'm encouraged, by the way, Kesset does everything she can to bless the kids in the congregation and to see the gospel spread in and around Chevrolet. I'm encouraged by the way, Joel Dubois oozes gospel wisdom and joy in every conversation. I don't know if ooze is the best word, sorry, but. That's what I feel when I'm just like, yes, I'm gonna give you a hug and I want that on me because it's so good, right? I'm encouraged by the way, Maya. faithfully attends Bible study and continues to give herself to the study of the word. I'm encouraged by the way that Akeel continues to fight the good fight. I'm encouraged by Laura Hardens, wrestling with the deeper things of God so that she can more understand God and the treasures of wisdom and knowledge that are in Christ Jesus. I'm encouraged by Brent and Dave Orme and their quiet and joyful service week in and week out. I could go around this room and do this with everyone, right? God intends for us to be a people who are deeply encouraged in the faith, and one of the means He's given us for obtaining that deep encouragement is by encouraging one another. Encouraging one another. We should be a people who point out God's work in each other's lives. Of people who encourage one another. Ray Ortland said: one thing you can be certain of is that you will never encounter a person who is suffering from too much encouragement. I'm sure you know that to be true. Think about yourself. Could you benefit from having more encouragement in your life? Of course. And you shouldn't assume that when you look at another person and you can see God's blessing on their life and God's work in their life, that they can see the work that God is doing in them. Why? Because most of us fixate on our failings and simply don't have eyes to see what God is doing in our lives. So you shouldn't assume that other people can see the work that God is doing in them. Point it out to them. Honestly and without flattery. You never know when you point out God's work in somebody's life and encourage them in the faith that they may help, that may help another Christian to just keep continuing in the faith. If you've ever read Pilgrim's Progress, then you've seen a great illustration of how encouraging others in the faith helps them to continue in the faith I've had to modify this because it's a little bit hard to communicate in old English. But this is the gist of the story. If you've read Pilgrim's Progress at the End, it's a story of Christian and hopeful. Christian and hopeful, they they come to the final stage of their journey. Before they enter into the promised land, they have to cross a river. Christian looks at the river and it appears very deep. And he begins to despair. Nonetheless, Christian and hopeful enter the river. And as soon as they enter, Christian begins to sink Crying out to his good friend Hopeful, he said, I sink in the deep waters, the waves go over my head. But Hopeful said to him, Be of good cheer, my brother, I feel the bottom, and it is good. Then Christian said Ah my friend, the sorrows of death have surrounded me. I will not make it to the land that flows with milk and honey And a great darkness fell on Christian, so that he could not see before him. He also lost his senses, so that he could no longer remember the way that God had worked in his past. He also could not get out of his mind the sins he had committed both before and after he had begun his pilgrimage. Hopeful therefore had a lot of work to do to keep his brother's head above water. Sometimes Hopeful would see Christians sink all the way under the water. And then pop back up, appearing half dead. Surely you have felt that way in your journey of faith at times, popping up, barely coming up above the water, appearing half dead, and hopeful would encourage him, saying Brother, I see the gate and the men standing by it. They are standing there to receive us. And Christian would answer, tell me this isn't tell me this isn't you. Christian would answer, it's you they wait for and not me. You have been hopeful ever since I knew you. And so have you said hopeful You have forgotten that these troubles and distresses are no sign that God has forsaken you. They've been sent to try you, whether you will call to mind his goodness and lean on him in your distress. Be of good cheer. Jesus Christ will make you whole. And with that, Christian broke out with a loud voice. I see him again. And have been reminded that when I pass through the waters, he is with me. Then they both took courage and passed through the river. Do you see how Christian was all but dead until hopeful's encouragement revived him? And he was reminded of God's goodness and power. In your journey, in my journey, we will all be Christian at some point. And we will all be hopeful at some point. Deeply encouraged saints, ministering God's encouragement to one another That we would be courage in our hearts as an overflow of the gospel One author said the church should be a place of hope, good cheer, and encouragement, the place where others affirm the areas of growth in our lives and help us on the way to maturity The place where we are fortified for daily battle in the midst of despair and hopelessness. And the place where we do the same for others What a goal that is for us individually and as a church. What a goal to strive for, to be deeply encouraged in the faith. And to minister that encouragement to others, that we might all reach the golden shore. Give yourself to that goal this week This month, this year. And you will see God do amazing things in your life and in the life of this church. Let's pray. Father, encourage us in the gospel. So much good news. So much grace. So much mercy. So much righteousness. Justice. You are a good and perfect God. When we feel like Christian sinking in the waters, surround us with hopefuls that they would speak your encouragement to us. Help us to encourage one another, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.