Good morning. Good to be here with you all. I'm excited about this opportunity to open up God's Word and to hear what He has to say to us today. I hope you're excited as well. We get to hear from the living God. I do hope you'd bear with me for one more prayer. We talked last week about how Prayerlessness is a sign of faithlessness and about how we as a people need to be praying for everything that we do, which is why we've prayed a number of times already this morning. But I want to lead us in one more brief prayer before we get into God's Word. Pray with me now. Heavenly Father, we labor in vain if you are not involved and active in this work this morning. And so we pray for the presence of your Holy Spirit to bring wisdom and to bring insight, to bring salvation, and to bring joy in the hearts of all who are here to the glory of your beloved Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, do turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 9, verses 30 to 50. Those are going to be the verses that we're looking at this morning in our time together. If you're using one of the Bibles that we've provided that Jonathan uh pointed out already, which you can take for your own if you don't have a copy, you'll find our passage on page 845 If you're not familiar with reading a Bible, you're looking for the big, bold, number nine. That's the chapter number. And then we're going to be looking at the smaller verse numbers after that, verses 30 through 50. Before we dive in, I just want to note one kind of neat little evidence of God's providence and sovereignty. When we talk about God being in control of all things, we talk about him being providential over all things, his sovereign over all things. What I want to point out to you is that I noticed today that we read Philippians chapter 2. Verses 1 to 11. That was the sermon text of the passage that I preached one year ago today, as I was preaching on our need to be a people who are humble and servant-hearted. We're going to see that God has sovereignly orchestrated through snow days and people being sick and sermons getting pushed back We are dealing with another passage this morning on the need for humble servanthood in the life of Christians. So praise God for his sovereignty and even just showing, hey, I'm in control of everything, even your preaching schedule. And he's trying to impress upon us the importance of us being a servant-hearted and humble people. And that's what we're going to look at this morning. We are in Mark's Gospel, as I've said in the past, the first half of Mark's Gospel, chapters 1 to 8. are all about proving Jesus' identity as the Son of God. Miracle after miracle is put in place in Mark's gospel to prove to us That Jesus is the Son of God, the Messiah, the chosen one who's come to be the Savior of all mankind. And then in chapter 8, with Peter's confession that Jesus is the Christ The main theme of Mark's gospel shifts from proving Jesus' identity as the Son of God to proving the identity of true disciples of Christ. So Jesus offers test after test, characteristic after characteristic of what makes true disciples Or you can look at it the other way. He tries to show us what makes counterfeit disciples by showing us who true disciples actually are and how they Live. It's a theme of true discipleship. So you we've seen that in the second half of Mark's gospel already when he talks about uh how whoever would follow me must be willing to take up his cross, lay down his own life, be self-sacrificial, deny himself That is to say, if you're not doing that, but you understand yourself to be a follower of mine, help me reconcile how you cannot be taking up your cross but be claiming the name of Christ. And we come to another passage this morning in which Jesus is going to hold out to us characteristics of true discipleship in order to help us understand whether we might actually be counterfeit disciples Counterfeit disciples. He doesn't want us to go through this life being counterfeit disciples. Jesus came to seek true worship and true worshipers who worship him in the spirit and in truth, and who embody that worship by living it out in their lives. Now he's already taught that you can tell true disciples from counterfeit disciples because true true disciples will be marked by self-denial and self-sacrifice. And in our passage this morning, we see two more ways to tell true disciples from counterfeit disciples. So I'm going to read Mark chapter 9, verses 30 to 50 for us. And then we'll dive in. This is God's word. They went on from there and passed through Galilee. And he did not want anyone to know, for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And when he is killed, after three days he will rise. But they did not understand the saying and were afraid to ask him. And they came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them, What were you discussing on the way? But they kept silent, for on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest. And he sat down and called the twelve, and he said to them, If anyone would be first He must be last of all and servant of all. And he took a child and put him in the midst of them And taking him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. And whoever receives me, receives not me, but him who sent me. John said to him, teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he was not following us But Jesus said, Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me. For the one who is not against us is for us. For truly I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward. Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin It would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. For everyone will be salted with fire. Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again Have salt in yourselves. Be at peace with one another. If you're taking notes this morning, the main point of our passage is Counterfeit disciples compete with one another and condone sin in their own lives. Counterfeit disciples compete with one another and condone sin in their own lives. And we're going to look at the passage this morning in two points so that you can follow along more easily. Point one compete and point two condone. And I just want to say ahead of time, uh point one is almost twice as long as point two So when we get to the end of point one and I say now moving on to point two, I don't want you to lose heart. Uh it will be much quicker through the second point than we go through the first point. But just so you know kind of the the way that is ahead of us. So Let's look at the passage in verses 30 to 32. You can look down there with me. Jesus and his disciples were traveling from an area known as Caesarea Philippi, which was north of Galilee. They were traveling south. through Galilee to the region of Capernaum on the west side of the Sea of Galilee. This was about a thirty-five mile walk that would have taken them about ten hours to complete. I don't know if they would have done it in one day or two days, but what we do know is that gives Jesus plenty of time to spend dedicated time teaching his disciples. And that's what we see he takes advantage of the time to do. He teaches them again. about his coming death and resurrection, which you saw him do at the end of chapter 8 already. And what was interesting about that is he taught them in chapter 8 that he was going to be handed over rejected, killed, and resurrected, and then immediately after that, he gives them two defining marks of discipleship, self-denial and self-sacrifice Whoever would come after me must take up his cross. And here again, after Jesus teaches on his coming death and resurrection, he immediately follows up with Very crucial lessons for us as disciples of Christ. Well we see in verse 33, they arrive at some home in Capernaum. We don't know whose home this was. It's possible it was Peter's back in chapter 1. We saw Jesus stay at Peter's house in Capernaum. May or may not have been his house, but more important than whose house it is, is the conversation that follows. So apparently on this trip from Caesarea Philippi down to Capernaum, some of the disciples got into an argument along the way. And so Jesus says to them, hey What were you guys arguing about on the way down here? Now we know from Luke that he already knows the reason because he's all-knowing. He just wants to see if they're going to tell him. He's trying to draw them out into the open. But you notice their response. Look at verse 34. We should say maybe their lack of response. But they kept silent. For on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest. Right, so what you see going on here is if you've ever been caught red-handed doing something that you knew you shouldn't have been doing, and and the person was like, hey, what were you doing? And you're like Right, well that that silence is an admission of guilt. That's why we say we know that we shouldn't have been doing the thing that we were just doing. Your question draws us out. We don't want to answer it because we are guilty. There's silence is an admission of guilt. And what's interesting is I think the disciples are about two years into their ministry with Jesus They've been following him probably for about two years at this point. And I think what's happening is they've taken in enough of his teaching that they know, ugh. No, we shouldn't have been arguing about that. He's taught us on this before, but oh, we just can't help it. We want to be the greatest. And that's why they are being silent in front of Jesus But here's the thing. Since most of us can relate to this type of experience, it's kind of easy to laugh at the disciples and just say Those silly disciples, they mean well, they're just really hard-headed, right? We kind of want to see them in our own light because we see ourselves reflected in them. But I don't think that's the type of attitude that Mark intends us to respond to them with. I actually think he includes three key details in verse 34 alone that point to a serious Problem in the disciples' spiritual life. First, look at verse 34. Mark tells us they were arguing with one another. A question for any of the youth or kids here. Who is the only other group in Mark's gospel who is characterized by being argumentative? Just shout it out if you know the answer. Who is the only other group in Mark's gospel who's characterized as being argumentative? Alright, now any of the adults? The Pharisees, the scribes. We even saw in our passage last week. When Jesus came down the mountain and he saw his other disciples standing there, who was standing there arguing with them? The scribes. Throughout Mark's gospel, they are characterized as being argumentative. Now that's not the only detail that he includes. Second, the disciples respond to Jesus' question with Silence, because they know that they're guilty. Back in chapter 3 on the Sabbath in the synagogue, Jesus calls a man forward. to heal him on the Sabbath, which the Pharisees thought was a breaking of the law. And Jesus, in order to expose how merciless and hard hearted the scribes and Pharisees are, asks them if it's lawful to do good on the Sabbath. And how do they respond? They keep silent. They know we are merciless. We are adding to the law of God, but their silence is an admission of guilt. So the disciples argue they're silent, and third The disciples are arguing about who is the greatest. Just like the scribes and Pharisees, who love to have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at the feasts. Mark in this one verse just drops a trifecta on us just to say these disciples are in a dangerous spiritual state. They're no different from the Pharisees in their attitudes and actions. And that's a thing that we want to pay attention to here. Their motivations, attitudes, and actions are evidence that the disciples may be counterfeits. They may be counterfeits, and the one thing that Jesus hones in on there is their desire to be the greatest So to be the greatest, that means that they wanted to prove within the group of disciples, they wanted, each of them wanted to be the most important. They wanted to prove that their skill set was superior to the others, that their gifts were the most necessary ones for the success of the group. And Jesus explains that their desire to be the greatest is completely inconsistent with true discipleship. Competing with other brothers and sisters in Christ has absolutely no place in the Christian life. Because competing with others is contrary to the very nature of God Himself. Track with me here. Consider the fact that within the Godhead, there exists three equally divine and eternal persons. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit. each of whom is deserving of all worship and all glory and all honor and all power and yet each of the persons of the Godhead willingly, eagerly, and purposefully shares their glory with the others. Think about this, the Father The architect of all creation has intentionally chosen not to draw all attention and worship to himself, though he's completely deserving of it. But instead has chosen to exalt the Son that he might get worship. The Father says, worship him. I'm worthy of worship, but I want you to worship him. He is all glorious. And the Son, the eternal son, didn't live life by his own power, but submitted to the Spirit in his earthly life. He never spoke of his own authority, but he only spoke the words that the Father gave him to say. And he came not to gather worshippers for himself. But to gather true worshippers for the Father in heaven. The Son, who's worthy of all worship, says, Worship my Father in heaven. And the Spirit comes not to be worshipped as the Spirit, though He's completely worthy of all worship But he comes so that the Father and the Son might be glorified. The Trinity is not a community of competition. But a community of unity in which each divine person delights to share glory with the others. Glory that each of them is rightfully due. And God intends for the church to manifest that same type of community within itself So you see how even competing with one another for being the greatest in the church is contrary to the very nature of God Himself. It's an inversion of the image of God. It's a satanic inversion. Where we try to outdo one another, and God says no. Within the Godhead itself, there is perfect love and perfect unity and perfect sharing of glory. And he calls us To be a community like that. We're not meant to be a community of unhealthy competition. A community of people who all desire to be seen as the greatest, but a community in which the individual members Rejoice in and glorify God for the different gifts that He's given to the church. But here's the thing. In a fallen world, even in the most sanctified of Christians, this is something that all of us are going to struggle with, right? We're all going to struggle in different ways with competing with other brothers and sisters in Christ. It's not if we compete with others, but how we go about doing that. So just some questions to consider today and this week. You can even offer these to God in prayer and say to God, God, by your Holy Spirit, show me how I do this. And what venues or areas of your life Do you struggle with the need to be recognized? In what venues or areas in your life do you struggle with the need to be seen as the greatest? In what venues or areas of your life do you struggle with the need to be at the center of things? The need for those things is often rooted in a sinfully competitive spirit. And that spirit can be manifested not only in those desires, but in different types of behaviors. Think about being critical of others. The person who is critical of others often indicates a struggle with a sinfully competitive spirit because that person who is regularly critical of others is either knowingly or unknowingly seeking to be seen as the greatest by tearing others down. No, they are not that great No, they are not that good. And we can be very subtle about the ways that we drop those comments into conversation. No, I just want to tell you that that person isn't as wonderful as you think they are, even though God has given them gifts. I just want to kind of pull them down so they can get get on my level. Right? So I can be above them, seen over them. Or consider jealousy and envy. Jealousy and envy usually rear their heads when others receive recognition for things that we think we deserve. The jealous spirit says, I deserve that. Why did they get that? I should be recognized for that. Closely related are anger or hurt feelings. We may get angry or sad because of an opportunity somebody else got. All these are showing us the ways that we're we're actually desiring what they have so that we can be recognized for it. All of these attitudes Expose for us a sinfully competitive spirit that is at odds with the nature of God Himself and is corrosive to the unity of the church. These disciples were fighting with one another. This is not a good thing. This wasn't a healthy community to be a part of. They needed to be taught that if they were going to become like God Himself, they needed to stop comparing and competing with one another, praise God for the gifts that He gives, and build one another up in the faith. And so we want to root out. those sinfully competitive attitudes and replace them with the mindset and behavior that Jesus says must characterize his people. And what is that behavior? Look at verse 35. Look at verse 35. Jesus sits down and calls the 12. If you're familiar with the Gospels, then you know that this signals momentous teaching because the only other time that Jesus sits down and calls the 12 is the Sermon on the Mount. Which is one of the greatest sections of teaching in the New Testament. So what Jesus is about to teach them is very important for us. And what does he teach them? He says that if you put that you put sinful competition to death by serving, by serving. He says, if you want to be great in my kingdom, right? He doesn't say that you shouldn't want to be the greatest. He just redefines greatness. Greatness comes through being the last, the least, being a servant of all. If you want to be first, then you must be last of all and servant of all. Then he illustrates the point in verses 36 and 37. So In Jesus' day, children didn't hold an important place of honor in culture, right? So they uh in uh first century Israel, children were largely overlooked Neglected, not cherished, they weren't they weren't looked at as valuable members of society. Uh when they got older and they became adults, then they would contribute. So they are overlooked and neglected. And and Jesus is saying to them Hey, if you want to follow me, you need to be willing to welcome and serve the outcast, the neglected, the overlooked The despised, the least of those in society, including children. Including children. And this idea of serving the least in society was completely countercultural to Jesus' world. This would have upended the disciples' understanding of the values of their day. So the disciples lived in an honor-shame culture. Honor and shame cultures still exist largely in the East, largely in Asian cultures. In honor-shane cultures, people's reputations are the most important asset that they possess. And a person built their reputation by developing relationships with other important people in society. And so to associate with the lowly, the overlooked, and the outcast, a person risks doing damage to their very own reputation. So Jesus is commanding here that his disciples Dispense with his world's way, the world's way of uh doing things, dispense with the world's value systems We might be might be saying, well, that was first century Israel. That's clearly not America, right? The most uh valuable commodity we possess is money. You can buy anything with money. But I want you to see how this attitude and this mindset is present in our country For instance, Robert Green is an American author known for his books on strategy, seduction, and power. And he, one of his best-selling books is called The 48 Laws of Power. And it's essentially a manual for building up and gaining what we would call worldly power. And Law 10 in his book is called avoid infection from unhappy and unlucky individuals. And he says, you can die from someone else's misery. You may feel you're helping the drowning, but you are only precipitating your own disaster. The unfortunate draw misfortune on themselves, and they will also draw it on you. Therefore, associate with the happy and the fortunate instead. Best-selling book in America So you think that this is not at work in our cultural mindset or our meta mindset. This is a value in our culture. You don't associate with the lowly or the outcast because you ruin your own reputation and your own life Right? The book is a bestseller because people want to learn how to be the greatest in the world's eyes. And if you read this book, it's essentially a manual on how not to follow Jesus. Basically what it is. And this is the air we breathe So we as a people need to be aware of the way that the world's values may be consciously or unconsciously affecting our Nis, to serve others, even in this body, and not only this body, but the surrounding community and other communities Jesus says that if anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all. What does he mean by all? He means all. There's nobody who is so insignificant or lowly in the world's eyes that they are beneath you being able to serve them. Not only that, you should have a willingness to serve them because if you want to be greatest in the kingdom of God, it's the kingdom that turns this kingdom upside down, you need to be willing and eager to serve the least of all. And what Jesus is showing us here is that one of the biggest obstacles to serving and to serving all is competing with one another. Competing with one another. So we want to root out these attitudes and desires so that we can more fully become the community that God intends us to be. And it doesn't only happen in this church either. We see in the passage that sinfully competitive attitudes can affect how we view other Christians in other churches outside of our own church. Look at verse 38. Look at verse 38. It's a I think it's a an extension of this section on competition. John says to Jesus, Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he was not following us. Like this is frankly amazing. They saw someone casting out demons and they tried to stop him. But what on earth is wrong with you? Why would you get in the way of that happening? Casting out demons, according to the Old Testament, was one of the chief hallmarks that the kingdom of God had come. And here are the disciples standing in the way of it. They're trying to block the spread of the kingdom of God. What on earth is wrong with these people? Right? Then it says that the man was casting out demons in Jesus' name. I think that's Mark's way of saying that this man is a believer. We don't know for certain, but I think that's what he's trying to communicate. There's another person doing work in the name of the Lord, and here you are trying to stop him. Don't stop him. So you have a believer laboring for the spread of the kingdom of God, and the disciples tried to stop him. The irony. In last week's passage, what could the disciples not do? They failed at casting out demons. They failed at it. He's succeeding and they're trying to stop him. I mean it's like, woo, this is bad news for the disciples. What are they doing? And you see verse 38. Why do they do it? Because he is not following us. I don't think the disciples mean you and us. I think they mean us. Hey, what we're the inner circle. We're the ones who've been following you for two years. We're the ones who are the sole constituents of the kingdom of God. This guy over here, they said he's not part of the kingdom because he's not following us. You've taught us, now they need to follow us, and he's not following us, so he can't be part of your kingdom. So in verses 39 to 41, Jesus teaches them that the kingdom of God is a lot bigger than just them. Look at verses 39 and 40. I'm going to summarize these for us. Jesus basically teaches them that by and large, those who labor in the name of Christ are laboring for the kingdom. So don't try to stop them out of some elitist sense of self-righteous ownership of the kingdom of God. Then in verse 41, I think he's offering a comparison. Basically, I think he said what he's saying is if someone provides for your most basic needs like a cup of water because you're my follower, if they won't lose their reward, how much more someone who's casting out demons They're doing it in my name, but you're trying to stand in their way. Stop competing with one another and stop competing with those who are laboring for the spread of the kingdom. I don't think it's something that that I I I've seen in this congregation or that I'm concerned about, us trying to stop other people from doing their work. I don't think you're gonna see any of us out trying to prevent churches. from uh doing the work of the kingdom. But think about the attitudes that come out. Paul says in Philippians two that he had to battle against people who were preaching out of selfish ambition and they were preaching out of self centered motives. But what does Paul say about that? Hey, if it advances the name of Christ, then all praise be to God. Right? So we can look at other churches, then it can be very easy to think, well, they don't do things just like us. Their service doesn't just follow the same order as us. They don't sing as rich as songs as we do. They don't spend as much time in prayer. Therefore, the kingdom of God isn't as present with them. But that's foolishness, friends. If there are churches in this area who are proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ, all of us can grow in doing it more faithfully. But if there are churches proclaiming the gospel of Christ, let us give praise to God and give thanks that the kingdom of God is spreading in our area. Area and around the world. That's the attitude that should embody us as a people. Counterfeit disciples compete with one another. They compete in their own body and they compete with Christians elsewhere. But that's what counterfeit disciples do. And we also find that counterfeit disciples share another trait, which brings me to my second point. Counterfeit disciples condone sin in their own lives. Look at me at verses 42 to 50. The purpose of these final verses is to call his disciples to take serious action against sin now in this life, so as to not experience the devastating consequences of sin in the life of He's teaching them with uh I think as sobering imagery as there is in the New Testament uh about not condoning sin in their own lives. So Look at forty-two, he says it of anyone causes a little one who believes in him to sin. And I think that he's This this person that he has in mind is causing them to sin by having sin in their own lives, possibly competing with others, causing a little one to see that, and then start acting that way themselves. Right? Causing a little one to sin. It would be better for that person to be cast into the sea with a gigantic millstone around their neck. This is A gigantic stone would have been similar in size to the type of stone that was rolled over Jesus' grave. It was used to grind grain. So you're talking about not like a rock. You're talking about a gigantic anchor that would quickly pull somebody to the bottom of the sea and they would never come. up again. And the little ones there are those who it either refers to children who believe in him, or children and all the lowly neglected people they represent. So if anyone causes them to sin, it would be better for them to be drowned in the depth of the sea. This is a shocking image to us if you just stop and think about it. It's shocking. It's sobering. But it would have been even more shocking to the audience that heard it. Because in Jewish culture, the sea added an element of terror because it represented forces of chaos and forces of darkness. So it's as though they're being plunged into, thrown into the depth of chaos and darkness. And Jesus said it'd be better for you to do that or to to be thrown into that. It's a horrible image. But you'll notice that Jesus doesn't say what it would be better than. Better than what? But we'll see very clearly in the following verses that it would be better to suffer that fate than to face God's wrath against us for our sins. It would be better to suffer that than to face God's wrath against us or our sins. Friends, take that seriously. Consider what Jesus is saying to us here. Such is the seriousness of sin. And he doubles down to underscore the seriousness of it in two different ways. Notice first in the verses that follow, the seriousness of the action that Jesus is calling his disciples to take against sin. So just scan with me. Verse 43. If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. Verse 45. If your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. Verse 47, if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. These are graphic images. So it's obvious that Jesus is speaking hyperbolically here. He doesn't actually mean that his disciples or us should cut body parts off. But what's he doing with these images? He's emphasizing the unspeakable seriousness of sin and the decisive action that we should take against it. He's saying, if you want to be my disciple, you need to do whatever it takes to eliminate sin in your lives. Nothing is indispensable in the war against Sin. Not even hands, feet, and eyes. Nothing is indispensable. Cut it off. He's calling for decisive action against all causes of sin. But why Why should we not why should we regard it so seriously? Surely it can't be Jonathan was talking about it earlier, and we all we all do this, like thinking of our sins, it's not really that big of a deal. Can it really be that big of a deal? Well, according to Jesus, the consequences of condoning sin and allowing it to remain in our lives are nothing short of catastrophic. Three times he repeats that it would be better to enter eternal life without our hands, feet, or eyes than it would be to be cast into hell. Look at verse 43. He calls it the unquenchable fire. A fire that never goes out. Then again in verse 48, look down there with me. He describes hell as the place where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. The worm doesn't die. The fire does not go out. These are terrifying images, serious images. In other places in the New Testament, Jesus describes hell as a place of darkness. A place of weeping and torment. All the images, whether fire or darkness, weeping or torment, together create a mosaic of unspeakable terror. Sin brings death. Terrible, everlasting death. The seriousness of the action Jesus calls for against sin now in this life is because of the terrifying consequences of sin in the life to come. Now I recognize that hell is a difficult and sobering topic And I want to point out to you as a congregation to be very careful for anyone who would seek to change the Bible's doctrine of hell. or its teaching on hell or dampen uh its teaching on hell. There are a number of uh people who understand themselves to be Christians today, a a growing number of people who want to uh avoid or remove altogether the Bible's teaching on hell. But we need to understand when we look at the New Testament, nobody in Scripture taught more clearly or more often on the existence of hell than Jesus himself. Now some some of us may wonder how a place like hell can exist. And it's here that I want to encourage us to consider a few things. At first, I want to encourage you to consider that we don't and can't understand everything about God and how he works. We can't because we're inherently broken creatures. We do not see ourselves rightly, nor do we see God rightly, and sin has so corrupted our natures that it's impossible for us to make accurate value judgments about what God can and can't do. Second, because we're broken and can't understand God, we need somebody we can trust to teach us about what will happen in the next life And I would propose, if you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, if you've got questions about why you should follow Jesus and listen to Jesus, you should listen to Jesus because he is different from every other wise teacher who has ever taught about the afterlife. Buddha, a wise teacher, said that we go into nothingness. We become nirvana. We just kind of fade into this existence. There's no real consciousness. Muhammad, another wise teacher, had a very different understanding of the afterlife? Why should you listen to Jesus Because Jesus alone is the one and only person on earth ever to have entered the afterlife and come back from it. He has authority to tell us about what is going to happen in the afterlife because he died and then came back from the dead. And then third, we should consider the justice of God Scripture is clear. God is just. Think about when Abraham was pleading with him before he went down to Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham said to him, Will not the judge of all the earth do what is just? And the answer is, he will He will do what is just because he's not capricious, he's not unfair, he's perfectly just, and he's also perfectly kind, kind to warn us about the devastating consequences of sin so that we would turn from them. And it's not just in the afterlife that sin brings pain and death. Sin brings destruction and death and chaos into our life now Even if we can't see it clearly, sin always destroys. And every time Satan convinces you to believe that sin doesn't, you're believing a lie. So whether you see the immediate effects or they're never apparent to you at all, sin is corrosive. It eats away at your soul and your life like acid. It destroys relationships, it destroys your relationship with God and with others. Sin always destroys Now and in the life to come. So friends, are you regarding sin as seriously as Jesus regards it? Or are you condoning it? Overlooking it, justifying it? Friends, if you condone it, that doesn't mean that Jesus will. You're just lying to yourself about the ultimate consequences of sin. You can overlook it and justify it away all you want, but your attitude towards it will do nothing to change Jesus' attitude towards it. We need to share John Owen's attitude toward sin when he said, Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you And you notice in this passage here, there is no middle ground. There is no purgatory where you can just go and spend some time to pay for the sins. There's life and there's not life. There's the kingdom of God and there's hell. There is two ways in life. You put to death sin in this life or sin will put you to death in the life to come. That's a choice that we have before us today. It's serious and it's sober I don't think in our culture we like to deal with these really serious, sober things like, well, that just sounds too hard. I don't care. The Bible is clear on it, and your soul is so valuable that you need to regard sin the way the Bible does. Your sin, your your soul is of immense value. You want to go about protecting your soul. Think about jewelry stores. Uh you can go into my my wife talked about this. You can go into like Claire's boutique and they have cheap jewelry laying around that you can just steal, right, if you wanted to. But then you go into a nice jewelry store, which shouldn't steal, it's sin. We know about cut your hand off, right? Right? But you have nice jewelry stores, and where do they keep their unbelievable diamonds? Under lock and key. You're not getting anywhere close to that thing. They're gonna keep that diamond from being touched by anyone. Lasers, everything possible to protect it. That diamond is your soul. You need to put every possible guardrail up around it to protect your soul from sin. And I'm not calling us to become like you know uh you know puritanical witch hunters, but the Puritans actually had a clear understanding of the sobriety and seriousness of sin, and I hope that develops in us over this next year. I know it it is so many it is at work all Already in so many of us, but I want us to grow and maturing in that understanding. Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Are you cutting off sin in your life? What sins are you actively at war against? Think about the word war. War. This isn't a passive approach to holiness. Jesus is calling his disciples to all out battle against sin. And it's an all-out battle against all sin. Notice the context. We might be thinking in our minds, he's talking about like the most serious stuff. But he's telling them to cut their hands off immediately after they've gotten an argument about who's the greatest. He's talking about sins like sinful competition, envy, jealousy, hatred. Respectable sins like gossip and things like that. Jesus said, No, there's no such thing as respectable sin. You put them all to death. You put them all to death. Jesus is calling us to cut off sin. And to the youth and kids who are here and listening, I am so thankful for you guys. It has been such a joy over this past year to be able to preach. And to teach and to see you guys grow in understanding the gospel, I want to encourage you in that same battle. You guys are at a stage in life where you are setting patterns that will Be in place the rest of your life. Your parents, they grow more slowly. Adults, we grow more slowly. It's hard for us to change patterns because we've been building those patterns into our life for a long time. You're at a stage now where you can set these patterns into place. And I want to encourage you to set patterns into place to kill sin in your lives. Share with others. Bring it out into the light. Tell your siblings about it. Tell your parents about the ways that you're struggling. Right? This is something we all need to do if we're going to follow Jesus. Sin is serious And so Jesus calls his disciples to serious action against sin. Right? But I've got to assume, I've got to assume that as they were listening to Jesus, Listening to him talk about cutting off whatever it is that causes him to sin, they would have eventually arrived at the conclusion. Wait a minute. My hand doesn't cause me to sin. My foot doesn't cause me to sin. My eye doesn't cause me to sin. Jesus, those things don't cause me to sin. My heart causes me to sin. I can't cut my heart out. I can't remove my spirit and put a new spirit in me. I'm destined for this eternal destruction. Jesus is teaching them. No, you haven't understood. He taught them already. The Son of Man's gonna be killed and rise again after three days. And did they understand it? No Because they didn't understand the purpose of the cross. Do you know whose body is the only body that was scarred? Jesus'. The disciples never had to cut off hands. They never had to cut off feet. They never had to tear out an eye. But Jesus' body was whipped. And beaten, and nails were pierced through his hands and his feet, scars that he retained even after he rose from the dead. Look at my hands. Look at my side You think about this. I was thinking about this passage this past week. I was like, wait, does that mean that we're gonna bear scars in heaven? Like if I actually cut my hand off? He says it's better to enter life if I with a with no hand. Does that mean we're not going to have any hands? No, obviously I misunderstood the passage when I was thinking that, because Jesus is saying, no, you need to cut your heart out, but the only person that can cut your heart out is God, and God's going to do that through the cross. When I die for your sins and rise again from the dead. He's going to reach into the hearts of those who repent and believe. He's going to cut out that heart of stone and he's going to put in there a heart of flesh. And you know, the only person who's going to bear scars in heaven is the Lamb who was slain. Because if we bared scars in heaven, it would be as though we were competing with him. But there's nobody who competes with Jesus. He alone was physically punished for our sins so that we could be forgiven and know newness of life with Jesus Christ. Christ. If you're here today and you're not a follower of Jesus, I want to hold this hope out to you. This warning and this hope. Sin brings death. All of us have sinned. All of us are under the wrath of God. We deserve to be punished. We are guilty and we are headed to hell. But God has made a way for all of us to be forgiven by sending his Son Jesus Christ to die in our place. The death that we deserve, Jonathan Already pointed it out this morning. We deserve that death. He rises again from the grave, showing that he has power over sin and death and hell, so that you can have confidence that if you put your faith in him, your sins will be forgiven, and God will give you a new spirit so that you actually deserve Desire to follow him, not perfectly, not perfectly, but you know what the promise is to us who follow Jesus Christ Let me just point out one other wonderful thing in our passage this morning. Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin. It would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. You say to yourself, John, I've done that I've put my faith in Christ, but I've I've caused someone to stumble and sin. Is this my fate? Oh no, friends The hope of the gospel is that you've been fully forgiven. And the only thing that will be cast into the sea Is the record of your sins. It will sit on the bottom of the sea with a great millstone tied to it, and there will be no remembrance before of those sins before the face of God for you any longer if you are in Jesus Christ. Look to the cross. What Jonathan talked about, as we think about when we sin and we fall short, where do you look You don't look to yourself. You look to the cross and to the resurrection. That's what true disciples do. Are you a true disciple this morning? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, uh these things are uh too weighty for us. These two these truths are too great for our minds. We we even think about the fact that Paul calls it the mystery of the gospel. It was hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. Thank you for revealing it to your saints. Help us to understand the gospel so that we might put to death sinful competitiveness. And sinful condoning of sin in our own lives. Help us to be a holy and peaceful people, I pray. Do this work in us for the glory of your Son and for the building up of your church, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.