Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, and sorry I could not travel both, and be one traveler, long I stood And looked down one as far as I could to where it bent in the undergrowth. Then took the other as just as fair, and having perhaps a better claim, because it was grassy and wanted wear. Though as for that passing there had warned them really about the same. And both that morning equally lay, and leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I kept the first for another day, yet knowing how way leads on to way, I doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sigh, somewhere ages and ages hence, two roads diverged in a wood, and I took the one less traveled by. And that has made all the difference. Well, in 1915, Robert Frost penned that famous poem, The Road Not Taken In it, Frost creates a scene of a traveler coming upon a fork in the road. This traveler then tries as best he can to assess which of the two paths to take before concluding that both paths appear equally worthy of being traveled. So the traveler chooses one, hoping against hope that one day he'll return to travel the other. Though it seems he knows that his choice to go down one path in all likelihood means that he will never return to walk down the other path. Our choices in life inevitably determine our path in life. Right, I'm sure most of you can look back at your life and see how the choices you've made, both large and small, and what we consider large and small choices, don't actually always equal out to large and small effects. Sometimes it's the smallest choices That equal the largest effects. I decided one day to walk through a smaller parking lot rather than a larger parking lot. And upon walking through the smaller parking lot is where I first met my wife. A small decision that changed my life for the better. For the glorious praise to God for the changes that have come through that. But I wonder, as you think about your life today, maybe there are decisions that you're facing in life today that will determine the course of the rest of your life. Do you think there are any decisions today that are going to determine the course of the rest of your life? Well, in fact, when we come to God's word, what we find this morning is that there is a choice. that you will be presented with this morning. A choice between two paths. And the choice that you make determines which path that you walk on and which path that you walk on will determine where you spend not only the rest of this life, but eternity. So go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Psalm chapter one. If you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles around you, you'll find Psalm 1 on page 448. Now the book of Psalms is a beloved book. It's uh often named as one of the favorite books for most Christians. Because as John Calvin once wrote, that the Psalms contain in them the anatomy of the whole human soul. And it's true, when you read through the book of Psalms, you find that there is no experience in life that is left unchallenged or undealt with. The Psalms uh cover a vast array of emotions and human experiences. But I also, before I read Psalm 1, want to point out to us that some of us often look at the Psalms as 150 pieces of disconnected poetry. If that's how you look at the Psalms, I understand that's kind of common in our day as Christians, but I want to point out to you that the Psalms are not disconnected pieces of poetry, but they are masterfully arranged. to show a very clear progression and to tell a very clear storyline. There are five books in the book of Psalms. They're divided up into five separate books, mirroring the first five books of the Bible. The Pentateuch. It's like a second law. And then in that book of Psalms, in those 150 Psalms, there is a clear progression from lament in the beginning of the book of Psalms. Psalms. You see, even as we get to Psalm 3, save me, oh my God, is the title of that Psalm. Lament at the beginning of the book of Psalms, progressing to praise at the end of the book of Psalms. Think about Psalms 145 to 150. It kind of directs our attention that life for the Christian will not always be lament, but will inevitably end in ceaseless praise. And there's also a storyline through the first five books of the Psalms, or the five books of the Psalms. Book one traces David's rise to power as the king of Israel Book two traces his experience as the king of Israel. Book three then brings us to the transition between David and the next king, Solomon. Book four then follows Solomon and his evil sons to where the temple and the nation of Israel is cast into exile And you have Psalms all about the experience of exile until in Book 5 there is the appearance of a new Davidic king, a king who is unlike all others and who brings his people to a place of ceaseless Praise. The book of Psalms is masterfully arranged to tell this story. And what we find this morning, as we come to Psalm 1, is that Psalm 1 acts as an introduction to the entire book of Psalms. When the psalmist, as we see, calls the people to meditate on God's law day and night, he's saying to the reader, open up the psalms. Dive in. Try to search them out, knowing that you cannot search out all of the wisdom and instruction that's in them. But give yourself to understanding this book That's what we see in Psalm 1 this morning. So I'm going to go ahead and read this wonderful psalm for us. This is God's word. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season and its leaf does not wither in all that he does. He prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. The message of Psalm 1 is simple. The author is calling us, instructing us to choose the path of righteousness and not the path of wickedness. First, point one, choose righteousness, not wickedness. Look at verses one and two The blessed person is he who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seed of scoffers. I want you to notice the three terms he uses for the people whose path you should stay off of, right? He calls them the wicked and then sinners and scoffers. Right, when we hear the word the wicked, we tend to think of the most vile person possible, right? Somebody who does unspeakable things in life. But that's not the only type of person the Bible would call wicked. The Bible actually uses the word wicked in a very different way from the way that we use it. In Scripture, the wicked are simply those Who deny God's offer for forgiveness and who live for themselves. Right? So the wicked person may be a hardened criminal, or it may be your neighbor, or it may be your sibling, or it may be your parent. Whoever denies God's offer for forgiveness, the Bible calls the wicked. Then I want you also to notice the three parallels the psalmist provides that draw out the differing degrees of relationships that you should avoid, right? He says, look, blessed is a man who walks not, nor stands. nor sits. He moves from walking to standing to sitting. Right? The progression underscores a movement from simple familiarity with one's ways to kind of a a firmness and resolute agreement. I'm standing with you now, I'm listening to you and I agree with you to a complete immersion in a community and an adoption of their way of life. So to sit in the seat of scoffers was to say, I fully have fellowship with you. That's what it meant to sit down with a person and to have fellowship with them in the culture that this psalmist is writing from. And to walk in the counsel of the wicked as we walk through these differing degrees, to walk in the counsel of the wicked basically means to take advice from them. Now here's what the psalmist is not saying. The psalmist is not saying that you should not take advice from a non-Christian on what kind of car to buy. or what what hotel to stay at or any other you know number of examples that we could come up of advice like that. What he's describing is taking counsel On how you live your life, what your goals should be, what your purpose in life should be. He's talking about considering, considering the merits Of a worldview of someone who doesn't follow the Lord. Right? And to stand in the way of sinners now, to stand in the way of sinners, is to move from considering the merits of their worldview to taking it up yourself and then letting it shape. Your approach to life. And then finally, again, like I said, to sit in the seat of scoffers is to move from agree agreement with them to complete fellowship with those who mock God and his people. So the person who was once willing to hear them out and then kind of moved to agreeing with them now has totally adopted their way of thinking. The path of the wicked has become their own. And the psalmist is calling us to completely avoid that path. But when we when we talk about uh avoiding the path of the wicked, we need to be really careful that we don't come off as self-righteous legalists. That is not what this psalm is calling us to do. When he talks about avoiding the path of the wicked or avoiding being influenced by those who are opposed to God, he's not saying that you should avoid spending time with people who don't follow Jesus That's not what he's saying, right? That's not what Psalm 1 is calling to do. In fact, when we look to the New Testament, who is the primary and chief example of the guy that we follow who spent time with sinners and tax collectors? Right? Jesus sat down and had fellowship. He reclined at the table and ate with sinners and tax collectors. Right, so it we we should be a people who spend time with those who don't follow Jesus because the only way that we're ever going to talk to people who don't follow Jesus is if we spend time with them. Right? So are you making time in your life to be around those who don't follow Jesus so that you can actually just love them for who they are because they're made in God's image? And then you can also tell them about the gospel and the great gift of salvation that God has extended in his son Jesus. So how are you spending time around them? Are you inviting them into your home? Having them over for meals The Psalm is not calling us to not interact with them. What it is saying, and what we all know is true from experience, is that you will inevitably Become like the people that you are closest to. So he's talking about a type of fellowship here which in which the the relationship that this person, the man has with the wicked is that those people then begin to shape his desires, his thoughts, his goals in life until he shares their worldview. And we all know this from experience. You become like those who you spend the most time with. Right? So I look at my sons and I watch them to get playing together and I see the way that they correct one another. And they correct one another like I correct them and it's awful. And I'm watching them like, oh my gosh, they are becoming just like me. Oh no. And it really like I it it's showing me how much grace I need as a parent. I need to be I need to become much more gracious and and gentle as a parent, so that I don't hear Jack saying, Nox, you stop it, you stop it, you stop it. Like that is all that I do, isn't it? Oh my gosh, that's what I'm teaching him. We know from experience that we become like those people that we spend the most time with Well now it may be for us that you're just not spending a whole lot of time uh with people who don't share your worldview. So so in what ways uh is this psalm encouraging us? What what application can we draw from it Well, I think one of the main ways is just like as Americans and as Christian Americans, we understand that that the culture in America shares a very different view of how life should be lived than Christians share. And that that that way of life is pushed in the media, on advertisements and TV shows. The ads tell you what you should desire in life, how you should desire to live your life. TV tells you what what what family should be like, what relationships should be like. And so we're constantly feeling pressure from the culture to adopt their ways of thinking. And so a useful conversation for you after this service might be to just talk about, hey, how are we as a couple fighting against materialism? and pursuing a way of living and stewarding our money the way that the Bible calls us to live. How are we, as Christians, adopting views on uh sexuality and things like that that that the culture is pushing but that run contrary to the teaching of Jesus. Or you can even think those of you I'm sure who work you know on the hill or in other areas around here, you're spending your life. I mean what 40 to 80 hours a week, depending on what your job is, or possibly even more, and maybe around people who don't follow the Lord. That's a significant chunk of time. How are your relationships at work shaping the way that you think? Maybe even altering your course of life a little bit. This would be useful things for you to think about as you leave here today. But it's not only that we're called to avoid being influenced by the ungodly. The psalm also caused us to be positively influenced by pursuing the path of righteousness through fellowship with God in his word. Right? Look at the first line in verse 2. It's kind of strange, isn't it? We're called to delight in the law of the Lord I don't know if you and I are different, but I don't tend to delight in laws, right? Laws aren't something that we tend to delight in, are they? That's why we need to understand what the psalmist is talking about here. When he says the law of the Lord, he's not referring to that place in the Old Testament where all God's rules and laws and commandments were grouped together. He is partially talking about that, but the law of the Lord in the Old Testament referred to the whole first five books of the Bible, from Genesis to Deuteronomy. Those are known as the law of the Lord. And the psalmist is saying that the man who meditates on that law, all of those five books in their totality will be blessed. And why is that? Well, because it's in those first five books that God's grand story of gracious and merciful salvation exists, right? So in those first five books, it's the story of how God miraculously created the universe and then called and created and preserved and saved the nation of Israel out of slavery in Egypt. The psalmist is calling the blessed man to meditate on those five books, that whole story, to think about how God worked to save them, to delight in that. And as marvelous as the first five books of the Bible were and are, the story of salvation captured within its pages. pales in comparison to the story of salvation that he has worked on our behalf through the Lord Jesus Christ. So now as we read this Psalm, the law of the Lord and meditating upon the law of the Lord refers to the totality of Scripture. and all of God's work through the Lord Jesus Christ to bring us to saving faith. For the Christian, the law of the Lord refers to that totality of story. And he's calling us to delight in it and to meditate on it day and night. That's a poetic way of saying all the time. All the time you should be thinking about this thing. And it's important for us to understand that to meditate in the Bible is not an emptying of the mind and a seeking to become Quiet or silent. Meditation in the Bible is a filling of the mind with scriptural truth And it's not a quiet practice. We don't seek silence in meditation. To meditate in the Bible, the word that's actually used refers to kind of low animal sounds like cooing or growling We're supposed to be speaking the words of Scripture and considering God's work in saving us through Jesus out loud I think in fact until about the 1700s uh it was uncommon for people to be found reading silently When people read, they were to be reading out loud, even in Augustine, St. Augustine, his writings in his book of Confessions from 300 A. D. He writes about how Saint Ambrose, his teacher, was found reading silently one day and how that was considered unbelievably rude. To read up till about 1700 meant you were reading out loud. You were speaking scripture out loud to others. Biblical meditation is a filling of your mind and mouth with the truths of Scripture, pondering them, considering them, speaking them over to yourself And we need to only look to Scripture to know why constant meditation on Scripture and delighting on Scripture is crucial for the believer. Consider just three of about a thousand passages. Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. In thinking about that verse yesterday, I thought about the fact that Jesus commands us to pray for our daily bread. And so if we're not supposed to live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God, how often should we be considering Scripture? Daily. Not only Matthew 4, 4, but think of John 17, 17. Sanctify them in the truth, Jesus. Jesus says, your word is truth. Or Hebrews 4, for the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Friends, we could go on and on reciting verses about The power and purposes of God's Word. So my question to you this morning is, how are you prioritizing daily time in the Word? Daily time in the Word. And I'm not giving this as like a commandment, right? We need to think about the mindset that we should come to the Word with. It's not that I wake up in the morning and say, I have to read God's word. It's we're trying to cultivate a heart posture that wakes up in the morning and says, I cannot wait to read God's word because I know how filthy of a sinner I am and how much I'm in need of salvation. And this word gives me the promises that God has saved me through Christ and is preserving me for his kingdom. It's that mindset that we want to to cultivate in our hearts. A. W. Tozer said this about reading the Bible. He said, whatever keeps me from my Bible is my enemy, however harmless it may be. I want to qualify that a little bit. Just don't think of your kids or your spouse as your enemy, right? But I think what he's the point that he's making is clear. Whatever stands in the way of Scripture, of you coming to Scripture, you need to think about how to How to move that out of the way and find time to spend in the Word. That's the approach that we should have to our time in the Word. These are the words of eternal life. These are the words by which we're saved, sanctified, strengthened. It's not something that we have to read. It's something that we have the great privilege of reading. And we cultivate an appetite for Scripture by spending time in Scripture. I was talking to Leah yesterday and when we were talking about this part of the text, you know, she She talked about dieting. And I was just like, yes, that's what I'm thinking about. That's what I wanted. Right. If any of you have ever done something like the paleo diet or the whole 30 diet, or something like that, right? What happens when you do that? The first two weeks are just utterly miserable. Like you feel like a zombie walking around, like you can hardly move because you're depriving yourselves of all like the sugary starch foods that you love and and love to feast on. Right? But something happens about that two-week mark, right? Your taste buds start to change. You find yourself feeling energized again. And one of the most unique things that you notice is that you don't you're not craving the same foods anymore. You're starting to have a taste bud or taste buds for different food. And so when we come to scripture, if you're one of those people who comes to scripture and you're just like, I just don't get anything from it. Just give yourself to reading five minutes a day. Five minutes a day. Watch how over time your taste buds change. God's word has infinite and supernatural power to change. If you give yourself time to reading this word on a regular basis, I'm confident that those taste buds will begin to change. Read systematically through books of the Bible. Ask God to give you insight as you read. You don't have to spend a ton of time in prayer. Just say to the Lord, Lord, grant me your spirit to help me understand your word. That's what he gives the Spirit to do. As you read, marvel at God's character, his works, his son, your salvation. And ponder what you've read about as you go about through your day. Think about what it means and think about how it should be applied to your life today. Right? It's through keeping company with the Lord in his word that we walk on the path of righteousness. And what we find is that path is also a path of abundance. Look with me at verses 3 and 4. The psalmist uses powerful imagery to describe the fruitfulness of those Who delight in God's Word. Look at verse 3. The man who delights in the law of the Lord is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season. And its leaf does not wither. Here's a question for you today, whether you're here as a Christian or a non-Christian. Don't you want to look like that? Don't you want that to describe your life like a tree planted by streams of water that bears its fruit in its season and its leaf does not wither? Oh, that's a great goal to set for your life to look like that tree. And notice the descriptions. He's planted. This refers to his steadfast and unshakable firmness of faith. He produces fruit in its season. This is a person whose life will be marked by abundance and fruitfulness. And his leaf does not wither. This is a person who will endure. His strength will not abate. And then the psalmist concludes as though he's making a comment on the image, and he says. In everything he does, he prospers. Right, you see the very first word that describes this righteous man in verse one is blessed. Blessed is the man. And the very last word that describes him at the end is end of verse 3 is what? Prospers. You see this all-encompassing blessing and prospering of the one who delights in God's word. It's on each end of his description. He's blessed. And he prospers. The word blessed can also be translated as happy or truly happy or blissfully happy. This is a person who, by pursuing relationship with God, has come into a state of true abiding, deep, and unshakable, abundant happiness. It's only a relationship with God that can provide this unshakable happiness. and joy that does not bend or break or wither in the face of the storms of life. Right? And this is this is completely counter to what the world tells you, right? The world's gonna say a relationship with God, if he exists. We don't even know if he exists. We think it's just kind of like just spiritual well-wishing. But if he exists, he's not going to sustain you through life's trials. The world tells you that if you want to be happy, you need more money. What they don't tell you is that the richest people in the world on on or on earth are some of the most miserable people on earth. The world tells you that you need to be more power powerful, you need a bigger house, you need more cars, you need to take more vacations. Yet we all know that none of these things will ever come close to providing the enduring happiness. that deep-seated joy that we all long for as a relationship with God will. Right, those things like cars and houses, homes, vacations and money, they may produce momentary joy. But it never lasts. Ask yourself this question. Are you completely fulfilled today? Have you reached the pinnacle of joy and happiness? Not as though there's more that you can only go up from here. I'm saying, have you reached the top? Have you finally and fully been fulfilled? If you're human, then the answer is no. And that's because we have a hole in our heart that needs to be filled by something other than the world's possessions. It can only be filled by a relationship with the one who made us. The actor Jim Carrey said this about what we're talking about now. He said, I think everybody should get rich and famous and do everything they ever dreamed of so they can see that it's not the end. answer. Take that from Jim Carrey, who is not a Christian. I think everybody should get rich and famous and do everything they ever dreamed of so they can see that it's not the answer. Friend, we can find wealthy person after wealthy person who will confirm that fact. To make it make it your life's ambition to pursue happiness in anything other than a relationship with God is what the Bible calls Building your life on sand. And when the storms of life come, and come they will, what happens to sand? It erodes, and then the life that was built on top of it crumbles with it. All of those things will fail you. What you need is a foundation that can sustain the storms and droughts of life Right, you see, the psalmist who wrote this wasn't looking through rosy-colored glasses. As I mentioned, this psalm, as the first psalm, acts as an introduction to the whole book. And the psalmist is calling us to open up these psalms and meditate on them day and night. And what do you find when you open up the psalms? You find sorrow and suffering. and trials, and oppression, and persecution. The psalmist is calling us to look to these and to see that this book is absolutely grounded in the reality of human suffering. It doesn't shy away from human suffering at all. And yet the psalmist is saying to you today, if you pursue God, if you meditate on his word, Day and night, if you give yourself to knowing him and to understanding his ways, you will be like this tree even through the most difficult trials of life. Even through the most difficult trials, when you come out the other side, you will be able to say, I have prospered. And why is that? Well, the image of the tree tells us why that is. It's because the roots of the tree extend down into soil that is fed by the nourishing streams. of the water of God's word. And notice this. Notice when you look at the image, the tree does not always produce fruit. It produces fruit in its season. It experiences the cyclical nature of the seasons, the long droughts. the storms, the wind, and yet, because it's planted by the streams of God's word, its leaf does not wither. It's a great picture, kind of a paradox. There's no fruit on the tree, yet its leaf does not wither. Even when the Christian is not bearing fruit and thriving, he yet lives because he's planted by the water of God's word. It's in those seasons of lifelessness or difficult trials that we are forced as Christians to push our roots deeper into the soil of God's word. Deeper into his promises, deeper into his character to draw nourishing food for our souls. And anyone who has done that, any Christian who has weathered those types of storms by being grounded in God's word knows the unique unshakable and steadfast joy of the Lord that is produced. And think about this is how God uses it, because when you face trials and sufferings of every kind God is showing you that your job, your spouse, your home, your cars, your bank account, none of those things will sustain you or provide the happiness you desire. God uses those trials to strip away all pretense that any of those things can provide for you in order to show you that only He can provide But notice also, the fact that its roots are reaching to those streams means that the tree is preparing. To bear fruit again. As long as it's planted by those streams of living water, that tree is sure to produce fruit. And I want to offer that as an encouragement to you today. If you are in a season of spiritual dryness, spiritual flatness. We just feel like, oh, God's word. I'm not feeling affection for God. I'm not delighting in God. I come to his word and it tastes like, you know, Ritz crackers or something like that. that and just if it tastes dry. I wanna I wanna encourage you that maybe if you're not seeing the fruit that you'd want to see, let me encourage you to continue laying down your roots into God's work into God's Word. So much of the Spirit's work through the Word of God is unseen and happens slowly. Right? Think about this. How much, how much, if you're here as a Christian, how much have you grown as a Christian since yesterday Maybe you feel like you've taken two steps back, right? It just depends on where you're at. But how much have you grown as a Christian uh since six months ago Think about it. Where were you six months ago? The reason why it's probably difficult to tell how much you've grown as a Christian is because it's such a short window of time. But let me ask you this question How much have you grown as a Christian since 10 years ago? 15 years ago? 20 years ago? How different are you today from 10 years ago? How much have you grown in trusting the Lord and in following Him Yes, of course you still stumble. Yes, of course you still sin. But how much more are God's promises to you, the words of eternal life? I'm confident that when you look back over the longer distance of time, you will see that you have grown by regularly planting yourself in the water of God's Word. And now here's the thing. Why should you keep doing that? Because the slow work that happened in your life over the last 10 to 15 years is happening today. You can't feel it. You can't see it. You look at your life and you think, I am just I am struggling. I feel like I'm going backwards here. Like what is going on? Right? How many of us should share that experience? But wait and watch. Think about what Jesus said to the church in Ephesus. Continue to patiently endure. The posture of the Christian life is one of waiting. We will not fully become like Christ until He brings us home. But as we are in this world and planted in His Word, God will be faithful. He will carry on the work that he promised to complete in you. Know that he's doing that same work today, slowly molding you as a potter does. with clay. Those who are planted by the streams of God's word will weather life's storms with fruitful abundance and unshakable joy. Yet there's another image that we see here contrasted with the righteous man and the fruitful tree, and that's the wicked man or the wicked person and the chaff. In ancient Israel, during the summer months, grain would be harvested. And then gathered into a large pile. So we're trying to understand what is what is chaff telling us. Well, grain would be grain would be gathered into a large pile, and the work the workers would take the grain and these large forks. Throw the grain up in the air, and the act of throwing the grain up in the air would separate the grain from the husk or the chaff. The grain, since it was heavy, would fall to the ground, and the chaff would blow off in the wind. Now you see the difference in the two images. One is planted, one is firm, one is steadfast because of his relationship to God's Word, and one is in permanent. Useless even. Chaff is not good for anything. It doesn't produce anything. It can't feed anyone. The chaff here is an image for uselessness and impermanence. And so in contrast to the fruitful permanence of the righteous man, the wicked is per is is pictured here as leading a life of vain impermanence and uselessness. That may sound harsh to you if you're here today and you don't follow Jesus, but here's what the Bible is saying, and here's what the Bible teaches throughout. That those who live for themselves and who don't follow the Lord Jesus Will one day come to a place where they pass on from this life, and none of the things that they've lived for or acquired can be or will be taken with them. And then they will stand before the Lord in judgment. And all they will have to show for the life is that they lived for themselves a life of impermanence because it passed so quickly. And this image is one of the great surprises of the psalm because what you find in the rest of the Psalms is that the wicked appear to be flourishing by the world's standards In Psalm 2, the wicked hold great positions of power. In Psalm 73, they're rich and well-dressed. In other psalms, they oppose God's people and seem to have success in what they're doing. And yet the psalmist is teaching us that no matter how much wealth or power or fame is acquired in one's life, when life is lived for self and not for God, it's like this chaff. One moment it's here, the next moment it's gone, and none of its accomplishments or wealth that was stored up will be taken with it when it goes C. T. Studd, a Christian missionary, once penned a poem with this line in it. Two little lines I heard one day. Traveling along life's busy way, bringing conviction to my heart and from my mind would not depart. Only one life 'twill soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. You can choose the path of enduring fruitfulness or the path of impermanence and uselessness Which will you choose today? Yet we see the psalm presents us with still one more choice, and that is a choice between salvation And destruction. Look at me at verses 5 and 6. The psalmist describes something akin to a courtroom scene in which the wicked and sinners are prosecuted for their opposition to God. It says they won't stand in the judgment or sinners in the congregation of the righteous. So their guilty state before God means that they will be completely separated. from God and his people. But the psalm moves us beyond any earthly courtroom scene to that final day when God will separate the righteous from the wicked and will bring judgment on all who rejected his ways. And we see that in the final word of the psalm. What is that word? Perish. The way of the wicked will perish. I just want us to take a moment now to step back and appreciate how the psalmist has masterfully. And beautifully portrayed this biblical truth that life is not full of many paths. Life consists of two paths: one that ends in blessedness and one that ends in destruction. And I say that he's masterfully and beautifully portrayed this reality because of his artistic skill that he shows in this song. Right, first, notice how he shows the polar opposite destinies that await those who follow God and those who don't follow God. What is the very first word of the psalm? Blessed. What is the very last word of the psalm? Perish. Blessed are those who trust in the Lord, and those who don't will perish. Now it's not just that, it's that the the the psalmist here in the very first word of the psalm, blessed, is using the very first letter in the Hebrew alphabet. The very first letter in the Hebrew alphabet is Aleph. And this word blessed begins with Oliph. And the very last word in the Psalm, perish. He begins that word with the very last letter in the Hebrew Bible or the Hebrew character system. He's showing you the blessed and those who are perishing have completely polar opposite destinies. But not only that, I want you to see this. The psalm is also neatly divided into two halves that mirror one another. Right, there is artistic beauty that is going on here. The first half of the psalm verses 1 to 3 describe the blessed man, and the second half of the psalm, verses 4 to 6, describe the wicked man. Verse 1 begins with the blessed man's destiny. Blessedness is his destiny. Right? And then it describes his relationships. He will not relate with the wicked or sinners. or scoffers. Then it describes his love. He will delight in God's word. And then it describes what he is like. He is like a fruitful tree. And then the wicked, the man, the section on the wicked man picks up with the same illustration. It describes what he's like. He's like chaff. It describes his relationships. He will not stand in the congregation of the righteous. And it describes his destiny. He will perish. And then you notice something. What is the one difference between the righteous man and the wicked man? There's no comment in there about the wicked man's relationship with to God's word. That's the difference. The wicked man rejects God's word. That's the difference between the righteous and the wicked. One delights in God's word and walks in his path, and the other rejects God's word and creates his own path. This is a very powerful poetic portrayal of the two paths that exist for all people. But we got to ask a question here, right? We need to ask this question. If all of us here have failed to delight in God's word the way that we should, and all of us have failed to meditate on His Word the way that we should, Which all of us have failed to do those things perfectly. How can any of us call ourselves righteous? We are not this righteous man. We are all more like the wicked man. And in reality, we can't Call ourselves righteous. The Bible says very clearly that there is none righteous, no not one. And that's when we realize that all of our self-righteous pride that puffs up when we read this psalm and we think We are the ones who don't stand in the path of sinners, and we are going to stand in the in the congregation of the righteousness. That is when all of that self-righteous shot that self-righteous pride is shot clean out of the air. It's like a balloon that is popped because all of us who think that we are righteous in ourselves are thinking futily and ridiculously. None of us are this man All of us are the wicked man who sins and scoffs at God. And even the Psalm. Tells us that, doesn't it? Right? If we pay attention to the psalm, we notice that the blessed man is singular. Blessed is the man. It is singular. It doesn't say the blessed people. It says the blessed one. And that is because there is only one who ever kept completely from the path of the wicked. There is only one who never sinned, who never scoffed at God. There is only one who delighted in and meditated on God's word. Day and night. There is only one who is planted like a tree by streams of living water because he had living water in himself. That one is none other than Jesus Christ. The eternal Son of God who became man to live among us and to teach us what God was like and to teach us how to find the path back into the presence of God. And what he taught was that all people have turned away from God and chosen their own path. And that path would lead to destruction. But if we would turn to God and repent of our sins and put our trust in Jesus. and follow him and trust in his death upon the cross, then we would be united to him and we would share in his righteousness. The only reason any of us will stand as righteous on that last day is because Jesus Christ himself has shared with us his righteous robe and has united us to him. He is the living word and he is the path back into God's presence. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me Friend, how we respond to Jesus' offer determines which path we're on. One brings us back into the presence of God, and the other leads us away from God. And to destruction. Even this psalm foreshadows how our response to Jesus brings us back into the presence of God. I want to draw your attention back to the imagery. of the tree. Look back there at that tree. We need to understand that the imagery of the Psalms is rooted in and comes out of the Old Testament. You won't find an image in the entire book of Psalms that isn't already somewhere in the Old Testament. So the question for you is Where else have I seen a tree like this? Where will I find a tree? That is planted by streams of water, a fruitful tree, a tree that has a leaf that does not witter. My oh my, this sounds a lot like A living tree or a tree of life. And where was the tree of life? In the Garden of Eden. And what were the boundaries of the Garden of Eden? Four streams of water. You see the way that the psalmist is saying here. If you want to return to the presence of God that man experienced in the garden, it will only come through his word. Through his word, delighting in the written word and trusting in the living word, Jesus Christ. brings us back into the presence of God. And yet, this image appears in another place in the Bible. When we talk about polar ends, we need to think that it's in the garden of God. And where else is this tree? It's in Revelation 22. That is where we're headed. When John sees the new heavens and the new earth and the new Jerusalem, he writes this. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as a crystal. Flowing from the throne of God and from the Lamb, and through the middle of the street of the city, and on either side of the river. The tree with its 12 kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nation. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship. Him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. And night will be no more, and they will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light. And they will reign forever and ever. This is the fruitful, abundant. and eternally happy state of all who choose the path of righteousness, of following Jesus. Christ. Blessed is that man. In the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus says this like a poet. For the gate is wide, and the way is easy that leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard. That leads to life. And those who find it are few. What path will you choose today? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you and rejoice, Father, in the Lord Jesus, who is our tree of life. It is only through union with Him and through you, Lord Jesus, that we have any abundance at all. It is only your righteousness that we can claim as our own. And we thank you for the mercy and grace that you have shown us. We pray, Father, that you would grant the Spirit to cause us to delight more and more in your word, that we might meditate on it day and night And we look forward to that day when we will dwell in your presence fully in the new city and the new heavens and the new earth. And we pray that that day would come very soon. We ask this all. Oh in Jesus name, Amen