Well, good morning, friends. Good morning. It's a privilege to open God's Word with you this morning. And before we look at Psalm 110, please pray with me one more time. Father, we worship you this morning as our Maker, our Defender, our Redeemer, and our Friend. And we can only say that. And do that because of Jesus Christ. Father, this morning as a congregation, we thank you for John Joseph and his family. Thank you for giving us a pastor who loves your word, who passionately proclaims it, carefully studies it, who loves us Father, bless him and his family. Holy Spirit, move among us this morning as we look. This psalm, show us Jesus Christ, we ask. May we see, may we savor him. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Well, humans love heroes. And your heroes may come, our heroes may come from books, heroes like Martin the Warrior. Or, yeah, right? Shout out to Martin the Warrior. Or Aragorn or Beowulf or Janner Wingfeather. Yeah. Or Harry Potter or Mr. Wickham, right? Or our heroes can come from movies, right? That's what most of us think of Black Panther. Captain America, Luke Skywalker, George Bailey, right? Military Heroes, Alvin York, George S. Patton. sports, history, politics, even your fifth grade teacher, Mr. Rob Boscher, who after 37 years you get to meet last week, and you're like, man, that guy is still awesome. He's he's better than I remember, right? So our we we love heroes and we're all looking for heroes. And we're created, friends, we're created with this inner longing for a hero. And today's passage looks at who that person is. Because in some form or fashion, all of the heroes, all of the heroes we're looking for find their home. in the person that today's passage describes. So if you have your Bibles, please turn to Psalm 110. If you're using one of the Bibles provided, you can find Psalm 110 on page 509. Psalm 110 is the most quoted Old Testament passage in the entire New Testament. Psalm 110, a psalm of David. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter, rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. From the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way, therefore he will lift up his head The main point of today's sermon is this: Jesus Christ reigns supreme. God has placed him on the throne. His rule and his reign are perfect And he will conquer all our foes. We'll look at this passage in three points. First, the declaration of the king in verse one. Second, the dominion of the king in verse 2, and lastly, the deliverance of the king in verses 5 through 7. But before we get started with these three points, I think it's important for us to understand where this passage is coming from and its context in the Bible. So Psalm 110 is a royal psalm. It's a psalm about the king. And royal psalms are sprinkled throughout the Psalter at key points as a means of fostering hope in the establishment of a messianic king in the future. And all royal psalms find their source in the Davidic covenant. So in 2 Samuel 7, God speaks to David through Nathan the prophet. And in verses 6 through 11 of 2 Samuel 7, he says Nathan speaking God's word says to David: Moreover, the Lord declares to you that the Lord will make you a house. When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father. and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the son of men, but my steadfast love will not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. Friends, the Davidic covenant is a message of hope. It's a message and a promise of an eternal king and a kingdom. And David knows that's not him. Neither he nor his son Solomon could fulfill all of these promises. Someone else is coming. A hero is on the way. What happens after David? All the prophets, right? Zechariah and Isaiah and Ezekiel and Joel and Micah were all given visions of this king who would rule over the nations and restore the nation of Israel. But they all saw, they all recognized how David and David's son Solomon and all the subsequent Israelite kings failed to live up to that ideal. And they realized that Psalm 110 wasn't talking about David or his sons. It was pointing to a Savior, Messiah. And Daniel picks up on this in Daniel 7, 13 through 14. He says, I saw in the night visions. And behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him, and to him was given Dominion and glory and the kingdom, that all peoples and nations and languages should serve Him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. And this is where it starts to get exciting. Friends, because for all the Old Testament illusions and all the hints and all the types and that faithful genealogy running throughout the Old Testament, The years of looking for this hero, this king, and hoping and wondering and praying, how does the New Testament start? Matthew 1:1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. So with that context, let's take a look at the declaration of the king in verse 1. A Psalm of David, the Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. I want to start by pointing out the figures in verse 1. First, there's David, right? The superscription says that this is a psalm of David, and Jesus himself says that this is a psalm by David. Next we see the Lord there, the Lord, Capital L O R D. That's God the Father, Yahweh, Jehovah So David's standing back, and he's looking at this coronation scene between the Lord Jehovah and this other figure that David refers to as my Lord. Now, if you were an Israelite noble, you'd be standing in the Israelite court, and this verse would make total sense, right? The Lord says to King David, Sit at my right hand. But that's not the case, right? David's the author. He's the king. He wrote this psalm. And in Israelite culture, the original ancestor was always the superior. And that would have been David But David is calling this individual my Lord and placing himself beneath this son who would come after him. So why would David refer to his own son, his own descendant as his Lord? And that's the question that Jesus is asking the religious leaders. In Matthew 22, verses 41 through 46. Now, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And they said to him, the son of David. And he said to them, How then, how is it then that David In the Spirit calls him Lord, saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son? No one was able to answer him a word. Or from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions. See the point Jesus is making in this passage is that David isn't enough A king, an earthly king, is not enough. In Matthew 22, Jesus was making claims about himself based on verse 1. And he's saying, looking the Pharisees, the religious leaders in the eye, and he's saying. I'm David's Lord. And what does God say to what does God say to Jesus in verse 1? Sit at my right hand. So that's a place of honor, right? And closeness and represents legitimacy of rule. Enemies, your footstool. It's a picture of conquest and dominion In Matthew 26, during Jesus' trial before he was crucified, the high priest asks him, I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said so, but I tell you, from now on, you will see the Son of Man, right? Daniel 7, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Jesus used this phrase at the right hand of God as his climactic self-disclosure to the authorities. It's a declaration of authority. It's also a warning to them. I want to look at one more passage in the New Testament that references this verse. And there there are many of these passages. passages folks but the apostle peter in his sermon at Pentecost in Acts 2 makes this connection between David and Jesus. He says brothers I say to you I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day, being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with him with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, right? That's the Davidic covenant. He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ. Referencing Psalm 110 here, that he was not that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus God raised up. And of that we are all witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus. whom you crucified. So Peter's saying here that Jesus' resurrection and his ascension fulfilled this psalm and showed Jesus to be not merely David's son. But also David's Lord and Lord of all. In Peter's climactic statement, he declares that Jesus is God's Messiah. He is the exalted Lord. And he is conquering king. And on and on and on in the New Testament. Every time we come across a passage in the New Testament ref referring to Jesus Christ seated at the right hand of God. It has its theological foundation in this declaration in Psalm 110, verse 1. Friends, it's not too much to say that the message of the gospel and the implications of the gospel rests on the authority of the risen Christ ruling at God's right hand. at this very moment. And what does Jesus' rule and reign look like? Let's take a look at verses 2 through 4. Let's see the dominion of the king. And we'll do that by examining three facets of Jesus' reign. We'll look at the position of authority, the people he rules, and his priestly rule. His priestly reign. First look with me at the king's position, his place. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter, rule in the midst of your enemies. This place and position is one of authority in the midst of his enemies. So where is the king ruling Says there in verse 2, the Lord sends forth from Zion. So kids, where is Zion? Where is Zion located geographically? Yep. Did you say Jerusalem? Mount Zion? Okay, and where is Mount Zion? Jerusalem, yeah, yeah, we see this king granted, this king being granted authority from God in Zion. by the Lord, and it's it's that place of authority, right? The seat of God's presence in z in Zion. The symbolic place of God's presence and his authority. Look with me in verse 2 there. What is the king holding? The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Your mighty scepter. So kids, one more question here. What is a scepter? What's a scepter? Yeah, Adam Yeah, so what did that typically look like? Yeah, like a staff or a rod, something like that. You're exactly right. Yeah, it's a staff. It's a symbol. Held in the hand of a ruling monarch. It's an item of royal authority or sovereignty. And we've seen this imagery before in the Old Testament, right? Judah in Genesis forty-nine ten Moses' rod, Aaron's rod. These are all types and symbols of rule and authority exercised by a leader in the Old Testament. And I want to look at one passage here, Psalm two, verses six through nine. There's a lot of connection here between Psalm 2 and Psalm 110. As for me, I've set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage. and the ends of the earth your possession, you shall break them with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. How do the gospel writers often portray Jesus? Well, if you look in the Gospels, he's often surrounded by the religious leaders. That passage we earlier referenced with his self-disclosure, his questioning of the religious leaders. He's surrounded by his enemies. And what is the purpose? What is the response of people often to Jesus? Right? People are astonished. Jesus finishes the Sermon on the Mount. People are astonished, right? Offended. A religious leader is taking offense, and the people, and even his disciples taking offense at Jesus' words. His words, his claims. Those are what astonish. Who does this guy think he is? I'm looking at a human. And he's claiming to be God. He's claiming to be greater than David. So I want to ask you this morning: what's your response to this king in Psalm 110-2? What's your response to Jesus' authority? When you read the Bible and you start to really dig in and understand what G who Jesus is, And what he's saying and what he's asking from you. When we stop and consider what Jesus is claiming and what he's asking of us, what's your heart response? Jesus, you can have anything but my kids. You can have anything but my money. My career, my health, my esteem, this private little habit that I'm holding on to over here. Friends, I want to ask you, is Jesus something or someone you're adding to your life to make sure things are going okay? And who I pray to in order to maintain control of my little kingdom? May we see the same Jesus who God declared, This is my beloved Son. Friends, what would it look like today for you to say in your heart, Jesus, your will be done. I will obey anything you tell me to do, and I will accept anything you send me. You see, Jesus' authority on earth in the gospels was not exercised through political might or position, but through his words, what he said. But I also want us to pause here and look ahead and see Jesus' power and authority finding its ultimate fulfillment in the book of Revelation. Revelation 19, 11 through 16. Then I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood And the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. May we bow before the rule and the reign of King Jesus in our hearts and say, My Lord. I want us to look next at the people Jesus rules. Look with me at verse 3 there. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power. In holy garments from the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours. So there's a lot of poetic imagery here to unpack, right? And translators acknowledge that some of the Hebrew idioms and language used in this verse are uncertain. But we can understand the idea behind these images. What we're seeing here is a willing people, a vision of an army of youthful troops arising early and eagerly to do the king's work. What verse 3 portrays is serving and giving from the heart, willingly, with clarity and purpose and singleness of mission There's no cynicism, no skepticism, no reluctance, not a people who demand our own way. And it's a people who aren't just willing. But they have the youth and the enthusiasm and the strength to accomplish this work. It's a picture of vivacity The dew of your youth will be yours. Friends, Psalm 110:3 is a glimpse of heaven. It's a vision of our role in it. And to our older saints who are in our congregation here, you're maybe saying, well, hey, that's not me right now. I'm we're all growing older. We're all getting tired. This isn't my experience. Or to those in our congregation who struggle to find the physical energy to worship and serve, friends, to you I say, do not lose heart. Psalm 110. 3 and other verses, though our outer self is wasting away. Our inner self is being renewed day by day. He who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us into his presence. And I want to say that this verse, Psalm 110. 3, already describes you This will happen. Your people will offer themselves freely. The dew of your youth will be yours Those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also what? He also glorified. This is you, friend, as a believer in Christ Jesus. Yes, it's a glimpse of heaven and our role there in service to our King on the day of his power. It is Revelation 19, but it's also who you are today. In Christ. God's grace is inevitable, friends. So take heart. Take heart. The toils and trials and the work And home and health issues will come to an end, and we will find ourselves in the King's presence. Live and serve and rest in who you are in Christ Jesus. And the work that your hero has accomplished on your behalf. So now we've looked at the position of the king's reign and the people of the king's reign. I want us to look next at the priesthood of the king. Look with me at verse 4 there. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. This is poetic language. The poetic language of an irrevocable oath. Remember the forever's and the I wills of the Davidic covenant? I want us to look very quickly at how Jesus fulfills this verse, and I want us to start by going back to Genesis. So in Genesis 14, Abraham, he's just returned from defeating and shattering the kings of Canaan. And he's met by this character named Melchizedek. And in Genesis fourteen, eighteen we read, And Melchizedek the son of Salem brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God most high. And he blessed Abram and said, Blessed be Abram by God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And Abram gave him a tenth of everything. So here's this figure of Melchizedek, whose name literally means king of righteousness. And he has no genealogy. He comes out of nowhere in the book of Genesis, and he was a priest-king over Salem, over Jerusalem, and he worshipped God as the supreme deity. David Abraham returns from defeating the Canaanites and gives him a tenth of the spoils That's the character that David is referencing in Psalm 110:4. And he's saying that the king he's described in verses 1 through 3, that king is also a priest. But we understand from Israelite history that that was something prohibited in Israel. There's no mingling of priest and king in Israel. That's what got Saul into trouble. According to the Mosaic Law in Numbers 3, only the direct mile male line of Aaron could serve as priest in the tabernacle in the temple. And kings were disqualified because they came from tribes other than the Levites. Verse 4 indicates that this king that's being described is uniquely and supremely a king priest. And so David uses Melchizedek as an example to say that a king priest is possible. And theologians use the term sacredal kingship to describe that. And who who is that person, right? The New Testament tells us who that is In the New Testament, we see that the solemn promise of Psalm 110. 4 is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. You are a priest forever. Is a beautiful and a powerful expression of this link between Christ's authority and his intercession So what's what's what's the case at Harper's Ferry out there in western Maryland? What what's what's the point of Harpers Ferry? What's coming together there? Two rivers, right? What are those rivers? Got the Potomac and the Shenandoah River coming together right there. There's this convergence that creates a larger body of water. And this confluence, you could see, of authority, kingly authority, and priestly intercession come together in Christ. And that confluence, that authority, that priestly intercession is grounded in the power of his resurrection. Romans 8, 31 through 34. What should we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will not also with him give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one that who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. And in the book of Hebrews, the eternal priesthood is unpacked. And Hebrews 7. 25 is perhaps the key text in all of the New Testament on this doctrine of Christ's Intercession is priestly role. After comparing Jesus to Melchizedek and grounding that argument in Psalm 110, 4, the writer of Hebrews concludes Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. That phrase to the uttermost denotes comprehensiveness, completeness, exhaustive wholeness. Friends, Christ doesn't merely help us. He saves us. And he does it to the uttermost. Our presence in God's good favor and family will never die. It will never dry up. I want to quote a section of a book, Gentle and Lowly, by Dane Ortland. About this passage. He says, we all tend to live have some small pocket of our life where we have difficulty believing the forgiveness of God reaches. We say we are totally forgiven, and we sincerely believe our sins are forgiven, pretty much, anyway, but there's that one deep dark part of our lives, even our present lives. That seems so intractable, so ugly, so beyond recovery. To the uttermost, in Hebrews 7. 25 means God's forgiving Redeeming, restoring touch reaches down into the darkest crevices of our souls, those places where we are most ashamed. Most defeated. More than this, those crevices of sin are themselves the places where Christ loves us the most. His heart willingly goes there His heart is most strongly drawn there. He knows us to the uttermost, and he saves us to the uttermost because his heart is drawn out to us the uttermost. We cannot sin our way out of his tender care. How do we know? The text tells us he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession. For them. Christ's heavenly intercession in Psalm 110. 4 and Hebrews 7. 25 is the reason we know that He will save us to the uttermost. Friends, our sinning goes to the uttermost, but Christ's saving goes to the uttermost Are you here today without Christ? Come to Jesus. Come as you are. No need to get cleaned up. No need to get your life together. Jesus stands ready to accept and welcome you into his presence. Find me or one of the members here after the service, and we would be happy to explain and talk to you about salvation in Jesus Christ. Christ. Friend, are you here today struggling in sin? Come to Jesus and keep coming to Jesus No matter how many times, come to Jesus. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. Lastly, let's look at the deliverance of the king's right hand rule. Look with me at verses five through seven. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath, he will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way. Therefore he will lift up his These verses anticipate the final judgment of Satan that was prophesied way back in Genesis 3. 15. God bringing about the conquest and doing it through Jesus. Verse six can be translated: He will shatter the head over the wide earth. That battle between good and evil, between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent, will culminate in Christ's total and complete victory. Jesus setting his face like flint. Jesus, the mighty warrior who put on righteousness as a breastplate And a helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds, so he will so will he repay. Wrath to his adversaries. Repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands he will render repayment. So they shall fear the name of the Lord from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun, for he will come like a rushing stream. The wind of the Lord drives. And how did Jesus do this? How did Jesus defeat our mortal enemies of sin and death? Friends, he did it through sacrifice. He did it through suffering. He was faithful to the end. He suffered. He thirsted. He bowed his head. After this, Jesus knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture, I thirst A jarful of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished And he bowed his head, gave up his spirit. Jesus bore our sins on himself and died in our place. He bore the wrath of God against our sin. He vanquished Satan and sin and death on the cross He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Therefore, God lifted up his head in victory God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee should bow In heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every sh every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord for the glory of God the Father. Friends, take comfort. Be hopeful. Rejoice in the supremacy of Jesus Christ, our Hero Who through his sacrificial life and death defeated our mortal enemy of sin and death and the devil. He rose up from the grave, defeating death, and is now seated at God's right hand, ruling and reigning and interceding for us. Jesus Christ reigns supreme. God has placed him on the throne. His rule and his reign are perfect. And he will conquer all our foes. Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ. We praise you and thank you for Jesus the radiance of your glory and the exact imprint of your nature, who at this very moment is holding up the universe by the word of his power Father, we praise Jesus Christ, who made purification for our sins, is seated at your right hand on high. Father, we praise Jesus Christ. No rival, no equal. Father, give us a taste of life eternal with you in your kingdom. Show us more of Jesus Christ. We praise you for his beautiful name We exalt him as King of Kings, Lord of war. And may we say in our hearts, Father, your will be done. We bow at your feet and open our lives and our hearts up to you. We praise you for the supremacy, the glory, Jesus Christ this name. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.