Uh we we live in a period in human history uh in which grand narratives about the meaning and the purpose of life are either viewed with a heavy dose of skepticism. Or are rejected entirely. Grand narratives, also called meta-narratives or worldviews What are they? Well, they're cohesive, overarching stories that give meaning, purpose, and direction to our lives. And a hallmark of the postmodern age that we live in is a complete rejection of grand narratives and their totalizing and oppressive truth claims. The spirit of postmodernism is captured in Friedrich Nietzsche's statement, there are no eternal facts, just as there are no absolute truths. There are no overarching truth claims to which we must bow, no totalizing truth claims that govern all of life. Instead, there are many truths. What's true for me? What's true for you? And you and you, you, and you, and and so on. There is no grand narrative, no overarching story no objective meaning, no objective purpose. The problem with postmodernism, though, is that it's ultimately self-defeating. Think about it. Take Nietzsche's statement, for example, out of which postmodernism the spirit of it grows. The statement there are no eternal facts just as there are no absolute truths. Is itself an absolute truth claim. Not only that, but postmodernism's rejection of grand narratives is itself a grand narrative That tells a story about the world that we live in. That there is no meaning. And when they say that there's no overarching story, they don't mean that just for themselves. They mean that for you as well. And postmodernism is simply one of many grand narratives about the meaning and purpose of life. There's Marxist utopianism. Enlightenment rationalism, Greek fatalism, Hinduism, Taoism, Buddhism, Islam, all of these are examples of grand narratives about the world. Where it comes from? Where it's going, and what your purpose in life is and should be. Now, often though, the fact that there are so many grand narratives is what has ironically led so many people to embrace the postmodern grand narrative. But the fact that there are many competing grand narratives shouldn't cause us to reject them altogether. Instead, it should cause us to ask, is there a grand narrative that's actually true? Like truly true. Like one that tells a true story about the world and about the meaning of life and about how we should live in response. And what we find in the Bible as a whole, and in our specific passage today, is that there is a grand narrative that is true. It's true for you. It's true for me, and for everyone alive today, whether or not we believe it Or acknowledge it as true. And it has a lot to say about how we should live in response. So I want to ask you, encourage you to turn in your Bible to Colossians chapter 3. We are considering today verses 12 to 17. With a specific focus on verse 17. We've been looking at these verses now for four weeks. Just backing up a little bit before I read the passage for us, the letter to the Colossians Important for us as we think about grand narratives because it was written to a group of people who had believed different grand narratives about the world around them. But when they heard the true story of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they turned away from false grand narratives To the one that told them the truth about the world around them. And now, what we find in our passage, after coming to believe that gospel, that grand narrative, the Apostle Paul teaches them How they should live in light of it. I want you to follow along as I read Colossians chapter 3, verses 12 to 17 for us. This is God's word. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts Kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do. In word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him I want you to notice how the grand narrative of the gospel powerfully shapes and changes us Three weeks ago in verses 12 to 14, we saw that because God has made us new creations, and that is true, we're now able to put on the character of Christ. Two weeks ago in verse 15, we saw that we no longer need to be ruled by fear in a universe that seems to be out of control because we now know that God is sovereignly working all things for our good, and the peace of Christ can now rule in our hearts. Last week in verse 16, we saw that now the word of Christ becomes the center of our life. And this week we learn in verse 17 that because there is a God who exists, Who is knowable, who created us and gave us life, who wrote the grand narrative that we are all a part of, because of all of that, everything in life can and should be done for his glory. Those are going to be our two points this morning if you are taking notes. First, everything in life can be done for God's glory. And second, everything in life should be done for God's glory. First, everything in life can be done for God's glory. Where do we see that? I want you to look again at verse 17. Paul says, and whatever you do, in word or deed, Do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Just want you to take a step back and notice what is plainly implied by this verse. The fact that we should do everything for God's glory implies that we actually can do everything for God's glory. And that is life-altering news Why is that? Because what Paul is telling the Colossians to do here is radically connected to the ultimate meaning and purpose of life. Your life And mine. In the context of verses 12 to 17, verse 17 serves as a summary instruction for Christians about how to live out the new life that God has. given them in his son Jesus Christ and he tells them to do everything. Whatever you do, do everything In the name of the Lord Jesus. Pause real quick. Kids, I want to ask y'all a question. And I want to hear some feedback from y'all. What do you think it means? to do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus? Raise your hand if you think you have an answer. What does it mean to do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus? Although the law follows commandments? Yep, very good. Obey him. Very good. This is good answers. Help the church. Very good, Abram. And then Cooper. Sorry, got a wonderful crying baby up front, my daughter. I didn't hear you there. What do you say Trust in him. Those are excellent answers, kids. Let's fill it out a little bit more. In the Old Testament, the name of the Lord signified the presence power and character of God. So doing everything in the Lord Jesus means to live and act with an awareness of his presence and power in your life. And in a manner consistent with his character. It is to do everything as his representative. It is to be his ambassador in every area of life. You know how ambassadors represent countries and governments. for the government in another land. It's to be his ambassador in every area of life. It is, in short, to bring glory to him by how you live your life in all that you do. And that instruction Brings us today face to face with the grand narrative of why God created mankind in the first place and face to face with why you are alive today. When Paul tells the Colossians to do everything for the glory of God, he is telling them to live out the purpose for which God created mankind in the first place. When God created mankind in the beginning, he gave them a marvelous mission in life. And that mission was to display his glory. By living lives that reflected his character and having babies who would also grow up to do the same until the whole earth was filled with his glory. But Unbelievably, the first man and woman, Adam and Eve, rejected God's grand narrative They chose to write their own story. They decided to become their own gods. They sinned and rebelled against God, and as a result. The story that they wrote was filled with futility, despair, and death. . . Fell from grace, came under God's judgment, were cast out of God's presence, and plunged all of humanity, us today, into sin. And rather than turning to God for mercy and crying out for forgiveness, mankind continued trying to write his own story Ancient man did it by writing a story that replaced worship of the true God with worship of false gods and bowing down to idols. And though we're separated by thousands of years from them, and though we may not bow down to idols, we write the same story When modern man does it by writing a story that replaces worship of the true God with worship of sex, self, money, fame Comfort, pleasure, and power. We've not only replaced God as the object of our worship, but we have tried to erase God altogether from our stories. But God cannot be erased. And even though we've all rejected him and tried to write our own stories with us at the center of it, God pursued us in love. to rescue us from our pitiful and puny stories that end in death and destruction And to call us back into his grand story and to restore us to his original purposes for us. And he did that by sending his son Jesus. To live the perfect life. See, Jesus never tried to write his own story. Jesus never tried to write his own story. He lived a life of perfect obedience to God, glorifying God in everything that he did in word and deed. And then he died a shameful death on the cross to bear the punishment we deserve. And then he was buried and rose three days later from the grave to prove that the grand narrative he told about who God is, who we are, and why we're alive is true. And he calls all people everywhere to believe in him for the forgiveness of sins. And to those who do, he promises to forgive you of your sins Give you his spirit, make you a new creation, and empower you to empower you to live the life that you were made to live. A life of bringing glory to God in everything that you do. You see, I don't know if you notice this, but so many people in our world today sense that there's something more to life than what they've experienced. experience, right? One of the most obvious examples is when Tom Brady had won like three or four Super Bowls and then he's being interviewed and he's like the the you know the the person during the interview asks him like you know you've you're so successful in all this and he's like yeah I just feel like there's something more. And you're like, yeah, like yes, there is something more than Super Bowls and millions of dollars. And apparently tons of Christians sent him Bibles and told him they were praying for him. God bless them Because they're trying to tell Tom Brady the NFL is not the overarching grand narrative of your life. God is, through faith in Jesus Christ. You can know what you were made for through faith in him. So many people sense the divine. They they hear eternity calling in their hearts. They they know that they were created for more, that there's a greater story, but they just They just can't find it on their own. And what Paul is telling you here is that there is a greater story, and you can be a part of it. But if you want to be a part of this story, you need to stop writing your own story. You need to recognize that you have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. You haven't lived the life of perfect obedience that God requires. And is worthy of. But Jesus has. And he offers himself to you to redeem you from sin. Reconcile you to God, open your eyes to the truth of God's grand narrative in the gospel, empower you to live out God's purposes for you, and grant you the assurance that death is not the end. God is preparing for his people a new earth, legit new earth, not clouds, not floating around on harps, a new earth. Cleansed of sin, cleansed of all false grand narratives, where we will live with him and glorify him forever. That's a greater story than you or I could ever come up with. You know, like a we need to be a part of that story of what God is doing in the world. And you see, coming to believe the gospel then infuses life. With meaning and purpose. Real meaning and real purpose. You aren't a collection of cells that evolved by chance that's destined for oblivion. Here's a different story that's true and much better. You are a majestic creation of an all-wise God made for eternal life with him. And everything you do now in this life Has eternal implications. To the teens who are here, we talk about this a lot at CBC, especially when I talk to y'all, but it bears repeating. Because of how important it is. Every single day, the world is going to tell you that you should write your own story That you should be the star of your own play. That you should pursue and do whatever makes you happy, whether it agrees with God's word or not. And I just want to remind you You will never write a story as good as God's story. He's a better author than you and I will ever be. Every story we write for ourselves ends in futility, death, and destruction. And that's because we were never made to be our own authors. He's the creator And we are the creatures. We need to look to him to understand what the meaning and purpose of our lives is. And I want to encourage y'all especially to do that today. And to my non-Christian friend, if you've wrestled with these questions, if you've wondered why why am I alive? Does my life have any meaning and what is that meaning? Have you ever ever wondered if there's any reason to have hope in this life? I want to tell you that the Bible answers those questions. And the answers that the Bible gives are true, and they are summed up in this verse. The reason you are alive today is to give glory to God in all that you do. That is the meaning and purpose of all of life. That's why God created us, and God is at work in the world right now, restoring lost and ruined sinners to a life of glorifying Him now. And in an eternity of glorifying him forever through faith in Jesus Christ. Through faith in Jesus All of life becomes an opportunity to bring glory to God. No task escapes the scope of Jesus' rule and reign. Everything we do now in his kingdom, we do in his name. We can represent him to the world in everything we do. And since we can bring glory to God in all that we do, We should bring glory to God in all that we do. Which brings us to our second point. Everything in life should be done for God's glory. I want you to look with me again at verse 17. Notice the scope of Paul's command. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Just look at how he emphasizes the totality of the scope in the whole first half of the sentence. And whatever you do. And just in case we're not clear on what I mean by that, I mean in word or deed. And in case you're not clear on what that means, I mean do everything. Whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything for the glory of God. Whatever you do. Everything, word or deed, do it all for the glory of God. Just think about what this instruction means for you today. First, it means that Jesus Christ. Lays claim to every area of your life. When we put our faith in Jesus Christ, He not only saves us from all of our sins, but he then also becomes the Lord of our whole life. There is no area of our life that we put up off-limit signs to God. Right There's no dimension of your life, no role or responsibility that you have in life where you get to hang up a no-trespassing sign to God. Hey, God, you can't come here. Sorry. This is off limits to you, right? There's no part of our life where we get to tell God, keep out. Hey, I've let you in, I'm gonna let you in this far, but the rest is mine, buddy. Right? That's not how the Christian life works. Well last week I said that letting the word dwell in you richly means letting his word move into the master bedroom of the home and making his word the owner and operator of your home. And we could just carry that illustration over to this week. When we put our faith in Jesus. God moves into our life and he becomes the new interior designer. And there's no part of the house, no spare room. No back corner of the attic that he doesn't have access to or writes over. Jesus rules over what you do at work. He rules over what you do at home. He rules over what you do in the bedroom. He rules over what you do when you're with friends. He rules over what you do at the store, in the car, on the phone. He lays claim to all of life. For the younger kids here, if you're between the ages of five and nine, just go and raise your hand. I want to try to help you all understand this in a way. What does it mean that Jesus lays claim to all of life? I want you to think about it this way. Have you ever had a toy, a book, or a video game, and you love it? And then maybe a sibling or another kid comes along and And tries uh to play with it and you take it over. No, this is mine, right? This is only just from me, right? Have you ever had a toy like that? Maybe I was the only one like that, right? When you become a Christian and follow Jesus, we don't do that to God anymore. There's nothing in our life where we can say, no, it's mine. All of life is his. We do everything to the glory of God, even as kids, right? When we follow Jesus, there are no toys that we can't tell him or that we tell him he can't play with. And this idea that Jesus lays claim to our whole lives is increasingly uncommon among Christians in America today It's really common in America for Christians to think that being a Christian means giving God an hour or two on Sunday, but having the rest of the week to yourself. Maybe that's how you think about the Christian life. If it is, I wonder how you factor this verse into that way of thinking about the Christian life And it's not just this verse. The entire New Testament. The entire Old Testament The entire Bible teaches that God lays claim to all of our life. I wonder, are there areas of your life? That you don't want God snooping around in? Is it your sex life? Is it what you do with money? Is it what you do with spare time? Where might you be hanging no trespassing signs to God in your life? And why is that sign there if you follow Christ? Christians open up their entire lives to Jesus to come in and redesign as he sees fit. And I understand that if some of you have just begun to follow Jesus, that that may seem scary. Actually, as you continue to follow Jesus, it kind of continues to be scary. So I don't want to promise you and say that that will go away, but as you get to know the Lord more and more, you'll see that he can be trusted. So when you have questions, you're like, I just I know I can trust him, so I'm a I'm gonna hand it over. to him. But if it scares you to allow him to come in and redesign your home so that you give all of your life to him, I just want to encourage you with what Jesus taught. Think about when Jesus says, I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. He came so that you and I would have abundant life in every area of life And that abundant life comes only as we open up every area of our life to him. But not only does this passage teach us that Jesus lays claim to every area of life It also teaches us that we get to, we have the privilege of worshiping God in every area of our lives, all of life becomes an opportunity to show off God's glory and value and worth. What a privilege We were dead in trespasses and sins, and God didn't just say, Hey, I'm gonna make you alive and you just go on living a neutral life. No, I am gonna bestow upon you the great mission of displaying my glory, my infinite, eternal glory, honor, and power. to the world by how you live your life. What a privilege. We have that privilege in our lives to do that Right? And I don't think we have any problem believing that we can glorify God in all of life when it comes to big decisions or events in life. But Paul isn't just talking about big events and decisions. He means all of life, everything. And since the vast majority of all of our lives are lived in the mundane The menial, the minuscule, that means there is no task so small or menial or minuscule that it falls outside of the scope of what Paul is teaching here. Literally, literally. People throw that word around today. I throw it around today and I don't actually mean it, but I do mean it here and now. Literally, everything you do, from shopping for groceries. to changing diapers, to doing homework, to giving a friend a ride to the airport, to cleaning the dishes, to playing with your siblings and friends, and on and on and on. All of life. All of life becomes a stage for the glory of God to be displayed in your life and through you. How? You might ask Can a person change a diaper to the glory of God? I have thought that often. It's by putting on the new self. And serving a helpless baby who won't say thank you with the same joy that Jesus served us when we wouldn't say thank you. How might you give a friend a ride to the airport to the glory of God? By willingly sacrificing your time and doing so without grumbling or complaining to others about it. Right, kids, how do you do schoolwork to the glory of God? You do it by giving it your best effort and putting to the best use possible the gifts of intellect that God has given you. And you do it without cheating or anything like that And you also give glory to God in your schoolwork by rejoicing in the gifts and skills of your classmates because the gifts and skills they have have been given by God for his glory. And it's right to praise them At home, at work, in your community, at school, in your car, on the phone, with family, friends, strangers, whatever you do, word or deed, do everything. For the glory of God. But I want you to think even more specific about the categories that Paul gives us. He says, in word or deed. This phrase is used in the first century as shorthand for all of life, but it also provides us with helpful categories for considering how we're doing, giving glory to God in every area of life. What does it look like to give glory to God in Word? It looks like Letting no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, letting no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up as fits the occasion so that it we give grace to those who hear. Words that tear down are not words that glorify God or can be done in the name of God. the Lord Jesus Christ. Condescension doesn't glorify God. Yelling Doesn't glorify God. Exasperated speech doesn't glorify God. Angry talk. Cold speech. Heartless words, making people feel stupid, lying, all of those things, they don't glorify God We need to be a people and should strive to be a people who glorify God in our words. And speaking in a way that glorifies God isn't just putting off sinful patterns of speech and finding some neutral ground where your words are just kind of in the middle, right? To glorify God, it means to actively put on words that build up, words that encourage. Words that tell the truth in love. Withholding words that build up from those that need them is as sinful as speaking words that tear down. We're called to active goodness in our speech. If we played a tape of your speech from the last week, what would we find? Would you be able to listen to the tape play it out loud and say, I did all of that in the name of the Lord Jesus? I'm sure you probably wouldn't, right? Many of us, probably all of us, would not be able to do that. I want you to think about this. One of my favorite cringeworthy shows was Undercover Boss. It's a show where the CEO of the company uh puts on a disguise and then he goes and works among the people like in the warehouse. Uh you know, and he's disguised, the other the other employees don't recognize him, maybe don't even know what the CEO looks like, and inevitably some of those same employees not knowing that they were speaking to the CEO would insult the owner of the company and then there was always the big reveal at the end and you can see the employees thinking like oh no Wait, what did I say? What did I say? Oh my gosh, no, I said that thing about him. Oh my I didn't know it was him. I didn't know he was right there the whole time. Friends That big reveal is coming for all of us at the end. When we stand before the throne, every word that we have spoken will be weighed and assessed. Will your words be found to glorify God? And not just our speech, but our actions. Paul says in word and deed. How are you doing glorifying God in your actions, your deeds? Are you living in obedience to God's commands? Are you putting off sexual immorality? Are you putting off drunkenness? Are you putting off underhanded practices at Deed, Paul isn't saying, hey, your thoughts are your God doesn't lay claim to your thoughts because Paul doesn't mention here there's a loophole, right? No, your thoughts and your deeds are connected inextricably. One leads to the other. What you think about is what you end up doing. Are you putting off lust? Selfishness, covetousness, anger, malice, and everything else that God tells us to put off. Not only that, but like speech, are you actively doing good to others, looking for ways to serve those in need? Are you looking for ways to show kindness to strangers? Are you looking for ways to welcome the outcast? Are you looking for ways to build up and encourage others in the church? Well, a super practical way to do Active good today, as soon as the service is over, is to look for somebody you don't know or you know may be having a hard time and go talk to them. Love on them. Encourage them. Build one another up in love. Active goodness. In all of these ways and so many more, we have the opportunity to glorify God in all that we do. But I also want to make sure I address a potential misconception. About how the gospel gives meaning and purpose to all of life as we live for the glory of God and all that we do. I don't want you to leave here misunderstanding me think by thinking I'm saying that you will now feel. Like everything you're doing is meaningful or purposeful, or that you will now see clearly how everything you do in life glorifies God. We still live in a Genesis 3 world Marked by the fall, and so we will experience the futility of thorns and thistles. We will still wrestle with how the mundane, the menial things that we do could possibly glorify God, and it's Heard that in this life, on this side of heaven, we walk by faith and not by sight. There will be unanswered questions. There will be experiences that seem meaningless. It will not always be clear how what we're doing glorifies God. But Even in those moments, we can glorify God. How? By walking by faith Trusting that in everything he is working his perfect purposes and in us is carrying on to completion the good work he began. Not only that, we can glorify God in all that we do by giving thanks as we do it. Look at the second half of verse 17. We're going to finish up on this. Paul says, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him. I'm guessing you've been reminded this morning of how you've fallen short of giving glory to God and all that you do. of how you failed, of how you've disobeyed and sinned this past week, probably even this morning Sermons about glorifying God and all that we do often have the opposite effect of what they're intended and they feel super condemning. It's like, I'm never going to live up. How is it possible to give thanks when we fall so short, even though God has saved us and says he's working in us? Well, it's possible by remembering the gospel. The grand narrative of God's plan of redemption. God is not saving us because of our own righteousness. But because of the perfect life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. His life, our righteousness Is death, our judgment, is resurrection, our eternal hope Through faith in Jesus, we've been written into a story that we will never be written out of. Because our inclusion in God's story isn't dependent on our obedience, but on the obedience of Jesus Christ. As you see the ways you've failed, God is calling you to return to the cross and to the empty tomb. Return to the cross to see God's love and mercy for sinners, that he would send his only beloved Son To die in the place of those who did not deserve it, so that those who did not deserve it could have their name written in the Lamb's book of life by his blood. and to return to the empty tomb. To remember that though you've been set free from the power of sin and raised to new life now There is a greater resurrection coming when God will raise us to eternal life and sin and sorrow and futility and death will be no more. And then We will glorify God in all that we do. And we will do that forever. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you for the gospel. Thank you for the good news that it's not our righteousness that saves us, but the perfect righteousness of God. the Lord Jesus Christ, who is right now seated at your right hand. And as we fail and we need help and mercy, we're told that we can come to the throne of grace because our sympathetic high priest intercedes for us. We come now through the Lord Jesus Christ and plead for your mercy. Thank you for the justification we have by faith in Jesus Christ for calling us your children and writing us into the Lamb's book of life forever. Now empower us by your Spirit to live lives that glorify you in all that we do. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.