Good afternoon, friends. Grateful to be with you. Think about God's word with you John, as you know, has been preaching a series on the topic of the church, and we come to the fourth week of that series. He asked me to preach this week on the church gathered and next week on church membership See here the church gathering. I, however, in my excellent planning decided yesterday to switch those. Because the way I wanted to put them together just made more sense to switch them. I trust you guys are gonna be okay though. You can go with this sudden change. Y'all alright? So this week we're going to think about the church as a body, as a membership together. And I'm going to do that through a particular theological theme in Matthew's Gospel, a prominent theme in Matthew's Gospel, and that is the theme of heaven. I wonder what comes to mind when you think of the topic of heaven. I admit I was a Tom and Jerry fan when I was a little kid. There we go. I know my daughters do. Come on, raise that hand. And uh when when when I think of heaven, one of the images that comes to mind is you know those times like Tom the Cat. would die, Jerry would do something, he would die, and Tom would take that escalator up into this cloud, golden-gated place, right? Sometimes, of course, he would take the escalator down. But that's what we think of when we think of heaven, I think. Something that's removed, separate And as we look through scripture and we think about this topic of heaven, sometimes it refers to the skies, as earth and skies you think of. Genesis 1. 20, let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens. Yet more often than not, heaven in scripture refers to the place where God dwells and rules. Psalm 2, the one enthroned in heaven laughs. So heaven, through much of Scripture, is the place God is enthroned and He dwells and where He rules. So yeah, what's interesting, however, At a few particular points in the Bible, what you see is heaven and earth actually coming together And that's why in those early chapters of Genesis, sometimes it refers to earth and sky. Well, what you have in the Garden of Eden Is heaven and earth coming together? Where does God dwell in those early chapters? Who is he walk with? He walks with Adam in the garden. The garden is a kind of overlap, a kind of access point between the dwelling of God and the dwelling of man, between heaven and earth. But of course Adam is cast out. Adam and Eve are cast out of the garden, and it's as if heaven and earth are separated But then as you continue reading through scripture, again you have these meeting places, these access points, the most prominent one being the tabernacle or the temple throughout the Old Testament. And so the author of Hebrews in Hebrews 8 says, The tabernacle offered a copy and shadow of the heavenly things. So it seems to come together there And of course, we know at the Bible's conclusion, heaven and earth merge fully and completely. Once more, you know those wonderful words about the Jerusalem coming out. of the sky and being the new Jerusalem and set down and God's people dwell there and there's no need for sun and moon because the Lord is their light It's as if the very sky and separation between sky and earth are gone because they're together. Heavens and earth are merged. Yeah, what about today? What about right now? Where is heaven? I mean can you get on like a magical elevator like Tom the Cat and go there? Well, in answering that, which we'll do from Matthew's Gospel, we're going to discover that the church, what the church is, what it's called to be And we just might find another access point in what we are as a church. And I'm going to do that in seven points. Warning, the first three are gonna be the most kind of intense theologically. I'm gonna try to help rewire, reshape the way you think about heaven, and then the payoff will come in points four through seven. Here's point one, okay? Point one, the question at stake, or a question at stake in Matthew's gospel, is who on earth represents heaven? A huge question at stake in Matthew's gospel is who on earth represents heaven? I'm going to give you a few examples. You can write these down. If you can flip fast, you can do that fine. Just write these down. Chapter 3, verse 2, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Wait, wait, wait, Jesus. Well What's at hand? Is another access point? Another place of overlap here at hand? And you notice that word, kingdom of heaven, meaning the rule of heaven, is at hand. Well, who are the beneficiaries of the kingdom of heaven being at hand? Well, chapter 5, verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And if, okay, well, if if you're the beneficiary, if you've received it, how should you live? Chapter 5, verse 16. Let your light shine before others so they may see your good works and give glory. to the Father who is in heaven. And notice what such people desire. Notice how they pray. Chapter 6, verse 10, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth. as it is in heaven. Notice all what also what such people strive after. Chapter 6, verse 19. Do not store up your treasures on earth, but store up your treasure in heaven. So we see the coming together in certain ways again here between heaven and earth. And of course the book famously ends with Jesus resurrected now saying, all authority in heaven and on earth have been given to me. Okay, I just gave you six examples of the language of heaven being used in Matthew's gospel. In fact the word is used 75 times. Huge theme in Matthew's gospel. And a pairing of the language of heaven and earth, like all authority in heaven and earth, is used 12 times So again, this is a huge theme in Matthew's gospel. Heaven belongs to God and where Hebrews, whereas earth belongs to Well, listen to chapter 4, verse 8. Again, the devil took him up on a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in their glory, and he said to them, All these I will give you, Jesus. If you fall down and worship me, heaven belongs to God. Earth belongs to Well, at least the evil has evil one has a kind of temporary rule, a kind of rule here. And of course, this is why Jesus taught his disciples to pray, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Okay, point one, I said, is what's at stake in Matthew's gospel is who on earth represents heaven. What we watch in Matthew's Gospel is a kind of regime change. You know how one presidential administration gives way to another presidential administration or one regime gives way to another regime. And that's what we have in Matthew's gospel. You have Israel and its leaders being pushed off. It's like Jesus shows up and says, hey guys, you lost the election Security guards are going to escort you to the Capitol building doors, pack the contents of your desks in a box, you're out of here. We have a new regime. Chapter 23, verse 13. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Your time's up, guys. And so we have this regime change. Chapter 8, verse 11. I tell you, many will come from east and west. Gentiles outside of the promised land will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. While the sons of the kingdom, ethnic Jews, will be thrown into outer darkness. Okay, you with me so far? We have this question at stake, who on earth represents heaven? And there's talk of a regime change coming. But before we go there, I think we can just stop and meditate on this for a second and realize what a huge question this is. Who on earth represents heaven? I mean, can you tell me their names or something? Who should I go to to talk to to know what God really thinks? A pope? A priest? A Dalai Lama Who can tell me what heaven looks like and wants and requires of my life now? Maybe it's the philosopher. What have the greatest philosophers of history tried to do? Plato, Aristotle? I mean, aren't they seeking to speak for true truth, right? Isn't that what they're trying to do? Or maybe we should go to the poets. The Homer's, the Shakespeare's, the Auden's. Can they give us a sense of true beauty and What things really are as they are in themselves, what heaven's perspective on all of life in the universe. Do I talk to them? Of course, most people today would say it's a foolish enterprise. Who who, after all, can claim to speak for God, the only people who do that are nutjobs and cult leaders, truce subjectives, truth relative, right? Nobody can speak for heaven. That's ridiculous You should use that as a way of asserting your power over other people. Or maybe you're a little more spiritual. You want to look on the inside. Or you go for a walk in nature and you sort of commune with the Spirit of God, as it were, in nature, and somehow the Spirit of God is in you. And that's where you know what heaven truly is. What your gut telling you. What's your heart telling you? The question at stake in Matthew's gospel is who on earth represents heaven? Point two. Jesus represents heaven. Jesus represents heaven. Chapter 3 Behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved son. Listen to him Jesus represents heaven. Or again, think of the final words of Matthew, all authority in heaven and on earth have been given to me. It's as if heaven and earth, divided ever since Genesis 3, now foreshadowed in the temple, here they are agathered again, perfectly The person and the work of Jesus Christ. It's not Tom going up the escalator It's the Son of God Himself coming down. Here's heaven. The kingdom of heaven is at hand in him. Chapter eleven. All things have been handed over to me by my father And no one knows the Son except the Father. And no one knows the Father except the Son. Okay, Jesus represents heaven. But anybody else, keep going in the verse. And Anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Huh. Point three The Local Church Chevroly Baptist Church Grace Baptist Bowie Capitol Hill Baptist Church, Fourth Presbyterian Falls Church Anglican, represents heaven. Go ahead and turn to Matthew 16. We're gonna look a little bit more closely at Matthew 16 and 18 If you skim your eyes over the first few verses, first 12 verses of Matthew 16, you see Jesus warning the apostles not to trust the teaching of Israel's leaders. The term of office is up, as I said. And then notice verse 13, he says, who do people say that the Son of Man is? Then he asks again in verse fifteen, Who do you say that I am? I think we can say that Jesus here is interested in a what And a who. What is a right confession of who I am and who of you actually know it? Are you guys getting it He's interested in a what, what's a right confession, and a who. Who confesses the right confession? Simon Peter, you see there, conf answers, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answers Peter on behalf of heaven. Interesting. He says, My Father in heaven has revealed this to you, Peter. And then look at verse 18. He says, and I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven So, just kind of staring at the text here, notice Jesus says he's going to build his church on this rock, this, I would say, confessor, confessing the right confession. Okay? And then he gives Peter these keys. And keys are a symbol of authority. But of course these keys don't open and shut. It says these keys do what? The bind and loose. What does that mean? Binding and loosing. Well, it's a rabbinic way of both interpreting the law, of talking about interpreting the law. And then rendering a judgment on the law. So the rabbis would have discussed what did Moses mean when he said this about the divorce and Could a woman, man, divorce his wife under these circumstances, under those circumstances? What's a right interpretation of what Moses said on divorce? So they interpret, and then they would render a judgment. They would say, okay, this couple in front of us, in light of our interpretation, this man can or cannot divorce his wife. And they would render that kind of judgment. They would bind them or loose them according to their interpretation. You see? And Jesus likewise is giving Peter and the apostles this same authority. The authority to say, okay, now what exactly is the right confession? Who do people say that I am? And in the renter of judgment. That's right. The Father in heaven told you that. You see? This is a true or not true confession. This is a true or not true confessor. Okay? Interpretation and a judgment in that. Notice all the interesting, notice also the relationship between heaven and earth here. It appears we have another access point. An overlap between heaven's rule and earth's rule. Whoever holds these keys actually speaks for heaven Now does that mean the key holder makes somebody a Christian? Well, no, again, it's it's like what a rabbi does, or to use maybe an analogy that's a little closer to us what a judge does. A judge, what does a judge do? A judge interprets the law. Does he make the law what the law is? Well, he just interprets the law. And then a judge Well, does a judge actually make a person innocent or guilty? Well, no, but based on their interpretation of the law, they count them, they declare them guilty, not guilty. And that's what the church does. We say this or is not the gospel, and again, this is or is not a true confessor. Now, what we have right here in Matthew 16 is testimony to the fact that Peter and the apostles hold the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Does anybody else hold them? Well that brings us to us. That brings us to Chevrolet Baptist Church. Turn to Matthew 18. Matthew 18. If you look at verses 15 and 16, you see there's a dispute over whether or not somebody has sinned. A man is confronted once, verse 15, a second time with two or three, and 16. He doesn't listen, so in verse 17, Jesus says, look there, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile or tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. There the there are the keys again. Interesting, you can't see this in your English, but in the Greek, it's a plural U. Back in 16 it was a singular U. Now it's a y'all. Whatever y'all bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. Whatever yaw loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven Or where two or three, verse 20, are gathered in my name, there am I among them. We'll think about that text especially next. Weak. But notice here that there's no mention of pastors or bishops or presbyteries or episcopacies. The final court of appeal is you. You, congregation, you Chevroly Baptist Church together pulled the keys. When you come together like this, you possess that final authority to speak for heaven. Now typically you'll do this under the leadership and at the direction of elders, but finally the keys are in your hand, congregation. Just right here, plain as day. Jesus has authorized the local church to stand in front of a confessor, to consider the confessor's confession to consider his or her life and then to render a judgment on heaven's behalf. Is that a true confession? Is that a true confessor? Again like Jesus did with Peter. And we do this typically through preaching. This is what the Bible says. We bind our consciences according to it, and this is how we teach it here. And we do this through the ordinances. We baptize people into the name So that we can gather in the name. We take the supper together, affirming one another in the name. If we were to read on to Matthew 26 and 28, we would see these things. But here's what I want to make sure you get. The key holding local church has heaven's authority not to make a Christian, but to declare who is and who is not a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. It was like in college when I lived in Brussels, Belgium for a semester and my passport expired So I went down to the U. S. Embassy there in Brussels and I gave them my passport and they looked at it and they kinda looked in his computer. And in short order, he he gave me a new updated passport I was a US citizen, not because of the embassy. I was a U. S. citizen by birth, right? But did the embassy have an authority to declare me a citizen that I, as an individual citizen, do not have? Yes. Right? And so what are local churches? Local churches are these embassies of the kingdom of heaven Scattered across the land, scattered throughout the world, these little specks of light on a on a sea of darkness, local churches all acting as outposts and embassies of heaven, access points. Where the rule of heaven and earth overlap once more. Isn't that remarkable? I trust some of you guys or all of you guys have been down to Embassy Row on Massav. I remember the first time I came to DC walking down embassy row and I remember taking my daughters at different times There's the Japanese embassy, there's the Finnish embassy, there's Italy, there's Britain and the red phone booth. And outside of each one of those embassies, what do you have? We have the flag of that nation flying. If you were to attend an embassy dinner, you would eat cuisine coming from the soil grown on that nation. Not that I've ever attended embassy dinner, and I trust some of you may have. If you were to sneak into the back offices and kind of look through the file drawers, you'd find the diplomatic business of those nations. You talk to the people in the embassies and you hear the language and experience the culture of those different nations. What is the local church? The local church is an outpost, an embassy of the kingdom of heaven on earth There the flag of heaven flies and passports are given through baptism and the supper. There we experience the culture of heaven. Gentleness, meekness, kindness, self-control. We hear the diplomatic business of heaven being discussed. Go out and make disciples. We taste the food of heaven and the supper. Isn't that just like God? Who speaks for heaven? Is it Ivy League philosophy departments United Nations, Supreme Court, or Brother Bob, Sister Sue, Deacon Darnell Down at Bug's Elbow Baptist. The shamed things of the world, the foolish things of the world, the the despise things of the world, the things that are not, the small things, the not-noticed things, the under-the-radar things. God is like, listen to them. They speak for me. They shame the mighty. They confound the wise Heaven on earth here starting little by little now Do you praise God for the local church? Or do you do what they do? Kind of blow it off. Take it for granted. Wait, what? Bumble Stew Baptist? Who cares? It's nothing Point three, the local church represents heaven. Point four. We don't join churches. We submit to them. We don't join churches like we join clubs, we submit to them. I submitted myself to the U. S. Embassy in Brussels, Belgium. It's an act of citizenship, and Christians must join churches It's a voluntary society from the state's standpoint. Yes, it's not their business who is and who is not a church member And it's a voluntary society in so far as you're able to pick which church you will join, but it's not a voluntary society in that you must join a church You don't just read your Bible, decide I am the interpreter of this book. I have the keys of the kingdom in my hand. Nations of the earth, I speak for Jesus. No. You do what they did in Acts chapter 2. What must we do to be saved? Repent, said Peter, and be baptized Go down to the church in Jerusalem and let them affirm you. Let them speak on your Behalf. What is church membership? Church membership is a declaration of citizenship in Christ's kingdom. It's a passport. It's an announcement made in the press room. Of Christ's kingdom, all of which occur through baptism and the supper. Let me give you a one-sentence definition of membership. Membership is a relationship between you and a church In which a church affirms and oversees your profession of faith, and you submit yourself to that church's affirmation and oversight. The church affirms and oversees your discipleship, and you submit yourself to that church's affirmation and oversight. And what is church discipline? Well, church discipline then is a series of smaller corrections. That way you're living is out of step with what it means to be a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. You can't live that way, brother. You can't live that way, sister So a series of small corrections, and then finally, with proven unrepentance over time, it's a removal of the affirmation. Remember, membership is that affirmation of our profession of faith, discipline, and its final step is the removal of that affirmation. Membership and discipline that are two sides of the same coin. And it's inside these authority structures of the church that we live our daily life. Let me give you an example It's Tuesday evening. I have a couple of brothers over for dinner on this evening. And On that particular evening, let's say one of my daughters wasn't behaving in a particularly helpful fashion. And inside of me, I'm wanting to come down on that daughter. But it occurs to me that I got one younger brother here who has an abusive father, and I have another younger brother here who has a father who just was never there. And it occurs to me, okay, in addition to not coming down harshly on my daughter, both for God's sake and my daughter's sake, I'm also aware of these two younger brothers and for their sake. So I know that they come to church on Sundays and they hear people preach, this is what a godly father is. And we kind of fill in the outline of what a godly father is. But they are sitting at my dinner table with these two younger brothers with bad dad, abusive dad, and absent dad, I have the opportunity to fill out in color what a godly father is. Now let's suppose for a second I respond harshly to my daughter, abusively, derisively. And let's suppose that continues. And let's suppose they challenge me. Jonathan, that you remind me a lot of my dad. What am I doing? Well, at that point, because I am a church-affirmed citizen of the kingdom of heaven, I wear the I'm with Jesus' name tag I wear the teen uniform because the church has baptized me in and brought me in as a Christian. At that point, I'm saying to these young men, yeah, Christian dads are basically like any other dads. But now let's suppose these two young men go grab a couple of other people in the church. Maybe they get an elder. And together they confront me. And let's suppose I'm unrepentant. Let's suppose I'm saying you don't understand what it's like to live with my family. You guys don't have kids, you don't understand, and I don't repent. And so the church decides to remove me. from membership in the church. What happens at that point to these two young men's understanding of what it means to be a Christian dad It's rescued. It's saved. Because the church is faithful in removing me. So do you see how this works The fact that we gather together on Sundays and we bring one another in through baptism in the supper means we go out all week speaking for Jesus. Because we're members of the embassy, we as it were go out as ambassadors. Our whole life begins to speak for Jesus because of our inclusion in The local church. Point five. Church membership, friends, is therefore an office Church membership is therefore an office. If you all have the keys, you all have a job to do. Job responsibility one, help preserve the gospel. So to everyone who's considering, if any of you are guests today and you're considering joining this church, we hope you'll join us. Here's what I would say. If you want to join, We're expecting you to help us preserve the gospel. That's your job. You see this in a place like Galatians 1, where Paul goes after not the pastors, but after the members. For listening to a false gospel. Don't listen to those teachers, he says. Job responsibility number two Help affirm gospel citizens. Every member of the church is responsible for protecting and preserving the gospel by affirming and disaffirming gospel citizens. So job one, the what A right confession. Your job is to help us preserve it. Job responsibility number two, a who? Confessors. Help us affirm. And live together with gospel citizens. Job responsibilities three and four. Disciple other members Share the gospel. Evangelize non-Christians. And of course, it's the elders' job to equip the saints for these job responsibilities. Point number five six. Church membership is for repentant and baptized sinners Church membership is for repentant and baptized sinners. No, I say that because you you might be, if you were listening carefully, especially that first part, you might think, okay. Israel and its leaders were evicted from office because they were disobedient and shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. Does that mean we, Jonathan, does that mean we have to be really righteous to be a church member? Well, no, listen to who Jesus says represents him. Chapter, a few more verses, chapter 5, verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs. Is the kingdom of heaven. Chapter 7, verse 21. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father. Who is in heaven? Chapter 10, verse 32, everyone who acknowledges me before men, I will also acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. In chapter 18, verse 4, whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. This is who the church is to receive as members, the poor in spirit. Those who follow God's will. Those who acknowledge Christ. Those who humble themselves like little children Do you see the pattern there? Christianity and therefore church membership is not for the strong. It's not for those who have their acts together And who are determined, therefore, to follow their own wills, do it their own way. Church membership, Christianity are for those who have tried and failed It is for the teenagers who had certain moral ideals and then went off to college and completely abandoned those ideals and quickly learned to regret it. It's for the mothers who have these really high standards of what it means to be a mother, and they try and fail day after day. It's for the people who reach retirement and they look back at their life and they realize I lived my whole life for me. Ah. What do I do now? Christianity and therefore church membership It's for people who have reached the end of themselves. Matthew 9, verse 12, Jesus says, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. This brings us back to the amazing wisdom of God. The Father in heaven has chosen remarkably, unbelievably to represent himself on earth, not with the morally perfect But with the morally broken. That is the person who knows he or she is a sinner, hates that fact, and is now hungering for Is righteousness. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. They shall be satisfied. Friends, this is the heart of Christianity. We were created for good. We did bad. Christ lived the humble, meek, and perfect life that we should have lived and then died on the cross that we should die, taking the penalty that we deserve, so that all who say Didn't do it. Didn't make the grade. Not good enough. Can't have his. Righteousness He made the grade. He made the cut. We're just holding on to him. That's Christianity. That's church membership. That brings us to point seven. Churches offer the first fruits of heaven, but not the full feast Churches offer the first fruits of heaven, but not the full feast. We saw that Jesus gave the keys of the kingdom to Peter in order to provide that access point between heaven and earth But then do you also a little bit later remember Jesus also saying this to Peter this very night, I tell you, before the rooster crows. Peter, you'll deny me three times. Churches get it wrong. Church members will sin against you. You will sin. Against other church members. Churches, tragically, have participated in grave injustices. We have not always looked like Tom on the escalator to heaven. Sometimes we have even looked and acted like the escalator that goes the other way. We are simultaneously justified and sinful, said Luther. Friends, your church is going to disappoint you. It will not. CBC will not live up. The elders will not live up to all of your expectations. We still live by eyes of faith, not eyes of sight. Do not expect to be fully satisfied. Like the satisfaction that you feel at the end of a good meal. Instead, expect to remain a little hungry. But every so often, you're gonna pick up an appetizer and you're gonna taste it. And you're gonna say, this is this is really good. Where's the meal? Last night my wife and I did carry out from an attack. Italian restaurant, we got bruscetta. I tasted it. I'm like, this is really good. I love bruscetta. But I was glad that wasn't it, because then I had the chicken parmesan. And I was looking forward to that What is church? You get a little prashada. Every once in a while you show up at church and you're like, yes. Not always Every once in a while you're with a brother or sister in Christ, and you're like, this is good bruschetta. And at that point, you're ready for the chicken parmesan, but you know what? Not yet. Wait. You're gonna be a little hungry Why'd she sin against me? Why don't they understand that? I can't believe they're we're still a little hungry But the Lord is saying to us, oh friend, first fruits, just wait. I have good purposes for you in the waiting Stick with it. Get there. Let's pray. You've declared us an embassy. You've called us to go out as ambassadors Told us to represent heaven. Why us? We're astonished Have mercy. So that we might represent you faithfully, rightly. Christ's name. Amen.