Today's sermon text is Psalm seventy-four. O God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? Remember your congregation which you have purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage. Remember Mount Zion where you have dwelt Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins. The enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary. Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place. They set up their own signs for signs. They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees, and all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers. They set your sanctuary on fire. They profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground. They said to themselves, We will utterly subdue them. They burned all the meeting places of God in the land. We do not see our signs. There is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long. How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever? Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them. Yet, God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. You divided the sea by your might, you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters. You crushed the heads of Leviathan. You gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness. You split open springs and brooks. You dried up ever-flowing streams. Yours is the day, yours also the night. You have established the heavenly lights and the sun. You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter. Remember this, O Lord, how the enemy scoffs and a foolish people reviles your name. Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts. Do not forget the life of your poor forever. Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence. Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame. Let the poor and needy praise your name. Arise, O God, defend your cause. Remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day. Do not forget the clamor of your foes The uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually. This is God's word. Well, good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be here with you to have the opportunity to open up God's Word and to hear Him speak to us. And since we are opening His Word, And hearing him speak, we should ask him for help in understanding now. So let's do that briefly. Would you join me in prayer? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning and ask, Lord, that you would cause the light of the Lord Jesus Christ to shine on those who are dwelling in darkness today. And that you, by your grace and tender mercy, would transfer them from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of your beloved Son. And we pray also for those who are dwelling in that kingdom of light, in the kingdom of your beloved Son, Jesus Christ, yet who feel as though the clouds of that light have been. covered over their lives and they have experienced sorrow and grief. Would you help us today to remember that you are a God who will never forget your people? And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, if you haven't already, I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Psalm 74. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you'll find Psalm 74 on pages 486 and 487. And as always, we want you to know that if you don't have a Bible of your own We want to invite you to take a copy that we've provided in our seats as a gift from us to you. We think there's nothing more important than for you to have a copy of God's word for yourself. We're on a short break from the Gospel of Mark. Jaron preached last week from Galatians 5. I'm in Psalm 74 this week and Psalm 91 next week, and then Jonathan Lehman is going to preach from 2 John, and then we'll get back to the Gospel of Mark in a few weeks. But we're nearing in Mark's Gospel the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and its meaning for God's people. And what we're going to find in our passage from Psalm 74 is how how closely related Psalm 74 is to what we're studying in Mark's gospel. If you're unfamiliar with the book of Psalms, what we're looking at today is just one of 150 different pieces of poetry that were used when the nation of Israel gathered for worship. Now, these psalms would be sung or read aloud at festivals or gatherings, and the content of the psalms on the whole really focused on Israel's relationship with God. And as you open up the Psalms and read through them, what you find is that there are psalms of praise, there are psalms of thanksgiving. There are wisdom psalms, there are royal psalms, and there are psalms of lament. Psalm 74 is one of these Psalms of Lament. Psalms of Lament explore the sorrow and suffering that Israel experienced in its relationship with God. Just want to put pause real quick and note how striking that is, isn't it? Israel, the people who were God's chosen people, they suffered. They experienced deep sorrow. They knew what it was like to feel like God had forgotten them. And I just want us to pause here to recognize. how real the Bible is, how it meets us in real life and teaches us how to make sense of this crazy, messed up world that we live in. And how to make sense of the deep sorrow and sadness and grief that we all inevitably experience in this life. So if you've if you've come in here today thinking and uh thinking that you need to carry the burden Of thinking that having a relationship with God means that you need to be happy all the time. I want you to know that you can you can lay that burden down. Having a relationship with God involves sorrow and suffering. They're part of this life, whether you follow Jesus or not. And what I hope to show you though is that if you follow God, if you follow the Lord Jesus Christ, You can know for certain that no matter how much sorrow or suffering you experience in this life, that God will never, ever, ever forget you. He will always remember you. And so what I want us to do is go ahead and look at Psalm 74. There's three things that I want us to note about Psalm 74. I want us to look first, for remember this is a A psalm of lament. They're lamenting the suffering that they're experienced as God's chosen people. So I want us to look first at how they were suffering, how Israel was suffering. Then second, I want us to look at why they were suffering. And then third, I want us to look at their response to their suffering. And after we look at their response to their suffering, I just want to draw out some applications for us before we close. And so we want to look first at how they were suffering. Look down at the second half of verse 3. The psalmist tells us exactly what's happening. He says, the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary. And then he continues in verses 4 to 8 to describe it more clearly. These enemies roar like victorious lions in celebration of their destruction of the sanctuary. They they came into Israel. destroyed the temple and they put up their signs for signs. It's like they marched in with their armies and the banners that their armies carried and the flags from their nation. And after they destroyed the temple, they planted their flag in the middle of it to proclaim their defeat of Israel. This is a humiliating defeat that the people of Israel are suffering. But we see how complete the destruction of the temple was. The psalmist wants us to really feel the completeness of the destruction. Look at verses 5 and 6. These enemies were like lumberjacks swinging axes in the woods. What do lumberjacks with axes do in the woods? They cut down everything in sight. That's what these enemies did. They chopped down everything. Then in verse 7, they burned it to the ground. But it's not just the temple that they destroyed. Look at verse 8. They burned all the meeting places of God in the land. They said among themselves, We will utterly subdue the people of Israel under our feet. Right? They went throughout the entire country of Israel and destroyed everything. And to make matters worse, just keep looking. Look at verse 10. They mock God's people. They scoff at them. They scoff at God. They scoff at God's people. We destroy them. Who is this God of Israel? He doesn't even have power to save his own people. And this idea that they scoffed and mocked and boasted and bragged is just repeated throughout the psalm. Look at verse 18. They scoffed. Remember how they scoffed. Then in verse 22. And verse 23, these enemies of God's people brag and brag and brag. And I think you probably understand. how infuriating and humiliating this would be, right? If you've ever lost a game or have been shown up or there was something that you were competing with another person for and you lost that thing, right? Losing in and of itself is hard for humans Right? But we all know what it's like when the person who then beats you or takes that thing from you mocks you and brags about beating you, right? You get angry. You're furious, but you can't do anything because you've just been defeated. You're humiliated and furious. It's a terrible feeling, right? But the more important the thing that you lose is the more painful and angering the mocking will then be. Right? It's one thing when you get mocked for getting beaten at a board game, right? Or like a game of horse or something like that. It it really it's not a big deal My kids mock me when they beat me at sorry, right? But I I hold it together barely, right? But it's a whole other thing. When the things that are most important to you in your life have been taken from you, and then the people who took them from you then mock you. And that is why this experience was so devastating for the people of Israel. Because what these enemies took from them, what they lost, were the most important things in their lives. If we're going to truly understand how devastating this experience was, we need to understand something about Israel's history as a people. These are the people who had been specially chosen by God out of all the nations on earth. To display God's glory, right? God had called their forefather Abraham and promised that he would make Abraham's descendants into a great nation, and that through that nation, Israel, the whole earth would be blessed. These very people then have had their land destroyed and their temple torn down. Not only were they specifically chosen by God, but he actually dwelled among them, right? After he rescued them out of Egypt, he brought them into a land that he had perfectly and specially prepared for them. And then he had them build a temple, and on that temple, the glory of God descended and took up residence within God lived in the temple among the people of Israel. This is why you see in the Old Testament, the people of Israel are supposed to say, who who among the nations is like us? That has the God of creation dwelling among them. God lived with these people in the temple, and they lived in the land that He had specially prepared for them. For nearly 1,000 years, the people of Israel enjoyed access to God in the temple and life in the land that he had prepared for them. A thousand years Right? I mean I don't even know what it's like to think back a thousand years. I mean what like what was life even like then? But for a thousand years this nation had God in their presence and lived in his specially prepared land. The land. And the temple were proof to Israel that God had chosen them and was among them. And what's happening here is the psalmist is describing when the land and the temple were overrun by their enemies and destroyed, totally and completely destroyed And when you compare the description of what's happening here with the history of Israel recorded in 1 and 2 Kings, what you find is that this psalm is describing when the Babylonians attacked Israel And destroyed the temple and the land. They lost the land and they lost the temple, which to the people of Israel meant that they had lost God Himself. The personal devastation that this would have caused is frankly difficult for us to identify with today In one fell swoop, they lost everything that was important to them. And it wasn't just like personal effects that they lost, like somebody broke into the house and took their TV and took like some of their nice stuff, right? This was everything that their identity was built upon was taken from them. They no longer even knew who they were as people. If we don't have the land and we don't have God, who are we as a people? Right? This would be like a person today losing their entire family and their home and all their possessions at once. Like, who am I? The people I know and love are gone. The place that I called home is gone. All of my possessions are gone. Who am I? I'm in exile in this creation. It would have been a terrible experience. But if we're going to take the Bible seriously, we need to ask the question, why this is happening to the people of Israel? Right? If God really did specially prepare the promised land for them and really did live among them, why would he let this happen? So I want us to look at the Psalm next and see the second thing. I want us to look at why they're suffering, why they're experiencing this. If you've ever experienced acute suffering like this, then you know the first question everyone asks is, why? Why? Why is this happening to me? God, we thought you were with us. Where are you? God, how could you let this happen to us? We're supposed to be your people. And you see that that's the first question the psalmist asks: why? Look at verse 1. Oh God, why? Why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? Now look at verse 11. Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Basically, why, God, why don't you do something? You have the power to act. Why don't you act? Well we see here that in this verse 1 here, if you look at verse 1, he says, God, why do you cast us off? On the Old Testament, to cast off meant to reject or to send into exile And his question about why they're being cast off actually has the answer of why they're being cast off built into it. Exile. Casting off of the people of Israel was the punishment that God promised to bring on them if they lived in unrepentant sin against him. Look again at verse 1. The psalmist asks in the second half, why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? The description of God's anger smoking against his people is used only once elsewhere in the Old Testament, and that is in the book of Deuteronomy. Chapter twenty nine, verse twenty, when God was about to lead the people of Israel into the promised land, a thousand years earlier than this Psalm He told them that if they broke his commandments without regard, and if they lived how they wanted to live, rather than how he was calling them to live, that his anger would smoke against them. and he would send foreign nations to come into their land and destroy their land and their temple, and he would cast them out of his presence into exile. Where they would no longer have access to his presence in the temple, they would no longer have access to the land, they would be cast off from God's presence. So the reason that they are experiencing this terrible defeat, the reason that they were being removed from the land, the reason that they lost the presence of God in the temple was because of Their sin. Their sins brought this devastation. Their sins caused them to be cast out of the land. Their sins separated them from God. We've seen how they were suffering. Devastating defeat and exile. We've seen why they were suffering, their sins. So we want to take a close look at their response to their suffering. It's crucial that we understand how they responded to their sin-induced suffering because of how instructive it is for us today. And what I want you to notice first and most importantly in this psalm is that they call on God to remember. Remember. This is really the key word throughout the psalm. Seven different times, either explicitly or implicitly. The psalmist calls on God to remember. And then you see elsewhere in the psalm, implicitly, he says, do not forget, two different times. Do not forget. Remember Your people. And then he calls them to have regard for the covenant. Remember your covenant. Remember your people. Remember our enemies. Remember your covenant with your people Look back again with me at verse 2. Remember your congregation. He's pleading with God to remember his people. Remember us! We're the ones that you chose out of all the nations on the earth. Don't you remember God? How could this be happening to your chosen people? Remember us. Then he calls on God in verse 2 to remember Mount Zion, his dwelling place. That was a place where the temple was built. Remember that we're not only the people that you redeemed and chose, but the people that you chose to live among in the temple. He also calls on God not only to remember his people, he calls on God to remember his enemies, the Babylonians. We see this throughout the psalm. God, don't let them get away with this. Remember the pain that they've inflicted on your people and the way that they've desecrated your temple. Do not forget the way that the enemies revile and scoff at you, O God. And for God to remember his enemies, that's a plea for God to bring judgment on them. Don't let them get away with what they've carried out upon your people and have done against you, O God. But then in verse 20, I want you to look there with me. This is really the most important verse in this psalm as I understand it. The psalmist calls on God to have regard for the covenant. Remember the covenant. To call God to remember the covenant is to call God to remember that He promised, He promised to always be their God It's calling him to remember that when he made the covenant with them, that he bound himself to them, and there's no going back on that covenant. When he made the covenant with them, he put his name on them. They were his The psalmist is calling on God to remember that covenant. And so we need to ask real quick, just a little, we got to step back and try to understand our Bibles a little bit better. We've got to ask What covenant is the psalmist referring to? Right? I want to ask a question to the youth, the kids, to any of you who want to answer. There are four covenants that I have in mind in the Old Testament that all are named after individual people. Can any of you name those covenants for me? Just raise your hand. Where we come? Abrahamic, right? For the youth and kids. Any of the other ones, raise your hand if you can name one of them, Adam. So you have the Abrahamic covenant, you have the Noahic covenant, the covenant with Noah, the Mosaic covenant. So we have Noah, Abraham, Moses, chronological order. Now there's one more missing, Ava. The Davidic covenant, that's right. You have the Noahic covenant, the Abrahamic covenant, the Mosaic covenant, and the Davidic covenant. You read the psalm and you think. Well, which of those are we supposed to know? . . Like which one are you calling God to remember? You calling God to remember all of them? But I think if you take a step back and just think about the covenants, you'll kind of land on which one he's talking about He's not talking about the Noahic covenant, because that was a covenant made with all of creation, not just Israel. Right? He's calling them to remember Israel He's not asking God to remember the Mosaic covenant because the Mosaic covenant promised that if they obeyed him, they would receive blessings. If they disobeyed him, they received curses. They're in the middle of receiving the curses of that covenant. He's definitely not calling them to remember the Mosaic covenant. Is he is he is he calling him to remember the Davidic covenant that God would send another king? I think it's possible that it's that one. It's not exactly clear, but I think if you look carefully at the Psalm That he is calling God to remember his covenant with Abraham. Why do I say that I want you to track with me here because it's really important for us to understand how wonderfully this psalm develops and is eventually answered by God. Notice in verse 2, he calls on God to remember when He purchased and redeemed the nation of Israel. That is a clear reference to when God delivered Israel out of slavery in Egypt. And God promised that he would deliver Israel out of slavery in Egypt when he made his covenant with Abraham. When he made his covenant with Abraham, he promised that he would make Abraham's descendants into a great nation, the nation of Israel. And then he told Abraham that Israel would end up enslaved in Egypt for 400 years, but he would eventually deliver them out of slavery. Why do I bring that up? Well, because in God's covenant with Abraham, God also promised That from Abraham's descendants, the nation of Israel would come an offspring. One who would deliver his people from their enemies, one who would crush the head of the serpent. And the psalmist is saying to God, God, remember that covenant. Remember that covenant. If you leave us exiled and we're utterly destroyed as a nation, you will have failed to keep your promises. We will not be like the stars in the heavens. And if you fail to deliver us from exile and we are utterly destroyed as a nation, the Messiah won't come. That's the covenant that they're calling God to remember. You need to preserve us so that the Messiah can come into the earth. That's why we should be preserved to keep your promise to send a deliverer. And what we find as the Old Testament unfolds is that God heard this prayer from Psalm 74 and he remembered. He remembered his people's enemies. Seventy years after the nation of Israel went into exile, God remembered their Babylonian enemies and sovereignly used the nation of Persia. To bring judgment on the Babylonians, which they did in 539 BC, basically destroying the Babylonian kingdom forever. It hasn't come back ever since then. And then after remembering his enemies, God remembered his people. He moved in the heart of Cyrus, the king of Persia. to release the Jews from exile, and God brought his people back into the promised land where they rebuilt the temple. They got back those two things that were so foundational to their identity, the land and the temple. But there was one major difference between the new temple and the old temple. God never returned to dwell among them in the new temple as he did in the old temple. His glory, his presence never filled the new temple like it did the old. And that's because God remembered his covenant with Abraham and with Israel. He remembered to send the new temple. the one in whom his presence would dwell fully. He remembered to send his offspring, the deliverer The Messiah, the Son, Jesus Christ. I want you to see how beautifully and how profoundly the prayers of Psalm 74 are answered in the sending of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at look at verse. 3. Look at verse 3. The psalmist pleads: direct your steps to the perpetual ruins. Return to us. And oh, did he ever return? Jesus lived, he directed his steps back to the nation of Israel, back to the perpetual ruins. He lived and walked among the people of Israel. In Jesus, the fullness of God's presence dwelled among them. Now look at verse 9. Look at verse 9. We do not see our signs. There's no longer any power of God at work among us. There's no longer any prophet But when God sent Jesus, there was what? An explosion of miraculous power. As he stilled the storms, he healed the sick, he cast out demons, he fed thousands with just a few loaves of bread and raised the dead. And not only did he work wonders, but he was the true and final prophet of God. He spoke of his own authority because he is the living word of God. And not only was he the power of God and the word of God, but he was the light of God. Look at verse 20 again. Look at verse 20 again. Why does the psalmist plead with God to remember the covenant? Because darkness had spread across the land. Evil was everywhere. Violence was everywhere. The whole land had become dark. And what does John say about Jesus? In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome the light. And when Jesus, the light of God, appeared, look at verse 21. The downtrodden and the poor and the needy would once again praise God's name. And why would that happen Because Jesus came to bring the downtrodden, the poor, and the needy back from exile. You see, the exile that Israel experienced for their sins in the Old Testament is a microcosm of the exile that all mankind has experienced from the presence of God for our sins. Jesus taught that all of us have rejected God's ways and chosen to live our own way, and because of that, we're separated from God. Spiritually exiled from His presence and have no hope, no ability, and no power of our own to get back into the presence of God. On our own. What we need is someone who can come and pay for our sins and bring us back from exile. And that is exactly what Jesus has done. Jesus lived the perfect life He never did anything wrong. He never thought anything sinful or wrong. He never said anything sinful or wrong. He never did anything sinful or wrong, which means he. And he alone deserves to dwell in the presence of God. But he chose amazingly to leave God's presence to come and rescue us. And no no no reason in and of ourselves to be rescued because of our sins against God. And he came to bring us back from exile to make a way for all of us to dwell with God again. And how did he do that? He did that by offering his life as a perfect sacrifice to take the punishment that we deserved. He died on the cross in our place. He was cast off from the presence of God so that we could be brought near. Look at verse 1 again. Oh God, why do you cast us off forever? Do you know what God says to that? I will not cast you off forever, because my son will be cast off in your place, so that you could be brought near to me Look at the second half of verse one. Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? We will not receive the anger of God because Jesus bore the fullness of the wrath of God in our place on the cross so that we could know God's grace. And God's peace. He was the temple of God, the one in whom the fullness of God dwelled, who was completely torn down as the temple of God by his enemies on the cross. And while he hung on the cross, what did his enemies do when they surrounded him? They boasted, they bragged, they mocked like these enemies. These enemies tearing down the old temple are foreshadowing the enemies that would surround Jesus as the true temple is torn down on the cross and they would mock him and boast and brag. Come down now from the cross if you are the Son of God. But different than the psalmist in Psalm 74, Jesus did not, did not call on God to remember his enemies. What did he call on God to do on the cross? Forgive them! Forgive them because they know not what they do. They are spiritually exiled from the presence of God. They live in darkness. They do not realize that I'm the Son of God. And I have come to die in their place So that I can take those who who mock me and boast against me and brag against me, who hate me, I can lay down my life for them because I am the good shepherd. I have come to lay down my life for the sheep The sheep of God's pasture, I will take the anger of God in their place so that they can know the peace of God. Of all the people on earth, Jesus deserved to be remembered by God. But on the cross, he was forgotten and forsaken so that God would remember us. Oh Lord, how kind is God to us? And we know, we know that when Jesus cried out, God, forgive them. We know that God remembered Jesus and heard his prayer. What did Paul write in Romans 5? For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. Jesus did that for us on the cross. The enemies who surrounded him, who mocked him, who boasted, who bragged because we tore down his temple, he went to the grave and to the cross for us And he rose in power on the third day, so that we who repent of our sins and trust in him would know that newness of life, and we'd be brought back from exile and might have the hope of being remembered by God. Out of my non-Christian friend, if you're here, I wonder if you see yourself at all in this psalm. And maybe you're the type of person who looks at all the suffering and the way that this earth seems to be in ruins and you conclude that there must not be a God. Right? Maybe your life is a mess right now. Maybe you've been wounded, hurt, or broken by the people in your life. Maybe you're suffering from physical brokenness. Maybe you feel forgotten by God Now if that's you, I want to encourage you to adopt the attitude of the person who wrote this psalm. Do you notice when you read through Psalm 74, he never, ever doubts God's existence? He knew that suffering and sorrow wasn't evidence that God didn't exist. He simply recognized suffering and sorrow as evidence of our sinfulness. The suffering, sorrow, despair, and brokenness that we experience in this life is a result of mankind's sins against God and the fact that we have been exiled from His presence, who is life in Himself. This world is just breaking to pieces because we do not have God with us. This world is in ruins and mankind is not only in spiritual exile in the in this life, but is also in danger of being exiled forever. And that's what I want to point out to you. If you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, God is good. And because he's good, he's going to judge all who've sinned against him. And he's going to send them into an eternal exile from his Look at verse 1 again. Why do you cast us off forever? I think the psalmist is speaking ironically here, maybe unintentionally, but there will be a casting off from God that lasts forever. If we pass into the next life, if we do not repent of our sins and trust in Christ in this life, we are under the threat of being judged with an eternal exile from God's presence. And so I plead with you today. to consider what Christ did on the cross for you and for all who would turn from their sins and trust in him, so that you might know that God will not forget you. And kids, as you're pastor, I want to help prepare you for the suffering that you'll experience in this life. I think it's possible that some of you may have already experienced suffering, but it's likely that many of you many of you haven't. What I want you to know is that as you go through this life and you get older and you grow, I just want you to know that suffering, as the Bible teaches, is part of life in a fallen world. It is not indication that God does not love you. It is not an indication that God does not care about you. It is not an indication that God has not forgotten you. It's part of the curse that has come upon creation. But you can know, as we'll see in this psalm, that if you put your trust in Christ, that God will remember you. And at one point in the future, at some point in the future, he will relieve that suffering completely, as we'll see. But kids, I want to encourage you to consider that today. And what I want you to see, and what I want everyone who follows Jesus to see, is what Psalm 74 has to teach us about suffering. Just as God would not and could not forget his people because of his covenant with them, so he cannot and will not forget you. God's memory is not like ours, right? God's memory never fails. Right? We forget appointments. We forget to have the oil changed on our cars. We forget the metro schedule. We forget to reply to a text. God never, ever forgets. And when we talk about God remembering in the Bible, we're not talking about God recalling something that he had put away in some other part of his mind that he's now got to be reminded of. For God to remember is a way to describe God's acute and constant awareness of his people. When the psalmist asks God to remember him, say, God, continue paying attention to us. Do not lose track of us. And the reality is in Scripture that God promises to always remember, to always have his eye on, to always be acutely aware of what is going on in your life. He doesn't lose things, right? We're not like a set of car keys that he might have misplaced in heaven. He is with us at all times and in all places. Think about what Isaiah says. When you pass through the waters This is God speaking. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you through suffering. And the rivers will not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be scorched, nor will the flame burn you. Right, you see, it's it's uh it seems as though the psalmist thought that because they had lost the temple and been cast out of the land, that God could no longer help them. As though his power to save was restricted to the temple and w was restricted to the land of Israel. But God's power is not restricted or limited by our circumstances. And even the psalmist finally recognizes that. Look down with me at verse 12. Look at verse 12. In the midst of feeling forgotten by God, the psalmist remembers. He's calling on God to remember, and God's kind of saying, hey, you should also remember something. Well, what should we remember, God? Remember who I am and what I'm capable of. Look at verse 12. My God is king. He's been king for a long time, and he works salvation throughout the earth. That means in all nations and at all times, God is at work saving people for his purposes. His power is not limited to the land of Israel. His power is not Limited to the temple. His power is at work in all the earth. And friends, God is the same yesterday and today and forever. There is no circumstance that you are facing today that is too big for God to help with. There is no trial that you're facing that has caused God to forget you. God is actively aware of and sovereignly superintending the trials we experience because God never ever forgets his people. But just because God remembers doesn't mean that the trials are any less difficult to experience, right? Grief, sorrow, despair, these are all painful parts of the human experience. And there may be seasons in our lives as Christians where we don't sense the presence of God or can't see or feel the hope of the gospel. And what do we do when that happens? We do what the psalmist does. We remember who God is and what he's capable of. Look down again at verses 12 to 17. Just let your eyes scan over it Do you notice how in verses 12 to 17, right in the middle, right in the middle of his desperate pleas for God to remember, he begins recounting what he knows to be true about God. My God is the king. My God has the power to divide the seas. He crushes and destroys sea monsters and Leviathan. Those would have been symbols or illustrations of chaos and God's enemies in the world. The Babylonians, nothing for my God. He crushes sea monsters and Leviathan. So how much more can he defeat my enemies? He splits open the fountains of the deep. He dries up rivers. My God made the day and the night. Nothing's hidden from him. My God governs the changing of the seasons. Which means my God is in control of all things. He has power to do all things. So who is God in the midst of your suffering? He's the merciful God, who even though you were dead in your trespasses, he made you alive together with Christ. He's the all-powerful God, who's able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think. He's the sustaining God who draws near to those who are faint and weary and lifts them up on wings like eagles. He's a sympathetic God who sympathizes with us in our weakness and who acutely knows the suffering and the questioning of whether God remembers us. He's the victorious God who defeated our enemies of sin, death, Satan, and hell. He's the generous God who lavishes grace and mercy and supplies for all our needs. Friends, we could go on all day doing this. All day describing God's attributes and his power and his works in history, that he's worked for his people, so that we would remember how powerful he is and might be comforted in the midst of our suffering, knowing that our God is in control of all things. And he always remembers his people. As we call for God to remember us in the midst of our trials, it is necessary that we also remember him and how he works. And how does he work in the new covenant? He's chosen to make his power made known in weakness. In our weakness. But in our weakness, God provides, and he always does. One author said this, some days God will do far more abundantly than all that I can ask or imagine, and other days he will simply sustain me in the storm. But every day, every day, he will provide all that I need. And we need to remember God in our suffering because Satan wants us to lose sight of our sovereign Savior. Satan wants Nothing more than for you to believe that God is bumbling around in heaven and has somehow forgotten you. Oh well, where did I put Shanita? I can't f I can't I forgot where she is. Where did I put Dan? Where's Klon right now? I can't figure out where Tracy is. My gosh, I must have lost him. That's what Satan wants you to believe. He doesn't want you to see that God is sovereign and in control of all things. Right? He wants you to think that your suffering is somehow unique and beyond the bounds of God's power to help. But what the psalmist declares in the midst of his suffering and what we can declare in the midst of our suffering is that our God is king from of old. And just as God acted in time to bring Israel back from exile, so he will once again act to deliver us from this fallen world. Do you notice in verse 11, look down there with me, the psalmist asks, why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Then later in the Psalm he calls on God to arise and defend your people. Your hand, your right hand in the Old Testament was the saving power of God at work and active in the world, making making it obvious that he was saving his people. And God will answer that prayer as well. That prayer is for us today to call on God to remember. And Jesus promised as much, didn't he? He promised his disciples that just as he ascended into heaven on the clouds, so he will appear again to judge his enemies and to deliver his people into his heavenly kingdom. And this Is a promise that he won't forget. God always remembers his promises. Friends, it may feel like your suffering will last forever. But Jesus says to you, remember. Remember. Your suffering will not last forever. The only thing that will last forever is your everlasting joy and your dwelling in my presence. Friends, remember that promise today. Heavenly Father, we're a forgetful people, forgetful people. We forget things all the time. Forget names, forget phone numbers, forget things that we're supposed to do. And most importantly, Father, we forget about you. And we forget about your power and your promises. Lord, thank you for your power. Thank you for who you are. Thank you that you're a God that we can trust. We pray, Father, that you would help us to remember who you are today, and we pray that you would remember the covenant. Remember that you promise to forgive those who turn to you in repentance and faith. And remember that you promise to return to your people. And we pray even now, come, Lord Jesus, come. Amen.