The sermon passage this morning is from Mark fifteen, verses sixteen through forty-one. And the soldiers led him away inside the palace, that is the governor's headquarters, and they called together the whole battalion, and they clothed him in a purple cloak. and twisting a crown together a crown of thorns, they put it on him, and they began to salute him, Hail the King of Jews. And they were striking his head with the reed, and spitting on him, and kneeling down in homage to him And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes back on him, and they led him out to crucify him. And they compelled a passer-by, Simon of Serene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross. And they brought him to the place called Golgotha, which means place of a skull. And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them to decide what each should take And it was the third hour when they crucified him, and the inscription of the charge against him read, the King of the Jews. And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left. And those who passed by derided him, w wagging their heads and saying, Aha, you who destroyed the temple and rebuilt it in three days, save yourself and come down from the cross. So also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him one to another, saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see him and believe Those who were crucified with him also reviled him. And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice Eloy, Eloy, Lima, Sabakhthanai, which means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, Behold, he is calling Elijah. And some one ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down. And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Jesus, the younger and of Hose and Salmon. When he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him, and they were also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. This is God's word. Morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with you today to open up God's Word and to hear what He has to say to us. We've really come to one of the most important passages in the entire Bible, the climactic moment even of the New Testament. as it pertains to our sin and our relationship with God. And so it's good for us and right for us to go before God and to ask Him for help in understanding what is taking place in this passage. So let's do that briefly now. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you now in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray, Father, that after we're done here studying this passage this morning, and as we go on with our days, that all of us, as we leave this building, would confess together with the Roman centurion that truly Jesus Christ is the Son of God. We pray that you would help us to grasp the height and depth and breadth and width of your love for us in Jesus. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're continuing today in our study through the Gospel of Mark, and as you no doubt heard during the reading of the passage, we've come to the account of Jesus' Crucifixion. So if you haven't already, I want to encourage you to open your Bibles to Mark chapter 15 because we're going to be looking closely at the passage. If you're using the Bible that we provided in the seats here, you'll find the passage on pages 852. and 853. We've been in Mark's Gospel for some time now. This is actually the 48th of what will be 49 total sermons in Mark's Gospel. We started on February 25th. of 2018 and we'll be finishing up two weeks from now as we look at the resurrection. But here today we are looking at the crucifixion. But I I bring up the study of Mark's gospel because from the very beginning Mark's purpose for writing his gospel has been to prove that Jesus is the Son of God. If we turn back to the chapter 1, which you don't have to do now, the very first verse of Mark, Mark calls his gospel the gospel of Jesus Christ. the Son of God. And then not long after that in chapter 1, Jesus is baptized, the heavens part, the Spirit descends, and the Father speaks from heaven, and he says, Behold, this is my beloved son. Son. That's his identity. Son of God. And then again at the midpoint of the book. When Jesus is on the Mount of Transfiguration, he kind of reveals his glorious being from heaven, and the Father speaks again This is my beloved son. Listen to him. So the beginning of the book, the middle of the book, and now here we are at the end of the book. Mark's purpose has been to prove that Jesus is the Son of God. But we also see something interesting in our passage. It's not only the Father in Mark's gospel who calls Jesus the Son of God. There is one other group of beings in Mark's gospel who recognize that Jesus is the Son of God. Can any of the youth tell me what group of beings that is that recognize that Jesus is the Son of God? Who said that? Someone back there said it. Someone say demons? Demons Maybe it was one of the adults that said it. The two groups that recognize Jesus' identity throughout Mark's gospel The Father in heaven and the demons. Up to this point in Mark's gospel, no human being has yet confessed that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. But at the climactic moment of the crucifixion, we see that even one of Jesus' executioners confesses that he is the Son of God. Jesus' identity is most fully revealed to human eyes in his death on the cross. Yet his death on the cross not only reveals his identity as a son of God, but it's also the means by which God provides for our greatest needs. Now, what do I mean by that? Well, I'm sure that all of us came in here this morning with different needs, right? Some of us may need more money to pay the bills. Now, some of us may need a new job or a better job. Some of us may need more patience. Some of us may need a friend, right? All of us have different needs. Yet, at the same time, because we're all human, we all have the same ultimate Needs. And it's those needs that Jesus meets on the cross. So if you're taking notes this morning, there are three needs that Jesus meets on the cross. First, on the cross Jesus takes the punishment we deserve. Jesus takes the punishment we deserve. Second, on the cross, Jesus frees us from our captivity to sin. And third, on the cross, Jesus opens a way for us to come into the immediate presence of God. I'll repeat those again as we go along. So first, on the cross, Jesus takes the punishment that you and I deserve. Now I recognize that it may sound like uh to you like a pretty harsh way to start a sermon, and I get that, but I do need to ask, when we think when we talk about Jesus taking the punishment that we all deserve, I wonder what you make of all the evil in the world. of all the evil things that happen in the world. Consider the way that our world today is riddled with wars and bloodshed. Slavery, corruption, bribery, rape, racism, robbery, and mass killings, right? There is no shortage of evil in the world But it's not just the evil out there, out in the world, is it, right? If we're honest with ourselves, when we look in the mirror, we're looking at people who have lied. People who have stolen, people who have hurt others, people who have hearts that are full of anger, lust, impatience, fear, and greed, among other things. So a question for you, when you see all this evil in the world, and then you also see evil in your own heart, where do you think that comes from? Where do you think that comes from? Different religions offer different answers to this question, but as I've looked at the different world religions, I think the most compelling answer comes from the Bible's description of mankind. The scripture teaches that all the evil that we see in the world begins in and flows out of the human heart. And the evil that flows out of the human heart Flows out of all human parts. All of our hearts, according to Scripture, are corrupted. And I think we all know this intuitively, right? It's like I'm not saying this to you to be rude to you, to say like, hey, you're corrupted. I'm I I am right beside you in this. My heart is corrupted. And I think we all know this intuitively, right? Imagine. Well no, no, no, let's not imagine. I'm just gonna ask you. Does anyone in here believe, and you can say the answer out loud after I've asked the question, does anyone in here believe that there is a human being alive right now who has never thought an evil thing, said an evil word, or done an evil action, who is perfect in all their ways. Does that person exist? You can say it louder than that. I know you believe it more firmly than that. Does that person exist? And do you know why you know that person doesn't exist? Because you know all people are just like you You're not perfect, and nobody else is perfect. We talk about like to err is to be human. Other people may not struggle with the same things, but we all struggle, we all sin because all of us are human. We intuitively recognize that there is something wrong with us. And that thing we recognize is wrong with us is what the Bible calls sin. Sin. But here's the deal. Sin isn't something that we can't be faulted for. It's not something that we're just kind of hapless kind of Sin happened to us and it just kind of, we're not to be held accountable for it. No, sin, according to the Bible, is active and willful rebellion against God. It is active and willful rebellion against the God who made us. And the reason that we all share in this sin nature is because our first parents Adam and Eve chose to willfully reject God's good law, and when they did, all humanity fell in them and was corrupted in them. We all inherit their corrupted natures because we're their children. And every time we willfully reject God's law and choose to sin against God, we prove that we are sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. Now here's the deal. This is where we're going towards our text. Because God is perfectly good, he will not let sin go unpunished. Right? He's a good and perfect judge. If he let sin go unpunished, we would all have to say that's corrupt. Right? You imagine a human judge letting things go unpunished. Just gonna let it slide. No, that's wrong. It needs to be punished. And because God's a good and perfect judge. He is going to perfectly judge and carry out justice on all who have sinned against him, which is us We need help. That creates an ultimate need for us. We need someone to pay for our sins. And that need is what Jesus meets on the cross. On the cross, Jesus takes the punishment that you and I deserve on the cross. Jesus bears the wrath of God in our place. On the cross, Jesus bears the totality of the curse on mankind for our sins. And we see that right in our text. I want you to look down now with me at the passage. Notice first how Jesus bears the totality of the curse on mankind for our sins in verse 17. While Jesus is being mocked and ridiculed by the Roman soldiers, they clothe him in a purple robe. It's a sign of regality. It means he's royal, but it's clear they're mocking him. And then they twist together a crown of thorns and put it on his head. We need to remember this. It's been a few weeks since we've been in the Gospel of Mark, just before this. Like They led him from the last scene straight into this scene. Jesus was brutally scourged by Roman soldiers. They took a whip that had metal and human bone and terrible things in it, and they whipped him mercilessly. His back would have been shredded to pieces. His legs would have been shuttered to pieces, he would have been standing there in shock, barely able to stand up. Sometimes it was said that people died before they ever made it to the cross because of the beating that happened to them before the cross And now Jesus, on top of that beating, is enduring this shameful mocking. And to add insult to their injury, they twist together a crown of thorns and put it on his head. This is a terrible scene. Given how violently they'd already treated him, we can be confident that they pushed it down onto his scalp, thorns piercing into his scalp and into his Brow, but it's here that we have to see that Jesus' death on the cross that he's going to is payment for our sins. And why do I say that? Well, because when we go back to Genesis chapter 3, at the very beginning of the Bible, when God pronounced judgment on Adam for his sins, he said to him, Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life, thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you. The fruitful ground that Adam had been tasked with tending because of his sins had been cursed by God, and because of the curse It produced thorns and thistles for Adam. And now you see Jesus is about to be led to the cross. Wearing the symbol of that curse as a crown on his head. Jesus is bearing the curse on mankind on his very own head. But it's not just the thorns and the thistles or the crown of thorns that show us that he's taking the punishment for our sins. It's the crucifixion itself. We have to think back to the Old Testament. In the book of Deuteronomy, God said that any person who is put to death by being hung on a tree is a person who has been cursed. by God. Later in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul would look back on Jesus' crucifixion and say that Jesus became cursed for us. And he cited that passage from Deuteronomy saying, Cursed is anyone who is hung from a tree By being hung from a tree, Jesus took the curse for the sins of the people of Israel. That was their law that they had broken. That was God's command to them. Cursed is the one who is hung from a tree among you, people of Israel. And by bearing the crown of thorns on his head, Jesus took the curse for the sins of all mankind, Jews and Gentiles who would repent of their sins and trust in him. Jesus on the cross takes the payment, pays the penalty for the sins that we have committed. We need someone to pay for our sins, and that is what Jesus does on the cross. But we also see that the passage teaches us just what it meant for Jesus to take the punishment that we deserve. It meant that he experienced the shame and separation from God that we deserve. Jesus' crucifixion was an intensely shameful experience. And notice how he's treated by the Roman soldiers in verse 19. Look down there with me. They hit him on the head with a reed pole. After he's got this crown of thorns on, a reed was kind of like bamboo. If you live in Chevrolet, there's tons of bamboo in Chevrolet. You've seen what it's like. They would have cut one of these stalks and been striking him over the head with it They spit on him. You don't need any cultural translation to tell you how shameful that is. It was shameful then, it's shameful now. They spit on him and then they pay false homage to him. Kneel down. Hail, king of the Jews. Like, yeah, right. You, this man who's being beaten in front of us, can't possibly be the king of the Jews. Not only that, but we know that the Romans normally chose to crucify men naked Along major roadways in order to increase the shamefulness of the crucifixion. And it appears that this is exactly what happened to Jesus. Look at verse 24. He is stripped of his clothing. They're casting lots for his garments. He has no clothing on Then in verses 29 and 30, people are passing by on the road and mocking him as he's hanging there on the tree. It's not just people passing by on the road, but you look, the religious leaders are mocking him. Even the robbers that they crucified him alongside are mocking him. This is an intensely shameful experience, but it's not just shame that he experienced for our sins. but separation from God. Look at verse 34. Look at verse 34. Just before he dies, he cries out, my God. My God, why have you forsaken me? He had never done anything to deserve crucifixion. He had never done anything to deserve being mocked and shamed. He had never done anything to deserve being forsaken by God, but Jesus. came for this very reason to be the suffering servant who takes the punishment that his people deserve You look back to the Old Testament again and you look to Isaiah chapter 53 and you read Isaiah 53 and you realize that Isaiah unknowingly is predicting and prophesying the trial, scourging, and crucifixion of Jesus hundreds of years before it happens. This is what he says in Isaiah 53. Think of the shamefulness and the separation from God that he experienced on our behalf. He was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, you could see people walking down the road and not wanting to look on that somewhat human form on the cross. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him stricken by God, smitten and afflicted. We esteemed him cursed by God because he is hanging on the tree. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And by his wounds, we are healed. Our friends with Tom was reading Psalm 22 And David says, they have pierced my hands and my feet. And in Isaiah 53, he says, he was pierced for our transgressions. He realized that the Roman Empire didn't exist yet, which means that crucifixion didn't even exist yet. When these passages are written, and here you see a prediction of something like crucifixion. They have pierced my hands and my feet hundreds of years before crucifixion even existed. What are these passages telling us? In short, you and I, you and I deserve the cross, not Jesus. You and I deserve the shameful mocking, not Jesus. You and I deserve to be separated from God and forsaken by him, but not Jesus. But God so loved the world that he gave his only son to take the punishment that we deserve so that whoever would turn and trust in him would not Perish, but have eternal life. Oh friends, we need someone to pay for our sins. And on the cross, Jesus took the punishment that we deserve. But not only that, the second thing we see is that on the cross, Jesus frees us from our slavery to sin. This passage is full of significant details. It's kind of interesting. As I was studying it this week, you kind of read it and you're just like Detail, detail, detail, detail, detail, detail, passage done. There's no like real explanation of what's going on here. You kind of need the rest of the New Testament to look back on it and interpret it for you until You stop and you realize, wait, all of these details are actually interpreting what is going on for us. Not only the fact that it lines up with Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22 about the righteous suffering-like servant who would suffer for the sins of his people. But these details help us to see deeper realities at play when Jesus is dying on the cross. And one of those details that you and I need to pay attention to is the darkness that comes over the land. I want you to look with me. At verse 33, it says there, and when the ninth when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the land until the ninth hour. The sixth hour is 12 p. m. Jesus, we know from the passage, he was crucified, nailed to the cross at the third hour, which is nine a. m. , he hung there in agony for three hours, and then at noon darkness covered the land until three p. m. , the ninth hour So for three hours, right smack, in the middle of the day, darkness comes over the whole And this isn't an astrological event like an eclipse, just based on the lunar calendar, an eclipse could not have happened during the Passover at this time. This doesn't refer to like a dust storm that kind of made it dark and cloudy. This is a supernatural darkness signifying that a remarkable event is taking taking place And we've seen this happen elsewhere in Scripture, haven't we? Right? So can can any of the youth tell me where in the Old Testament a supernatural darkness comes over a land during the middle of a day? And lasts for a few days. Ethan? Egypt, yeah. It was the ninth plague on the nation of Egypt in the book of Exodus. God sent Moses to tell Pharaoh to free the people of Israel from slavery. Pharaoh refused. And God sent ten plagues on the nation. And you see there's this consistent cycle of, okay, I'll let them go. No, I won't. More plagues. Plague, plague. I'll let them go. No, I won't. Another plague. And we get to the ninth plague that God sent on Egypt. was the plague of darkness. Exodus chapter 10, verses 21 to 22. Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven. That there may be a darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness to be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was pitch darkness in all of the land of Egypt for three days. So God sent darkness over the land of Egypt for three days, and here darkness falls over the land for three hours while Jesus is dying on the cross. But when you go back to the book of Exodus, you recognize that immediately after the plague of darkness. God commands the tenth and final plague, which is the death of every firstborn in the land of Egypt. It's this tenth and final plague of the death of the firstborn that finally breaks Pharaoh's will, causing him to set the people of Israel free from slavery in Egypt. So now we we start to see what's going on at the cross. Mark tells us about the darkness that fell over the land for three hours. To remind us of what happened at the Exodus, that darkness fell over the land, and then the firstborn of all Egypt were struck down. resulting in the release of God's people from slavery in Egypt. And now at the cross, darkness, pitch darkness falls over the land. And the firstborn, not of Egypt, but of heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ, is struck down so that God's people can be set free. In Jesus' death on the cross, God is working a greater exodus than he worked for the people of Israel because in Jesus' death on the cross God is setting his people free from something far worse than physical slavery. God is setting his people free from their slavery to sin. Jesus Jesus is the suffering servant who suffered on the cross under the darkness it could be felt. Jesus is the firstborn son. cut down so that his people could live. Jesus is the Lamb of God whose blood protects his people from this judgment of God. And in Jesus God, the King, appeared to rescue his people, not from Egypt, but from the kingdom of darkness. Notice how clearly in the passage Mark wants us to see that Jesus is the true King. Look back with me at verse 18. The Roman soldiers are mocking him. And to mock him, they salute him and say, hail, King of the Jews! Right, they're making fun of him. You can't possibly be the king of the Jews now. Now look at verse 26 as he's hanging on the cross Note the charges that are posted above his head. They used to nail the charges that a person was being crucified for over their heads. And the charges read, the king of the Jews. Now look down at verse 32, as the religious authorities mock him, they say to him, He saved others, he cannot save himself. Let the Christ, the King of Israel Come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. The Roman soldiers, the ascription over his head, and the religious authorities all mock Jesus' claim to be Israel's true King. They think his death on the cross is proof that he is not Israel's true king, but his death on the cross doesn't prove that he isn't Israel's true king. His death on the cross proves the type of king that he is. He is the type of king who came to give his life for his people, to lay down his life so that we might live. Most kings in battle sit on the back line. The troops go in and they die so that the king's kingdom can go on. Not our king. Our king rides in front He takes the sword of God upon himself so that his people might live. That's the type of king that we serve Oh friends, this is good news to us. And that's what makes the people's mocking of him so deeply, tragically, and painfully ironic. Think about what they say to him. Ah, you who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days. Save yourself and come down from the cross. What is Jesus thinking in his head? I won't come down from the cross. I won't save myself. I didn't come to save myself. I came to save you. And if I'm gonna save you, I need to die on this cross. I need my blood to be shed to cover your sins I need to let every last breath in my lung be expired and expirated so that you can have breath in your spiritual lungs. I'm the king who came to die for you. Isn't this what Jesus said in Mark 10, 45? The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus gave his life as a ransom for many. King Jesus' life was the ransom price. for our freedom. We need to be freed from the power of sin All humanity was born from Adam and Eve, is born under the power of sin. It's as though we we wear spiritual shackles and chains that we cannot break. And we need a king to come and rescue us. And that is what King Jesus has done. The humble king. The true King who hangs upon the cross to free his people from their slavery to sin. And that is what God has done for us in him. He's released us from the kingdom of darkness. And by his son, he's brought us into the kingdom of his beloved son, in whom we now rejoice in, the fellowship of the sons of light. Oh friends, this is good news for us. But we see thirdly, finally, we also need someone to open the way for us to come back into the presence of God. And on the cross, Jesus did just that. He took the punishment we deserved. He frees us from our slavery to sin. And on the cross, Jesus opens a way for us to come into the immediate presence of God. Look at verse 37. And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. It's an interesting way to couple those facts together. Jesus breathed his last breath on the cross and died Mark wants us to know that back in the city, the curtain in the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. Why does that matter? What does that matter for us? Why does it matter that some curtain in a 2,000-year-old building was torn? The reason it matters is because of what the curtain symbolized. It wasn't just any curtain that you get like pottery barn, you know, like you want to make make the living room look nice. It's not that type of curtain Very different type of curtain. We see first in our passage, it was the curtain in the temple. The temple was the center of Jewish culture. It served as an art gallery, it served as a concertplaza, it served as a poetry library, all in one. Right? But more than any of those things, the temple was the center of worship. for the people of Israel because the temple was the dwelling place of the living God on earth. Even though the temple symbolized God's presence among his people Inside of the temple was a stark reminder that all was not well between the people of Israel and God, that all was not well between mankind and God. This curtain that Mark mentions was hung as a barrier in the temple to prevent access into the immediate presence of God in what was known as the most holy place. So if you entered inside of the temple building, you entered into a number of different rooms, each of them increasing in holiness and sacredness. And at the very back of the temple was the most holy place, so the holy of holies And behind the curtain was the Ark of the Covenant, the Ten Commandments inside of it, the cherubim on top of the Ark, the mercy seat, and God was supposed to dwell on top of the mercy seat. And you couldn't just access this room. You weren't allowed into this room. In fact, of all the people in Israel, only one. The high priest was allowed access into this area, and he could only go into it once a year on the Day of Atonement when he would go behind the curtain this curtain into the presence of God to atone for the sins of the people of Israel. And because he was a sinner, he had to wear bells on his outfit Because if he died or fell over or did something different, he was supposed to like ring his bells, pull me out, get me out. Like the wrath of God is coming on sinners who think they can come right into his presence and not worship him as he says they ought to, right? That's like how serious it was to go into the most holy place. But this barrier, this curtain that was uh serving as a barrier was huge. It was a curtain, it was roughly roughly 60 feet tall. Like I don't know, that's higher than the ceiling. I'm confident of that. Sixty feet tall, about thirty feet wide. So you just imagine this area where the stage is But probably one and a half times the height of the ceiling, maybe twice the height of it. There's a gigantic curtain It was four inches thick, right? It was heavy, durable, beautifully woven. You can read about the weaving of it in the book of Exodus, and which would have been later done when the second second temple was built. Beautifully woven with blue and purple and scarlet fabrics with images of angels ornately woven into it. The angels Woven into the curtain that blocks the way into the presence of God, remind us of the angels placed at the edge of the Garden of Eden in Genesis 3 They hold a flaming sword to block the way from mankind coming back into the immediate presence of God. This massive curtain with its angelic beings, wings outstretched. Guarding the way into the presence of God, basically saying to all who approach, stay back. You are not worthy to come into his presence That's what this symbolized. Man is unfit to come into the presence of God. This curtain symbolizes that there is a barrier between God and man. Ever since Adam and Eve's sin, an eternal and uncrossable barrier between God and man has existed. And even when God dwelled among the people of Israel, they couldn't come into his presence unmediated. And this curtain stood as a monumental reminder of the barrier that existed between God and man. Yet in our verse, we see that this curtain is torn in two. Torn apart. And it's torn in two as a result of Jesus' death on the cross. That's why Mark puts these two facts together. Jesus dies, curtain torn. Jesus dies, access granted. That's what he's saying. Through his death on the cross, Jesus offers the perfect and final sacrifice for sins once and for all time. Jesus becomes the true temple where man can come into the immediate presence of God without fear of judgment. And finally When Jesus agonizingly uttered that last cry and the curtain came down, it's as though the gates of heaven were flung open to all. Through his death, we can come into the immediate presence of God Himself. You notice even the difference between Jesus on the cross and the angels on the curtain. They guard the way into the presence of God with their wings outstretched, blocking mankind from approaching God. But Jesus on the cross with his arms outstretched beckons all to come, come through my body. Come through me. I am the true temple of God. My body is the torn curtain, so that you can come into God's presence without fear of judgment. Jesus says to all on the cross Come into God's presence through me. And we've got to notice also this other glorious detail. Notice the detail that Mark includes about the direction in which the curtain was torn. Look at verse 38. And the curtain in the temple was torn in two From top to bottom. From top to bottom. Mark doesn't want to leave Any doubt in our minds as to where the removal of this barrier into God's presence came from? Our salvation from sin, our rescue from the power of sin, and our deliverance into the immediate presence of God. came from top to bottom. Our salvation is all of God. Only God can remove the barrier for man to come into his presence. It didn't come from us. We couldn't pay the penalty for our sins. We are not strong enough to rescue ourselves from the power of sin, and we could never ever, ever find our way back into the presence of God by our own wisdom or merits. The image of the curtain with its blues. It's scarlets, its purples, is an image of the heavenly bodies themselves being torn open from above so that God could rescue us from top to bottom. We all were like trapped coal miners, buried half beneath half a mile beneath the earth's surface, alive and yet dead, trapped. needing rescue from above. We were separated from God and without hope. And it's as if Mark is painting a picture for us in this verse. of all of humanity laying together in one great heap at the base of the curtain, separated from God by the infinite chasm of our sins. Where there we all are, lying buried under the rubble of our lives, created by our rebellion against God at the foot of the curtain Unable to tear through it to reach God because our arms have been shackled to the floor of our lives by our sins. But He He looked down from heaven From top to bottom. And he being rich in mercy, and because of the great love with which he loved us, sent his son from top to bottom, from heaven to earth. To come and live a perfectly righteous life. A life that was righteous from top to bottom. And he went to the cross. And on the cross, he drank the cup of God's wrath from top. to bottom and by his righteous life he offered once and for all the perfect sacrifice for sins that would open the way for sinners like you and me to come into the immediate presence of God. Hallelujah. What a savior. Our salvation is all of God. It's all of grace. It's all of mercy. It's his work. And he did it from top to bottom. Friend, if you have trusted in Christ, Then you have been adopted from top to bottom. You have been redeemed from top to bottom. You have been justified from top to bottom You have been sanctified from top to bottom, and you await the sure hope that one day the suffering servant, the Lamb of God, the firstborn of heaven, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords Jesus Christ will appear once again to save you from top to bottom. He is coming again, friends. So let us think about how we should respond to this reality and these realities at work in this text. Our friends, if you don't follow Jesus, this is why we like as Christians, we all want to talk about Jesus and what he did on the cross. It's so important to us. It is central. to our faith and we hope by our communication with you not to make ourselves seem righteous. We know that when we talk to other people about their sins, it can be like we're saying that you're a sinner and we're not. What we want to say is we're all sinners. He isn't. He saves us. He pays for our sins. And he offers forgiveness for you today and freedom from sin and welcoming into the presence of God through his death on the cross You should turn and trust in him and follow him. Oh friend, I want you to think about how that would look for you today. And some people I know are worried. Right? They're worried about how much they've sinned or the types of sins that they have committed. You might think that your sins are so bad that God cannot love you. Let me uh let me assure you that God specializes in loving unlovely people because this church is full of unlovely people. I am an unlovely person, but God specializes loving. Sinners like you and me. And if you need proof in our passage, just look at verse 39. Look there with me. The first human being in Mark's gospel to confess that Jesus is the Son of God Which everyone who studies this passage says this is a confession of faith, of belief. Means he believes and he's now been forgiven. The first person is a Roman soldier who helped to execute Jesus. You think Jesus won't forgive you for what you've done? He forgives the very people who killed him. He came to forgive sins, all sins. And he offers forgiveness to you today for the sins that you have committed. There is no sin that could ever prevent God from loving you and welcoming you into his presence. Do you also need to be prepared, right? As we think about turning to follow Jesus. Kids, I want you guys to think about this also Our hope is that all of you, if you haven't already, put your trust in Jesus Christ and follow him with your whole lives. You've got to be prepared Because when we turn to Jesus for the forgiveness of sins, Jesus calls us to turn from our old way of life in order to follow him on his path. And there's such a clear picture of this in our passage. Look at verse 21. Look at verse 21. As Jesus is carrying the cross out to Golgotha, he's leaving Jerusalem. He's on a road leaving Jerusalem. Going out into the wilderness outside of the city to a place known as Golgotha, and a man named Simon is coming into the city from the country. And the soldiers force Simon to carry Jesus' cross. Two things I want us to notice. First, whenever you encounter Jesus, you will always encounter a man who is going the opposite direction from you Right? When you come to Jesus for the forgiveness of sins, you need to repent. That word means turn around. We're all like Simon, headed into the city of Jerusalem. Life is good. Life is good. We see Jesus passing us on the road to Golgotha carrying the cross. And if we are going to ask for the forgiveness of sins, we need to be prepared, like Simon, to come alongside of him and pick up that cross and forsake the way we were going and now follow him out to Golgotha. Jesus always calls us to turn around and follow him. Simon is, even though he's being forced by the Roman soldiers, a perfect picture of what Jesus says in Mark chapter 9. If anyone would come after me, let him do what? Take up his cross. What does it look like to take up my take up my cross? It looks like carrying part of the cross for Jesus. You enter into the shame that he experienced You don't avoid the insult and the mocking that comes to those who follow Jesus at times in life. You're willing to endure the suffering and reproach of the cross for the glory set before you, which is the resurrection to come. In our next passage, right? What does it look like to turn from sin? Means we need to turn from our way of living, follow Jesus on the road to the cross, and identify with him in all of his suffering. You have questions about what that might look like in your life, I or any of the other elders would be happy to talk with you about that. He's always going the different direction from us, which means we need to be willing to follow him on the road to the cross. And finally, we respond to this passage with rest. We cannot Walk away from this passage and think, what do I need to do? Just tell me something to do. No, it is finished Jesus accomplished all that is necessary for your salvation, redemption, justification, adoption, all of it And you respond to this passage by resting. Kids, have you ever gotten in trouble? Maybe one of your parents, like you maybe say your mom catches you doing something bad. And she said, just wait till your father comes home. I'm gonna have to tell him about this. And you get that angsty feeling in your stomach. I what I used to do when I was a kid, when that would happen, I would go to sleep I would go in my room and go to sleep, and I would sleep like all day or pretend like I was asleep just because I thought if I sleep, maybe they don't see me. I don't know if you have that same struggle. Like I said, we're all different. But you know that feeling You know punishment's coming. You know when dad gets home, it's gonna be trouble. I did something wrong. Hey, as a Christian, you don't have to carry that around in your belly anymore. Alright? We rest. Because there is no judgment or sin coming for those who have trusted in Christ Jesus. That rest, that feeling of peace. I don't need to fear my heavenly father because my king has freed me and paid the ransom price for my life We rest in Jesus Christ. Our sins have been paid for. Our souls have been purchased. Our life has been redeemed. Not some of it. Not a bit, not a portion. Jesus paid it all. He paid it all. He was cursed so that we could be blessed. He was killed so that we could be set free, and he was forsaken so that we could draw near to God. And what do you really need today? Hasn't Jesus provided for it all completely? Turn. Trust in Him. If you have trusted, rest and keep going. The end is in sight. Friends, let's pray. Amen. Our Father, you are too good to us We cannot fathom your love for us through your son Jesus that you would offer him, that he would agree This wasn't just your plan. This is his plan too, to come and offer himself as a payment for our sins, to free us from slavery to sin and to bring us into your presence. Help us to rest today in the finished work of Christ on the cross. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.