Uh Americans today love love. How many love songs and romance movies could we name if we we just started writing them down on a a whiteboard quite a few I imagine and and as I said we we devote a holiday to it every February and our Children give each other stale heart-shaped candies in celebration of this love, right? Well, what is love? Well, our world understands love to be that fire that you feel when you find the person Designed by the universe, designed by God, whatever, made just for you, who in some sense completes you. And loving someone else means letting them pursue their fire, whatever that is, whoever that is. And finding love yourself means knowing yourself, defining yourself, expressing yourself, actualizing. yourself. If love requires you to cast off parents or the church or traditional views of morality, even society as a whole, that's what you should do for the sake of Love. Love requires you to do what's right for you. Love doesn't judge, we say. Love judge frees. Frees you to do what you want. And these days you can justify anything by pointing to love. If these two people really love each other, well then certainly we should. And if God really is loving, surely he wouldn't. And heart plus heart equals marriage. Say the laws. But is this really like right Is that what love really is and how we can know it? By acknowledging your deep inner sense of self and then giving expression to that deep inner sense of self and its desires. Is that what love is? Well our passage today helps us answer that question. Turn to 1 John 2 verses 1 to 6. You may recall that the last time I preached, I think it was early summer, I preached 1 John chapter 1, and so I've decided that As I have occasion to preach, I'm just going to start slowly moving through the book of 1 John. That way I don't have to figure out every time what I'm supposed to preach. And John's first epistle is very much concerned with this question of love, and it's concerned with the question of what is true Christianity. And there had been a number of false teachers, and they had been teaching, they had come and they had been teaching that Jesus Christ had not come in the flesh. It was kind of an early form of Gnosticism. And if we understand from chapter one, they did not understand themselves to be sinners. They would have denied that they were with sin. And we we learn from chapter two that they were also love, unloving and schismatic. That'll be later in this chapter. And what John does, John the Apostle does, is he offers three tests. Of true Christianity. Here the people are. They've sort of been left behind by the these people have gone out. Now they're like, okay, what is true Christianity? He offers three tests. First, the truth test What is it that a true Christian believes? A moral test, do we obey? And then a social test, do you love? Do you love God and his people? And today's passage focuses specifically on that second one, the moral test and one of obedience. Let me read it now. My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. Whoever says, I know him But does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word in him, truly the love of God is perfected By this we may know that we are in him. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked This afternoon, I'm going to draw four lessons out of these six verses, and by the time we reach the end, I think we'll discover that they provide a different view of love. Than what is offered by this world. Lesson number one: true Christians help each other fight sin. True Christians help each other fight sin. Now John has a number of purposes in writing this letter, but in this particular passage he tells us he Wrote this letter to help them fight sin. Look at verse 1 again. My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. True Christians help each other fight sin, which we take from the example of John the Apostle In other words, a true Christian does not say, well, she's covered in the grace of Jesus. We don't really need to worry about sin in her life. A true Christian doesn't say, oh, we're we're justified by faith alone, so don't make such a big deal about this particular sin pattern. That friend. Rather, a true Christian says, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. Friend, I want to help you not sin. Sister, brother, I'm praying for you in that battle against that particular sin. Wife, husband. How can I help you in that area of temptation and struggle? A Christian doesn't want the people he or she loves to be stuck in sin because we know that sin is a deceiver. We know that it kills. We know that it might taste good on the tongue, but it always makes you sick later. And we don't want that for the people that we love. We help one another fight sin. Now, knowing how to do that takes a lot of social skill and wisdom I am not encouraging you to walk out of here and suddenly start calling each other sin out. Alright I'm certainly not encouraging you to adopt a censorious judgmental attitude. I can't believe he's sinning again. Rather, simply saying that a Christian has a heart posture that doesn't want to see sin in other people, especially in other Christians. We don't laugh at it. We don't Make light of it. We don't encourage it. Instead we lament it. We set ourselves against it. I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. Don't want you to sin. I love you. So friend stop and take stock of your heart for just a moment. Is this an ambition of yours with regard to your fellow family members or your fellow church members? Is this something that you pray for your for your spouse or your children or your parents and and the people that you see around this room? Is that an ambition of yours? And also on the flip side, do you make yourself easy to approach and receive that kind of correction? Because you know just as Our friends can be deceived. We know we can be deceived. I need you. I need the people in this room to help me see what I can't see. And so I'm going to make myself, I'm defensive, but I'm going to make myself as much as I can easy to approach. Is that also an ambition of yours? True Christians help one another fight sin. I'm writing these things so that you may not sin. Lesson two. True Christians have a heavenly advocate when they don't. True Christians have a heavenly advocate when they don't. Praise God. Look again at the second half of verse 1. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but also the sins of the whole world The difference between Christians and not Christians is not that Christians never sin. The difference is that Christians, well, first have an advocate with the Heavenly Father, and second, take the Father's side against their sin. And so fight against it I want you to just meditate for a moment on Jesus Christ, your advocate, Christian. You lose your temper and you feel ashamed And Jesus says, I'm your advocate. You take a second look You indulge that fantasy and you feel guilty. Then Jesus says, I'm pleading your case You feel overwhelmed with fear and anxiety, and you wonder why your faith is so small. And Jesus says, I'm with you. I'm going before the heavenly courts for you. I am declaring you righteous Jesus, the perfectly righteous one The one who has never disappointed the courts of heaven at all, whose credit with the Father is infinite. Because he is so righteous and so good and so wise, this one Christian Is your attorney, your ambassador, your friend, your advocate He's there on behalf of you, brothers and sisters If anyone does sin, we have an advocate. Jesus Christ, the righteous one Okay, how does he advocate? Well keep reading. He is the propitiation for our sins. Now that that's a that's a big word It means he's our wrath remover. So, kids, if I say what does propitiation mean, you say wrath remover. Okay, kids, what does propitiation mean? Wrath remover. Our sins have earned God's wrath Jesus came and paid the penalty, paid for that, received that wrath, thereby removing it. thereby assuaging the wrath of God. And then rising from the dead, he defeated the power. Of that wrath and that sin and that death. Friend, if you're here this morning as a non-Christian, realize that John wants you to hear this message. Listen again. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Jesus paid a penalty not just for John's original readers, but for all kinds of people, all around the world, everywhere In other words, he's saying this is the way of salvation. This propitiation will cover your sins too if you would only repent and believe. Now, by saying he is the propitiation not for our sins only, but for the sins of the whole world, John's point is not that. Jesus has paid the penalty for every person everywhere's sin, and that all are therefore forgiven and all are therefore right with God. He is not, that is to say, teaching universalism. Rather, Jesus is saying, John is saying that Jesus' death offers a message Not just for John's original readers, but for people everywhere, around the world, again, that this is the way of salvation. This is the propitiation. This is the wrath removal, the atoning sacrifice that you need and will be yours if you only repent and believe So again, if you're here today and you're not a follower of Jesus, this message is for you. Absolutely everything in our culture today Is telling you that if there is a God, he absolutely loves you and has absolutely no problems with you whatsoever And your job is basically just to be who you are. Discover yourself, find yourself, express yourself, be yourself. That's what God, if there is one, most wants for you. Well, it's true that God absolutely loves you, but it's not true that he has no problem with you. In fact, he loves you by helping you to see some of the problems with you. And providing a sacrifice for you if you would confess your sins and put your trust in Christ. You and I have sinned against him and earned his wrath. Not because he's mean. But because he's good and just. And if words like good and just are to mean anything, we have to recognize that God will oppose the bad and the unjust. And that much I trust most of us have an easier time accepting. We have an easier time accepting that out there somewhere is this thing called bad and unjust and Maybe it's most of the time abstract in our mind, sometimes it's concrete, but but yes, I get it, it's out there. What we have a harder time understanding and accepting is that we too have been bad. We too have been unjust. We too have hurt people, lied to people, betrayed people, we too have broken God's law. We too have Said to God day after day, my way, not your way, O Lord. How quick we are to pass the buck, how quick we are to be like five-year-olds, you said, not my fault, her fault. And so we have, when we're honest with ourselves, we know that we have earned his opposition to us And here is why Christianity is so awesome. Because on the one hand, it gives us a perfectly just God. Would you want an unjust God, a perfectly just God who declares his law and one day will make everything in conformity to his law? Who will judge all wickedness. So we have a just God. But on the other hand, we also have a loving God who came in the person of his own son. a kind of self-substitution as a propitiation, a wrath remover for our sin. He said, here's my law, you've broken it, I must punish, but here's my sacrifice, myself in the person of my son, to assuage my own wrath Says the Lord. We have a just God and we have a gracious and loving God. If you are here and you do not know Jesus, talk to me afterwards, talk to the friend who brought you. If you're watching on video, call me, call someone, to learn more about this gospel But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And yet there's a third lesson, lesson three. True Christians obey Christ's commandments. True Christians. Obey Christ's commandments. Look at verse 3 again. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. Whoever says, I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. And then verse six repeats this same idea. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. Christianity teaches that we are justified by grace alone. We do not propitiate the wrath of God by being obedient. That was the last point. We cannot earn Our way to salvation. Jesus Christ is the righteous one who is the propitiation, the wrath remover. But But Christianity also teaches that the faith which justifies is never alone. It works, it obeys. Obedience is not a condition of knowing God. It is a sign of knowing God. Those who truly know God obey God. Those who truly Know Jesus, walk with Jesus, and walked like Jesus in obedience to the Heavenly Father Now, if this were a high-tech church, I would have a I'd put a flow chart on a screen in front of you, but it's a simple flow chart. Let me try to describe it for you. Okay, it's a it's a circle. moves in one direction, and on one side of the circle, you have the work of Christ. And the work of Christ The propitiating work of Christ, now follow the arrow in the upper part of the circle, creates Work in us, our obedience. So the work of Christ creates a work of obedience in us, and that work of obedience in us, now follow the arrow underneath, the work of obedience creates. shows, demonstrates, proves, gives evidence for the fact that the work of Christ has been done in our lives. So the work of Christ creates in us a work of obedience. And that work of obedience shows, proves, demonstrates that Christ's work has been done, accomplished, applied to us. You could put another couple of words here. You could put faith, faith. creates deeds and deeds prove demonstrate give a picture of faith how do I know you have faith well because I see that it's created deeds those deeds prove demonstrated, albeit imperfectly, that faith. You see? We have peace with God on the basis Of Christ's work, which we we've grabbed onto by faith. That gives us peace with God, but that then creates a life given over to that same righteousness, given over to obedience. Now if that little flow chart, that imaginary flow chart wasn't helpful to you, sorry, I just took up three minutes with it Nonetheless, that's okay. Just look at verse 3. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his Commandments. Do you see it's it's proving, it's it's demonstrating that we have come to know him. Whoever says, I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, verse 4 says, and the truth is not in him. Now, admittedly, this feels heavy, doesn't it? I mean, if I if I think back over just my last week and I think to myself, did I always keep his commandments? I know I didn't. I can think of that time where my my anger got the best of me here and self-pity got the best of me there. Do I not know the Father? Didn't obey his commandments. And beyond all that, let me just think about all the things I've left undone. I mean You have Jesus and the apostles caring for the poor, and I spent all day yesterday thinking about my house. Wasn't thinking about my neighbors or my fellow church members. I was working on this project. And am I really following Jesus? Well, what's tough about passages like these is that in any given church, some people have overly sensitive consciences and some have insufficiently sensitive consciences. And frankly, friends, it's good to know which way you You might ask a friend or a family member if you're unsure. In any given church, you're going to have some people who are going after Jesus, albeit stumblingly. Well, other peoples, look at verse four, are liars. I know him, they say. But really, they don't. They like to think of themselves as Christians, they like others to think of themselves as Christians, but But John says he's written verse four for a reason. Why did he re write verse four? Well apparently because some are liars. Lying to others, but perhaps even more lying to themselves about who and what they are. So how can we know? How can we know what kind of persons we are? Are you the earnest Christian who still stumbles, or are you the nominal Christian who names himself as a Christian? But are really still with the world. Well, very plainly, verse 3 gives us a test. And by this, a moral test. And by this, we know that we have come to know him. If we keep his commandments. And verses 5 and 6 repeat it. By this we may know that we are in him. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked So ask yourself very plainly, are you working and striving to keep Christ's commandments? Are you fighting to do this? And does this fight characterize you And does it characterize you because you know you love Jesus? And you want to walk with Jesus. Even as you walk with any other other number of friends whom you love Or are you more interested in justifying your disobedience? And you're kind of indifferent to the idea of walking with Jesus and obeying him As I said, you like to think of yourself as a Christian. You like others to think of yourself as a Christian, but you know, you don't really want to walk that narrow way. You're not really into that whole self-sacrifice, self-denial thing. I've already quoted him once, but there was one Puritan who said the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian is that a Christian takes God's side against his sin rather than sin's side against God. Whose side do you take? Verse 3. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. Let me speak personally for a moment, just by way of illustration. I think compared to other people, I have a naturally kind of hard and dull conscience, meaning I don't really feel guilt or shame very quickly. If I let a person down, the default posture, I confess, the default posture of my heart is to say, eh, it'll be fine And this is unloving of me, right? And it's a sign of a hard or dull And for years, because of that, I very easily gave myself over to doing shameful things. And to this day, it can mean I can be indifferent. To those around me. I am prone to this kind of self-deception. Meanwhile, I can think of any number of other friends who lean in the opposite direction. They have very sensitive Consciences. They feel bad quickly or ashamed quickly. I'm sorry. Quick to say it. I'm sorry. I don't want you to feel bad. I feel bad if you feel bad. Of course, this can lead to another kind of self-deception. It's the self-deception of thinking that you can control everything, and that maybe, just maybe, if you do better today. Than you did yesterday. Okay, today's gonna be a better day. I can earn my way into the favor of other people, the favor of God. And the Pharisees, of course, did a comparatively good job of keeping God's commands, at least on the outside, but we know they didn't know God. Wonderfully, these few verses have words for both kinds of postures, both kinds of consciences, because finally all of us need to hear both Kinds of words at different times. The guilty and the burdened conscience needs to hear, but if anyone does sin. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Meanwhile, the indifferent and complacent conscience needs to hear, and by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. And it takes some measure of pastoral skill and self-knowledge and certainly God-given wisdom. To know what person needs to hear what and when. The word of the law or the word of the gospel. The word of an indictment and unsettlingness, or the word of comfort and assurance. And as you examine your own heart and as you disciple other words, you need both words, because both words are necessary as different kinds of tools for different Now the emphasis of these six words, if only by word count, as I understand it, is on the word of unsettling. And the call to self-examination, which is to say, as you walk out of here this morning and you're reflecting on this text, you are asking yourself, do I keep his commandments? Demonstrating that I know him. That is a question from this text. You are, we are, to be asking ourselves. Since the time of my baptism, have I been growing little by little? Sometimes a couple steps back, but mostly forward in obeying his commandments. Is that characterized perfectly? Somehow, has that characterized my life? Jesus, I want to know you. I want to follow you. I want to walk as you walked Last thought on this third lesson. What if you don't know which word you need to hear? Whether the word of more law or the word of more gospel, the word of righteous and Unsettling indictment or the word of comforting assurance. Well, in fact, I think we always need to hear both And as Christians, we don't need to hear them in the order that you might expect. First law, then gospel. As Christians, in fact, I think it switched We need to hear first gospel and then law. So as you walk out of here today. And as you rise up tomorrow morning with a fresh, unsullied day before you And as you lie down tomorrow night, with a few of the regrets of the day heaped up on you, the first word that I want you to hear Is if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the propitiation not for our sins only, but for the sins of the whole world. That, friends, is always the first word we need to hear. And then we also need to hear this word. If anyone knows him He will keep his commandments so that we walk as Jesus walked There is one more word, one more lesson in today's passage, and it's a promise. Lesson four. True Christianity continually grows in the love of God until it's perfect. True Christianity continually grows in the love of God until it's perfect. Look at verse 5 again. But whoever keeps his word in him, truly the love of God is perfected And to speak of keeping his word is just another way of saying keeping his commandments. When we do this, when we keep his word, when we keep his commandments, the love of God is perfected Now grammatically, that phrase, the love of God, is perfected, could be interpreted in at least three different ways. It could mean God will love you perfectly. It could mean you will love God perfectly, or it could mean you will love like God perfectly. Or perhaps it could mean all three in some sense. Well now we know that God cannot improve on the way he loves. God always loves perfectly. Yet certainly we can enter into the experience of God's love more perfectly, and we can return His love more perfectly, and we can be characterized by his love more perfectly, almost like stepping into the swirl of a love tornado Where we're just surrounded by it and defined by it and it controls and carries us. We can likewise be caught up into the infinite swirl and dance and joy and generosity of God's love. experiencing it, giving it, being characterized by it. How does this happen? Well, by keeping his word. By obeying his commandments. When we get to chapter 4 of John's epistle, we're going to discover John tells us that God is love. And what that means is that everything about God, the law of his character, his DNA, as it were, is love. So, what happens when we conform ourselves to the law of his character? What happens when we undergo the DNA therapy? And receive God's own DNA, or another way to put it, what happens when by the power of God's own Spirit we obey His commandments? Keep his word. Walk as he walked. Well, when that happens, we too become, by the power of the Spirit, love. God's love is perfected in us. You get it? To obey love is to become love. How sensational is that We too quickly view love or obedience to God as drudgery, but to obey Him is to obey the one who is love, so that we become the one who is love. We experience his love, we give his love, we are caught up in his love. Inside of that love tornado. I want you to think back over the first three lessons from today's passage. True Christians help each other fight sin True Christians have a heavenly advocate when they do sin. True Christians obey Christ's commandments Do you see that all of this finally is about love? And that love being perfected in us. And that's why Paul can say in Romans thirteen that the one who loves fulfills the law, and that all of these commandments are f summed up in Love your neighbor as yourself, he says. To help each other fight sin is to fight in love and for love. To obey Christ's commandments is to obey love and for love. And so to again address anyone here who doesn't understand themselves to be a non-Christian, you might think of Christians as sort of preoccupied with rules and laws. And I guess I would say that's kind of true It'd be more accurate to say that we're preoccupied with love and following in the way of love and obeying the law of love because God is love. In the final analysis, friends, you can't separate law and love. Because whatever you most love, whether it's the stock market Cooking or this person or these friends or your desires will impose a law that you then follow. The only question is which laws or whose laws do you most love? Every love imposes its judgments. It's inescapable. Here's the difference between Christianity and the reigning worldview in America today. America today believes that. Love is small g, God, while Christianity believes that God, big g, is love Of course, when you're saying that love is small g God, what you're really saying, I'm God. And how do you think that's going to play out over time in a world filled with people saying, I'm God? How well do you think that's going to go? Brothers and sisters in Christ, we worship the God who is love. The one who came in the person of his Son, Jesus Christ the righteous To be the propitiation for our sins, and not our sins only, but the sins of the whole world. And now, knowing him, we keep his commandments because they are the commandments of love. And we walk as he walked because it's the way of love. And we do this knowing that one day God's love will be perfected in us It will be perfected in us as individuals. It'll be perfected in us as a community. Can you imagine that looking around the room, the people in this room all loving each other perfectly with the love of God. And that love then pouring out, spilling out, and loving other rooms like this one perfectly. As we love each other perfectly. And that's the promise of these verses. Promises of our Lord as we continue by his grace and power walking in love and obedience Let's pray. Father, we confess that we have sinned We confess that we need Jesus Christ, the righteous one, who is the propitiation for our sins and not our sins only, but the sins of the whole world. And now we pray, Lord, by your strength and power, that you would cause us to walk in your commandments, to walk in your ways, so that we might abide in you. In Christ's name, Amen