I love the front row action. Proud of you guys. Uh, in her book, The Global Sexual Revolution. German writer Gabriel Kuby observes, we are in the middle of an astonishing process. Fundamental standards of human behavior that were generally considered valid just a few decades ago have now been put to pasture What was good back then is now considered bad. And it started with a few student rebellions half a century ago, she says, but now She continues, it's a revolutionary cultural agenda of the world's power elites, pointing to governing bodies, pointing to media, pointing to mainstream entertainment. The goal, she says, is absolute freedom, unfettered by any natural or moral limitations. It sees the human being as merely a naked individual for such absolute freedom that wishes to be free itself. From the tyranny of nature. Any natural precept is an obstacle that must be removed. When freedom is understood this way, she says, there is no good, no evil No system of standards. Those are striking words, aren't they? The goal is absolute freedom No system of standards. I want to do whatever I want to be able to do with nobody saying anything. Not that anyone is happier these days, she also notices. She observes that we are creating a society in which there are fewer and fewer laughing children. And more and more depressed elderly men and women. All of this is as plain as day. Well, what do you think of Kuby's cultural indictment? What do you think of uh this moral risk, this moral revolution that she says is Going on. Dare we even sound like fundamentalist Bible preachers and say we live in a land of widespread immorality Well, the world has been here before, of course. So it was in the land of Israel. Turn in your Bibles to the very last verse of Judges. If you're using the Pew Bible, you'll see this on page 221. And the Bible describes the land of Israel for us as a land of widespread immorality. Look at the very last verse on the page, the last verse in the book, verse 25. In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone what was right in his own eyes. The goal was absolute freedom. Everyone did what was right in his or her own eyes. There was widespread immorality in Israel in these days. And if you read through the book of Judges, you'll find that it's filled with the stories of the most grotesque and awful kind. People are certainly not happier either. They're they're they're pathetic and desperate. And one of the ironies you find is is that people try and try try more and more to be like God. They don't become more humane. In fact, they become inhuman in how they treat one another Well, one of the main purposes of the book of Judges, I would say, is to provide a backdrop for the amazing little book that follows. Which is the book we're going to be looking at this morning. Turn one page to the book of Ruth. And look at the very first sentence of Ruth. In the days when the judges ruled, so now we have our location and time, in the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a man of Bethlehem and Judah went to sojourn in the land country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. In other words, Judges is giving us the global picture, the backdrop. And Ruth zooms in and gives us this little story, this little vignette set against that backdrop. And one of the main reasons or purposes of the book of Judges is, I think, to set that backdrop so that we see the contrast in this sweet little story of Ruth uh this story about an insignificant people, an insignificant family. Or to switch metaphors, we as humans often like to place our diamonds inside of gold or platinum settings, right? Not God. He does something different. He takes those diamonds and he sets them on a bed of mud. So that the contrast is even clearer. And again, I think that's what we find in the book of Ruth. It's this little diamond set on this bed of mud of the land of Israel in those days. And so just as before we go into it, think of the circumstances of your own life Does it often feel like this bed of mud? Do you think of the hardships that have happened to you? Maybe the abuse you've endured. The obstacles you've encountered. Those are certainly real And could it be that God has allowed that bed to be laid, those circumstances to be what they are, because he's trying to write a story in your life. A sweet, tender, marvelous story. Like the one we find in the book of Ruth. Well, it teaches at least three things about God's response to evil. First, God is not idle. Second, God is kind. And third, God works redemption. Even in the most unlikely places As I read through it, I'd encourage you to read along with me. We're going to read most of it this morning. Kids, I'd especially encourage you to read through the book of Of Ruth here with me. Parents, you can set a good example or a bad one. I leave that up to you. Let's look at Ruth chapter 1, verse 1. In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a man of Bethlehem and Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi. And the names of his two sons were Malon and Kilion. They were apaphites from Bethlehem and Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there. You may remember from our study of Deuteronomy last week that God promised curses for disobedience. And sure enough, as you read beyond Deuteronomy and to Joshua and judges the people were disobedients, and sure enough, God promised a famine would come, and here we are now reading of such a famine. God does not sit idle in response to rebellion. That may not sound like a very striking first point But if you're a person in a time of trial or difficulty, I think it's a profound and crucial first point. God is not idle, not even there. Elimelech did not get the message. He doesn't respond to God's punishment with repentance and trust. Instead, he he responds. He should have stayed in the land. Instead, he responds by fleeing. From Israel. Not that that saves him. Look at verse 3. But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died. And she was left with her two sons. These took Moabite wives, the names of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth. They lived there about ten years. And both Balon and Kileon died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her Husband. And in the ancient Near East, of course, a woman's only source of support would have been her husband or her Sons, there is no life insurance, there is no state-run welfare system, there's not even the opportunity to go out and get a minimum wage job to provide for yourself. And therefore widows would often descend into the worst kinds of poverty. And so the example of a limelech is, I think, instructive for us. I wouldn't encourage you to try to decipher some divine message That you can trace back to a particular sin in your life, the Lord doesn't necessarily reveal to us. Okay. This bad circumstance can be traced back to this bad thing I did. Sometimes in the Old Testament, he reveals that. But ordinarily such counsel belongs to the Lord alone. So I wouldn't encourage you to go there. Nonetheless. We can generally say, as Jesus does when he's talking about the power of Siloam, you may remember that example, that God has allowed difficulties into our lives. so that we might clutch less to ourselves, our sin, trust on him more. Certainly that is a lesson we should take from our tough circumstances. So the question for you and me is, do hard circumstances cause us to run from God or run to God What do you do? And what does Elimelech teach you that running from God actually accomplishes not much? Well, what does Naomi do? Let's keep reading. Verse 6. Then she arose with her daughter-in-law, daughters-in-law, to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab that the Lord had visited his people and given them food. So she set out from the place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. She kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, No, we will return with you to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters. Why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my wombs that may become your husbands? Turn back, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night, and should bear sons, would you wait therefore till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? Oh, my daughters, for it is exceedingly bitter to me, for your sake, that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me And they lifted up their voices again and wept. And Orpa kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her And she said, see, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said, Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge Your people shall be my people, and your God my God, where you die I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord do so to me, and more also if anything but death parts me from you You may have heard authors or Bible study teachers heap praise on Ruth here. And truly, she does teach us remarkable things about faith. Faith means I have nothing to bring to the table but trusting you and following you. And that's what Ruth does. Might she in that actually remind you of somebody else in the Bible, somebody who would say, I came only to speak what he, the Father, would have me speak? Do only what the Father would have me do. But my hope is that by the end of this sermon, you'll see that Ruth is not the hero of this story. Someone else is. Let's keep reading. Verse 18. And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said no more. So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem. And when they came to Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred because of them. And the woman said, Is this Naomi? She said to them, Do not call me Naomi, call me Marah For the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, and the Lord has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi when the Lord has testified against me, and the Almighty has brought calamity upon me? So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned from the country of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest Originally, I thought about making this first point. God responds to immorality and rebellion with punishment Because that's certainly what the famine is teaching us, and perhaps the example of Elimelech, as we thought about and his death. And friend, if you're here this morning and you're a non-Christian It's important for you to know that God is our judge. And He has sent difficult circumstances into our lives in part to get our attention. And he has sent the Bible into our lives as a kind of legal summons. Telling us that we've sinned against him. How? Well, by doing what is right in our own eyes, by seeking absolute freedom In a way that's unaccountable to him and unaccountable to anyone. We've evaluated ourselves and we've evaluated the world around us by our own standards, but by not by God's standards. And because of this, the Bible says that we are under God's judgment. The good news of the gospel is that he has sent Christ to live as a man of perfect faith and to die as the God. in the place that we deserve, so that all those who repent of their sins and put their trust in Christ will have life and can follow after Him But this is us getting ahead of ourselves. Like I said, I thought about making this our first point, but the power point of chapter one as a whole, I think, is a little broader. The point seems to be that, as I said, God is not sitting idle. He is on the move. He's doing different things. Even Naomi, in her darkened lens, understands this. She surveys the landscape of her life, the death of her husband and sons, the years in a foreign land, and No less than five times she credits God with the fact that her life is now empty. Look at verse 13. The hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Look at verse 20. For the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. In verse 21, I went away full, and the Lord has brought me back empty. In verse 21 again, the Lord has testified or afflicted. And again, the Almighty has brought calamity on me. Naomi doesn't question God's power. She doesn't question his sovereignty. She understands that nothing has happened to her apart from God's active permission and sovereign will. These days, I think, we're more quick to question God's power. The ancients more like were often more likely to see God's power and to take it for granted what they did question and what we also question here is God's goodness. Think of Naomi again. He has dealt very bitterly with me I remember sitting in a subway sandwich shop with a friend whose wife of one month had just died from kidney failure. And him saying, Jonathan, I don't have a hard time believing that God is powerful. I have a very hard time believing that he's good. What is it in your life that causes you to question God's goodness? Maybe the fact that things haven't turned out like you expected. Uh maybe your marriage isn't what you expected it to be. Or these children aren't what you expected them to be. Why am I still single? Why am I struggling with this sin when I've worked so hard against this? Sin, why am I lonely? Why did I not get the promotion or the job that I wanted? Why do things always seem to work out for others, but not for me? Or or maybe it's not stuff in your life, maybe it's when you look out and you read the newspaper and you read about the human cost to some natural disaster or you you read about some horrible abuse of children situation or you You read about governments abusing their own citizens. Is God good? How can it be good when stuff like that's going on out there or stuff like that's going on in here? Is God good? That's the question Naomi is asking. And on the one hand, it doesn't seem very appropriate to stand, doesn't seem very empathetic to stand in front of a widow like Naomi and preach to you, how dare you question God's goodness. And in this book, the Bible doesn't quite preach in that way, does it? God doesn't come down and say, how dare you question my goodness, Naomi. But it does present her question as a challenge to him for him to demonstrate a response. That's your question, huh Let me show you what I'm like. God says in the rest of the book. It's easy to be like Naomi and judge God. I know what good is. I think I'm a pretty acceptable standard of goodness. I think I got a pretty good read on what goodness is. So yes, I think I'm perfectly capable of taking God to court when what he does doesn't conform to my standards That's how we act so often, isn't it? Even if we don't quite put it into those words. But how does God respond to our challenges? Well, that brings us to our second point this morning. God is kind to us amid our immorality. God is kind to us. Amid our challenges and our immoralities, extraordinarily kind, you might say. Chapter one shows us he's on the move. Chapters two through four shows us that he is kind, that he is good. Look at chapter two, verse one. Now Naomi had a relative of her husband's, a worthy man of the clan of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz. And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor. Of course, in the book of Leviticus, the poor could follow after the harvest workers and gather what was left behind. That was part of their provision for welfare. And Ruth does, and she happened to come, verse 3 tells us, to part of the field belonging to Boaz. And Boaz returns home, asks who she is, and then speaks to her. Look at verse 8. Then Boaz said to Ruth, Now listen, my daughter, do not go to glean in another field or leave this one, but keep close to my young women. Let your eyes be on the field that they are reaping, and go after them. Have I not charged the young men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink what the young men have drawn Well, she asks him what she has done to deserve such favor. He says he's heard about her kindness to Naomi. And then he blesses her with a prayer, verse 12, The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given to you by the Lord. the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. Well, Ruth thanks him for protecting her, verse thirteen, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, she says, and he He gives her more to eat. Look at the last phrase of verse 14. And she ate until she was satisfied, and she had some left over. And then Ruth runs home and tells Naomi, and Naomi exclaims, Look at verse 19, Where did you glean today? And where have you worked? Blessed be the man who took notice of you. Then verse 20, and Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, May he be blessed by the Lord, whose kindness have not forsaken the living or the dead. Naomi also said to her, The man is a close relative of ours, one of our redeemers. A redeemer or a kinsman redeemer, some of your translations might have it, was also a crucial piece of Israel's welfare system. If you were to turn back to Leviticus 25. You would find that a poor man who has lost everything was to go to his closest ri relative, was his Redeemer or his kinsman Redeemer Naomi is not content, however, just that Ruth is fed. She also wants to see her wed. Look at chapter 3, verse 1. And Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, should I not seek rest for you that it may be well with you? And so she hatches this plan. Where Ruth is to go and lie down at Boaz while he's sleeping, and culturally this incident's kind of distant for us. It would take some explaining to unpack it, but the passage does seem to treat her actions as honorable throughout. Boaz wakes up, looks at her, looks at and look at verse 9, and says, Who are you? And she answered, And I am Ruth, your servant Spread your wings over your servant, for you are a redeemer. And he rightly recognized this as a plea for provision and protection and gives her what appears to be a promise of marriage. He also fills up her shawl with barley and sends her home, and when Ruth arrives home, look at verse sixteen, midway, midway, Ruth told Naomi all the man had done for her, saying, These six measures of barley he gave to me, for he said to me, you must not go back empty-handed to your mother-in-law. So Naomi, who left her came back empty, is empty no longer And then in chapter 4, we learn that Boaz, through some shrewd dealing, managed to secure Ruth, this Moabites, as his wife. Look at verse 9. And Boaz said to the elders and all the people, You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the hand of Naomi all that belong to Elimelech And all that belong to Kileon and to Malon, and Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Malon, I have bought to be my wife. And then verse eleven. Then all the people who were at the gate, and the elders said, We are Witnesses. Well, what do we see in all of this? Well, certainly we see the beginning of God's kindness. Boaz offers Ruth protection and provision, and he speaks kindly to her. Chapter 2, verse 13. And even better Naomi can see God's kindness. Verse 20, chapter 2, may he be blessed by the Lord, whose kindness The Lord's, has not forsaken the living and the dead. Ruth is given more food than she can eat, and then she's wed not just to a hard working man, but to a wealthy man, the owner of the fields. And Boaz, who had prayed that God would take Ruth under his wing, becomes the answer to that prayer as he spreads his garment over. Ruth and Boaz in this almost seems to also remind us of somebody else. Does he remind us of one who would feed 5,000? And afterwards there were twelve basketfuls of food remaining? Maybe the one who would one day stand and look at Jerusalem and cry out, Oh Jerusalem. How I have longed to gather your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. The Lord did bring back Naomi, empty. But could it be that he was deliberately emptying her of her self sufficiency and her self-dependence Look again at chapter 1, verse 22. So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, with her, and they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. I want you to picture this extraordinary scene. Naomi's complaining against God, and right there at that moment is Ruth. The one who's God going to use to save her. And all around her, these rich fields of barley. Can you see the irony of the moment? Impossible, friend. At the very moment of your greatest fear and worry and sinful complain complaining. Amidst your sin and the sin of an entire nation, God is already at work working out his good and perfect purposes. You can almost picture people shouting at God, we hate you. Well, God at that moment is reaching down and offering a glass of water to deal with their parched throats. From all the shouting. Half a decade before I arrived, uh, the students of the seminary I attended staged a protest against the brand new president who they didn't like. And so the president in response ordered them a bunch of pizza to the hallway where they were staging their sit-in. And so then they turned and prayed to God to thank him for the pizza. And one of the students who was sitting there during the protest, who was the one recounting the story to me, he said, at that moment it kind of clicked in my head. Maybe this guy's not as bad as we thought. Is that just a dim picture of God in this moment? There's Naomi complaining. There's Ruth right next to her walking back. There's the field of barley. On the one hand, the trials of our lives reveal what we are. They reveal us as a person who trusts God or a person who doesn't. Trust God. On the other hand, isn't it the very trials that come that God is using to get those of us who don't trust God to trust him So it's not like the trial comes and I'm exposed and all is condemned. No, the trial comes, I'm exposed. I'm not somebody who trusts God, but God in his goodness says, you see. Now, in my goodness, I'm going to draw you to myself. Because that's who I am. I'm kind. I'm compassionate Aren't you glad that God doesn't treat us in the same way we treat others? Our spouses, our children, our friends, people on the road. My friend who lost his wife had such faith. He told me that he had a hard time believing in God's goodness as as we walked to dinner, but it was actually when we sat down over dinner, he continued, he said Sometimes it feels like Christianity asks you to believe things that are impossible to believe. I look at the tragedy before me, he said, and it's awful. I don't want to swallow it. Yet, right in the act of staring at it, I have to believe I must believe. That God is somehow God through it all. And He's working it out for His good and perfect purposes. What my friend said to me Several years later the Lord did give him another wife. Today he's an elder in a different church. Friends, I've known God's goodness in my life. He's often used the good. He's used the bad or good. I think I can honestly nothing good that I have did I plan. In fact, the Lord often used my bad to bring good. This is our God. This is how he works. I hope you know this God. I hope you trust in him. This is who he is. This is what he does And that brings us to a third thing that we learn about God. God responds to immorality With redemption. With an extraordinary act of redemption. Look at Ruth 4, verse 13. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife, and he went into her, and the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. Then the woman said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a redeemer. And may his name be renowned in Israel. He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to him. Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her lap and became his nurse. The women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, A son has been born to Naomi. My name to Mobed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David Now these are the generations of Perez. Perez fathered Hezron, Hezron fathered Ram, Ram fathered Aminadab, Amminadab fathered Nashon, Nashan fathered Salomon, Salomon fathered Boaz, Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered J Jesse and Jesse fathered David. So who is Boaz? He's the father of Obed. Who is Obed? He's the grandfather. Of the greatest king Israel had. David. So friends, there it is. There's the whole book of Ruth. Consider the whole picture again. You have Moral anarchy, widespread immorality, you have a devastating famine. You have a man seemingly sinning by not trusting God but fleeing. He and his sons die. Only a bitter old widow is left. That's the starting point of the story. And then God says, watch what I'm going to do. Let me answer that challenge about my goodness. Let me create a king. And a king who's going to point to an even greater king I'm going to use a sinful family and a sinful nation and some dry earth to do it. You ready? Ruth is not the hero of the story. Boaz is not the hero of the story. God is the hero of this story. He takes death and creates life, barrenness to fruitfulness, emptiness to fullness, curse The blessing, bitterness to sweetness, living in exile to producing the grandfather of a king. Who can do this but God? Did you notice where they returned to? Bethlehem. Who was born in Bethlehem besides David? Another king to whom David only pointed, another Redeemer whom Boaz only pointed another person of perfect faith, of whom Ruth could only dimly point. There is one more place in the Bible where both Ruth and Moaz Boaz are mentioned. Turn to Matthew chapter 1 verse 1 And look at verse five. Salmon, the father of Bohaz, Irahab And Boaz, the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David the king And then skip down to verse 16, and Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. Story of Ruth ends Christ, coming of Christ A friend, if you're here this morning as an unbeliever, I have good news for you. God is extraordinarily kind. And he means to use the story of Ruth. Which culminates in the person and work of Jesus Christ to show you how he likes to work for redemption. He likes to act. and to intervene in the very midst of our selfishness and folly and widespread immorality and even tragedy to show us how good he is. And so he sent Jesus Christ to a land of widespread immorality and rebellion to live a perfect life and to take on himself the punishment that you and I, friend, deserve, and then to rise from the death from death, defeating sin and death, so that we too might be redeemed if we only seek refuge under the shadow of his wings By turning to him. We who are Christians understand that there is a land of widespread immorality, but that land most fundamentally is my heart and your heart. Go into your heart, go into my heart, and you'll find city after city, fortification after fortification, against God. Day after day we wage war. I want control We want to be our Lord, own lords, Lord of our own schedules, Lord of our own jobs, how our spouses treat us, what we eat, what we fantasize about, our careers. Our children, what w and when we get what we want to get and when we don't, we blame God. And it's right there In the midst of all of our rebellion, amidst our complaining, that God shows compassion. And he does it often by emptying us Let me bring you to the end of yourself, he says, and then take you under my wing and supply you with more than you can imagine ever eating. While the land was marked by widespread immorality and famine, while Knight Naomi blamed God in her bitterness, God sent Ruth and then Boaz. While we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. So again, friend, do you see how kind God is sending Jesus Christ who trusted like Ruth? And then made provision like Boaz. There's a sense in which Christ is both our Ruth and our Boaz, our diamond in the bed of mud. And there's Naomi shaking her fist at God, even while Ruth is beside her. I guess the last question for us this morning, friends, is what kind of church do we want to be? Will we be a church which peels its eyes for such storylines of redemption, expectant that this is act, extending that same kind of welcome to those who need it. I remember a single college-aged woman showing up at Capitol Hill Baptist before many of you. Got there. I think John, this was the late 90s. I think John might have been the only one there then. And within a couple of months, it was evident that she was pregnant. And she had become pregnant by a married man in her parents' church, and her parents asked if she could be placed into Capitol Hill Baptist as sort of a refuge, a haven, a place to be sheltered. And at the time I remember being struck by the tragedy of it at so many levels. But then as time went on The church wonderfully befriended her and discipled her and threw a shower for her, and she repented by turning to God through all of this. Uh several years later, a good friend of mine, we were driving on the road. I remember right on the road where we were, we were driving from North Carolina back up to Capitol Hill. He said, You know, I've I've noticed this woman She's got a three-year-old child, but she seems like a remarkable woman. A few months later, he married her. Today, again, he's uh works in ministry. She's known for a remarkable gift of hospitality to all the saints. Friday night we we celebrated her high school graduation. Isn't this how God likes to work? Robbing those who run from him and taking them under his wing. And isn't this the kind of church we want to be? Tempted to flee like Elimelech? Maybe we become bitter like Naomi. The Lord empties us, sends us a Ruth, Boaz, points us to Christ. God, good. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you are so sweet and so tender. Forgive us for our harshness. You are so good. Forgive us for our complaining. We're so generous, even as we are selfish And we see this all beautifully in stories like these, and most of all in the person and work of Jesus Christ Lord Jesus, thank you for laying down your life for sinners like us. Help us to seek our protection and provision under your wings. In your name, Amen