The sermon passage this morning is John eighteen, thirty-three through thirty-eight. So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews But my kingdom is not from the world. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to see you all and to have this opportunity to open up God's Word with you. Before we do that. Since we need God's help in understanding his word and understanding things that are of a spiritual nature, of understanding spiritual truths, let's go to him one more time briefly in prayer. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning in need of your grace. Even as Dan mentioned, the triumphs of your grace, one triumph of your grace that we need this morning is for you to open the eyes of our hearts. of our minds, so that we might receive your truth. And in receiving it, believe it. And in believing it Have eternal life. We pray, Father, that you would grant this to come to pass this morning by the power of your Spirit, for the glory of your Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. What is truth What is truth? Does objective truth, that's that's truth that governs all of reality, does objective truth Even exist? If it does exist, how can we come to know it? And given the multiplicity of truth claims in the world, how can we know that our truth is The truth. These questions are not new questions, nor is the quest for truth a new quest, right? From mankind's very beginning, the human race has been on a quest to make sense of the world around us and to understand our place. And so throughout the ages, various truth claims about reality have been put forward, right? You can think of objective truth claims about the nature and existence of God. Objective truth claims about the origin, nature, and destiny of the universe. Objective truth claims about the origin, nature, and destiny of mankind. Objective truth claims about truth itself. Objective truth does exist. Objective truth does not exist. All truth is relative. No, all truth is God's truth The vast number of conflicts over the nature and existence of truth really are dizzying, right? A poll done by the by the Barna group about the existence of objective truth really underscores this reality in our own country. So interviewees were asked, do you strongly agree? Do you agree somewhat? Disagree somewhat, or disagree strongly with the following statement? There is no such thing as objective truth. Different people can define truth in conflicting ways and still be correct. Only 28% of the respondents expressed strong belief in objective truth. That means that 72% either only somewhat believed in objective truth or did not believe in it. at all. And more surprisingly, in the results, when they sifted through the results of uh this poll, only 23% of evangelical Christians agreed in objective truth. Think about that If more than 75% of Christians say that nothing can be known for certain, one might wonder if they believe that it's objectively true that Jesus existed, or that he died and rose again, or that he's coming again. Right? I wonder a question for you this morning to consider. Do you believe that objective truth exists? Now this really may seem like an odd way to start our first Advent sermon celebrating the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. But over the next four weeks, we're going to look carefully at four reasons from the Gospel of John that Jesus came into the world. Four reasons why he was born. Four reasons, you could say, why we celebrate Christmas. And the reason that we want to look at these reasons is so that we can better grasp the importance of his incarnation and can better grasp. the importance of Christmas as a Christian holiday. And the first reason that Jesus came into the world that we're going to study this week is found in John John 1837. Jill wonderfully read uh John 1833 to 38. But we're going to be looking specifically. I wanted her to read the whole passage because it really provides a context. For the verse that we're going to be looking mainly at today, which is John chapter 18, verse 37. If you haven't already, I want to encourage you to open in your Bibles to the Gospel of John. Chapter 18, you're going to be looking at verse 37. If you're using the Bible that we provided there in the seats, you'll find our passage on page 905 And in the spirit of Christmas, we want to offer to you the copy of the Bible that we've provided. If you don't own a copy for yourself, please take that as a gift from us to you. As you no doubt heard, as Jill read, as the larger passage was read, Jesus has been arrested by the religious authorities of Israel. They want to put him to death on their own, but their own laws prohibit them from doing that. So they bring Jesus to the Roman governor Pilate, Pontius Pilate. Pilate has the authority to put him to death. But rather than taking the word of the religious authorities, he begins to ask Jesus questions about his so-called crimes that he's committed. And Pilate begins questioning Jesus about his teaching and specifically his claim to be a king. Our verse comes at the end of that exchange. I want to direct your attention to verse 37. I want to read that verse again for us. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born. And for this purpose, I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. What I'd like to do in our time together this morning is make five observations, five truth claims. about what Jesus says in verse 37 and its broader implications for how we understand the world. The first truth claim I'd like us to consider in our passage is that objective truth exists. And notice in verse 37 that Jesus says he was born and came into the world to bear witness to the truth. I just want to pause here real quick. This first point and even some into the second point may seem a little bit philosophical in nature, but I think it's important for us as Christians. to understand what is being said around us about truth, about objective truth and whether whether it exists, so that we can know how to respond to it when we come across conversations or comments. to that effect. So just bear with me. It'll seem a little bit maybe more kind of heady. I don't know if that's the right word, but just bear with me and we'll we'll we'll eventually get deeper into the text. But I think it's important to start here Here, Jesus says he was born and came into the world to bear witness to the truth. The truth that Jesus is speaking about here is truth That answers life's ultimate questions. That is to say, he has come to bear witness to objective truth about objective reality. You could say it a different way. Jesus has come to tell us the true truth. About reality, to tell us the true truth about the world that we live in. So what Jesus is really saying here is that every other religious leader, of which there would have been many in Jesus' day, Every other rabbi, every other philosopher, every other person on earth who proposed to explain the nature of reality is only and was only speculating. Guessing. Now, their guesses may have been undergirded by lots of study and observation about the way that things are, but they were guesses nonetheless. It's as though Jesus is saying to us and to Pilate, I have come to tell the world the truth as it truly is in every way. about life's ultimate questions. Now, I I I want to just say I recognize that that may cause some of you to kind of recoil a little bit or maybe even to just dismiss out of hand what Jesus is saying. If that's you, I just want to ask you to bear with me. Hear me out. Hear Jesus out. I don't want you to examine for yourself if what he says is true. I assume that if you are like most people who live in our country, you've in some way adopted a postmodern mindset, either knowingly or unknowingly, right? It's just the waters that we swim in. You take a fish out of the water, they don't know that they're in water. I don't think that they know that they're in water. Like we don't recognize unless we're actively thinking about it. the postmodern culture that we live in and what that does to how we think, how we talk, how we think about objective reality. And a central tenet of the postmodern mindset, the culture we live in, is that objective truth is unknowable. Not only that, but within the postmodern what within postmodernism, objective truth claims are viewed as outdated and even dangerous. So Eric Blair. Better known by his pen name of George Orwell, and a key figure in the rise of postmodernism in America, said this. The very concept of objective truth is fading out of the world. Lies will pass into history. That sentiment is really at the heart of postmodernism. Objective truth is a lie. And that's why another central tenet of postmodernism is the rejection of overarching explanations of the world that we live in. Uh postmoderns reject meta-narratives, greater stories. They deny that there is a greater explanation, a greater telos, a greater design, a greater direction to all of history. Which is why you so commonly hear things today like Your truth, my truth. Hey, live your truth. Hey, man, I'm glad that's true for you, but that's not true for me. The reason people say things like this is because they have knowingly or unknowingly adopted a postmodern mindset. But you see here, this is where we gotta pause and think critically about what's being said. There is an inherent contradiction in the rejection of objective truth claims. The person who says that objective truth claims are unknowable is making an objective truth claim. You see that? Without recognizing it, they're making an objective truth claim, namely. That it's true in all places at all times, that objective truth cannot be known. Not only that, but you have to consider that they reject meta-narratives, broader explanations of reality. But in rejecting meta-narratives, they ironically establish their own meta-narrative that man is hopelessly lost and wandering and doesn't have the capacity to know overarching truth, right? That's their own meta-narrative. It's a story that they've created about reality. Now, this is where I do want to pause, and I want to say, and I think we should say together, that there is something right about us as creatures. believing that we can know ultimate truth, right? There's just a a certain humility in that caution that I want to applaud and hope to embody in my own life, right? As a creature I know that I can't know everything. We can't know everything nor be certain that all of our beliefs about the world are true. But just because we can't be certain that all of our beliefs about the world are true, doesn't mean we can't be certain that some of our beliefs about the world are true. Furthermore, we shouldn't applaud a rejection of objective truth claims as a sign of out and out humility Right? If we have good reason to believe that our Creator has expressly told us that objective truth exists and has also expressly told us the content of that objective truth then we would be right to believe it and agree with it. Right? So if you are here and you're skeptical of objective truth Here's a question. Would you believe that you could know it if God came down and revealed it to you? I assume that you would. I hope that you would, right? Now the question is, if you're skeptical of objective truth claims, has God come down and revealed objective truth to us? Truth that explains all of reality Well, in fact, he has. That's who Jesus is. He is God in the flesh, as we'll see. And that's what he came to do, as he clearly says. He came to bear witness to the truth. You see, objective truth, the truth that explains ultimate reality, does exist, and you can know it for certain. But what's the content of that objective truth, the truth that Jesus says he came to bear witness to? Well, that brings us to truth claim number two that we see there in the text. First, it's God exists And has a specific identity. We saw in point one that objective truth exists. So second, we'll look at truth claim number two. God exists and has a specific identity. So when Jesus says to Pilate, for this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I've come into the world to bear witness to the truth, a core component, a core aspect of the truth that Jesus to Came to bear witness to is that God exists and has a specific knowable identity. Now this is not immediately obvious in the passage. You just gotta have to admit that. It's not immediately obvious nor stated in the passage. We gotta recognize that over the next four weeks we are Parachuting into these passages in John's Gospel, and then we're going to kind of take our base camp in those passages and then look elsewhere in John's Gospel. If we were doing an entire series through the Gospel of John and we had gone step by step through all the chapters and all the passages and arrived at chapter 18, We would know patently what Jesus meant by he came to bear witness to the truth because he talks about bearing witness to the truth over and over and over again throughout the Gospel of John. And one of the components Of objective truth all throughout John's Gospel is God's existence and identity. It's a central theme of Jesus' teaching, right Now that God exists, the claim, the truth claim that God exists, would have been a fairly benign truth claim to make in Jesus' day, right? The Greco-Roman empires were built. on upon the worship of different deities, nobody would have batted an eye at the claim that God existed. And honestly, the world that we live in isn't all that different, right? Even today, the claim that God exists is a fairly uncontroversial one if you're talking about God with a lowercase G, right? While secularism has certainly swept across Europe and is moving across America even now, what secularism leaves behind is not always atheism. but often in undefined spiritualism, a belief in a higher power, or even a God, albeit one that can't be known, right? Because we are by nature spiritual beings, we can't help but seek something to worship. And in the wake of secularism, it's interesting to note that in certain parts of America there has been a return to paganism. Even pagan, legit pagan beliefs coupled with what we would describe as New Age spirituality. Others have chosen a view God in the old school sense as like the deists it did, which a lot of the founding fathers would have been deist God is the watchmaker who clearly made the universe. It's obviously designed. He's the watchmaker like a watch. He wound it up, but he's obviously walked away. He's distant. He's unconcerned and uninvolved in the universe. Some have taken the forms of pantheism, the belief that God is all and all is God. So Oprah Winfrey for Existence, in an interview she did with Rob Bell in 2013, said, my definition of God is the all. The all, in the all, through the all, above the all, in the all. It might just leave you bewildered, but that is basically pantheism. God is everything and everything is God, is what she's saying. In some senses, God with a lowercase G is really kind of as popular as ever, right? It's fine if you believe in God. No problem. Doesn't affect my life. But what got Jesus in trouble in his day, and what gets Jesus in trouble in our day, is that Jesus didn't come simply to make the truth claim that God exists in a generic sense But that God exists specifically and has a specific identity and is knowable as a specific person. Specifically, Jesus came to bear witness to the truth that God is the Father. Right? Over and over and over again in John's gospel, Jesus tells us that God is the Father. Right in John 1. 18, we read, No one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side. He has made him known. Or in John 2, verse 16, while he was at the temple, Jesus said to those who were selling pigeons, He said, Take these things away Do not make my father's house a house of trade. Or again, when he was confronted for working on the Sabbath, Jesus said to the Pharisees who confronted him, My father is always working to this very day, and I too am working. In John's Gospel, in fact, there are 123 references. to God as the Father. That may not seem like a whole lot until you compare it to the Gospel of Mark. Mark in his gospel makes two references. to God as Father. So when you see it 123 times in John's gospel, Jesus, you recognize, is going to great pains to ensure that God is correctly identified as the Father. Now I recognize that to some arguing about whether God is impersonal and distant, or whether God is a force or whether God is the Father may seem like a complete waste of time because what does it matter anyway, right? Won't God just accept us as long as we are sincere? I understand that question, but if we're taking Jesus and the Gospel of John and elsewhere in the New Testament seriously, the answer is no. God won't just accept us as long as we're sincere. Not if the objective truth claims that Jesus came to bear witness to are true. Now earlier in John's Gospel, while in a conversation about correctly identifying God, Jesus said this, the hour is coming. And is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father is seeking such people, true worshipers who worship him in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him For God is spirit. So those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth I think in our day we kind of look at in spirit as that spirit of sincerity. As long as I'm worshiping God with a sincere heart, doesn't matter how I identify God. Well that's not what the Spirit means. It means to be filled with the Holy Spirit, which you receive by professing faith and repenting of your sins. But you gotta recognize that Jesus, Jesus, God in the flesh, is so clear that we must worship God in truth. And part of the truth is correctly identifying God as Father. This means that if we're to worship God, that we need to worship Him as He's revealed Himself, and that means worshiping God as Father. But the problem is, as Jesus goes to great pains to teach us in John's gospel, none of us None of us intuitively worships God in truth. And that leads to the third truth claim that Jesus came to bear witness to, and that is that all of us have sinned. All of us have sinned. Some people today think about truth the way that Gandhi did. He said, truth is by nature self-evident. As soon as you remove the cobwebs of ignorance that surround it, it shines clear. But is truth really by nature self-evident? Is it something that can be perceived by us when we simply remove the cobwebs of ignorance? Is that the only problem we have? We just have cobwebs in our spiritual eyes. Well, according to Jesus in John's gospel, the answer is a definitive no. That's not the case. Truth about God, truth about ourselves, and truth about what God desires of us is not Self-evident, nor does Jesus teach that all we need to do is remove the cobwebs of ignorance. In fact, the objective truth that Jesus came to bear witness to about mankind is that without God's help We're incapable of knowing, understanding, or believing ultimate truths about God because we love sin according to Jesus. According to Jesus, in John chapter 3, verses 19 to 21, Jesus is describing all of humanity as living in spiritual darkness because of our sins and says, this is the judgment Light has come into the world. That light is Jesus. The light has come into the world. And people loved darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. That's a hard thing. I just want to stop. That's a hard thing to hear, right? Jesus did not just say things that were easy to accept and just like we could all get behind. So if you're here today and you hear that you're like, wow, it's Is is Jesus saying that I'm evil? Like that's a really hard thing to hear. It's possible, I think he is, but I think he's saying that we're all we're all evil, and I'll help to explain that there. But I just want to recognize that it's a hard thing to hear about yourself. But hear the truth about mankind that Jesus came to bear witness to. Our natural state is to love spiritual darkness. If you're sitting here today, your natural state when you came into the world was to love spiritual Darkness. When you had the power to choose between right and wrong, you loved spiritual darkness and chose what was wrong. You chose sin. We would always and every time choose sin rather than loving and worshiping God. That is the natural state of mankind according to Jesus Christ. It's a state of hating spiritual light and one that produces evil works. Now I trust that we all know people in our lives who don't follow Jesus, but we would say, hey, they're a good person. They're good people. They're kind to their neighbors. They do good things for their community. They work hard to love their family. Is Jesus describing these people? Would Jesus say they love darkness and that their works are evil? Well, Jesus says yes. In John chapter 8, he says that all mankind is in bondage to sin and needs to be set free from sin. In John 10. He calls himself the good shepherd who has come to rescue his spiritually lost sheep who are wandering away from him. All mankind, according to Jesus in the Gospel of John, is spiritually lost, in bondage to sin, loves spiritual darkness, and in God's eyes, the good person, quote unquote, who doesn't follow Jesus, and the hardened criminal who doesn't follow Jesus Are both guilty of sinning against God. Because both, in their own ways, manifested differently in each of their lives, have chosen to reject God's authority and be their own authorities. And you see, this is important for us when we think about the good person. God cares not only about our actions, but our internal motivations, right? So the good person, for instance, may do good things, but if their internal motivation is not for the glory of God or to worship God, Then in God's eyes, their good deeds have been stained by that refusal to give him glory or to worship him. And I think we all recognize this in our own lives. I want you to think about it this way. How many of you in your own life have had someone do something really nice for you, but you knew You knew that they had ulterior motives for doing it. And so how you thought about that nice thing that they did for you was totally colored. And maybe you had somebody around you, like a friend or something, who saw the nice thing and they were like, wow, you know, gosh, like that Bob was really nice to you, John, for him to give you that gift certificate and Because we're he mean like I'm not gonna say yeah Bob's actually a liar and he's trying to like persuade me to like do something that he wants. We're just gonna say it like with our mouths like yes that that was a nice thing. But internally, what are you thinking? Yeah, you have no idea what Bob is trying to get at Like Bob has ulterior motives to try to persuade me to do this thing. In that moment, what you're doing is you're assessing the goodness of their actions by their motivations. You see, we all recognize that internal motivations matter when assessing the goodness of an action. And in the same way, they matter to God. So kids, I just want to stop here real quick and help you guys think about this. It is good and right for you to obey Jesus, to listen to his commands. It's good and right for you to obey your parents. Right, so even if you don't want to, you should obey them because it's the right thing to do. But the place that God would call you to and the place that God calls adult Christians to is to obey with joy. Obey with love. Obey out of a pure heart. Even if you're having a hard time doing it. None of us are going to do it perfectly, right? But you want to you want to work towards, pray towards, fight towards. A pure desire to obey because God calls us as Christians to obey Him out of a pure heart Right? So we want to we want to work towards that. We want to work towards having good motivations. They are never going to be perfect. They're always going to be stained by some sort of sin. But we should pursue that with all of our heart and soul and mind and strength. Right? Internal motivations matter when assessing the goodness of an action, and in the same way, they matter to God. So even if the good person does good things, if they don't worship God, and refuse to worship God, then their good deeds are ultimately lacking the proper motivation to please God. And the truth that Jesus came to bear witness to And that all of Scripture bears witness to is that none of us can please God in and of ourselves because all of us have sinned. All of us have loved darkness rather than light. All of us have done evil things in God's eyes. And because of that, according to Jesus, God's judgment hangs over us. Like guilty criminals awaiting sentencing, we await God's judgment for our sins. And our only hope is that God would somehow, some way show us mercy and grace. And that leads me to the fourth truth claim that Jesus came to bear witness to in John 18, 37. It's that Jesus came to save sinners. Fourth truth claim, Jesus came to save sinners. That's part of the truth that Jesus has come to bear witness to in John 18, 37. Time and time again in John's Gospel. Jesus bore witness to the truth that he came to save sinners, which means he came to save you and he came to save Me, though God's judgment hangs over us and though there's nothing we can do in our own strength to prevent God's judgment and save ourselves. God has acted. God has shown mercy. God has displayed love. And God has chosen to save. And he's chosen to do this through his son, Jesus Christ. This is Jesus' testimony throughout John's Gospel about why he came. If we're going to pick one verse out of the Gospel of John to hold up and just declare it boldly and clearly that Jesus came to save sinners, what are we going to pick? John 3, 16, right? John 3, 16, and 17, even. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved. Through him, right? Jesus came into the world to bear witness to the truth, and another aspect of that truth was that he came into the world to save sinners. And how did he do this? How did he do this? Look back at our verse, John 18, 37. Look there with me. First we see he became a man. Notice that Jesus says, for this purpose I was born. Jesus was conceived as a man. Jesus was born as a man. Jesus became a man. But you might be thinking, John, what do you what do you mean he became a man? Like what was there something going on before he became a man? What I mean is that Jesus is far more than just a man. He is far more than just a good person. He is far more than just a moral teacher, right? Before Jesus was conceived as a man and born as a man, he was the eternal son of God, fully God, who in his birth took on flesh, veiled in flesh, the incarnate see, right? Veiled in flesh. He took on flesh and became a man. Look again at our verse, and you see his human and divine identities present in the text. Look at what he says. Notice, he says, for this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I was I came into the world. This is kind of an odd statement, right? If you're like maybe if you have kids, I don't know if I don't know about you, but I doubt any of your kids walk around saying, on my birthday, that is when I came into the world. I had it always existed, but on the day of my birth, on the day of my conception and my birth, I came into the world. I don't know if you ever think about like I came into the world at that point. Right? As though we existed prior to our birth and chose to be born. But Jesus can talk this way because he did exist prior to his own conception and birth, because he is far more than just a man. He is God in the flesh. This is why John opens his gospel by saying about Jesus, in the beginning was the Word. The Word is Jesus. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. At creation, Jesus was the word, the creative power that brought all things into creation. All things were made. through him. Without him was not anything made that has been made, right? John chapter 1, Colossians 1. Through him and for him have all things been made. Hebrews 1. He is the one who spoke all things into existence. He was in the beginning with God. He had to become a man so that he could represent us. He had to become a man so that he could represent us, so that he could fully identify with us and stand in our place. And Jesus had to be God in order to fully pay for our sins, because no mere man could ever pay for the sins of another person because of their own sins. Our sacrifice would never be sufficient. Our sacrifice wouldn't be sufficient to cover over our own sins, let alone the sins of another person, let alone the sins of the whole world who would turn to him. But as the God man, Jesus lived the perfect life. He never loved the darkness, he never did evil works. His heart was only and always motivated by a love of God and a desire for his glory. And even though he never sinned, he was hated and opposed by his own people. He was put to death by the Romans who crucified him. But throughout John's gospel, Jesus bore witness to the truth that he came to offer his life in order that we might be saved. He came to be crucified in our place. On the cross, he bore the punishment that we deserved. And because of his sinless life, he offered a sacrifice powerful enough and pure enough to wipe away all of our sins. What did John the Baptist say about Jesus the first time that he laid eyes on him at the beginning of the Gospel of John? Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Not just one person, not just two people, but anyone who would turn to him in repentance and faith. So powerful was the purity of his life, so powerful Was his holiness so powerful was his love of God that when he died on the cross and shed his blood, the sins of all who would turn to him in faith Could be wiped away, behold, in Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world Oh friends, just think about this as you're thinking about Christmas and the gifts that you've received, the gifts that you might want, kids even. I think it may be, I don't know, I just don't desire gifts the same way that I used to when I was a kid But I want you to think about the things that you want. They might be good things. They might be awesome things, really cool things that you that you whether it's toys or clothes or places that you're going to go. Those things are great, awesome, but they pale in comparison to God looking down from heaven, to God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit agreeing within themselves. We will send the Son. The Son agrees with the Father. I will go to them. We love them. We will give the Son in order to bear the punishment for their sins. We love them so much so that they can be saved. and reconciled to us and promised and assured eternal life. That is a gift beyond comparison. No iPhone No MacBook, no like ring security system, no new clothes, no new toys, nothing in all the earth compares. To the gift of forgiveness of your sins through faith in Jesus Christ. And that leads to the final truth claim that we see in our passage: that those who believe Those who believe the objective truth that Jesus came to bear witness to, they receive eternal life. One could argue that the existence of life, true life, eternal life, is the central truth that Jesus came to bear witness to in John's gospel. Right? It's central to John's stated purpose for writing his entire letter. If you go to, you can turn there now, John chapter 20, it's just like one or two pages later, John chapter 20 in your Bibles. Verses 30 and 31. John looks back at all the miracles and mighty works Jesus did that testify to his identity, and he says this. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ objectively Truthfully, you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing, you may have life, eternal life in His name The goal of belief is eternal life with God. It's a product of it. It's a purpose of it That's why John wants you. John wants you to believe, not so that you just believe and have like good things that help you to kind of get through your day and then you just go on with your life like the way that the rest of the world does. John wants you to believe so that you can know for certain that you have eternal life. Jesus came to tell us the truth. This life is not all that there is. He came to tell us the truth, that eternal life is available to us. Eternal life. In John chapter 10, Jesus says, I have come so that they may have life and have it abundantly. I have come so that you may have life. Caroline, Jesus has come so that you may have life. Tracy, Jesus has come so that you may have life. Adam, Jesus has come so that you may have life and not just The life that you're living right now, eternal, abundant life. That was his purpose in coming. Not only to pay for your sins, not only to bear witness to the truth, but also to secure for you eternal life. This abundant life that Jesus speaks of is an eternal life that can begin for anyone today If you don't follow Jesus Christ, you can be forgiven of your sins, reconciled to God, filled with his Spirit, brought from darkness and into light, and taste of the abundant life that Jesus has promised to his people by turning from sin. Turn it from your old way of limiting. Turn it from just running your own life. Saying, like, I'm gonna give I'm gonna I'm gonna give it to you. I'm gonna follow you because you know best. In your life, in your presence, there is fullness of joy and abundant life, right? That's what he's calling us to do. So my question is, where are you trying to find that abundant life today? Where are you looking for it? Is it in sensual pleasures, drink, drugs, sex? Those never provide the abundant life we long for? Are you looking for it in success at work or the building up of wealth? Right, we know this. Some of the emptiest people in the world are the wealthiest. Wealth does not provide abundant life. Jesus provides abundant life. Friends, no matter where you look in this world for abundant life, if you're not looking in Jesus You won't find it. You won't find it. And you won't find it because you were made by God and for God. So if you're not Living for God if you're not looking for li if you're not living for God, you're looking for life in all the wrong places. And one pastor described it as though God has invited all of humanity to a Thanksgiving feast of epic proportions. And he actually has. God has invited humanity. It's not actual Thanksgiving feast, but it's a feast. God has invited all of humanity to a Thanksgiving feast of epic proportions, like the most amazing spread that any of us could ever ask for. Bottomless appetite, feast at my table all day long. But we, instead of taking the invitation and showing up to God's amazing and epic feast that He's prepared for us, we've chosen to stop at 7-Eleven for a hot dog. Right? Rather like a big bite. Oh, no offense to 7-Eleven. It's a big bite. Oh, right? Rather than attend God's feast. But that's a choice that all of humanity has made. We would rather just feast on a big bite than feast at God's table. My friends, that feast, God's feast, is still open to you today. And you can put down the big bite. You can put it down and come taste of the abundant life that God has for those who believe in him. And what does it mean to believe in him? Look again at chapter 18, verse 37. Jesus says, everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. You really you can tell very easily if you have this abundant eternal life that Jesus came to bring. Do you listen to his voice? Listening to Jesus' voice means agreeing with and believing all that Jesus came to teach about God, about ourselves, and about the world that we live in. And listening to Jesus' voice means obeying his commandments. Right in John 14, Jesus says, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word. Right, true love for God The true belief in God, belief that results in eternal life, is displayed through listening to Jesus' voice, keeping his commandments. Conforming your life to how he calls us to live. And conforming your life to how Jesus calls us to live may be hard and uncomfortable in some areas of our life, but it's never burdensome. Right? Because conforming our lives to his word is the way that we begin to experience the abundant life that God has for his people. God has created us. He knows how we were meant to live. Hey, if you do this, you'll find life. If you do that, you won't find life. Right? Follow this way. Find life. Listen to Jesus's. We listen to Jesus' voice primarily today by opening up his word. The author of Hebrews says, in these final days, God has spoken to us through his son The words of his son are recorded and scripturated for us in the Bible, in the New Testament, and the Old Testament as well, because all of God's word is carried along by the Holy Spirit and given by the Holy Spirit and is inspired by God. But that's how we listen to his voice. How often are you opening up God's word to hear Jesus speak and to listen to what he has to say about how you should live? How are you doing with listening to Jesus' voice, voice in your own life? Do you find yourself looking to Scripture regularly? Do you find yourself choosing obedience to Jesus even when it's difficult? Right? Do you take as true all that Jesus teaches, even when it challenges your thinking or living? Now again, I I want to speak both to the adults, but I want to speak also to the children. This is going to be true for both. If there are questions that you have about certain things that scripture teaches and and how they can be true, that's a normal and natural thing to have questions. We're supposed to be renewed in our mind. The fact that we need to be renewed in our mind means that we need to grow in our thinking. We're not always going to immediately understand why God teaches or says or calls us to live the way that the ways that he does. But if you have questions about things that the Bible teaches or how it calls you to live, I want to encourage you kids, come talk to me or one of the other elders. We want to talk to you about these questions. We want to wrestle with these questions and help you understand how all that the Lord says is good and help you understand why you can taste and see that the Lord is good. Right, none of us will listen to his voice perfectly, but there will be a desire to listen nonetheless. And for those who do listen to Jesus' voice, You can know for certain that eternal, abundant life, even if it doesn't feel like it today, which it most likely doesn't, has begun today and will last forever. You may ask How can I know that this is true? How can I know that this is true? That what Jesus came to bear witness to as the truth? How can we know that what Jesus taught about God and about us and about salvation is true? Well, I'd say normally in in our in the daily course of life, we we tend to look for people's credentials to verify whether this person knows what they're talking about and so can be trusted with the truth. We use it to assess the credibility of their truth claims I just want you to consider Jesus' credentials. He was born of a virgin. He was God in the flesh as displayed by his countless miracles. He lived the perfect life that no other human on earth has ever lived. And after dying on the cross and being buried, Jesus got up from the dead. His resurrection proves that everything he taught about God, about us, about sin, salvation, and eternal life is true. And it's true, really, whether we choose to believe it or not. Winston Churchill once said, and I think it's applicable here, he said, the truth is incontrovertible. Malice may attack it. Ignorance may deride it. But in the end, there it is. We can readapt that and co-opt it for our purposes here. It's a quote that can be applied to Jesus and all that he taught and did, right? The truth, since Jesus is not only the way and the life, Jesus is the truth. The truth is incontrovertible. All that Jesus taught and did. Malice may attack him. Ignorance may deride him. But in the end, there he will stand. We can ignore him, we can rail against him, but in the end, there Jesus will be. The question for you today is, will you believe his truth claims? Let's play. Heavenly Father, we know because of what Jesus taught us that we cannot understand your truth apart from the work of your spirit in us. As hard and as difficult as that may be to understand or believe, we confess it and we believe it. And so we ask for you to grant the Holy Spirit to open our eyes to help us grasp What Jesus claimed about you and about us, about himself, and about the world and about how we might be reconciled to you and help us to hold fast to your truth. And we pray, Lord, that you would be active during this Christmas season and every season, in opening the eyes of the blind and bringing them from spiritual darkness and into the kingdom of your beloved Son in his spiritual light. And we pray this all in Jesus name. And all God's people said, Amen.