Well good morning friends. How's everyone doing today? Excellent. It's good to see you all here this morning. It's a joy to be with you And to have this opportunity to study with you God's Word and to see what He has to say to us this morning It is a true privilege for all of us to get to hear God speak. We believe he has spoken in his word, and we believe his word is true. So um Super thankful to be here with you all this morning. I'm going to start us with a brief word of prayer, and then we will dive in. So let us go now to the Lord and pray. Heavenly Father, it is your hands that have made and fashioned each one of us. You gave us bodies, and you have given us souls by your spirit Grant wisdom, understanding to our souls that we might see that Jesus Christ is the light of the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I love going to work conferences, and because I'm a pastor, that means I'm talking about going to pastors. uh conferences and I love them for uh a number of different reasons. Uh these conferences give me an opportunity to connect with friends in ministry that I wouldn't otherwise see because I live here and they live elsewhere and we don't get opportunities to see each other all that often. It's also an opportunity to get together with them and hear about how things are going at their churches, what life is like for them, how ministry uh is going. And it's also an idea a way for me to connect with other pastors who might be a little bit further down the road to get wisdom from their experiences and maybe get ideas for this congregation. Such is a great opportunity to get together and just to learn some things. But one of the things that I really appreciate about pastors conferences is the opportunity to go myself and instead of teaching to sit and hear somebody other somebody else uh teach me. For a change. And generally, when the speaker or preacher is announced at these conferences, the introduction goes something like this. The MC comes up to the podium and he says Our next speaker needs no introduction. He's currently the pastor of Green Pastors Baptist Church, where he's been the senior pastor for the last 25 years, under his leadership Green Pastures Baptist Church has baptized 2,000 individuals and has grown to an average weekly attendance of 10,000 people. He not only holds a master's of divinity, but also has his doctorate in New Testament interpretation and exegesis. Yada, yada, yada, right? That's And if you've ever been to a conference, it doesn't matter if it's a pastor's conference or any type of work conference whatsoever Then you're familiar with this type of introduction because nearly every speaker in the world is introduced introduced in this way. And why is that Well, because there's near universal agreement upon the importance of qualifications. Qualifications. Why do we want you, the listener, to know that the senior pastor of Green Pastors Baptist Church has baptized 2,000 people and has 10,000 people attending his church weekly, we want you to know that you can trust this person. He is qualified to speak to you. You can listen to him. And while qualifications don't mean that a person should automatically be trusted or believed, they do serve a relatively important purpose, right? They show that the person speaking has at least some knowledge on the topic that they or s they are speaking about. And qualifications are actually especially important to us in our day because we're surrounded by so many competing voices on nearly every issue, right? Literally Anyone in our world today with an internet internet connection can have a platform on Twitter. You add to that uh a video camera that they can record on, they can have a platform on YouTube. You add to it sound recording equipment and they can have a podcast So literally everyone in the world can have an opportunity to have a platform for themselves. All they need is an internet connection. And there are voices all around us. influencing us on how we think about the most important issues in life. And I bring all this up this morning. Because in our passage today, we're going to be introduced to a person who specifically calls you and me to listen to him. And he wants us to listen to him about the most important issues in life. He's going to talk to us about who God is, who we are. And how we can be reconciled to God. And so that we don't immediately tune him out because he says, hey, listen to me. He doesn't want us to tune him out. So what he goes on to do is offer a list of his qualifications to be able to speak to you about these issues. So if you have your Bible with you. Please turn with me to Isaiah chapter 49. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 6 this morning. You can use the Bible that we've provided if you don't have one of your own. If you're using that Bible, you can find our passage on page 609. If you're not familiar with using a Bible, we're looking for Isaiah chapter 49. That's a big bold number 49. And then you're going to be looking at the smaller numbers. Those are the verse numbers, numbers 1 to 6, after that. We're in week two of a four-week Advent series looking at specific passages from Isaiah that prepare us for the coming of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. Passages that help us understand who he is and what he came to do. And one of the things that we want to do because we're parachuting into This very long book to look at a a small passage in the second half of the book, we want to do what paratroopers normally do when they hit the ground. When paratroopers hit the ground before they move anywhere or do anything They get their bearings. They try to figure out where am I and where is it that I need to go. And we need to understand the message of Isaiah as a whole book so that we can understand the point of this passage this morning. So first off, Isaiah was a prophet. That means he was called specifically by God. To bring God's word to the people of Judah. This is the southern kingdom of Judah. And he was sent to the southern kingdom of Judah around 750 B. C. I mentioned last week that about 200 years before Isaiah went to the southern kingdom of Judah, there was just one nation of Israel. One people, but after King Solomon reigned and he died, after that, there was a conflict in the nation about who was. Who's qualified to lead the country? And because there was a conflict, the one people of Israel split into two kingdoms. The northern kingdom of Israel. And the southern kingdom of Judah, and it's to this southern kingdom that Isaiah was sent. And he was sent to them to warn them because their rampant and persistent sin Which was happening over hundreds of years by the time Isaiah was sent to them, had gotten them to the point where God had Got gotten to his point where he was going to send them into exile. So hundreds of years earlier he promised that if they lived in sin and continued in sin, that he would cast them out of his presence, out of the promised land And Isaiah is sent to tell them, hey, this is actually what is happening before you right now. So his whole book is about warning them and interpreting the events that are happening in their lives and showing them that exile is about to come to pass. So it's a book that is predominantly about God's judgment against the sinful people. But that message of judgment, like always with God, is punctuated by comfort. and hope. And the second half of the book, after chapter 39 through chapter 66, is a message of comfort and hope. As Isaiah Tells the people of Judah, listen, you are going to go into exile, but God is going to send to you a servant, and that servant will be responsible for gathering you from exile. Bringing you back into the presence of God Himself, and He Himself will be the one who will pay for your sins. This servant, this promised servant, is the one who's going to gather God's people out of exile and bring them back into God's presence. And that is that servant that we are going to learn about this morning. It's that servant that we're even going to hear from. He is going to speak directly to us this morning morning and tell us who he is and why he's qualified to speak to us. So I'm going to go ahead and read chapter 49, verses 1 through 6 now, and then we will dive in. This is God's word. Listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention, you peoples from afar. The Lord called me from the womb. From the body of my mother, he named my name. He made my mouth like a sharp sword. In the shadow of his hand, he hid me He made me a polished arrow. In his quiver, he hid me away. And he said to me, You are my servant, Israel, in whom I will be glorified. But I said, I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength for nothing. Vanity. Yet surely my right is with the Lord, and my recompense with my God. And now the Lord says, He who formed me from the womb to be his servant. to bring Jacob back to him that and that Israel might be gathered to him. For I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has become my strength. He says to me, It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. This is God's word. So why should you listen to this servant this morning? Well you should listen to him because he is the only one qualified to be the savior of the world You should listen to the servant because he is the only one qualified to be the savior of the world. And we're going to look at his three specific qualifications that he lays out this morning. These are going to be our three points So if you're taking notes for us, I'm going to offer these to you so you can follow along a little bit easier. First, you should listen to the servant because of his pedigree. Because of his pedigree. Second, listen to him because of his experience. And third, listen to him because of what he's accomplished. Listen to him because of what he's accomplished. So first, listen to the servant because of his pedigree. What do I mean by that? Well, I think an illustration would help us. With the passing of George H. W. Bush this past week, there were numerous news stories and shows that provided uh recap of the highlights of his life and one of the shows pointed out that it seemed like George H. W. Bush was destined for the presidency from birth. Right, so he was born into a family that had a long history of public service. His father Prescott Bush was even a senator from Connecticut. And there was an expectation in his family that he would pursue public service in some form. Then after being born into a family that prized public service, it seemed like he would be destined for public service. He was then equipped and prepared for future public service by the elite school that he attended as a teenager. But that preparation for the presidency didn't stop at school. It seemed like every decision that he made and every opportunity he was given was leading him directly to the presidency. So after high school. He enlisted in the Navy to become an aviator in World War II. He was the youngest aviator ever to earn his wings. He was one of nine pilots shot down during World War II over the island of Chichi Jima, but he was the only one of those nines to be sir uh to survive being shot down. He's even being like prepared somehow. His life is being preserved for a purpose. After the war ended, he went into business, then he became a congressman, then he became an ambassador, then he became the director of the CIA, then he became the vice president. It's like You w you look at this guy's life, it's like he is destined to serve as the president. So as from the moment he was born, he was being prepared for that office so that by the time he took office, his resume made him one of the most qualified public servants ever to hold office. Why do I bring that up? Well, that is a faint shadow of the type of qualifications we see being laid out in verses one to three of this servant who would come to rescue and redeem God's people. Notice in verse 1. He commands the people to listen, give attention, hear what I'm about to say to you. Don't just hear it, but heed it and respond to it. And you might imagine someone asking why. Why, O servant, should we pay attention to you? What qualifications do you have that should cause us to pay attention to you? And look at what he says about himself in verses 1 and following. The Lord called me from the womb. From the body of my mother, he named me. So from the moment he was conceived, God had personally Consciously and intentionally set him apart for the office of being the Redeemer and Savior of the world. And not only had God called him from before he was even born to be the Redeemer and Savior God prepared him for that role after he was born. Notice verse 2. He made my mouth like a sharp sword. Then again, he made me a polished arrow. Now that's not to say that God turned him into an actual weapon, right? These words are being used symbolically to describe what this servant would be like. His speech would pierce like a sword. Not that it would be angry or harsh, or he would be a rude person with his words, but that his word would pierce through our thoughts. our desires, our emotions, and they would reveal the true state of our heart. So conquerors, rulers and conquerors, they conquer with physical swords, but this servant will conquer with the sword of his word. And I want you to notice that second image. He's going to be like an arrow. So for the kids in the room, are arrows typically used to hit people who are close by or he put people who are a long ways away. Far ways away. So you take up this image of sword and arrow, the sword of his word. He's gonna battle people with his word close by with his sword, and then he's gonna hit people far off in the distance. This servant will pierce through the hearts of people who are both nearby and far away. Now Why is that important? Look back at the top of verse 1. Who's he speaking to? Listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention, you peoples from afar. This servant is coming into the world. I'm going to be a sword, the sword of my word for the people nearby, and I'm also going to be like an arrow to hit you in the distance. This servant will speak to people who are long ways away, who are spread all around the world, and yet his word will pierce their hearts. His word will pierce the intention of their hearts. The servant will be dangerous with his word. He will know how to pierce people's hearts The servant's word will reach those in distant places and like an arrow it will pierce through their spiritual hearts. So what's what what's this saying to us? This is saying to us that God is going to use every moment Every experience in this servant's life from birth onward to prepare him to be the savior and redeemer of the world. And if that's not enough, then look at what God says about him in verse 3. You are my servant Israel, in whom I will be glorified. Right now you may be thinking, wait a minute, wait a minute. God just said the servant is Israel. So, does that mean he's talking about the nation of Israel? Well, it is true that in Isaiah especially and elsewhere in the Old Testament, the nation of Israel is called God's servant. But this Israel The one that God is speaking to now in verse 3 cannot be referring to the nation of Israel because, look at verse 5. This Israel. Is being sent to gather the nation of Israel. So how can Israel gather Israel? Well, the only way that Israel can gather Israel is if the servant Israel is different from the nation Israel. And there's no way that the nation of Israel can be described as a people in whom God will be glorified because the whole book of Isaiah is about how they have not glorified God because they've sinned against him. They've relied on political alliances when God is supposed to be their protector. They've worshipped false gods when the Lord Yahweh is the only one who has created the heavens and the earth. This whole book is about how the nation and people of Israel have not glorified God. So this Israel, this servant, being called by God from birth and prepared by God throughout every moment of his life to come, is a new Israel. It's a new Israel. So what we're supposed to see is the nation of Israel points forward to and prepares us for this true Israel. And think about this with me: the nation of Israel. They were called to live in special relationship to God by obeying his commandments. And we'll see that this true servant comes and obeys all of God's commandments. In him, God would be glorified by his perfect obedience, his perfect life. The fact that he would use his word like a sword to say to the people around him exactly what God called him to say the nation of Israel prepares us for the true Israel to come who is God's true servant. And we can't miss how clearly this prophecy is fulfilled in the life of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the eternal Son of God, who existed from eternity past, yet who, as we've sung already this morning, took on flesh and became a man. He is the one who was called and named from his mother's womb. Think about Luke 2. Think about Luke 2. What does Gabriel say to Mary? You are going to bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. From the body of my mother, he named my name. You shall call his name Jesus, which means God saves. So he's being named from his mother's womb. And the Lord will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. Jesus is saying, I was set apart for this. I came into the world for this very reason that I might save my people from their sins and everything that happened in my life God was using to prepare me for this very task. I mean do you remember the scene of him as a boy in the temple? Right? His parents find him as a 12-year-old in the temple sitting among the teachers asking them questions, and all the teachers were amazed at his understanding and his answers. Now think about the servant. He formed me. He formed my mouth into a sword. He made me into a polished arrow from the moment he was conceived He was destined to be the savior of mankind, and his pedigree proves it. And so we should listen to him. But we shouldn't only listen to him because of his pedigree. We should also listen to him because of his experience. We should listen to him because of his experience. Look at verse 4 But I said, I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength for nothing in vanity. What you see happening here is a prediction by the servant of what would appear to be a failure in his task of bringing salvation to the world. So the Lord who called him from birth, who named him in his mother's womb, who prepared him to be like a sword and like an arrow, upon whom he said, I will be glorified in you. This servant appears. to fail in his task of bringing salvation to the world. He's predicting that a point will come in his ministry as a Savior when he will look around and think that all of his work All of his labors, all of his effort will be for nothing. He'll experience the apparent meaninglessness that is always swimming just under the surface of life in this world. That's why he uses that word vanity. If you've been studying Ecclesiastes in your small groups and you you know about this word now, this this vanity, this vainess, this this apparent meaninglessness that seems to encompass all of life. under the sun, the servant is going to experience that in his own life. And we see this fulfilled in Jesus' life and ministry. I mean you've got to consider this. Consider the near constant opposition that he faced from the religious authorities in Israel. Who from the very beginning of his ministry were so opposed to him that all they wanted to do was kill him. Mark chapter 3, as soon as he starts, they're plotting to murder him And consider the tireless travel during the three years of his ministry, teaching and preaching about the kingdom of God and the relatively little fruit that he saw. He poured his life into the work of preaching about the kingdom of God. And nearly everyone around him failed to understand what it was that he was teaching. Then it keeps getting worse. He poured his heart and soul into his disciples. He handpicked them. He goes up on the mountain, calls the 12 disciples to himself. chooses them to travel with him and to be at him at all be with him at all times so that he could specifically and carefully teach them who he was, why he had come, and what he was doing in his ministry. And then in the end, A plot was launched to arrest him and kill him that included one of the disciples that he called. To make matters worse, the rest of the disciples completely abandoned him. deny that they ever know him, and then leave him to be interrogated by people who had already made up their minds that they were going to kill him, and then he was killed. Recall him hanging on the tree, surrounded by people, mocking him. Hey, if you're the king of Israel, come on down from the tree. Prove that you're God. He's abandoned by his disciples and he's forsaken by God. Now look at the words of the servant. I have labored in vain. I've spent my strength for nothing in vanity. He's saying, I was faithful. I was faithful, God. I did what I was supposed to do, and this is how I die. What is all this for? This all seems meaningless. We cannot forget that as this is fulfilled in the life of Jesus Christ, that Jesus was fully God, but he was also fully man. And the the depths of that mystery cannot be adequately plumbed by the minds of humans, but we can at least know this, what he has shared with us in his word that in his human nature he experienced life as we do. He grew physically from a baby into a man. He grew spiritually. It's very clear in Scripture that Jesus Christ grew in wisdom and stature before God and man. He grew in these ways spiritually. He was tempted as we are, but was without sin. And he, he, hear this He experienced the despondency that comes when you do everything you're supposed to do, and it seems like God responds to your faithfulness with punishment. Or even worse, neglect. Like he's not even paying attention to you. I wonder how many of you. How many of you have experienced this despondency? Have said the words that this servant says, that Jesus Christ felt and experienced upon the cross. I have labored in vain. What is all this faithfulness for? I've done what I'm supposed to do. I spent my strength and now I'm dying on a cross. What is this about, oh God? How many of you have experienced this feeling like all of your laboring, all of your effort, all of your attempts to be faithful have been for nothing? God, I've done everything that you've called me to do. I've followed you faithfully for years. And I get a call from the doctor today, and I've got six months to live Is this what my life has come to? Has my labor been in vain? Oh God, we've done everything that we're supposed to do as parents. We've prayed for our kids. We faithfully taught them your ways. We raised them to know and trust you. And they have no desire whatsoever to follow Jesus. Is this how you repay us? Is this all for nothing? Is this how I spent my strength as a parent? Oh God, I've tried to love my spouse the way you've called me to, and they keep rejecting me Oh God, I've prayed for a child and you haven't answered. God, I've been faithful at work and things just seem to keep getting worse at work. Is my faithfulness for nothing? Is this vain and meaningless? But these are things that all of us will face at one time or another. The fact that you and I live in a fallen world means that at some point We will wonder whether our faith, our labor, and our effort in following Christ has been worth it. It will happen to anyone who follows Jesus in this world. All of us, if we're honest, will utter these words. I have labored in vain I've spent my strength for nothing and vanity. This is the servant's experience He's experienced this with you. He's gone before you. He's walked this road before you. He knows what this is like So what do you and I do when these times come? What do we do when we look at our life and we look at what's going on in our life and we and we think, have we labored in vain? Is there a point to any of this? When we question whether all of our effort has been worth it, what do we do? What do you do when that question comes? You listen to Jesus because of his experience Though Jesus faced the crushing weight of despondency and meaninglessness, he came out the other side, understanding The only truth that will get you through those struggles. The only truth that will get you through those struggles. What is that truth? Look back at with me at verse 4. But I have said, but I have said, I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength for nothing in vanity yet. Yet, surely my right is with the Lord and my recompense with my God. This is what Jesus is saying. This is what the servant is saying. fulfilled in the life of Jesus Christ. He's saying that all that though all seems lost, even though all of his labors may seem pointless, even though my suffering and death may seem meaningless, I know I know that God will vindicate me. I know that God will reward me for my labors. And he was absolutely right. Because after Jesus died an apparently meaningless death, he was buried. And the light of the world seemed like it had been snuffed out. But on the third day, Jesus rose from the dead. Proof positive that his labor was not in vain. Proof that he did not spend For nothing. And he turns to his people and he says, listen to me. Listen to me. I have experienced that despondency. I've experienced knowing what it's like that my labors seem like they were in vain, but I got up from the dead and I can tell you for certain that none of your labors as a follower of mine will be in vain. God will give you what you deserve. Your reward is with the Lord. Friends, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. from the dead is proof not only of your future resurrection from the dead, but it is proof that no act No act of present faithfulness is meaningless, wasted, or in vain. His resurrection from the dead is proof not only of your future resurrection. It is proof That no act of faithfulness is meaningless, wasted, or in vain. Every single act of faithfulness in this world will be met by God's just reward. Your right, your vindication is with God. You may look around your life and think, what am I doing this for? And Jesus is saying to you today, keep going. Keep walking in faithfulness. Keep your eyes fixed on me. I assure you, your efforts will not be wasted. Just as I was raised from the dead, you too will be raised. And you can listen to me because of my experience. Friends, think of this. All of the difficulties that we face in this life. What Jesus is teaching us this is everything that we do should be marked by faithfulness. No matter what situation you're facing in life, be faithful to God's word. It doesn't matter if it seems like it's not bearing fruit. Heavenly fruit is often not seen by physical earthly eyes, as John Calvin said. Heavenly fruit often comes and is seen perfectly in the life to come when we look back at this life. You may never know why you're laboring faithfully. You might not have all the answers in life, but you can know for certain that your reward is with the Lord and He will give you your vindication. You will see it at some point, and you can listen to Jesus because he has experienced it. But you should also listen to Jesus because of what he's accomplished. That's our final point. Look at what he's accomplished. Look with me at verses 5 and 6. In verse 5, the servant tells everyone. God is sending me into the world to bring back the people of Israel from exile. Even though they've sinned, God will not let his people go. And so he's sending me to bring them back. But not only am I coming to bring back the people of Israel, look at verse 6, God says that's not great enough of a task for me. He has endowed me with too much, that that's not a great enough mission for me, and so he's sending me also. to be a light to the world, to bring the knowledge of his salvation to the people of the world. You're here and you're not We are super thankful that you're here. There's nowhere else that we uh think you should be. We're glad that you would spend your time with us this morning. I think it's crucial for you to understand what is going on here in verses 5 and 6. The reason that God To send his servant into the world, his servant Jesus. The reason Jesus came as a baby, grew into a man, and then died on a cross is because you and I have a problem. We have a problem, and that problem is sin. All of us, every human being on the planet has sinned against God, we've broken his laws. That's one way that sin is described in the Bible. We've missed the mark. We're like an arrow that's not polished, like the servant is. We missed the mark. We don't hit the bullseye as we should, and sin has separated us from God. We've fallen short of God's glory. And because we've fallen short of his glory and his standards. God has written his law on our hearts. That means we all know that we've done wrong. We all know that we have sinned. We all know that there are things that we do. We're like, we shouldn't have done that. We just knew that it was wrong. And that's because God wrote his law on his heart. That is sin. And sin has separated us from God. That means we are exiled, like the people of Israel we're going to be. We are exiled from his presence because God is holy and he will not have fellowship with sinners. And not only will he not have fellowship with sinners because he's good, he's also perfectly promised to judge everyone who sinned, which is a problem for us. Our only hope in this life to avoid God's judgment is if God sends and provides a Savior. And that is exactly why Jesus came. Notice in verse 6, it says the servant is coming to be a light for the nations. Then in John chapter 8, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So Jesus is saying he's come as a servant to illuminate the truth about God. the truth about us and how we can be forgiven and reconciled to God. And the way that Jesus saves us from God's punishment is by living the perfect life. The life that you and I should have lived, but none of us have. He was a polished arrow. He had no flaws, no imperfections, he committed no sins, and yet he went to the cross to bear the punishment that you and I deserve. Every blow that he received, every whip that came across his back, every hammer of the uh every every strike of the nail that pierced through his hands and his feet. Was to bear our punishment that we deserve to save us from God's judgment for our sins. Jesus was punished so that you and I don't have to be Jesus was cast off so that you could be brought near. Jesus' light was snuffed out so that we who were living in darkness could be brought into the light. And we can be certain that he saved us from that judgment because after he died and was buried, as we've already said, he rose again. His resurrection proves that God accepted his sacrifice so that all who turn to Jesus in faith and repentance can have confidence. that their sins have been fully paid for by the spotless Lamb of God, the servant Jesus Christ. And proof that he accomplished it is that we are here today. All of us who follow Jesus Christ Who are here today were a people who were far off, but who were raised up and brought near to God. We have been brought near by his blood. And I want you to think about this, kids. I am certain I am certain that you guys are going to struggle in this life with feeling like you need to perform for God, like you need to earn his love. Like you need to obey perfectly for God to be pleased with you. I want you to know that is not Christianity. That is not Christianity. Christianity is not a religion of do, it is a religion of done. It has been done for you by the Lord Jesus Christ. He has accomplished everything that you need to have righteousness and right standing with God. And you can be confident that if you come to God through Jesus Christ, That he has done everything that needs to be done so that you can have a relationship with God. It's not about earning God's favor by being good. It's not about earning God's favor by following the rules. Jesus has earned his favor for you and he gives it to you freely and graciously. And it's because of that grace that you should turn and follow him Trust in him. He is a good savior. Jesus, and Jesus alone has accomplished all that is needed for our salvation. Think about his words on the cross. It is finished as in nothing left for you to do to earn that salvation. I'm applying it to you perfectly I'm going to go behind the curtain. I'm going to cast the blood on the altar. I'm going to offer the perfect sacrifice so that you don't have to be saved by your own righteousness because you have none. But I'm going to give mine to you. That is Christianity. That is a religion of grace. And that is what Christ gives and offers to all who turn to him in faith and repentance. And if you turn to him, In repentance and faith, he will give you his spirit to empower you to walk in the light as he is in the light. And to those of us who've turned to Jesus in faith and repentance, Who've been brought into the light by the power of his spirit, he now calls us to walk in that light To strive by his grace and by his spirit to walk in a manner worthy of the calling that we've been called to So if you're here and you're following Jesus and you're choosing to willingly live in sin, Jesus says, don't take part in the unfruitful works of darkness. I called you as a child of the light. Walk in the light. It's who you really are. Awake, O sleeper, and rise from the dead, and I will shine on you. Friends, if you feel trapped by sin, Christ has called you into the light. So walk in the light by his grace And if you're feeling condemned because you've been striving to live in the light, but have failed, I want you to remember that you have a high priest. Who is able to sympathize with you in your weakness because he was tempted in every way as you are, but was without sin. And so you can draw near to the throne of grace to receive mercy and find grace in your time of need. Listen to Jesus Christ because of his pedigree. Listen to him because of his experience. Listen to him because of what he's accomplished for us. He is in every way qualified to be the savior of the world. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we come to you in the matchless name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we come trembling because we feel like your throne is not a throne of grace. But we pray that you would help us to remember that it is a throne of grace and so we can come boldly and lay hold of it with both hands. praying to you and asking you through the Lord Jesus Christ, our great mediator, that you would help us. Help us to listen to Christ Help us to follow in his footsteps. We praise you for accomplishing everything that was needed for our salvation. We praise you for sending your servant. We praise you for gathering a people who were far off. And we pray now that you would help us to walk in a manner worthy of the calling that we've been called to. And we pray this in Jesus Christ's name. Amen