The sermon passage this morning is Genesis two four through twenty-five. Excuse me. These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created created in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. When no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was There was no man to work the ground, and a mist was going up from the land, and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and the man became a living creature and the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east And there he put the man whom he had formed, and out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers. The name of the first is Pishon It was the one that flowed around the whole land of Havila, where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good. Delium and Onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is the Gihon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Cush. And the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat For in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helpler fit for him. Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept, took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into woman, and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked, and were not ashamed. This is God's word. Well, good morning. It's a pleasure to be with you this morning to have this opportunity to open up God's Word. We sang as our opening song, our prep song, Speak O Lord. And in that song, we sing about asking the Lord to speak to us and to do the work in us so that we might fill the earth. He might fill the earth with his glory through the church. And so it's right to go now to the Lord again and ask him briefly to bless the preaching of his word that we might be fed and nourished by it. And so being nourished by it, being made more into the likeness of his son Jesus. So would you pray with me briefly? Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity to come to hear you speak through your word And Father, we pray that you would help us to consider what it means that you have made us male and female, and especially what that means for us as members of your church. We pray that you would open our hearts to receive your word with gladness and with joy. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I want to invite you, if you haven't already, to open in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 2. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you're going to find Genesis 2 on page 2 of the Bible. And if you don't have a Bible of your own at home that you can read, we want to encourage you to take a copy that we, the copy that we provided for you as a gift from us to you. Genesis chapter 2 will really serve as our base camp this morning, but we're also going to be looking at portions of Genesis 3 and considering some other passages in the New Testament. And some of you, if you've been here the past few weeks, you might recognize that this is the third week in a row that Genesis chapter 2, verses 4 to 25 has served as the sermon text. So two weeks ago I preached what most would call an expositional sermon on chapter two and those verses that that we just heard read. In that sermon, we considered what the main point, the central main point of Genesis chapter 2 is and what that means for us today. But last week and this week, I'm preaching what we what are more or less topical sermons. Last week we looked specifically at what Genesis 2 teaches us about God's purposes for gender in creation. And we learn that gender is a good gift from God, and God uniquely created the man and the woman to carry out specific aspects of the one mission that He had given to them. The man, if you were here, you'll recall, the man was uniquely created to subdue the earth, to rule over it, and the woman was uniquely created to fill the earth with life. And those different roles were given so that the man and the woman could work together to fulfill the one mission that God had given to them, which was, in essence, to fill the earth with his glory. And if you haven't listened to that sermon already, I want to encourage you to do so because that sermon will really serve as the foundation that we're building upon today. And today what we're going to do is move from God's purposes for gender in creation. To God's purposes for gender in the church. And before we begin, I simply want to recognize that this may be a very sensitive subject for some. Whenever we talk about differences between men and women and the different roles that God has given to men and women, inevitably in our culture, issues of equality. and worth and value enter into the conversation. Not only that, but it's likely that either some of you, if not many of you, have experienced abuses of authority in the home or in the church in your past. And if that's you, I just want to sincerely state from the front that I am sorry I am sorrowful for the abuses of authority that have occurred in our world, and they're worthy of us lamenting and repenting of Corporately as a body. It's wrong that people, especially men, given the unique ways that God has created men, have abused their authority in the past And so we want to be open and recognize that that has happened and that affects how we come to the text and understand what God says to us in His Word. And I want you also to know if you have experienced those abuses of authority, it is right to remember that God has set aside a day when he will bring judgment on all who have abused their authority. And he will finally and fully deliver all who've trusted in his son Jesus into the perfect protection and peace that is found in his presence. But I also want to say that my hope this morning is that we all walk away seeing and rejoicing in just how essential And indispensable both men and women are in carrying out the mission God has given to the church. If we don't see that, then I haven't done my job and I want to do my job well. Right, so my main point for the sermon this morning, if you're taking notes, is the same as it was last week. God created mankind with different genders and different roles. In order to fill the earth with his glory. That's going to be the main point of the sermon this morning But since we already established that point in last week's sermon, what we're going to do this morning is consider how the fall disrupted God's good purposes for gender, and then consider how through the redemption from sin that Jesus brings, there is also a restoration of God's good purposes for gender in the church. Among his people. So the two headings or points for our sermon this morning will be gender roles after the fall and then gender roles after redemption. So first, gender roles after the fall. We should quickly refresh ourselves on the context of our passage in Genesis 2 and then working into Genesis 3. You'll remember that in Genesis 1? God creates everything, right? He speaks and he brings light into existence and then he speaks and he creates the skies and the seas and the dry land. Then he fills the dry land with plant life. He fills the skies with stars. He fills the seas with fish. And he fills the earth with And then the pinnacle of his creation, the crown jewel, is the creation of the man and the woman who alone, out of all that God has created, are said to be made in the image of God. And then we learn at the end of chapter one that the man and the woman are giving the given the task of having children, filling the earth, and ruling over God's creation so that the whole earth Would be filled with his glory. And the final word that we hear about all that God has created in Genesis chapter 1 is that it was very good. Very good. Then in Genesis chapter 2, we zoom in on the creation of the man and the woman. We see how they were created and how the way that they were created even points to the way that they were uniquely created to fulfill the mission that God had given to them, right? We saw last week that Adam was made from the ground and so was uniquely created to rule over the ground, to subdue it And the woman was made from Adam, and so was uniquely created to be the perfect partner to help Adam fill the earth with life. Both the man and the woman working together in perfect harmony. to accomplish the glorious mission God had given them. Both the man and the woman we saw are essential and indispensable. Right? The mission that God gave to them in Genesis 1. 28 could not go forward without both of them. And just as chapter 1 ended with God's approval of all he had made, so Genesis 2 ends on a wonderful note. Look at chapter 2, verse 25. The man and the woman were naked and not ashamed. Nakedness in Israel was a sign of shame, of guilt. of sin, of being unclean, ceremonially unclean before the Lord, and the fact that they were naked and were not ashamed, Moses is telling us that everything was perfect between them. Complete trust, complete joy, and complete unity as they work together to fill the earth with God's glory. This was very good. But this very good state between the man and the woman doesn't last for long. Right, we're not told how long they experienced this goodness, but the text seems to indicate that not long after they were made, sin entered the world and disrupted all of the created order, even the order that God had given to them and bestowed upon them in making them male and female. So if you just track along with me, we're not going to look verse by verse at chapter 3, but you just let your eyes fall over that passage. In Genesis 3, you see there, the serpent enters into the garden. Now, what was the man's job? Can anyone remember what was Adam's job in the garden? To work and keep it. Does he keep it? Does he keep the boundaries of the garden to keep the to prevent the serpent from coming in? No, he doesn't. He fails at his task, right? Adam's job was to protect the garden from intruders, to exercise dominion over all the beasts of the field, including the serpent. But Adam fails at the task. The serpent enters into the garden. He then tempts the woman to disobey God by questioning the commandments that God had given to Adam. Right? The woman succumbs to this temptation. She's deceived by the serpent and eats the fruit that God forbade them from eating. Then we see that the man also eats. We don't know where he is prior to this. We don't know what's going on, whether he's abdicated his role. We don't know whether he's standing there when the serpent tempts Eve. We just aren't told any of this. He seems absent from the picture, but then he appears and he joins in the rebellion. And also eats the fruit. And the immediate result of their sin is the experience of shame and fear The naked and not ashamed state that they were enjoying was replaced by naked and ashamed and fearful. Right? After their sin, their eyes are open and they recognize their nakedness. We see how God how sin has turned turned God's good creation upside down. Right? And then in chapter 3, God appears in the garden. He lovingly confronts them in their sin. The man and the woman then begin doing what? They begin blaming others. They begin blame shifting, right? They blame the serpent. Then they blame one another. So God responds by cursing the serpent and then by cursing the man and pronouncing judgment on the woman. Now we're going to be looking in depth at this chapter next Sunday and what it has to teach us about sin and the fall. But the reason that we're looking at it some today is because we learn that one specific fallout of Adam and Eve's decision to sin is that their relationship with one another would be fractured. The good roles that God created them to carry out broken They're not going to know how to carry them out as God intended them to, and they're going to be at war with one another, in tension with one another. So look down with me at Genesis chapter 3, verse 14 and following. In verses 14 and 15, God curses the serpent for his role in tempting Eve to sin. Then in verses 16 to 19, God pronounces judgment on the woman and the man. Look specifically at verses 15 to 19. To the woman, he said, oh excuse me, verses 16 to 19. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. Then he goes on to flesh out what that curse would entail for Adam. I point this out because last week we saw that ruling over the earth and reproducing would be the distinct spheres in which the man and the woman would live out their primary calling as male and female, and this is highlighted and reinforced in the judgment that God pronounces on them. Right? The woman's primary domain was in reproducing, filling the earth with life. And so God brings judgment on the experience of childbirth The man's primary domain was ruling, subduing the earth, and so God curses the ground The distinct domains that the man and the woman were uniquely created to live out their primary callings in will both be filled with frustration and pain. But it's not just that those spheres are filled with frustration and pain. It's that their relationship with one another would also be filled with frustration and pain. Look again at chapter 3, verse 16. God says to Eve, Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Now, a number of different interpretations on the precise meaning of this text have been put forward. Some explain it as brokenness in their physical intimacy. They think it's speaking to brokenness in their physical intimacy since the context is childbirth. Not only that, but those who hold this opinion point to the fact that the word desire, your desire shall be for your husband is used elsewhere in Song of Songs. And so it would read something like, despite your painful experience in childbirth, you will still have physical desire for your husband. Others view the woman's desire as broader, as including an emotional or economic reliance on her husband In other words, she acted independently of him in eating the fruit, and now as a penalty will be dependent on him. But I don't think these interpretations quite capture what is going on here. Right? I think the best way to understand this judgment is to understand it as a big picture judgment. on the oneness that the man and the woman share prior to the fall. What this verse seems to indicate is that there will be a struggle for mastery between the man and the woman. But the man was called to rule over the ground. And now as a judgment, he will rule over his wife. All of created order, these roles that these good roles that God had created them for, are now thrown out of whack. And the reason that I think this is a big picture judgment on the oneness that the man and the woman share prior to the fall. Why I think this speaks to a struggle for mastery between the man and the woman is because in Genesis chapter 4 Verse 7, the same exact words and structure are used when God is speaking to Cain about his struggle against sin. Look at Genesis chapter 4, verse 7. There you see Cain is angry that God didn't accept his sacrifice. And so God says to him, If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must rule over it In the same way that Cain and all mankind struggles against sin, so man and woman will experience that struggle between themselves. In their struggle, right? In this struggle, the woman will be tempted to control or undermine her husband, and the husband will be tempted to harshly demanding his own way. One pastor said it this way. When sin has the upper hand in Eve's life, when she's far from the Lord When she's not in step with the Spirit, it becomes easy to not lovingly trust her husband, but control and usurp his authority. And when sin has the upper hand in Adam's life, it becomes easy for him to not lovingly lead his wife and lay his life down for her, but overpower and dominate her. Right? What this is telling us is that sin corrupted the perfect unity they experienced, and it corrupted their different essential and indispensable roles in carrying out God's mission. Sin, mistrust struggles for power and sinful abuses of authority would come to characterize the relationships between men and women broadly and specifically husbands and wives. And if you pay careful attention to the book of Genesis as it moves forward. You will notice that there is a repeated theme of this struggle between men and women over and over again in the book of Genesis. What examples might we come up with? Here's a few. Later in Genesis, we'll meet Abraham and Sarah. Two different times in Abraham's life. He travels with Sarah. to a foreign country and when he gets to the foreign country he forces his wife to lie and tell everyone that she's his sister. Why does he do this? Because she's beautiful, and he's afraid that the men of the land will kill him if they find out that he's her husband. So, like a coward, he abdicates his role to protect her and instead chooses to protect herself He's not doing what God has called him to do as a husband. But it's not just Abraham, is it? We also see that when Sarah struggles to have a child You have the curse on childbirth playing out there. She then takes matters into her own hands and tells Abraham to sleep with her servant, because in that culture, if the servant had a child, it would have been considered Sarah's. But this unsurprisingly introduces a whole host of problems into their marriage. And not only that, Abraham and Sarah end up sinning even more against God because they throw the servant and the child out into the wilderness. It's not just Abraham and Sarah in the book of Genesis. We meet lots daughters who want children so badly that they take advantage of their father. We meet Rebekah, who encourages her son Jacob to lie so that he would receive the Father's blessing. We meet Judah, who takes advantage of Tamar. We meet Dinha, who is raped by the men of Shechem, leading to a war between the sons of Israel. We meet Potiphar's wife, who tries to seduce Joseph, resulting in Joseph's imprisonment. This pattern of the struggle between men and women occurs over and over and over again. You just see the effects of this curse on their oneness and this relationship and the good roles that God created them for has disrupted all of it. But God in his kindness continues to work in and through the sinful actions of men and women to bring about his plan of redemption. Right? Our failings as men and women will not stop God from bringing about the fulfillment of his plan of redemption. And what plan of redemption is that? Well, it's the plan that God promised when he pronounced judgment on the serpent in Genesis chapter 3. Look back at Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. When speaking to the serpent, God says, I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Right This promise of a seed from the woman who would crush the serpent's head is predicting the coming of a child. A deliverer, a messiah, a savior, who would destroy the serpent and all of his works. And this promise of redemption is intertwined with the judgment on Adam and Eve. In such a way that we should understand that the brokenness of their relationship and the ways that they fail to carry out their roles as man and woman will continue until this Savior appears. When he appears and brings about redemption, he will not only redeem the created order, but he will redeem man and woman from their struggles in carrying out the good roles that God created them for, for the mission of filling the earth with God's glory. The question that we need to ask ourselves is: who is this seed? This Messiah, this Savior? I want you to notice carefully what Genesis 3:15 says about him. Look down there again with me. It says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. That word offspring is also translated elsewhere in the Old Testament as seed. It refers to the child, the seed of a child that the uh the a child when it's conceived and then and then given birth to. But I want you to notice this. This promise, this seed, would be the seed of the woman It would be the woman's offspring. Throughout the rest of the Old Testament, seed comes from a man. But not this seed. This seed would be different. He would come directly from the woman. He would have no human father. And it's in the New Testament that we learn that this seed is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. You'll recall from the opening accounts of the New Testament that Jesus had no human father. He was the seed of the woman, born of the Virgin Mary by the power of the Holy Spirit. So think about this. Why is this important? What was the distinct domain in which Eve would carry out her primary mission or calling as a woman She would bring forth life in the world. So, just as life came into the world through a woman, So spiritual life and redemption would also come into the world through a woman And Jesus came as the true Adam. He came to do what the first Adam didn't do and couldn't do. Jesus came to live the perfect life. He perfectly exercised dominion over all the beasts of the field, including the serpent, which we see him overcome the serpent in the wilderness at the beginning of the Gospel of Mark. On the cross, as he died as a sacrifice for our sins, he crushed the head of the serpent. He was buried, and three days later he rose from the dead. displaying his victory over sin and death and hell and offering redemption from sin to all who would turn and trust in him In short, Jesus became the new Adam over a new humanity. A humanity comprised of men and women who have repented of sin and put their trust in him for the forgiveness of sins. And to those men and those women who do that. Jesus frees them from the power of sin. The power that corrupts our relationship with God and that corrupts our relationships with one another. And he gives to them the Holy Spirit. Who then empowers them to live holy lives and in so doing also empowers and enables them to experience a restoration in their relationships with one another. In short, in redeeming man and woman from sin, Jesus restores their ability to live out their essential and indispensable roles in order to fulfill the mission that God has given to them in the church. Which brings me to point two. What happens to gender roles now after redemption in this new mission that God has given to the church? Well, let's consider that now. I think first what we need to do though, if we're going to rightly understand the different roles that God created men and women to fill in the church, we need to understand that the mission he has given to the church is both different from the mission he gave to Adam and Eve, and the same as the mission he gave to Adam and Eve, just in different ways. First, the mission is different. Consider how the mission is different. The Great Commission is different from the mission that God gave to Adam and Eve Because in the Great Commission, the locus of the mission moves from the physical realm into the spiritual realm. Consider this with me. The physical garden kingdom is replaced by the spiritual kingdom of God, which is without physical borders, right? It extends and is growing throughout the world spiritually, and the only place that you see it is when men and women who gather together in submission to the Lord Jesus Christ appear on earth in the church. But otherwise, where is the church? It's spreading throughout the earth. And for all intents and purpose, invisibly. Invisibly. The physical garden kingdom is replaced by the spiritual kingdom of God. And the physical act of bringing children into the world is replaced by the spiritual act of seeing people born again by the Spirit. Right? So whereas Adam was called to exercise dominion and subdue the earth, so now Jesus as the true Adam exercises dominion from his throne in heaven and is subduing all of his enemies under his feet. And just as Eve had the unique role of bringing new physical life into the world The church, comprised of men and women, has the unique role of bringing new spiritual life into the world through the preaching and proclamation of the gospel. In those senses, the Great Commission is different from the mission that God gave to Adam and Eve. And yet, the mission is also the same. When God told Adam and Eve to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and exercise dominion over the creature kingdom, he was in effect telling them to Fill the earth with his glory, right? He was telling them, have children, have more image bearers who reflect my glory. And with those children and their children and those children's children, you are to push The boundaries of the garden outward subduing the earth until the whole earth is filled with my glory. But then sin comes Corrupts everything. Humanity is expelled from God's kingdom. God sends Jesus as the true Adam. Jesus brings redemption. He dies and rises again. Then he gives new spiritual life to men and women who repent of sin and he gives them the mission of making disciples. To make more redeemed image-bearers, to take the gospel to the ends of the earth, to see men and women redeemed and reconciled to God until the whole earth is filled with God's glory. The mission is the same. And we also see another crucial similarity. You'll recall that in Genesis chapter 1, verse 28. When God gives the man and the woman the mission to fill and rule the earth, he gives that one mission to both of them. They will both share in exercising dominion, and they will both share in filling the earth with life The cultural mandate, which is what people call this this mission in Genesis chapter 1, verse 28, the cultural mandate to fill and rule the earth was a team effort. It could not have been accomplished without both the man and the woman. The man and the woman were both essential and indispensable to the success of the mission. And we saw how essential and indispensable they both are to the mission when we looked at the fact that they both uniquely reflect God's work in creation, right? The man was uniquely created to rule, reflecting God's glory, God's work on days one through three. And the woman was uniquely created to fill the earth with life, reflecting God's work on days four to six of creation. So the man and his unique strengths and gifts, which were given by God. And the woman and her unique strengths and gifts, which were also given by God, are both essential and indispensable in fulfilling the mission that God has given to them. And here you see the similarity. In the church, both men and women, with their God-given strengths and gifts, share in fulfilling the work of the Great Commission. That's the mindset that we should have about one another, right? Brothers should look at sisters in the church and say, without you, the mission fails. And sisters should look at brothers in the church and say, without you, the mission fails, right? Jen Wilkin from the village church in Texas, who pointed out the essential and indispensable roles of men and women in the church, says There is no such thing as a church in which the men flourish and the women don't. And there is no such thing as a church in which the women flourish and the men don't. The flourishing of both men and women in the local church is a mission critical matter. And the reason that it's mission critical is because both men and women share in the mission of making disciples of all nations. In his recent article on the essential and indispensable roles that men and women share in the church, Jonathan Lehman, one of our elders, pointed out that in the New Testament, men and women share in the roles of being disciples They share in the roles of being witnesses and they share in the roles of being priests. Think about how we're sharing in the ministry and the mission God has given us in those different roles. So men and women share in being disciples, right? The New Testament treats all believers, male and female, alike as disciples, which was counter-cultural in Jesus' day. In his day, rabbis, teachers, only took on male disciples. It was unheard of for a woman to become a disciple of a teacher. Yet, in the kingdom of God, both men and women are Jesus' disciples. Both men and women are called to learn his teachings. To grow and increase in the wisdom and knowledge of God. Both men and women are called to apply his teachings to their lives and pattern their lives after his. Think about the way that Jesus called not only his Male disciples to learn from him, but he welcomed Mary to sit at his feet and listen to his teaching. Which is one of the clearest pictures of a disciple in the New Testament sitting at his feet and listening to his teaching. But not only do men and women share in being disciples, they also share in being witnesses to the risen Christ. That means they share in telling others what Jesus has done to redeem mankind from sin. And the fact that men and men and women would share as witnesses in the role of being witnesses was predicted back in the Old Testament. Consider Joel chapter 2, verses 28 and 29. Looking forward to when the Spirit comes in this Time of redemption comes, Joel says, and it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, your sons And your daughters shall prophesy. Even on the male and female servants I will pour out my spirit. And then we see the both men and women doing the work of witnessing throughout the New Testament. Consider the fact that it was a woman, Mary Magdalene, who was the first to bring the good news that Jesus had risen to the rest of the disciples. Then in the book of Acts, men and women share in the work of bringing the gospel to the ends of the earth. Peter, Stephen, Paul, and James. And Tabitha, Dorcas, Lydia, and Priscilla, all sharing together, telling everyone in their spheres of influence Jesus has come, Jesus has died, Jesus has risen again. Repent and believe the good news. Not only that, but men and women share in being priests. Peter says, of all believers, you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. You see, the Old Testament office of priest, which was limited to men from the tribe of Levi, is now bestowed on all believers. And so like priests, both men and women, are called to offer themselves as living sacrifices to the Lord. Both wet men and women are called to be holy unto the Lord. Both men and women are called to wage war against Satan, to work and keep. The church against all of his schemes. Both men and women are called to contend for the faith against false teachers. Men and women share in the carrying out of the Great Commission. in making disciples of all nations by sharing in being disciples, in being witnesses, and in being priests And yet, we also see that God has reserved the role of elder or pastor in the church for men who meet the qualifications of being an elder. We see that most clearly instructed in 1 Timothy 2, and then again in the elder qualifications in 1 Timothy 3 and in Titus 1. And the reserving of the role of pastor or elder to qualified men is really consistent with the way that God has ordered his people from the very beginning. And we can work backwards from the New Testament and see this, right? So when you move backwards from Paul's instruction in 1 Timothy 2 and elsewhere in the New Testament to Jesus in the Gospels We notice that while Jesus had a larger group of disciples, of which many women were a part of, the twelve disciples, whom we go on to be the foundation of the church, were men. When you move backward from the Gospels to Old Testament Israel, we see that while there were male and female prophets, and while there were male and female leaders of the country at different times, the priesthood was limited to men from the tribe of Levi. Not to all men of Israel, men from the tribe of Levi. God had given to those men the unique role of ministering in the temple. And when we move backward from Old Testament Israel to the garden, We see the same pattern. I want you to look back down again at Genesis chapter 2. I want you to notice in Genesis chapter 2. Adam is formed first, and then later Eve is formed. Not only that, but Adam was called in verse 15. to work and keep the garden. That's the same role that's later given to the priests at the temple. Adam as a man was called to work and keep the garden Keep the garden. It's also Adam who's given God's commandment. Look at verse 16. The Lord God said to Adam, He commanded the man, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. Right, so Adam is given the commandment, and then he becomes responsible for faithfully teaching Eve God's word. Right? So Adam and Eve were both fully made in the image of God. Completely equal in worth and dignity and honor. Both reflecting God's very own work and the work that they do in fulfilling the mission He had given them. Both. essential and indispensable in carrying out that mission. And yet, God reserved particular responsibility to Adam to lead and to teach. And in a way similar to Adam in the garden, pastors are given the unique responsibility of teaching and leading in the church. This includes the work of preaching and teaching. This includes the work of equipping the saints for the work of ministry, protecting the church from false teaching. praying for and visiting the sick and giving attention to specific theological or doctrinal matters as they arise. But when we also talk about uh our understanding of the role of pastor and elder in the church We should also recognize that there are faithful Christians who disagree with us on these matters, who don't understand the role of pastor or elder to be reserved for qualified men. So they would hold that structures of male authority or headship are products of the fall, not of creation, products of the fall. And of the judgment that God pronounces in Genesis 3:15. And so in their minds, when Jesus comes and redeems uh the world and redeems men and women, He He also does away with those structures. And so they would point to passages like Galatians 3 verse 28, which says that in the church there there's neither male nor female, or to Ephesians 5. 21, which calls all Christians to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. But I think ultimately their arguments don't account for all that Scripture teaches about men and women. For instance, when Paul says there's no longer male or female, he's clearly listing male and female as categories of identity alongside ethnicity and socioeconomic status. And what he's saying to the Galatians is Don't treat one another based on the categories of identity that the world uses. Treat one another as belonging to Christ. He's not talking about how the church should be ordered. And then in Ephesians, while Paul does call Christians to submit to one another, he goes on to specify the ways in which that should happen. And there he reaffirms the importance of Sacrificial male servant leadership. Right? Sacrificial male servant leadership that was present before the fall, but then was corrupted by the fall, and now is being restored by the Spirit in the church. Yet, this doesn't mean that women play a less important role in the mission of the church To the contrary, right? The body does not work without all of its members. Women are essential and indispensable to the mission of the church, right? The Great Commission does not go forward without women. So from women serving as deacons to women leading Bible studies with other women to women sharing the gospel with their neighbors to women discipling other women to women sharing the gospel at work. In the home, in their neighborhoods. Women are essential and indispensable in the work of the church, right? Men and women are co-workers in fulfilling, in the fulfilling of the Great Commission. Which is why you so often see in the gospel, gospels the names of women who follow Jesus alongside men. Women like Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Susanna, and Luke tells us many others. And how often are women held out in the Gospels as examples of faith? The woman with an issue of blood. The Syrophoenician woman who understood Jesus' teaching while his disciples did not. The Samaritan woman at the well The woman who anointed Jesus just before he went to the cross. The women who followed Jesus to his crucifixion after the male disciples had abandoned him. Time and time again, women are held out as exemplars of faith. And it's not just in the Gospels. Paul mentions the work of both men and women in his letters. He commends Phoebe for her work as a deaconess of the church in Rome. Most scholars believe that he entrusted Phoebe with delivering his letter to the Roman church, which would have been a very dangerous thing for her to do. He calls Prissa, a fellow worker in Christ Jesus, who risked her neck for him. He says that Mary has worked hard for the Roman church, and Junior was a fellow prisoner who was in Christ before he was. He calls Trifena and Triphosa workers in the Lord and says that Persis Worked hard in the Lord. It says that Rufus' mother was a mother to him. Time and time again, Paul points to the witness and testimony of women and their work in the Lord for the sake of the gospel to see Christ proclaimed in all the earth. Co-workers, both men and women, essential and indispensable to the work of the church. In fact, when you read Paul's letters, especially in Rome, when he names the guys, he's just like, hey, tell tell Troas, I said what's up. Tell Timothy, hey, uh tell my man Arkalaus, like, good job. But tell my sisters, working hard in the Lord to keep doing their work. He regularly points out that the women are working hard for the gospel. They are co-laborers in the gospel to see Christ proclaimed in all the earth. It's clear from the Gospels and from the rest of the New Testament that men and women are both essential and indispensable to the fulfillment of the Great Commission. Right, the village church and its statement on God's purposes for gender in the church said: the Bible depicts a vision of men and women laboring alongside one another in the world and the church for the sake of the kingdom of God. When we don't encourage both sexes to engage and use their gifts in ways consistent with Scripture and the good roles that God has created for men and women in the church. Qualified men to be pastors and elders, all men and women to be disciples, to be witnesses, to be priests. In ways consistent with Scripture, both genders suffer. The church suffers and the mission suffers. So Chevrolet Baptist Church And if you're here and you're a visitor, I want to welcome you to come to Chevrolet Baptist Church. I want to welcome you to think about what it would mean to become a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church. But as we're thinking about the men and women who make up the membership of this church, we want to be a church marked by celebrating the unique gifts. and strengths that men and women bring to bear in the fulfillment of the Great Commission. We want to love and encourage one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. who are laboring together as co-workers to see other men and women redeemed by the blood of Christ. And doing that in a way that is faithful to what God says about men and about women in his word. Not only are men and women co-workers in the gospel, but we are co-heirs with Christ. We share fully in the image of God, and we share fully in the inheritance that awaits all who have trusted in his name. And when Christ returns and brings us into his eternal kingdom, there we will see and celebrate just how essential and indispensable both brothers and sisters are in the work of the Great Commission. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we want to be a people who honor you. And who live as you've called us to live. And who order ourselves as you've called us to order ourselves We recognize the pressure that the culture puts on us when it comes to the distinctions and differences between men and women, but we hold fast to the fact that both men and women Have been created with different genders and with different roles. And they those roles give off and reflect your glory and your creative wisdom in heaven and on earth. And so help us to be a people who hold fast to those differences and yet also recognize the way that we share in carrying out the commission that you have given to your church. Help us to honor one another. Help us to celebrate one another. Help us to encourage one another as we labor together to see the whole earth filled with your glory. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.