Well, good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to see you all here. How's everyone doing? Excellent. Well, let me encourage you to go ahead and open in your Bibles to Mark chapter 6 Verses 1 to 6, if you are using one of the pew Bibles around you, you'll find our passage this morning on page 841. And if you don't own a Bible of your own, I want to offer this Bible to you as a gift. Please take it. And uh it's a gift from us to you. We we don't think there's anything more important for you. than to have your own copy of God's word. So please, uh, if you don't have one, take that for us. Before we dive into our text and before I read our passage for us, I just want to give us a little brief recap of what's going on. And show you how this morning's passage signals a bit of a change in Mark's gospel. So over the course of the first five chapters of Mark's Gospel, we've seen predominantly the The theme, the dominant note of the gospel has been on Jesus' amazing authority. His authority is a teacher that astonishes people, it blows them away. His authority to heal diseases, not just like common colds or fevers, those also, but also to raise paralyzed people, to heal paralyzed people, where they get up instantly and walk. We also see Jesus' ability to control all of nature as he stills a storm, a destructive storm, a hurricane-like storm, stops it in its tracks. Then he causes a man filled with thousands of demons to be healed immediately. The demons flee in his presence. Right. The dominant note in Mark's gospel has been on Jesus' authority, but lurking in the background We have seen from time to time in Mark's Gospel so far that Jesus has been opposed and rejected But mainly the opposition and rejection that Jesus has been experiencing has been has come at the hands of one group. Can anybody tell me what group that is? Pharisees, religious authorities, the scribes, yeah. But we did also see in chapter five, kind of the the the this this uh what what I would call the the trifecta of amazing miracles that just That stop all arguments that Jesus isn't the Son of God, that his calming of the storm, his healing of the Garrusene demoniac, and then his raising of the girl from the dead. But we saw in chapter 5 that even the people of Garassah. Happened after Jesus healed the demoniac. They begged for him to depart. Right? So this rejection that Jesus has experienced from the religious authorities of Israel is also shared by the Gentile nation. So now the religious authorities have rejected him, and the Gentiles have rejected him. And we come to a passage this morning that is Frankly, surprising, and we're going to find that his very own people reject him. Religious authorities have rejected him. Gentiles have rejected him. His very own people now reject him. It's as though Mark is saying to us, the picture is complete. The rejection is complete. And this passage that we come to this morning really signals a theme change where this theme of Jesus' rejection that has been lurking in the background is now on full display. He's about to teach his disciples how they will be rejected when they go out. Then in chapters 8 to 10, on three different occasions, Jesus speaks explicitly about how he will suffer and die on a cross. So this rejection that has been looming in the background, now as we move forward in Mark's gospel, it's as though the dark clouds of his ultimate rejection on the cross. are be are able to be seen in the distance as though we can see a coming storm. And so that's where this passage falls this morning, a real signal change, a theme change as the rejection of Jesus Christ. becomes more clear in Mark's gospel. And so I'm going to go ahead and read for us the passage now. This is God's word. Mark chapter 6 verses 1 to 6. He went away from there and came to his hometown. And his disciples followed him. And on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue. And many who heard him were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How were such mighty works done by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joseph and Judas and Simon, and are not his sisters here with us? And they took offense at him And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown, and among his relatives, and in his own household And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And he marveled. Because of their unbelief. And he went about among the villages teaching. Jesus marveled because of their unbelief. Really, that's the main point of our passage this morning, is that Jesus' rejection in his hometown Prepares his followers. The disciples followed him. They're witnessing all of this. Prepares his followers for the experience of rejection in their own lives. But I want to drill down a little bit further into that. We're not going to look at that as clearly. What I want us to see in this passage is that this rejection of Jesus, both then and now, today, is rooted in Unbelief. I mean, like the anchor of these verses is when Jesus marvels. He marvels. At their unbelief. And there are four things that this passage teaches us about unbelief that I want us to look at this morning. So the first thing that we see about unbelief that is taught in our passage is that unbelief Blinds us to the obvious. It blinds us to the obvious. Look with me in your Bible at verses 1 to 3. We see in verse 1, he went away from there He's referring to Capernaum, where he just healed the woman with the issue of blood and raised Jairus's daughter from the dead. He went away from there and he came to his hometown. That's the town of Capernaum. Nazareth. So Jesus was born in a little town called Bethlehem, but then was raised in the town of Nazareth. That's why he's known as Jesus of Nazareth. And Nazareth, just give us some context, help us understand. What kind of town was this? It was a hick town. Nazareth was a hick town, straight up. A town with no stoplights. It had a population of about 500 people. It was carved into the side of a hill. 500 people. And families then were quite large, you know, you had 10 plus kids or so, so you're talking about 50 families. We have about 25 in this congregation. So imagine double it. Everyone knows everyone, right? It's a small town. No secrets in this town. About 25 miles southwest of Capernaum, so about here to the distance from here to Annapolis. And we see also that his disciples followed him. Now you gotta think, really, his disciples followed him. This is a little detail that I think is important for us. You gotta think that they are expecting big things. Big things. Everywhere they go, people flock to Jesus. And so they're most likely thinking, we're going to his hometown. It is gonna be off the chain. People are gonna go crazy for him. It's his hometown. When he comes in Dame on, it's gonna be awesome. So Jesus arrives and he does what he does normally. We've seen him teach in the synagogues on the Sabbath regularly throughout Mark's gospel. And so he goes into the synagogue and he begins teaching Now we don't know exactly what Jesus taught that led to them being astonished. Some people think that the parallel account of this account here in Mark is in Luke chapter 4 Which when you turn to Luke chapter 4, you see exactly what Jesus taught. He opened up the scroll of Isaiah and taught from it. But I think there's good reason to believe that that is a different account. And if you want to Ask me why I believe that. You can come see me at the door afterwards. Frankly, if any of you have questions about anything, kids, adults, teenagers, anyone, if you have questions about anything I say during the sermon, please come find me at the door. I love to talk to you guys and answer questions if I can. But we don't know exactly what he's teaching here that leads to what he tells us next. But it does tell us that the people were astonished. Right? This has been the consistent response to his teaching throughout his ministry. But the word that Mark uses here takes it up a notch. So the normal word for amazement or astonishment is thalmazo. But now Mark kind of increases it. It's like he he uses a new word, ekpleso, which basically means to blow away. It struck him down. Like what is going on with this guy's teaching? But their questions show that this isn't a good astonishment. Right? They're not astonished in a good way. They're scandalized, annoyed, offended by him. They ask, where did this man get these things? Right, these things refer to his teaching, his ideas. That's why they ask, what is this wisdom given to him? And we got to be consistently reminded that nobody Nobody compared to Jesus Christ. Nobody was on his level. He lived in a and it's important for us to notice that because he lived in a culture that highly esteemed oratory skills and teaching skills. And there were tons of credentialed out teachers everywhere, but nobody astonished people like Jesus. And they don't just ask about his blow us blow us out of the water teaching, but also his mighty works. How are such mighty works done by his hands? How is he doing this? Right? These are these jaw-dropping, right? Viral video, break the internet miracles that we've been talking about already, the ones that he did and did often. But you see, the answer to these questions, what is this wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands? The answer to those questions is obvious, isn't it? The answer is he's not a man just like us. He's more than that. He's God in the flesh, but they can't see it because they are blinded by unbelief. Unbelief. Right, I imagine, because this is just how my mind works, I imagine Captain Obvious appearing in this scene after they ask these questions, right? They ask, where does this wisdom come from? How do such mighty works done by his hands? And then Captain Obvious pops up. The reason he teaches with such authority and is able to do things nobody else can is because he's the son of God. And Jesus turns. Yes, thank you, Captain Obvious. But what is supposed to be obvious about Jesus is not obvious to people who are blinded by unbelief. And that leads them to make a common mistake. What mistake is that? They mistake his identity. Notice what they say. Where did this man get these things? How are such mighty works done by his hands? To them he's only a man, a human teacher, one with power, but really no different from them, made of the same stuff. Right, this is common in our day, isn't it? People will say Jesus was a wise man. Jesus was a great moral teacher. But to think those things about Jesus simply fails to do justice to what he taught about himself and what the rest of the Bible teaches about him. Right? And to believe that Jesus was just a wise man and just a great moral teacher is honestly an impossible choice given what we know about Jesus. The Bible makes it impossible for us to say he was just a wise man or just a great moral teacher. So One author, C. S. Lewis, in his book, Mere Christianity, articulated the difficulty of saying how Jesus was just a wise man. He dealt with that problem in this way. Uh and I think he's done it and articulated it better than anyone else ever has. He said this. I am trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about him I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God. That is the one thing we must not say A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic on the level with the man who says he's a poached egg, or else he would be the devil of hell. You must make your choice. Either this man was and is a son of God, or else a madman, or something worse. You can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and kill him as a demon, or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God. Let us not come with any patronizing nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to. Now it seems to me obvious that he was neither a lunatic nor a fiend, and consequently, however strange or terrifying or unlikely it may seem, Have to accept the view that he was and is God. I wonder. There are any of you here today who do not believe that Jesus is God. What from believing that? What is it that rises up in you that just but but what else would Jesus have to do to prove to you that He is God Maybe you think, well, if he appeared to me and I saw him and he did miracles for me, well then I would believe. I just want to point out the difficulty of that. I don't think that's true, though I understand why you would respond that way. And the reason I say I don't think that's true is because look Jesus appeared to thousands and thousands of people and he did amazing miracles in their sight. They did not believe. Seeing isn't always believing. And it was their unbelief that blinded them to who he really was. But not only does unbelief blind us to the obvious, we also learn in this passage that unbelief Is especially common among those who are familiar with Jesus. Look at verse 3. Their annoyance and cynicism, I think, becomes more palpable. Is not this the carpenter? Is not this the carpenter? In Matthew's account, they he Matthew records him as saying, Is not this the carpenter's son? I don't think there's actually a conflict between that because fathers would often teach their sons their craft. So Joseph was a carpenter. And Jesus was a carpenter. And I just want to take a step back for a moment to appreciate the subtle beauty of Jesus' line of work. He was a carpenter. In those days, the word translated carpenter, technon, could have uh uh been applied to uh a bunch of different graphs. It could have been woodworker, a man who builds houses and things like that, or a metal worker, or a stone worker. He was a man who worked with his hands. He was a builder. It seems fitting, right, that the one through whom all things were made or built was himself a builder. his earthly ministry. But this is no compliment that they're paying him. This is no compliment that they're paying him. This is meant to be insulting. How can you, a common laborer, This man who hasn't been trained as a teacher, this carpenter, do these things. And then they continue. It's as though you can feel their annoyance and offense rising. Is not this the son of Mary? The brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon are not his sisters here with us? Didn't we grow up with this guy? They call him the son of Mary, which I think is most likely an insult in this context, because men and children were often referred to by their father's name. And it's possible that they're even getting at the rumors. all throughout Jesus' life about his illegitimate birth because his his mom was conceived by the Holy Spirit. Sure, we know what that means. He's the son of Mary, not Joseph. They're supposedly drawing illegitimacy to his birth, and they name his brothers and his sisters. This is what they're saying. He's just one of us, man. You're just one of us. Who do you think you are? We watched you grow up and now you're acting like you're something special. And then you see in verse 3, they took fence at him. Scandalized by him. They stumbled over him is a word that is used. And Jesus then explains their offense with what seems to be some sort of proverbial saying from their day. This saying about a prophet not being without honor except in his hometown and among his relatives and in his own family. You see the circles. Hometown, relatives, family. Not accepted in any of them. And what's he saying? Well, we have the same proverbial comment, right? Familiarity breeds contempt. What does this guy think he is? I think this passage at this point gives a word of warning to those of us who grew up in Christian homes. Uh, and those of you here, even the children and the youth who are presently growing up in Christian homes. So I'm talking to adults and kids. Uh so many people have grown up in the church and around Jesus, and they think that because they grew up going to church, or have some working knowledge of who Jesus is, that that means that they are actually following him. They are actually Christians. When in reality, their familiarity with Jesus has inoculated them to seeing who he really is. It's like Like this familiarity is like it's like a shot for smallpox to to prevent you from getting it. This familiarity can inoculate you to seeing who Jesus actually is. Listen, in the gospels There are, by and large, four responses to Jesus. Utter amazement and astonishment He does amazing things. How did the paralyzed man just get up? Whoa! Like what is he doing? Astonishment. Then there's terror. People are terrified of Jesus because of the things that he does. Then there's hatred People hate Jesus and want to kill him. And then sometimes, sometimes there is faith. Jesus doesn't produce a kind of, oh yeah, that's Jesus response in people. He's not the type of person that you just become familiar with. If you don't look at Jesus as someone who is all at once amazing and terrifying and worthy of your complete faith, I want to invite you to read the gospels with new eyes. Look at who he is. The man was amazing and terrifying and worthy to be hated and worthy of all complete faith and all of those things at once. He was not. Oh yeah, that's Jesus. I just need to go about my day. If that's you, seriously, I want I'll read the gospels with you Let's do a Bible study together. I need, I'm so thankful that I get to preach because if I didn't, I would think that about Jesus. I just get the joy and the pleasure and privilege of being confronted by him every day. He's amazing He is worthy of your complete trust. Oh, if you look at Jesus as just an add-on to your life, or you only think about Jesus on Sundays, or you come to church because you just think it's a good thing to do I think it may be because you're too familiar with Jesus to see who he actually is. Ask God, Lord, help me see Jesus. For who he really is. God says that when you pray anything in accordance with his will, he will hear your prayer and answer. Nothing could be more in accordance with the will of God than for you to see Jesus as he truly is. And for those of us who follow Jesus, we need to be challenged by this as well. We are on a pilgrim journey through a fallen world, and the world presses in on us and competes for our devotion at every turn. And it became it can be so easy to become so familiar with Jesus that we just start When with the world, believe in what the world believes, we need to be constantly reminded that unbelief easily grows in our own hearts. It's by grace that we're saved. It's not because we brought anything to the table. God has been kind to us and merciful, but we need to stir up that belief regularly. But for the youth and younger children, I want to speak to y'all real quick. I realize that some of you may be wrestling With this question of whether or not I believe. How can I know if I've believed or not? You know, you've been brought up in a Christian home, you've been learning about Jesus and you believe in him. You're struggling to know like do do I believe enough? Is my faith strong enough? Maybe you're wondering how faith how strong your faith has to be to actually be genuine. What if I've sinned? Does that mean I don't believe? Well, if that's you, I want to encourage you to consider the fact that if you are asking those questions, if you are wrestling with those things, it's actually probably a pretty good sign that you do believe. Why do I say that? Because people who don't believe in Jesus don't struggle with whether they believe in Jesus. They're not worried about what does this sin say about my relationship to God? It is that struggle that may be a sign of your Faith. But it's important to note that it's not the strength of our faith that saves us. It's the sufficiency of our Savior that saves us. Even if you only have a smoldering ember, you think of that charcoal when the fire is just about to burn out, you can know that God rejoices in that faith And will protect that faith. Why? Isaiah 42, predicting the Lord Jesus, said this about the Messiah, what would he be like? A bruised reed, he will not break, and a smoldering wick, little ember, he will not put out. He will not put out. God is gracious even when our faith is weak, because our faith is itself a gift from God. For by grace, you were saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God But we do need to remember that what this passage is teaching us is to be aware of the danger of being so familiar with Jesus that we fail to realize that we don't actually believe in him. Unbelief is especially common among those who are familiar with Jesus. And we also learn that unbelief in this passage. Cuts us off from the power of God. Look at verse 5. Because of their unbelief, Jesus could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. The result of their unbelief was that Jesus could do no mighty work there. Now we don't want to misunderstand what Mark is saying. He's not saying that Jesus is power to do miracles is controlled by our unbelief. It's not like we can just turn it off. It's not like our unbelief is kryptonite that zaps him of his strength. It's that the miracles. We've hit on this a number of times. It's that the miracles that Jesus did We're always meant to point to his identity as the Son of God, as the Messiah. Jesus is being rejected as the Messiah. Jesus is the carpenter. Who do you think you are? Because Jesus is being rejected as the Son of God. There is no more point for his miracles to be done. Right? Their rejection of who he is. renders it unnecessary for him to continue doing the works that he's been doing. And this is what's scary about this passage. We really need to pause and consider this We see that Jesus responds to their unbelief by leaving He leaves his hometown to go to other villages to preach. This isn't the first time we've seen this when the people of Garasa rejected him and begged him to depart. He didn't say to them, No, no, no, you don't really want that. No. He left. He left. The reason I bring this up is because I think it's a living picture of the reality that when some people reject God God goes on his way. In Romans 1, the Apostle Paul says that all people, all of us, suppress the truth in unrighteousness. They choose not to believe in God contrary to the abundance of evidence, and God responds by giving them over. Takes his hand of restraint off, lets him go. It's as though he's saying, if you want nothing to do with me, if you want to rule your own life. Go right ahead. Which is the worst possible judgment God could ever, ever level on a human being. Because when you reject God and God departs from you, you have been cut off from your only hope, which is his saving power. Listen, this is where we just need to be real about what the Bible teaches about Jesus. Bible teaches that Jesus came into the world because you and I have a serious Problem. All of us, according to Jesus, are enslaved to sin. Our hearts are infected We are turned inward to the love of self rather than upward to the love of God. And he came to rescue us not only from slavery to sin, but also from God's judgment. It's really common in our culture to not want to talk about God's judgment. God's judgment is too harsh. God's not going to judge sin. He's not going to judge people for sin. God is. Love and yes, God is love, but God is also going to bring judgment because God loves his glory more than anything else He's not going to take be of being offended and rebelled against by human beings. And listen, I think it's really really easy for us to deal with this question about God judging sin. Right? Do you really think that God shouldn't judge sin? Let me ask you a different question. Let's just take what's going on in our world today. Do you believe that God shouldn't judge the priests who have abused children for decades and intentionally sought to cover it up? Do you think he shouldn't judge them? Is that what we're saying? Do you think God shouldn't judge the man in Colorado who killed his two daughters and his wife because they had financial problems? This is what we're talking about when we talk about sin. God is a just judge. If we say he he he shouldn't judge sin, then we're saying he shouldn't judge those people. But can can that actually be what we're gonna say? All of us, I think when we see those examples and we hear those examples, all of us want God to punish sin. Just that none of us want God to punish our sin. We think those crimes are heinous. We haven't done anything to deserve judgment like those people, but that's simply not the case It's not the case. It's not what God says. He says, all have sinned and fallen short of the judgment of God. We all lie. We all cheat. We all steal. We all slander others. We are all what Paul says in Romans, foolish. Faithless, heartless, and ruthless. And yet, and yet Even though we've all sinned and are worthy of his judgment, God has graciously, mercifully, and freely offered salvation and forgiveness to you through his son Jesus. All we have to do is repent. That's what Charles Spurgeon defined as. Seeing sin for the evil that it is, mourning that you've committed it, and resolving to forsake it by God's grace. You cast yourself fully on God's mercy. He will look at your whole life and all of the sins that you've done and he will say, freedom. No more guilt. Innocent. My son has paid it all. Think about the free nature of that pardon for sin and the kindness and love of God that is extended to you in that offer. So it makes sense to us that if we reject and offer that free and that amazing, what other hope is there for us? There is no other hope. Not only that, it cuts us off from the saving power of God. And then we also learn finally that unbelief. Unbelief amazes God. It amazes God. Look at verse 6. I mentioned this verse at the beginning. And he that is Jesus. Marvel. Marvel. Because of their unbelief. There are only two accounts from Jesus' life that we have where Jesus responds with astonishment or marveling. Two accounts from his whole life. The only two times that we know of that Jesus ever responded to something by marveling. The first one is when the Roman centurion, who knows that Jesus can heal with the word, so tells Jesus, you don't even need to come to my house, just say the word, she'll be healed. Jesus marvels because of his faith. And then he's marveling at the unbelief of his own hometown and family. It's remarkable, isn't it? It's something for us to consider. Unbelief amazes God. It amazes God But why? Why does it amazing? Well, as I've considered the question, that question this past week, I keep returning to the same answer. I think this is why it amazes him. Unbelief amazes God because of how clearly he's made his existence. Nineteen. The heavens. Declare the glory of God. Sky above. Proclaims is handiwork. Declare, proclaim. Not a whisper. Not a whisper. Shouting. When you look at the sky above, see billions of stars. See the beauty of the setting sun. You ever seen those pictures where it's cutting through the mist, rays coming down, shedding light on landscape? It's just No artist on earth can do this. Declare. God is saying, when you look at the heavens, I'm shouting at you. Look at my wisdom. Look at my power. Just the heavens alone, the incomprehensible complexity of the universe and all that is in it is incontrovertible proof to us. of the existence of God. And not only that, all of creation, all of these things, the the laws of physics, the the ridiculous number of laws that exist in the physical realm hang on a razor's edge if one of them, one of them changes like a hair's breadth Everything collapses. He's put it all together with wisdom unfathomable. Unfathomable. And most of us are blind to it, right? I'm blind to it every day. Is pray like Lord please help me to see your power even in creation. Paul says this in Romans, for what can be known about God is plain to them. We got shown it to good because God has shown it to them for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly, clearly perceived Ever since the creation of the world. So they are without excuse. We have no excuse for unbelief. I think that's why unbelief amazes God. Creation alone leaves us without excuse. So how much more are we without excuse When God's invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, were made visible in Jesus Christ. Paul wrote in Colossians, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth. For in him the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. You kind of look back at their questions, you gotta chuckle a little bit. Where was this wisdom from? Where does he get this wisdom? He is the wisdom and power of God. He doesn't receive it from anyone else. He is the wisdom and power of God. God was pleased to dwell in him, his mercy. His compassion, justice, his judgment, his love. And though all the fullness of God dwelled in him and people saw power and his wisdom. They experienced it. They rejected him. Remarkable, isn't it? Remarkable. Danger here for the Christian. What Klon talked about when he was leading the service. It's so easy for us to look at them and think These people. They don't get it. What is wrong with them? The reality is though, folks, all of us were born in unbelief. All of us had hearts that were opposed to God and would reject him, but God, in his great mercy, chose to show grace to you and gave you faith. And gave you belief. The rejection he experienced here in his own hometown, among his relatives, and by his own family is meant to point us to this great rejection that's going to come. This ultimate rejection that all of us share in, which is his death on the cross. All of us share in his death. For in his body he bore our sins on the tree. In his body, our sins. And on the cross, as he paid the penalty for our sins, he suffered a deeper and more painful rejection than he even suffered here in Nazareth with his biological family because on the cross, what happens? What does Jesus say to his own father in heaven? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The one who did nothing to deserve being rejected by his heavenly father was rejected so that you and I could become family members of God's. You are a son and a daughter of God only because he was rejected. Though you and I deserve to be rejected by God. He has shown us Mercy, yet death could not hold him because he was the sinless son of God and had committed no transgressions in his own life. God raised him from the dead, showing that he accepted his sacrifice for sins. And after his resurrection, he was seen by hundreds of people who no longer questioned where his mighty power came from. They simply worshiped him for who he was. The Son of God. It's his death on the cross and his resurrection that shows us most clearly that Jesus is God and is worthy of all worship. And if you're worried today that a single moment of unbelief will cut you off from God's saving power, let me just direct your attention back to his brothers. Why do I say that? Well, because John tells us in John 7 that Jesus' brothers did not believe in him. They were filled with unbelief. Did that cut them off forever from the saving power of God? No. James himself, after the resurrection, would repent and believe, hey, you are just my brother. You come from somewhere else, man. I worship you and adore you now. Judas. His name is actually shortened after the hanging of the real Judas because people who were named Judas cut off the ending of their name and then went on by the name Jude. Jude, his brother, would go on to write the letter of Jude in the New Testament, telling people that this one is the one to whom all glory and honor and power is due And he used to look to him with unbelieving eyes. God is patient. God is merciful God is kind. Even if you struggle with unbelief today, if you have breath left in your lungs, then there is time for God to show you mercy. So turn to Him Turn to him. The reality is that even those of us who follow Jesus were no different from his brothers and his sisters. All of us were born in unbelief. All of us deserve the rejection that Jesus took in our place, but Jesus willingly, willingly went to the cross and suffered the rejection that he did not deserve. so that you and I could be brought into God's family. What a savior. What a savior. The man of sorrows was rejected by his own. So that we can know salvation and belief. Heavenly Father, we come before you and we confess. We believe. Help our unbelief, oh God. We praise you that you look down upon our fallen hearts and you're merciful and kind to us. And even the belief that is in us is a gift of yours. Thank you, Father. Thank you, Jesus, for becoming the man of sorrows in our place so that we can know salvation and reconciliation with God. And we do pray, Father. If there are any here today who are continuing in unbelief, please open their eyes, we pray. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.