Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you all this morning. Before we open up God's word, I want to pray again briefly one more time for God to give us wisdom and insight. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is our delight But we are a people who are in desperate need of your spirit to be at work in us, to understand your word, and to behold your son in all of his glory. But we know that it's your desire to cause your Son to be exalted over all the earth and to glorify him. And so we pray, Lord, in accordance with your will, that you would send your Spirit to us. And you would help us to behold him in his glory and to worship him as the Savior of all mankind. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This might be a weird way to start a sermon, but I I wanted to warn all of us here today that we are all in danger this morning All of us sitting in this room right this very minute are in danger. There is a danger lurking in many of our lives, a danger that really threatens to overtake us and bring our lives to ruin. This danger that is threatening us today can't really be seen, but we shouldn't be fooled. The fact that it's invisible makes it no less deadly. And the reality is that this danger manifests itself in our lives in different ways, really making it difficult to root out in our lives. In some of our lives it appears as boredom with the things of Christianity, right? Some of us have grown weary of the seemingly repetitive nature of the Christian life. We're tired of going to church again. We're tired of praying again. We're tired of hearing sermons. Preached again. Some of us want something new, something fresh, something that will excite us and spark interest in us In others of us, this danger takes a really different form, kind of the opposite of that last danger. Some of us like a Christianity that's a bit more austere. A bit more serious because we are serious Christians. And so what we've done is gone about creating a personal holiness code outside of the gospel. a man-made standard by which we will therefore make ourselves acceptable to God if we if we follow our own rules that we've created. And then still others of us, after believing the gospel sincerely, have begun to put our hope in our work or our family, or our health, or our wealth. If any of these describe you this morning, then you are in danger. What is this danger? Oh, it's this. That many of us, after having once grasped. This glorious salvation of ours have forgotten just how amazing that salvation is, and we've got we've now turned to begin looking for hope. and fulfillment in things that will never ever deliver. And the question for us this morning Is does the Bible have anything to say to us about this danger? Does it have any instruction for us? Does it have any way for to guide us on a better path so that we might avoid this danger that's lurking in all of our lives? And what we see in our passage this morning is that the Bible not only provides an instruction, but it does in fact provide an antidote to this danger. So if if you want to protect yourself from walking away from the faith To walking away, to look for things, to find fulfillment and hope in things that won't deliver. If you want to protect yourself from that, I want to invite you to open up to our passage this morning, which is in 1 Timothy chapter 1. We're looking at verses 12 to 17. I don't know what page that's on in the Bible that we've provided. Does anyone open to that page 991. If you're using one of the Bibles we provided, you'll find our passage on page 991. That's 1 Timothy chapter 1 verses 12 to 17. And as you're turning to our passage this morning, I want to provide a bit of background on our text this morning. The letter of 1 Timothy was written by the Apostle Paul to his disciple, who was named Timothy. Timothy was a pastor of a church in the city of Ephesus, which still exists today on the western coast of Turkey. And Timothy, much like you and I, was in danger. Why was he in danger? Well, because Ephesus was a lot like the United States today. Ephesus was a pluralistic society. That means there were lots of accepted beliefs about who God was, whether there was a God, how you would go about living the good life, what it meant to To be fulfilled and what philosophies provided the best means to live a meaningful life. And there was no shortage of ideas of what constituted the good life. And these philosophical ideas threatened to draw Christians like Timothy, and like you and me, away from the truth. And if we were going to take time to actually look through the letter of 1 Timothy, we would find that that actually happened to some of the people that Timothy ministered with. I think it's Hymenaeus and Alexander. Two Greek men that he ministered with who started off well as Christians, by the end of 1 Timothy we find out that they have shipwrecked their faith Because they've gone about seeking these other philosophies and believing that they were more true than Christianity. So, what is Paul going to say to Timothy to help protect him against wandering away from the faith? And what is Paul going to say to us this morning that will serve as an antidote to protect us from looking for hope and things that we'll not fulfill? Well, let's look at 1 Timothy 1, verses 12 to 17. I'm going to go ahead and read the verses for us. This is God's word. I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. To the king of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. That's Paul's word to Timothy in chapter one of his letter as he starts off warning Timothy, protecting Timothy, showing him how he might be protected from this danger. What Paul tells us. This morning, since we are in danger of walking away from the faith, is that we must remember Our glorious salvation. If you're taking notes this morning, I hope you are, it's a way to reflect on uh what you've heard in God's Word this coming week. If you want one thing to remember this morning, remember your glorious salvation. And then tucked inside of that, we're going to have two points. First, we want to remember Jesus' amazing mercy and grace. And second, we want to remember Jesus' perfect patience What's going to protect you from walking away from the faith? Well, first, it's remembering Jesus' amazing mercy and grace. Look at verses 12 to 14. In verse 12, Paul begins by recalling his own salvation and his call to ministry. And he says there he thanks Jesus for judging him faithful and appointing him as an apostle. Now, real quick, when Paul says that he was judged faithful, I think we might be tempted to think that Jesus looked down and saw something in Paul's life that made him worthy of being saved and worthy worthy of being called as an apostle. But that's not what Paul is saying at all. He's actually about to give a bunch of reasons why he was unworthy. What he's saying is the reason he was appointed or seen as faithful or judged to be faithful. was because of what Jesus chose him to do. Jesus chose him and made him an apostle, and that's what's going to make him faithful. You see him talk about this in his letters to the Corinthian church. It's not I, it's I who labor, but it's it's him who's working through me Paul knows most of all that it's God's Spirit that is empowering him and making him faithful to live as an apostle. So he's just saying that he's thankful that Jesus would grant him the privilege of calling him into ministry. And the only thing that makes him worthy is the fact that Jesus called him. And it's his undeserving receipt of Jesus' mercy that Paul really hones in on in this section. Mercy. What is mercy? Mercy refers to God's kindness and compassion to do for someone what they neither deserve nor are capable of doing themselves. And we at Paul, as we see here. was completely undeserving of the mercy that Christ showed him. And he underscores this in verse 13. Look down at verse 13 with me He describes the type of person he used to be. And look what he says about himself. He says, I was a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent opponent. So if you aren't familiar with the Bible, before Paul was famous for being the Apostle Paul, he was famous for a very different reason He was a blasphemer. He went about doing everything he could to trash the name of Jesus Christ. He was a persecutor. He traveled far and wide from city to city for the sole purpose of arresting, imprisoning, and beating Christians. His opposition, if you're not really familiar with the Apostle Paul, can really be crystallized. The depth of his opposition can really be crystallized in Acts chapter 7, where you see one of the first disciples of Jesus, Stephen, being stoned to death. for preaching the gospel, and there's this ominous note at the very end of that account where the men who were uh were stoning Stephen, they were throwing their robes on the ground so that they had greater freedom with their arms to throw stones. And they were throwing the robes at the foot of a man named who? Kids? Saul. Saul is who? Paul. This Paul, who wrote this letter, who's praising Jesus for his mercy, hated Christians. He went about Stone having Christians stoned, imprisoning them, beating them. He is the least of all deserving of mercy. He hated Jesus Christ. Yet to this man, Jesus Christ showed mercy, undeserving Mercy. But not only did he receive undeserved mercy, he also received overflowing grace. Look at verse 13, after he describes his Former opposition of Jesus, he says, but I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly, and the grace of our Lord overflowed from me. Christ's saving work as a gift to Paul overflowed for him. I love that image. Have you ever like seen on YouTube or on the news where like a flash flood rips through a town, Ellicate City. Does anyone here live near Ellicate City, Maryland? Anyone nobody at all? Have you ever seen Ellicate City flood like in the blink of an eye? It's on the news all the time. Whenever there's a massive rainstorm, for whatever reason, the way the city's built, like Rainwaters just pile up and flood through the streets. That's the type of flooding grace that Jesus has poured out on Paul and has poured out on all who follow him. It's a beautiful image. Grace superabounded to Paul. It was not in short supply. Right, so I don't know how many of you have ever experienced this. Uh you're getting ready for bed. So kids, what does that mean? What do you do before you get ready for bed? What are the things that you tend to do before you get ready for bed? If somebody just said it. Brush teeth, coal. Yeah, you brush your teeth, right? That's as you grow into an adult, Lord willing, you will continue that habit. You brush your teeth, right? And as you get ready to brush your teeth, what do you do? You're in the bathroom You're looking for the tube of toothpaste and then you finally find the tube of toothpaste and when you grab it you realize ah it's Empty. It's empty. So you have a decision to make at this point. You can either hold the empty tube of toothpaste in your hand and continue to lament that it's empty. Or you can go out into the hallway and look through your closet, wherever the closet is kept, where you might have extra tubes of toothpaste, and you dig through there, and then you finally find one. So you have that choice, right? Well what do most of us do? Most of us do what most sane people do. Instead of going to the closet to find a new tube of toothpaste, what do we do? We start twisting and turning and curling the tube of toothpaste. Just so we can get one last drop of toothpaste out and you're just gonna scrape it on top of the brush and there's barely enough there to brush your teeth, right? Why am I why am I sharing this with you? Because this is my experience when I when I try to get toothpaste on a toothbrush and it's empty. Oh, I'm sharing this illustration with you because you realize, don't you That is not what it's like getting mercy and grace from the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't come to Jesus and say to him, Lord Jesus, just want to just squeeze you and turn you. Would you just give me One more drop of mercy. Would you give me one more drop of grace? He says to you, Saint, my grace and mercy to you overflow. They overflow to you. You don't have to come to me begging for mercy and grace. It is there all the time, like rushing rivers. It is like a flash flood that's gonna come through your city. You ask me for grace, and I'm gonna let it overflow to you. That is such an encouragement to us who are in such need of grace and mercy so often. My Christian brothers and sisters, I want you to think about this. Think about who you were before the Lord saved you. Do you remember who you were before the Lord saved you? I want to encourage you to take some time today to reflect on who you were before the Lord showed you undeserved mercy. and overflowing grace. And the reason I want to encourage you to do that is so that you might bring your former way of living Into the light of Jesus' amazing mercy and grace, so that you might see your former way of living as it really is. Paul is a great example of that even in our passage. Recognize this, that prior to being shown mercy and grace from Jesus. Prior to being saved by Jesus and appointed to become an apostle, Paul would have looked at his former actions of blasphemy, persecution, and opposing Christians. He would have looked at those as good things. He thought he was doing right by the Jewish law. He thought he was doing what he should be doing. He's chasing down people who are blaspheming, blaspheming the name of God by saying that this Jesus is Lord. He's persecuting them and carrying out the punishment that is deserving of them. But after receiving grace and mercy from Jesus, he now sees his former actions and his former way of life. in the light of that mercy and grace and sees his actions as they really were. He was a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent opponent. Who were you before the Lord saved you? Who were you before the Lord saved you? In the light of Jesus' mercy to you, the more clearly you'll see the former sins that you committed as they really are. And the reason is because the more we mature as Christians. the more we'll come to see how undeserving of God's mercy and grace we actually are. I I remember this interview with John Piper where somebody asked him like Hey John uh John Piper, if you're not familiar with him, he's a he's a pastor. I think he's in his 70s, and they asked him a question like John, how are you doing with sanctification? Now you're in your 70s now You must be nearing Christian perfection, right? That's kind of the implication of the question. And he said just very clearly, look I thought when I was 30 years old that by the time I turned 70, I would be way further along than I am now. But I am struggling as greatly as ever. Now here's the thing. I think John Piper, between age 30 and age 70, had grown a ton as a Christian. But what is he realizing? The more mature he gets, the more he recognizes how undeserving of God's mercy and grace he is. And friends, that is the case for all of us. As we grow as Christians, we should grow in grace by recognizing the grace that we've received is truly undeserved. The more you grow in that, I think the more that you're actually maturing as a Christian. Now, I recognize that not all of us have lived a life like Paul's before we became a Christian. So the change in your life may not have been as drastic. Jay was talking about that even in his prayer. Does this mean that you didn't need as much mercy and grace as Paul? No, not at all. God's grace and mercy were what kept you from living a life like Paul's Because it's grace that creates what is good in our life, and it's our sin that creates what is evil in our life. It's God's grace and mercy to you before you became a Christian that kept you from committing the litany of sins that you could have otherwise committed. His grace and mercy are always present in those situations. And kids, for y'all, this is one of the things I want to say to y'all. This is one of the ways that we pray for you as a church. That God would show y'all grace and mercy so that you wouldn't experience the pain of living a life of sin. That you wouldn't experience the scars that come from living a life of sin. Your pastor has lots of scars spiritually because of the choices I made and the life that I lived. And we pray for y'all that you guys would receive and rejoice in the grace and mercy that Jesus shows to all so that you might not turn and live a life like Paul's and like so many others. And one of the ways that you can praise God for His grace and mercy to you is by giving you parents who teach you the truth about Jesus. They may teach it imperfectly with their words, and they may even teach it imperfectly by their example, but we all teach it imperfectly in our lives. None of us are perfect, but you can praise God for his grace and mercy to you, forgiving you parents. who love the Lord and are teaching you to do the same. That's a kindness of God to y'all. And I want you guys to rejoice in that Really, it's in the midst of reflecting upon God's power to fundamentally change you as a person that you'll understand, that you'll grow in understanding the undeserved mercy and overflowing grace of God through Christ to you is the only thing that could have taken your heart of stone and turned it into a heart of flesh. So all of us today have great reason to thank God for his undeserved mercy and overflowing grace. And we literally should thank him, right? Look at verse 12. That's what Paul does. He begins this section. I thank him. Literally he says, thankfulness I have. Paul is thankful to Jesus because the mercy and grace he was shown was life-changing. Notice again in verse 13, he says, formerly I was a blasphemer, a persecutor, an insolent opponent. Formally, as in I used to be these things, but I'm not anymore because Jesus' grace and mercy that overflowed to me changed fundamentally changed who I am and now all I want to do is give thanks to Jesus for what he's done for me and go around teaching people the great gospel of God's overflowing grace and undeserved mercy. Friends Thankfulness is the natural response to the life-changing mercy and grace that we have received So a question for you is, would you characterize your responses to God over the last days and weeks as being marked by thankfulness? As being marked by thankfulness. How often do you convey gratitude to God for what He's done for you? Right? I asked that question because the frequency and degree of our expressions of thanks to God will tell us how much we understand the mercy and grace that we've received. Right, many years ago, this as the story is told, there was a devout God-fearing king, and this devout God-fearing king was disturbed by the ingratitude of the members of his royal court. And so what he did was he went about and he prepared a royal banquet, but he set up to have a beggar Come into the banquet after the serve had the the food had been served. So this beggar marches into this royal banquet where the king and his court are all seated The beggar sits down at the table, he stuffs his face with food, and then he gets up and he walks out without saying a word. And the members of the royal court are furious. How on earth could this beggar come in here and eat the food of the king and they get up and walk away without saying a word of thanks? And the king turned and said to them, Friends, don't you realize that that beggar has only done once what you do three times a day? You come into my royal court and you eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and you never thank me at all. Friends, that's a picture of us. We feast daily at the table of the Lord's mercy and grace. How often are we giving thanks to God for his great kindness to us in the Lord Jesus Christ? Let us be a people who are marked by gratitude. I want you also to notice in the passage how Paul attributes everything that happened to him to Jesus. It's Jesus who strengthened him. It's Jesus who appointed him. It's Jesus who showed him mercy. It's Jesus who caused his grace to overflow. The change of heart that Paul experienced was an act of God. Right? God is the one who miraculously changes hearts. And when you come to understand that the only thing that could have changed your heart was an act of God, then you can have confidence that there is nobody on earth. Who is too hardened to receive the mercy and grace of Christ because God is greater than the hearts of mankind. I I I I I think about this in my own life. I remember the I'll never forget the night that the Lord saved me. Not just because I remember the the moment that it happened and and all the changes that took place around it, but because of what happened immediately after that. Now I was so excited about this evident change in my life that I wanted to share with somebody what had happened. And the only person I could really think of to tell was my Uncle Bill and my very large extended family. My Uncle Bill was uh really the only Christian I could think of who who was a devoted follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. If some of you were here on my installation uh service uh back last year in March or May Bill and his family surprised us by driving down from New Hampshire for that. So some of you may have met Bill. But I I called Bill because I wanted to share with him What had happened in my life, and as I shared with him what happened, I will never forget his response to me. He said, John, I have been praying for our family for 20 years Praying that the Lord would save somewhat. Twenty years I've been praying. And then this is what he said to me. He said You are the last person we thought would be saved. Like what? Thanks for the encouragement, Uncle Bill. But the reality is I was I was a person who did everything in life to serve myself. I cared not about God. I cared not about other people. I did everything and everything to serve myself. I was selfish to the nth degree, but I was. It I was impossible for me to stop the wrecking ball of God's mercy and grace to me that overflowed to me in the Lord Jesus Christ when that wrecking ball came in and shattered my heart of stone and put into me. a heart of flesh. Praise be to God for his undeserved mercy and his overflowing grace that all of us who have professed Christ have received Friend, if you want to be protected from walking away from the faith, remember God's undeserved grace his undeserved mercy. Which brings me to my second and shorter point. Remember Jesus' perfect patience. Since we're in danger of wandering away, we should remember Jesus' perfect patience. Look at verse 17. Paul says, but I received mercy for this reason That in me as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience So Jesus' display of amazing mercy to Paul had a purpose. That purpose was to demonstrate Jesus' perfect Patience, the perfection of his patience refers to the fullness of the extent to which he was patient with Paul. Jesus was immensely patient with Paul. He was Forbearing. He was long-suffering, right? Even though Paul was a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent opponent, Jesus was perfectly patient with him. You just imagine Jesus ascends into heaven, sits on the throne, and then this man, this creature on earth named Saul, goes around attacking Jesus' church, the king of all the earth. And as he's going around attacking the church, Jesus says, you're persecuting me. But Jesus sits on the throne, undisturbed Long-suffering, forbearing with a man who would express just hateful opposition to him. And Jesus is making him an example. Look again at verse 16. Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. What's Jesus doing with Paul? He's making Paul a prototype, a pattern. Jesus' patience towards Paul, in spite of all of Paul's sin, is meant to prove to you That Jesus is perfectly patient. And considering how Paul's salvation is a demonstration of this perfect patience reminds me of the story of a man named John Selwyn. Selwyn was an Anglican priest who traveled to the islands of Melanesia in the South Pacific as a missionary in 1873. And during his time there, Selwyn would share the gospel. He would go into various towns sharing the gospel. And in one such town, he was regularly harassed by a young boy. From that town where he was sharing the gospel. And one particular day the harassment was so bad that someone actually said something to him and sharply rebuked the young boy for harassing him And it caused the boy to fly into a rage, and the boy balled up his fist and started hitting John Selwyn. This is a boy Punching a grown man who was fully capable of defending himself, but Selwyn allowed him to. Rather than retaliating, Selwyn then turned quietly and walked away And during his time in Melanesia, the boys' opposition continued to worsen until the point that Selwyn just became physically ill just due to some other illness and had to leave the island and travel back to England. But many years later, on that same island, another missionary encountered a man. This man was nearing the end of his life and had come to faith in Jesus, and he desired to be baptized. And it was common practice on this particular island for those who converted to Christianity to take a new name. And when this man was asked what name he would like to take at his baptism. He said to the missionary, call me John Selwyn, because John Selwyn taught me what Christ was like on that day when I struck him. So that boy grew up to be a man. Remember the example of the man who was preaching the gospel to him, who allowed this little boy to punch him and beat on him, yet did not retaliate. And his example to the boy led the boy later in life to profess faith in Christ and then to desire to take on that man's very name because such was his example to him. Oh, friends, that is the type of patience that Jesus shows to all of us even today, because our sins against Jesus are offenses on him. They are attacks on his holiness, yet he forbears. with us. He is long-suffering towards us. He is perfectly patient with us even today. Now, friends, if you're here and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Christ, I am very thankful that you would take the time on this Sunday morning to be with us. I just want to encourage you to consider how John Selwyn's patience with that boy is an illustration of Jesus' patience towards you today. Right, though you have sinned against God. The Bible says all of us have sinned, so as Christians, we're not here thinking that we're not sinners. We desperately are. I mean, it happens in our lives every day, and we need God's grace and mercy. But for you, if you don't know Jesus and don't follow him, you have sinned against him. You have attacked the Lord Jesus Christ, and Jesus says that he is going to carry out judgment on all the earth at a time that he is appointed. None of us know that time, but there is a time coming when Jesus comes to earth, life ends, and he judges all. And if we have sinned against him, which all of us have, we will be considered and ruled guilty before him and cast into eternal judgment. That is a hard thing for us to understand, but Jesus very clearly teaches it. But he says to you today that what you can do to avoid that punishment and that coming judgment is to turn to him in repentance. Repentance is a word that's kind of lobbed around. Seems like it's lobbed around by fundamentalist Christians, but it's a thoroughly biblical word and it just means turn from sin. So Jesus would encourage you today to turn from your way of living, like Paul turned from his way of persecuting the church to following Jesus. Turn from sin and trust in Jesus. For the forgiveness of sins. And if you do that, Jesus says very clearly, He will allow His overflowing grace and that undeserved mercy to be poured out on you today. So good is our God. I want to encourage you to turn to Jesus today. And I want to encourage my brothers and sisters in Christ to see that the perfect patience that Jesus had towards Paul is the same perfect patience that he has towards you today. His perfect patience towards you was not a one-time thing that he showed you when he saved you, but it's something that he pours out to us and shows us each and every day. Right? I want you to notice this. Notice how Paul describes himself in this passage. Look with me at verse 15. He says, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I Am the foremost. I am present tense. Still. Paul doesn't say, hey, after he showed me amazing mercy and grace, I became the super holy apostle Paul, and now I don't sin anymore. No, Paul still understands himself To be in need of that perfect patience. I am the foremost. He says, I am, because he realized how much he still needs God's perfect patience. And Paul knows that he still has it. Through Paul, Jesus is demonstrating to you today that there is no sin in your life so great that he would reject you. There is no sin in your life that is too shameful or too gross for him. He will not abandon you because you are a sinner. Christ came to save sinners. If you have repented and trusted in Christ, his patience with you as you run this race is perfect. It's perfect, brothers and sisters. Something that should encourage us and cause us to be cheerful today, no matter what we are facing in this life, Jesus' patience towards you and your sin is perfect. And because of Jesus' perfect patience towards us, we should want nothing more than to be patient towards others Right? That's the way that this comes down from heaven, this patience that he shows us comes down to us and then works itself out in our lives. We are to be patient towards others. And over the last few months, honestly, I've been so saddened with how easily I lose my patience with those who are closest to me. It seems like it's happening over and over, whether it's my wife. Or my boys or friends, I so easily lose my patience over the most trivial of things. Whether it's unwanted intrusions on my time or an ill-timed comment or just some mistake that they made. And the reason I'm so sad is because when I compare the things that I've done to the Lord Jesus Christ. that he shows me perfect patience with to the things that I lose my patience over. I just show myself how little I actually grasp the patience that has been shown to me I wonder what you think about the way that you lose patience in your life. And what does that say about how you understand Jesus' patience towards you? I mean, I trust it's somewhat similar to me, like this is a battle that we're we're all facing. But we need to remember the perfect patience that Jesus has shown us And let that change our hearts. Let it be our prayer that it changes our hearts in the way that we interact with others. We should be patient with others. So how are you doing? Bearing with others. Would others describe you as long-suffering? The questions that you can ask yourself. And if you're seeing weakness in that area, pray to God that He will help you with it. God says that if we pray anything in accordance with His will, we have what we ask for. God says in his word that his will is our sanctification. Part of our sanctification is that we grow in the fruit of the Spirit. One of the fruits of the Spirit is Patience. So if we pray for patience, we know that we will have it. Not that it might happen immediately in the moment when you need it, but that over time God will continue to grow you and show you how great his mercy is towards you and how great his strength and power are towards you by making you a more patient person. And so we should be praying for those things. But we should also respond to this amazing patience with praise, right? How else should we respond than with praise? And that's what Paul does. Jesus' perfect patience leads Paul to spontaneous praise. Look at verse 17. To the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God. be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Right? I I think as we read this we can we can kind of fall into a pattern of just reading in the same voice. Let's imagine that we're just reading this. Verse sixteen. You know, Paul has already said everything about Jesus coming to save sinners, his amazing mercy and grace. And then Paul just continues, But I receive mercy for this reason that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. To the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. I don't think that's how we should read that verse, right? I think what Paul is doing is he's seeing everything that he has just said about the amazing mercy and undeserved grace and how it overflows to him and how he he how Christ comes to save sinners and how he shows perfect patience and all of that just makes him say to the king of the ages Immortal, invisible, the only God. He erupts in praise. And you see this throughout Paul's letters, right? For from him and through him and to him are all things. Well, Paul's wise, like he's he's filled with biblical knowledge so he can say these things, but I don't think he's sitting down and planning out verse 17. I think he just kind of erupts out of him this praise So how how much do you see this this type of praise for the grace and mercy that you've been shown just kind of erupting in your heart? Think of Psalm 145. Great is the Lord, and great that he be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. And he talks about how God's greatness wells up in him and shoots out like a geyser. Right? He's just thinking about how wonderful God is and how great his works towards them are, and it causes them to erupt in praise. We should be praising God for his grace and mercy to us. And we see that Paul praises the king of the ages. God is a king whose reign never ends. He is the supreme and benevolent ruler of all. And he's immortal God never dies. He has life in himself. And since God never dies, that means his grace, his mercy, and his patience are always available to you. And to my non-Christian friends who are here, I just want to point out one other thing to you. Though God is immortal, you and I are not. And the Bible says that we have this life only to turn from sin and trust in Christ. If we pass into the next life without having repented of our sins and trusted in Christ, we will face the judgment that we deserve for our sins. So my encouragement today is to turn To the mercy and grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and to repent of sin. And I want you to be assured of this, that there is nobody on earth whose sin is so great that they can't be saved That's what Paul is teaching us. We're supposed to look at the Apostle Paul and say, My Lord, if God can save that guy, he can save anybody. And the reality is, you're sitting in a room of people that show that God can save anybody, right? But not only is God immortal, He's the invisible and only God, deserving of glory and honor forever and ever. And I want us to see here how notice tucked inside of Paul's praise is a warning. and an instruction to Timothy and to us. What is that warning? To all who are in danger of walking away from the faith? Our God, who shows undeserved mercy, overflowing grace, and perfect patience, is The only God. There is no one else who can provide what we most desperately need. And there is no one else who could accomplish what he accomplished when the invisible God sent his son to take on flesh, to dwell among us, and to become visible among us. Roughly 2,000 years ago, when the Lord Jesus Christ was born, As a helpless babe, he came into the world, and that helpless baby would grow into a man who would go on to the cross to bear the sins of his people, and in his crucifixion and his death. The streams of God's undeserved mercy, his overwhelming grace, and his perfect patience were opened to a people so desperately in need. Friends, those streams of grace and mercy and patience are open to us today. Remember Jesus' amazing mercy and grace. Remember his perfect patience. Remember our glorious salvation. Let's pray Heavenly Father, our salvation is beyond comprehension because there was nothing in us that deserved receiving your grace and your mercy, but you have poured it out and caused it to overflow to us, and we rejoice in it this morning and give you praise as the King of the Ages. The immortal, invisible, the only God, to you be honor and glory forever and ever. Lord, help us to grasp the height and depth of the grace and mercy you've shown us. And cause the patience that you've extended to us to change how we show patience to others so that we would grow to be a more patient people this week, we pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.