Turn in your Bibles to Ruth chapter 3. As you're turning there, I'll go ahead and begin. August 4th. 2012 was a day that I'll never forget because it was a day that I asked Leah to marry me It was a typical August summer day in Maryland. It was extremely hot and extremely humid. In terms of complexity My plan fell somewhere really in the middle between highly complex and and not complex at all. I decided that I would rent an electric boat I would get sushi from our favorite place in Annapolis, and then I'd take her out on that boat with the sushi on Spa Creek, which is in Eastport, Maryland. And at some point. When I could find a secluded location, I would pop the question. Now the problem was because it was a sunny summer day, Spa Creek was packed. I began internally panicking that I was going to have to propose while a bunch of people who had been drinking too much looked on. To my delight, though, I spotted a cove. That was empty, and I charged full steam ahead to secure it before anyone else could get there. But when we got there, I realized why nobody else was there. It was full of swamp muck, and I had gotten stuck. We were soon joined by an older gentleman who had been uh enjoying beverages on his his back porch. who was having a good laugh, watching me get stuck, knowing that I was headed right into Swampmuck, and then he come down came down to let me know that he had been laughing at me. But then he did help me get unstuck And soon we were off again in search of a quiet place. Eventually, I found one. This time we didn't get stuck, and the rest is history. I got down on one knee and asked her to marry me and she said, yes, it's a it's a day that I'll never forget And if you've had a day like that, you realize how unforgettable marriage proposals are. But few proposals, few marriage proposals are as memorable and significant. As the marriage proposal that we find in Ruth chapter 3. So if you're not there, I invite you to turn with me there now. We're continuing in our study through the book of Ruth as we consider How God worked to prepare and preserve the family line through whom Jesus Christ would be born. In chapter one, we saw a progression from famine. to fullness, right? The hopelessness of Naomi's circumstances at the beginning of the chapter, the death of her husband and the death of her two sons. That's replaced by a glimmer of hope at the end of chapter one when she returns with her daughter-in-law Ruth to Bethlehem at the beginning of the Barley. harvest. And that glimmer of hope really turns into a ray of hope in chapter two, as Ruth ventures out into the fields and just so happens to come upon Boaz's field We learn in chapter 2 that Boaz is a righteous Israelite who not only protects and generously provides for Ruth, but we also learn at the end of the chapter that he is a redeemer in Naomi's family. As chapter 2 comes to a close, the reader is really left wondering, what will ultimately happen to Naomi and Ruth? Was Boaz's generosity a sign of things to come? Will God use Boaz to perhaps redeem Naomi and Ruth? As we'll see, chapter 3 answers those questions. And it is also, as we'll see, a beautiful picture of God's own covenant love for his church. We're going to go ahead and turn to the text. If you're taking notes this morning, we're going to break the passage up into three points. Point one is the plan Point two is the proposal, and point three is the pledge. So the plan is point one, that's verses one to five, the proposal, verses six to thirteen. And the pledge in verses 14 to 18. Instead of reading the whole passage at once, I'm going to read each of those sections as we go. So first, let's look at the plan. Follow along as I read verses 1 to 5, and I want to encourage you to keep your Bible open throughout as we're going to be looking often at the text. This is God's word. Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, should I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? Is not Boaz our relative with whose young women you were? See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. Wash, therefore, and anoint yourself, and put on your cloak, and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking But when he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down. And he will tell you what to do. She replied, all that you say, I think it's a little bit more than a little bit. These really seem to be intriguing instructions from Naomi, don't they? What exactly is she telling Ruth to do here? Well, we're going to get to some of the those things that may be a little bit more unclear, but we do know one thing that she is telling Naomi to uh that Naomi is telling Ruth to do is that these are instructions are part of Naomi's plan To find Ruth a husband. Where do we see that? I want you to look again at verse 1. Naomi said to her, My daughter, Should I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? This is the same rest that she prayed for Ruth in chapter 1 when she prayed that the Lord would grant Ruth rest in the house of a husband. The rest that Naomi has in mind for Ruth is marriage and the accompanying security that it would bring. That's why she says in the second half of verse 1, that it may be well with you. That phrase almost always refers to the blessings that come through marriage and family. Blessings in the Old Testament like bridal happiness or security or material prosperity and children. Naomi wants to find a husband for Ruth And because of the kindness he showed Ruth in chapter 2, Naomi thinks Boaz could be that man. So she comes up with this plan, this plan for a proposal, and gives instructions to Ruth on what to do. Now, what are we to make of the rest of the instructions that she gives? They certainly have a scandalous quality to them, full of unspoken tension and innuendo, right? Her instructions seem to amount to make yourself beautiful and go down to the threshing floor, but don't go to him right away. Let him drink a bit. And then when he goes to lay down, you go and lay with him, and then he'll tell you what to do. It's a lot of innuendos, tension going on here. What are we to make of these instructions? Is Naomi encouraging Ruth to put herself in a position to sin? It's not completely clear. And when you read this account against the backdrop of the Old Testament, that certainly seems plausible. We should consider the similarities between the account of Lot and his daughters, which had nearly identical circumstances. A man drinking, the girl's waiting till the man drinks, and then goes and lays down, and then they go day go and lay down with him, right? Which results in the sin of Lot's daughters. and gave birth to the Moabite people. And here you have Ruth, a Moabite, being told to go and seemingly commit the same type of sin that Lot's daughters committed But I do think there's also another way to understand these instructions. In 2 Samuel 12, After David's infant son died and David's period of mourning came to an end, we read that David washed And anointed himself and changed his clothes. It's basically word for word what Naomi tells Ruth to do. Uh understood that way, she's telling Ruth to end her period of mourning over her deceased husband Malon, who passed away at the beginning of the book, and simply make it obvious that you're now ready to be married again if the opportunity presents itself. So understood that way, she's not telling Ruth to make herself beautiful and attractive in order to entice him, right? Recognize that Naomi is telling Ruth to go there in the middle of the night In utter darkness, right? There's no ambient light in like, you know, 2000, 1000 BC Bethlehem. There's not lights shining all around for him to see her. She's being told to go in the middle of the night in utter darkness. He's not gonna see what she looks like. It seems Naomi is instructing Ruth to end her period of mourning, the loss of her husband, during which she would have intentionally appeared unkempt as a sign of her grief. And now she's just making it obvious that she is available to be married again by washing and anointing and putting on new clothes. And we look at those two different understandings side by side. I honestly don't know if it's clear. I think the author intentionally leaves Naomi's motivations. And true intentions intentions ambiguous in order to heighten the tension of the scene. What will happen That's what you're supposed to think when you're reading this book. Wait a second, what's going to go on here? Is she going to end up falling into sin just like Lot's daughters did? Or Noah when he drank? You see in the Old Testament backdrop, drinking at this point has only negative connotations as people drink too much and fall into sin. Is that what's going to happen here? Well, we see as we continue in the passage, which brings me to point two, the proposal. Follow along as I read verses 6 to 13 for us. So she went down to the threshing floor and did just as her mother-in-law had commanded. And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, He went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. Then she came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down. At midnight, the man was startled and turned over, and behold, a woman lay at his feet. He said, Who are you? And she answered, I am Ruth. Your servant. Spread your wings over your servant, for you are a redeemer And he said, May you be blessed by the Lord, my daughter. You have made this last kindness greater than the first, and that you have not gone after young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you ask. For all my fellow townsmen know that you are a worthy woman. And now it is true that I am a redeemer Yet there is a redeemer nearer than I. Remain tonight, and in the morning. If he will redeem you, good. Let him do it. But if he is not willing to redeem you, Then as the Lord lives, I will redeem you. Lie down until the morning Verses 6 and 7, the author sets the stage. Ruth goes down to the threshing floor, but doesn't make herself known as she was instructed Perhaps lurking in the darkness just beyond the boundaries of the threshing floor? Boaz is there, eating and drinking as Naomi said he would be Now, some of you might be asking, why is Boaz at the threshing floor at night? Well, threshing or separating the grain from the chaff was often done at night to take advantage of the evening winds. And then what harvesters would do is that they would then sleep at the threshing floor to protect the grain from robbers. We just need to remember again, the book of Ruth is set in the days of the judges. Rampant sin was uh taking hold of the country, right? People were committing murder, robbing, stealing from people, and so he would have slept with his grain in order to protect. It seems like that's what what Boaz is doing And he finishes eating and drinking. His heart is merry, and he goes to lie down by the pile of grain. Then Ruth comes to him softly. You can picture her tiptoeing, trying not to make noise. She uncovers his feet. And lays down. This is this is the hold your breath moment of the book. What is gonna happen here? What will happen when she lies down? What will Boaz wake up and and run her off? Will he be offended that she took such liberties to lay down at his feet in the middle of the night? Will they fall into sin? We see what happens in verses 8 and 9. Look there with me. At midnight, he's startled, turns over, and behold, a woman The Hebrew words communicate some sort of shiver. So if you've ever been sleeping in a cold room at night and perhaps like the blanket comes off of your feet or your leg, it takes you a while. To notice, and eventually you're like, ah, I'm cold. I need to fix my blanket again. It seems like that that's what is going on here with Boaz. And he wakes up and he finds this woman laying at his feet. Behold, a woman. And he asks, Who are you? Reinforcing that he can't see her, right? She probably wasn't intentionally making herself attractive when she washed, anointed, and changed clothes But even so, it seems like she did come for marriage. Look at verse 9. After he asks her who she who she is, she says, I am Ruth, your servant. Spread your wings over your servant, for you are a redeemer I said that she came for marriage and she and she clearly did. This is nothing short of a marriage proposal. When she asks Boaz to spread his wings over her, she is using the same language. That Yahweh uses in Ezekiel 16 when he describes taking the people of Israel as his bride. There he says, I spread my wings over you, I spread the corner of my garment over you. Which is why in Hebrew to spread one's wings over a person or one's garment over someone was basically an idiom for marriage. As he covers her with his garment, it's as though she's coming under his wings and thus under his covenant protection and provision. And we see that their marriage will be the means by which she and Naomi are redeemed. He is a redeemer. And we talked a bit about this last week. Essentially, a redeemer in this context was a male relative of a woman who had been widowed and left without children. And this is crucial to understand. Under the Old Covenant, Yahweh promised the people of Israel two specific and unique blessings. That signified his covenant love for them. Those blessings were land and offspring He gave them a promised land, and within that promised land, every tribe and family had a land allotment. And then he promised also to make their offspring. as numerous as the sand on the seashore, right? Land and offspring. Those are the covenant blessings for the people of Israel. Now a woman who was widowed and left without children had neither of those things. Land passed through the male member of the household, so when her husband died she lost her claim to land, and when her sons died, She lost her offspring. Both Ruth and Naomi have neither land nor offspring, and so are seemingly outside of God's covenant blessings, separate separated from the covenant of hope. The role of the Redeemer then was to bring them back into God's covenant blessings. And he would do that by marrying the woman. As a result, his land would become hers, and he would provide children and so give her offspring. Land and offspring would be hers again. She would experience once again the covenant blessings that God promised. to his people through redemptive marriage. Through redemptive marriage, the woman would come to share in Yahweh's covenant blessings. And that's what Ruth is asking Boaz to do for her and Naomi. In verse 10, Boaz is overwhelmed by her loving kindness. That she would not only leave her family and homeland, which uh we see in chapter one, but that she would seek to be married to him when there were other eligible bachelors, younger and wealthier men that she could have gone after. In verses 12 and 13, if you look down there with me, he tells her, he will redeem her. But there's a catch. There's always a catch. The specific laws for redeemers stipulated that the male relative who was closest in relationship to the deceased husband had the right to redeem. Right? And Boaz says, hey, there's a man who's closer in relationship to Naomi's husband than me. And so he says that man must be given the option to redeem Naomi and Ruth. You can imagine the sinking feeling in Ruth's stomach. Another man? Another man. She came for Boaz, and now she's being told there's potentially another man who could become her husband. And she's gonna have to wait until the morning to find out. Talk about a recipe for a sleepless night. And so Boaz, wanting to comfort her, promises at the end of verse 13, if that man is not willing to redeem you, then as the Lord lives, I Will redeem you. This is as solemn an oath as an Israelite could give. He's essentially saying, may Yahweh punish me if I don't keep my word. And to reinforce that promise, he follows up with a pledge. We see in our third point, the pledge. Follow along as I read verses 14 to 18. For us. So she lay at his feet until the morning, but arose before one could recognize another And he said, Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor. And he said, Bring the garment you are wearing and hold it out So she held it. And he measured out six measures of barley and put it on her. Then she went into the city. And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, How did you fare, my daughter? Then she told her all that the man had done for her, saying, These six measures of barley he gave to me Or he said to me, You must not go back empty-handed to your mother-in-law. She replied, wait, my daughter, until you learn how the matter turns out For the man will not rest, but will settle the matter today. Likely out of a concern To protect her identity and reputation. Ruth rises before it's light out to leave. She doesn't want any gossip to start among the townspeople about a a scandalous nighttime visit to Boaz's threshing floor. And it's evident in verse 14 that Boaz is concerned as well, saying that he doesn't want anyone to know That she was there, right? If you read the book of Ruth carefully and you look at the different characters, the townspeople are background characters throughout this book, and the one thing they are always doing is talking They are always talking and Boaz doesn't want them to start start talking and harm Ruth's reputation or his own And yet again, as we saw in chapter 2, his generosity is on display. He gives to Ruth what is essentially a pledge. a pledge of his faithfulness and commitment to both her and Naomi. Before she leaves, we see there in verse fifteen and following, before she leaves, he he fills up her cloak with six measures of barley. And while this is a generous and praiseworthy act on its own, its significance really isn't clear until she arrives home to Naomi. We have to assume that Naomi was pacing around the house most of the night, wondering how her plan would turn out. Finally, Ruth arrives and tells her how everything went. But notice specifically what Ruth says in verse 17. These six measures of barley he gave to me, where he said, You must not go back empty-handed to your mother-in-law. You just gotta think about this whole book now as a whole. You gotta think about themes that are emerging and re-emerging. Why do I bring that up? Recall in chapter 1, after her husband and sons died and she returned to Bethlehem, what did Naomi say about her own lot. I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty And now the Lord is filling Naomi's emptiness through the Redeemer Oaz. God fills his people's emptiness by providing a redeemer to marry them. Through whom they will come to share in Yahweh's covenant blessings. He did that for Israelites in the Old Testament through men like Boaz. But he has done that ultimately for us through his son, Jesus, our kinsman, redeemer, and bridegroom. We have to appreciate how this wedding proposal, this marriage proposal, points both backward and ultimately forward. It points backward. To the very first wedding. In the book of Genesis. There you have the man, Adam. Living in the abundance of God's garden, experiencing the blessings of the covenant, but the man was alone. And so what happened? God caused him to fall into a deep sleep. He removed one of his ribs, from it fashioned a woman, and when Adam awoke from his slumber, behold, a woman! This at last is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. And here you have the man, Boaz. Who eats and drinks, and whose heart is merry, who then lays down to sleep beside a heap of grain. Eating and drinking and merriness and a heap of grain, this man is experiencing life within the realm of God's abundant covenant blessings. And then he goes to sleep. And while he's sleeping, future wife appears, and when he awakes, he sees her, behold, a woman! And just as Adam and Eve entered into covenant relationship after Adam woke, so Boaz committed to enter into covenant relationship with Ruth after he woke. I think the similarities are meant to show us that just as God made the original couple for a purpose, To display his glory in all the earth, though they failed, God did not abandon his purposes for mankind. And so He brings Boaz and Ruth together in a similar way to signal that his original purposes for mankind will be accomplished through them. But not through them immediately. Through one of their descendants. The Lord Jesus Christ. And in that way, Ruth and Boaz's redemptive marriage prepares us for the ultimate redemptive marriage When the Lord Jesus appeared, the goodness and loving kindness of God appeared, and he gave himself for us to redeem us. Not from the curse of being without family or land, but from the curse of sin and death, and from the curse of being without God by dying on the cross for our sins. And when he did this, he took us to himself as his very own bride. What does Isaiah say in Isaiah 61? Looking forward to the day of salvation when Christ would come to redeem his people, he says, He has clothed us with garments of salvation. He has covered us with a robe of righteousness. In Christ, God was laying over us the corner of his garment, taking us to himself as his bride. Christ spread his wings over us. by covering us in his righteous robes and thus committed himself to us in marriage. And like Ruth, we wait We wait for the dawning of the morning. We wait for Christ's final appearing when He will take the church as his bride once and for all, and He will bring us to the wedding feast of the Lamb in the presence of our living God forever. And like Boaz did for Ruth, so God has done to us and given us a pledge of his love. Not six measures of barley. But the pledge of the Holy Spirit, through whom we've received the good deposit. We've been sealed and have received the guarantee of His eternal love and faithfulness. as well as the promise that our Savior will not rest until the matter is complete. Friends, if you don't follow Jesus, I want to hold out to you the goodness and loving kindness of God in Jesus Christ. Though you and I have fallen short of God's holy standard and have come under his judgment, God in his kindness sent his son to redeem us. To pay the price to buy us back from our slavery to sin by giving his life on the cross as a ransom. It is God's kindness that is meant to lead you and I to repentance. God's kindness in Christ. And God showed that He accepted Jesus' payment by raising him from the dead. And now he calls everyone everywhere to come to him to freely receive complete forgiveness. and complete redemption from the curse of sin. If there's anything that this passage teaches us, is that it does not matter what ethnicity you are Ruth was a Moabite. She was not a native person. She was not one of a native member of God's covenant people, but she came in faith and she was Whether you're white or black, Asian or Indian, Hispanic, it does not matter. All have sinned, all have fallen short, and all are welcome to receive mercy through Christ. God does not look on skin color, but on heart posture. This is the one to whom I will look, the one who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. Do you recognize your need for forgiveness? If you do, come to him. He freely gives. He freely forgives. And listen, if you're tempted to believe that you've sinned too much or maybe come from a family whose history is marred by sin, and because of that, God won't accept you, just take a look at Ruth. Right. She comes from a family history marred by sin. Right? Her her great-great-great-great-grandma sinned terribly and created the Moabite people, a nation that on the whole was utterly opposed to God. Ruth almost certainly would have worshipped false gods and joined in the sins of her people. But when she turns to God, she's no longer defined by her family history or her sins. This is the only chapter in the book that makes no mention whatsoever of Ruth's nationality Throughout the book, over and over, the author has repeated, She is a Moabite, she is a Moabite, she's a foreigner, not one of God's people. But when she seeks refuge under Boaz's wings as a sign of her trust in God, her nationality falls away. She's no longer Ruth the Moabite. She's Ruth. This chapter Teaches us that God looks on those in faith. He doesn't judge us by external appearances. When you turn to God in faith, he gives you a brand new identity. You're no longer Bob the self-righteous or Jane the drug abuser or Tim the narcissist or whatever. You are in Christ and therefore one of God's children This chapter also has something to say to those of us who follow Jesus about the connection between God's sovereignty and our responsibility. Earlier in the book, chapter 1, Naomi prayed that the Lord would give Ruth rest. And now in chapter 3, Naomi seeks to provide that rest through practical steps. In chapter 2, Boaz prayed that Ruth would find refuge under God's wings, and now Ruth takes practical steps by taking refuge under Boaz's wings. Boaz would become the human embodiment of God's protection that she was seeking. What's the point? God intends for us to pray and then act on those prayers. If you're praying for a family member or a neighbor to come to know God's saving love through Christ, don't just pray. Then act in faith. Move towards them and share with them. If you're praying for God to heal a broken relationship, don't just pray, then move towards the person and seek reconciliation. If you're praying for unity in the church, don't just pray. Actively look for ways to put other people's needs ahead of your own or overlook offense when it arises. Pray and then act in faith. To the teens and kids, it's the same for y'all. Don't just pray for strength to obey your parents. When they give instruction, actively walk in that obedience. Right? Don't just pray for an ability to not complain. This is one of the things that we talk with Jack about. I talk with Jack and say, Jack, hey, what do you want me to pray for you about? And he says, Dad. I want you to pray that I wouldn't complain. And some like, praise God. Let's pray about that, Jack. Lord, we pray that you would help Jack not complain. And then after I'm done praying, I say to Jack, now, Jack, as you walk through the day and you're tempted to complain, you have to actively put it off. God gives strength. We pray and then we act. We pray and then we act. God's sovereign purposes are worked out in the providential workings of our daily lives. Pray in faith and then act in faith. And as we act, we should understand that God's purposes almost always entail waiting. Naomi waited for an entire harvest season before it would become clear that Boaz would redeem her Ruth had to wait through the night to learn of her fate in the morning. Whether short or long, our posture in this world is one of waiting. Christians are waiting people. So if you're here today and you're in a season of maybe you've just been struggling with spiritual sorrow or darkness. Maybe you're laboring under some type of grief. Maybe you have been praying for a particular air for a prayer to be answered in a particular way and it just hasn't come about. Understand that waiting is part of God's purposes for his people. God does good work in our hearts, teaching us to long more and more for him. And honestly, I could stand up here and say that I know all the reasons that you're waiting, and I don't. God is doing what John Piper says, like 10 million things. We maybe know one or two of them What I can say is that God is working for your good and mine. And he will soon carry on to completion the work that he began in you and me. And we wait. In this, we share in an aspect of Christ's sufferings, as he waited 30 plus years for his time to come and his ministry to begin He waits even now, seated at the right hand of God, for that final day when the Father says to him, Son. Go get your bride. And Christ appears. And he will take us to be with him If Christ our head is waiting, then we, his body, are also waiting, but we wait in faith, knowing that soon enough the dark will fly away when the light of that final morning appears. And Christ, our bridegroom and redeemer, appears to settle the matter once and for all. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us to wait. To wait patiently, to wait longing, longing for that day when Christ appears. Keep us from turning to the right or to the left Keep us from turning away to the light to go back to the darkness. Help us to continue putting one foot in front of the other, serving you in faith, knowing that eventually that time of waiting will end. And we will see Christ. And we will be made like him because we will see him as he is. Father, we pray that that day would come soon and very soon. Come, Lord Jesus, come. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.