Well, good afternoon, friends. It is a joy to be here together with you and to have this opportunity. To look at God's word together. Before we dive in, I want to go ahead and pray for us again briefly. Pray that God would bless this time in his word. So pray with me one more time. Heavenly Father, we come to you now through your Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray, Father, for your richest blessing on our time together in your word. Lord, it is you who gives ears to hear So help us to hear your word today. And Father, we consider what your word has to say to us today about putting sexual immorality to death. Father, as we look to you, we recognize that all of us has failed and fallen short in this era. None of us is righteous. All of us have been sexually immoral in various ways. But we rejoice that our sympathetic High priest who was tempted in every way, in every respect, as we are, that he is without sin. And because he is without sin, we know that his atonement has worked for us all that we need to be cleansed from all of our past sins, sexual and otherwise. So help us to stand steadfast and rejoice in that truth and to recognize that the Lord Jesus, we've just sung is both strong and common. Kind, strong to hold us, and kind to forgive us. Help us to come to Him today, we pray. It's in His name that we pray. Amen. Snake enthusiast killed by eight-foot python he had owned since it fit in the palm of his hand That was the headline of a news story in The Independent, a news outlet based in London, England. Now the story unfolds in this way. A man found dead at his home was killed by his eight-foot pet python he had kept since it was a hatchling. Now the family of snake handler Dan Brandon referred to the animal as his baby. Mr. Brandon died of asphyxiation at his home in Church Crookham, Hampshire on August 25, 2017 according to the Basingstoke Coroner. His mother told the court that her son kept 10 snakes along with 12 tarantulas at the family home He had owned the rock python that killed him since she was small enough to fit in the palm of his hand. He had named the python Tiny. Coroner Andrew Bradley recorded the verdict of misadventure and said, The most likely scenario is that Tiny was engaged with Mr. Brandon. I have no doubt about that. She was coiling around him. At which point, I'm not sure what happened. Either she took hold of him unexpectedly or tripped him up or some other mechanism. Mr. Brandon's parents, his brother and sister, were present at the inquest, and his mother told the court the snake had loved her son, and that Tiny was his baby. She did say, however, that mister Brandon had become aware of how strong Tiny had become. He was more wary of Tiny than the other snakes. He said she's very strong, and so he had stopped putting her around his neck, because she was so strong and unpredictable Well, I don't share this story to make light of Mr. Brandon's death. But every time I come across a headline like that, like this, I think to myself. What did you think was gonna happen? Man killed by pet tiger. What did you think was gonna happen? Man killed by pet bear. What did you think was gonna happen? Man killed by eight-foot rock python named Tiny. What did you think was gonna happen Kids, the message for you is simple. Don't ever take a predator for a pet. But there is a deeper lesson here for you and for all of us Mr. Brandon's story also teaches us a spiritual lesson. And it's a lesson that the Apostle Paul was keen on teaching the Colossians. And what is that lesson? I want you to go ahead and turn with me to Colossians chapter 3. We're going to be looking specifically at verses 5 and 6 today, though we're in a section, a study on verses 5 to 11. As you're turning there, I want I want to refresh us on the context. In the passage just before this one, Paul has emphasized that through faith in Christ, The Colossians had died to their old way of living and been raised to new life in Christ, and that new life was to be accompanied by new pursuits. Right? Seek the things that are above. Set your minds on the things that are above. But Paul knows And wants us to know that even though Christians have died to their former way of living, their old way of life, on this side of heaven, They still need to keep fighting against their old ways of living, right? Even though they had died with Christ. They need to keep putting to death their old way of life. And that's what our passage is about. Let me read for us Colossians chapter 3, verses 5 to 11. That this is God's word. But to death, therefore, what is earthly in you sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry On account of these, the wrath of God is coming. In these, you two once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Here there is not Greek or Jew, Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free, but Christ is all and in all We're going to slow down on this passage and study it over the next three weeks because we want to carefully consider what it looks like to live the Christian life. It's clear from Paul's opening words in verse 5 that these verses are about putting sin to death. Broadly speaking, there are three categories of sin that he wants us to put off. In verses five and six, He wants us to put off sexual sin, put to death sexual sin. In verses 7 to 10, he wants us to put off or put to death. Speech-related sins, and in verse 11, he wants us to put off disunity, partiality. This week we're going to be looking at verses five and six specifically So what what spiritual lesson do we learn from a man being killed by his pet snake I think the lesson for us is don't keep pet sexual sins. Because they could lead to your destruction. Or to put it the way Paul does. Kill sexual sin in your life because God's wrath is coming. So first, let's take a look at killing sexual sin in our life Look at verse 5 with me. And we see the instruction to kill sin in our lives clearly, right? Verse 5: put to death therefore what is earthly in you. When Paul says what is earthly in you, he's talking about all of the sinful thoughts, desires, and behaviors that plague fallen mankind. And how does he want us to treat them, right? He wants us to put them to death. Kill them. Destroy them. Give them no quarter. Provide no sanctuary for them. Don't coddle them, don't protect them, don't take them as your pets. Right? The only time you'll ever hear me as your pastor teach you to show no mercy is in regard to your sin. Show your sin no mercy. Teens, let's say I have a pet snake A little tiny pet snake. Let's say, even for instance, that he's a rock i thon. But he's little. He's just a tiny little snake, he's no danger at all to me. What's gonna happen when to that tiny little not so dangerous at all snake if I feed him? What's gonna happen? He's gonna grow. He's gonna grow and get bigger, right? And then he will get more dangerous the more that he grows. Now, what happens to tiny little sins when we feed them by indulging in them? They grow and they become more dangerous as they grow. Think about putting to death your sin this way. Starve your sin. Don't feed it. The more that you feed it, the stronger that it gets. Right? The more you feed your tiny little sins, the more danger you fall into of them becoming an eight-foot rock python. Right? And while it's clear throughout Paul's writings that he would have us approach all sin this way, in these verses, he wants us to put to death. Sexual sin. Look at verse 5. He says, put to death therefore what is earthly in you. Sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. All wants us to keep Kill sexual sin in our lives. It may seem like these are unrelated when you look over the list, but I think it's best to understand them as all related to sexual sins. The first one is sexual immorality, that's obvious, but he goes on and lists impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness. Now the reason that I think that these are all related to sexual immorality is because of how Paul uses these same descriptions elsewhere in his writings. So he regularly lists Impurity, passion, and even covetousness or greed in the same context of sexual sin in his other letters. So in 1 Thessalonians 4, for instance, he writes, For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, so there's sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body and holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. So you see passion and impurity related to sexual immorality in 1 Thessalonians 4. But what about covetousness? How does that fit into sexual sin? Listen to what he says in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 19. He says, the Gentiles have become callous. and have given themselves up to sensuality. There he means sexual immorality. Greedy, covetous to practice every kind of impurity. Or again Ephesians 5 verse 3, but sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you. And really, I don't think it should surprise us to find covetousness listed in the context of sexual sin. Just think about the tenth commandment, right? Thou shalt not covet. What's one of the things that we shall not covet? Your neighbor's wife. Right? Adultery is a form of sexual greed. Desiring something and acting upon that desire with something that does not belong to you or who is not yours. And the sexual immorality that Paul has in mind here that he wants us to put to death is expansive Right? The Greek word for sexual immorality is pornea, from which we get the English word pornography. But in the New Testament, it i it didn't just refer to one thing, like pornography, but rather to any type of sexual expression. Outside of a biblically defined marriage relation, uh biblically defined marriage relationship between one biological man and one biological woman So, what types of things qualify as sexual immorality? Having sex before or outside of marriage. What's known as fornication in the Bible is Is sexual immorality. Adultery, having sex while married with someone who's not your spouse is sexual immorality. Immorality. Homosexuality. Having sex with someone of the same sex is sexual immorality. Using pornography, watching other people have sex, is sexual immorality. Looking at naked pictures of people is sexual immorality. And a whole host of other be other behaviors could be described as sexual immorality. Now this may seem elementary, like why do we why does this even have to be be said? But in our world today, with its anything goes attitude towards sex, and sexual desire, it is very important for us to continue clearly defining what the Bible says about sex and sexuality. We also need to recognize, though, that sexual immorality goes far beyond just actions that we do with our bodies, right? We can have sexually immoral hearts. I want you to look at verse 5 again. After he says sexual immorality, he goes on to list passion, evil desire, and covetousness. These all speak to what's going on inside of us. We may not commit sexual immorality with our body and yet still be guilty of committing sexual immorality with our heart and mind. Think about the importance of the mind that Paul has just referenced in verses 1 to 4. We're to set our minds not on sexually immoral things, but on Christ. Or in Philippians, Paul says, finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble Whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable, if anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things. Having been united to Christ, we are to have the mind of Christ and set our minds on the types of things that Christ would set his mind on Friends, if you're sleeping with someone who's not your spouse, if you're watching pornography, If you're looking at sexually explicit material, if you're struggling internally with lust, put those things to death Don't foster them. Don't protect them. Don't coddle them. Fight against them with all of your strength. That's the clear call of verse 5 for us And it's on this point especially that Christianity really seems most out of step with the secular world. What words come to mind when you hear instructions like this? Words like narrow, restrictive, oppressive, and repressive, those words are lobbed like grenades at Christians who hold to a Christian sexual ethic. Christianity is all about restricting you and keeping you from enjoying yourself. But the reality is both the Christian sexual ethics ethic and the secular sexual ethic have a list of sexual behaviors that we should put to death. Right? We've just looked at Christianity's list, but the secular list would go something like this. Put to death sexual restraint. Put to death monogamy. Put to death celibacy. Put to death not using others for your own gratification. Put to death chastity. Put to death purity. You see, both sides will tell you there are things that you should put to death. The question is, which side leads to true life and joy and goodness? What we see in the passage is that putting to death sexual immorality leads to our greatest good. Why is that? I want you to look at verse 5 again. Look at what Paul says that sexual immorality is. It's idolatry. To obey all of your sexual impulses is to turn your impulses and urges into a God You're replacing the living God with your urges and impulses and desires. And while that may seem like it brings freedom and fulfillment, it actually turns us into slaves because we become slaves of whatever it is that we worship, right? We do its bidding. We but we obey its commands. And becoming a slave to our sexual desires will ultimately corrupt our souls and minds. It will ultimately turn us into something less than we were created to be. Kind of like Smeagol in Lord of the Rings, right? Before Smeagol had the ring, he was just Smeagol, the happy river hobbit. But after he got a hold of the ring, who did he become? Gollum. Right? It corrupted him down to his very core. It kind of changed him at his most basic level. That's what happens to us when we make sexual immorality our God. We begin worshiping it and it corrupts us. And it's here that we have to see how destructive the secular sexual ethic is over and against God's good design for sex to be enjoyed in marriage. I don't want you to hear me say, put to death sex. That's not Paul's instruction here. He says, put to death sexual immorality. God created sex as a good gift to be enjoyed within the context of a covenant relationship of marriage between one man and one woman. That's his good design But you'll often hear it asked regarding different forms of sexual immorality. If it doesn't harm anyone, why should we care? If two consenting adults want to use their body in a particular way and it's not harming any of us, why should that matter? We've got to ask the question. Is it really true that it's not harming anyone? Anyone at all. As Christians, we need to take seriously what the Bible says about sexual immorality, and that in participating in it, we are bringing harm upon ourselves. Varying degrees of brokenness follow. Now some might respond, I've done sexually immoral things and I haven't experienced any harmful effect to myself Well to that I would respond, the effects of an action aren't always immediately obvious. Sometimes they follow long behind the action. But second, we can actually point to concrete harm that is done to people who practice sexual immorality and to others as a result of it. So first, take porn. There are countless Americans who are experiencing the disastrous effects of watching porn regularly They do it, not harming other people. It is absolutely harming them. They describe feeling enslaved. Trapped, addicted, wanting to be free from it, but unable to break away from it. There are so many examples of this, but there's been an increasing push to ban pornography or at least make it more difficult to obtain. And that's happening kind of on a grassroots effort. If you see this happening on Twitter, there are people who are recognizing just how deleterious pornography is on the human soul. So just with pornography, you see the harm that these individuals are admitting to experiencing because of their use of it. But not only does it harm them, but not putting to death sexual immorality like pornography harms others as well. Well and we see this uh we see this as a justice issue here. But take porn again. ways to members of the opposite sex, but watching porn is an act of support of one of the most vile and unjust industries in the world today. The majority of people participating in porn are participating against their will, whether by threats or coercion or by outright abduction and enslavement. And a major reason for the amount of human trafficking, sex trafficking, child abuse, and enslavement of our of adults and children in our world today is because people want to watch porn. So when you say it doesn't harm anyone else, it's not true. Millions of people are being harmed by this industry. And that's just one form of sexual immorality. We think about abortion. Of how many humans have been murdered in the womb because two people wanted to Enjoy the gift of sex, but didn't want the responsibility that comes with enjoying that gift. Somewhere around one million children a year in America have their lives taken As a result of that choice. But does that choice harm anyone else? Yes, it does. Yes, it does Putting sexual immorality to death is a justice issue And if you're interested in learning more about how you can help men and women choose a different path in abortion, I'd encourage you to talk with Bryce or Sarah Adams or Caroline Sassnet, a volunteer at local pregnancy clinics. Or if you want to fight against human trafficking, I'd encourage you to to check out rebecabender. org or the International Justice Mission for resources to learn and opportunities to volunteer. But as we think about putting to death sexual sin in our personal lives, one of the most important things that you and I can do is ensure that there's somebody who knows about our struggles. Right? If you have a sexual serpent in your life, I want to encourage you to work at putting it to death by inviting others to walk alongside you and pray That's a way that you bring light to your struggles. Bring them out. He's like, hey, I've got this pet snake. His name's Tiny, but he's been growing. And I need help because I don't want him to destroy me. Right? That's how we can fight against it in our personal lives. But friends, we need to put sexual sin to death. I know this is heavy. But God's commands really are a life and death issue. And we see that in point two. Why do we put sexual sin to death? Because the wrath of God is coming. Look at verse 6. After Paul tells us to put sexual sin to death, he says very clearly: on account of these, the wrath of God is coming. Now, this doesn't mean that there's something unique about sexual sin that warrants God's wrath. No, scripture makes clear that God's wrath is coming against all sin, including sexual sin. But we should acknowledge that God's wrath isn't something we like to talk about. Right? It's an uncomfortable topic for more reasons than one. Not the least of which is that it seems. Morally wrong for God to be wrathful. How can a good God also be wrathful? You know, I think the reason that we struggle to reconcile those things is because we imagine God's wrath like our wrath. And we know that when we're wrathful, there's something unhinged about it, right? Something capricious, something wrongly vengeful. And so when we read about God's wrath, we imagine him acting like us. But we need to remember that God's wrath isn't like our wrath. God's wrath is good. It's good because it's not unhinged, but perfectly controlled. It's not capricious like a soldier just kind of violently unloading a machine gun on anything that moves, but perfectly directed at evil. And it's not wickedly vengeful, but the appropriate and perfectly measured response of a holy God to a world in rebellion against him. In fact, God's wrath is an aspect of his goodness. When the Bible says that God is good, it refers to his character and all that he does. And part of God's character is perfect justice. He's perfectly just. He is perfectly upright. He is perfectly righteous. We are all like crooked lines, the scripture says. He is the plumb line And in relation to sin and sinners, God's justice is manifested in his wrath. God doesn't overlook sin. God won't overlook sin. He's promised to bring judgment on all who have sinned, and this is a good thing. I trust that you'll agree with me in this. I want you to put yourself in the position of someone who's been abused. Someone maybe who's been raped, someone who's been abducted and trafficked. Maybe you are that person today. Imagine being in their shoes and calling out for God to bring justice to the people who've harmed you. And God responds, no. It's not that big of a deal. What they did is not all that big of a deal. I'm just gonna overlook it. Would he be good if he responded that way? Of course not. God's wrath against sin is good. It's just not good for us. Because we've all sinned. The reality is, friends, none of us is free from sexual sin. We are all in atmosphere And that means all of us has, the little ones here, will struggle with sexual immorality And for that reason, I mean alongside Jesus, we all deserve to face God's wrath. I don't say that lightly. I don't say that self-righteously Lord knows if there is anyone here who deserves God's wrath for sexual immorality, it's me. But God is also merciful. And that's why I want to hold out the good news. The sexual sinners like us. God's goodness isn't only manifested in his wrath against sin It's also manifested in his mercy towards sinners, like you and me. Even see that mercy hidden in verse 5? I want you to look there again with me. Paul says, put to death therefore sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness. put to death therefore. What's the therefore therefore? Why is he telling them to put sexual immorality to death? Because they had already experienced God's mercy. They had already been forgiven of their sins, sexual sins included. They were no longer under the dominion and power of sin. They were no longer in danger of facing God's wrath. Therefore, put it to death because of the mercy you've been shown in Christ. God's goodness is not only displayed in his wrath, but in his mercy towards sinners like us We are all stained with sin, sexual sins and otherwise. So for the kids and teens, I want you all to think about your sins this way. I want you to think about it like invisible ink. Right, you know the type of ink where you can write on a surface and nobody can see it unless you take the right kind of light and shine it on that link and then poof all of a sudden it appears. Right? Your sins are kind of like that like that ink in a way We're all sitting here, right, looking respectable, you know. But the reality is, if God shined the light of His holiness on each of us, do you know what would appear? Poof! Imagine tattooed all over your body, words like sexually immoral. Adulterer Lustful, filled with evil desire, covetous, and a whole host of other sins. But the good news of the gospel Is that God sent Jesus into the world to cleanse us from the stain of sin? So that when He holds the light of His holiness over us He no longer sees the stain of our sin because they've been cleansed by the blood of Christ. He now only sees the perfect righteousness of Christ that has been given to us freely by grace. That is the good news of the gospel. On the cross, God's wrath and mercy met together His wrath against sexual sin poured out on Jesus, and his mercy in forgiving sexual sinners who repent and put their faith in Christ. And Jesus' resurrection from the dead assures us. That all of our sins have been forgiven. Now, not only that, but we've now been called to walk in God's original, glorious, and noble purposes for mankind. Oh, you see, often when Christians talk about fighting any sin, even like verse 5, the sins that we're that Paul's talking about here, we do so in a way that's disconnected. from the glorious and noble greater story that God has for mankind. And so it can just come across as like myopic moralism, right? Just put sexual morality to death. What's wrong with you? Stop being evil, desirous people, right? It just comes across as moralism. But there's so much more to it than that. It's such a greater command than that. There's such a greater story going on that God is inviting us into When God created Adam and Eve, he created them to be kings and priests in his garden temple, right? The place where he dwelled with mankind. As king and queen, they were to rule over God's garden temple. And as priests, they were to protect God's garden temple from evil intrusion, right? They were to keep what was unclean out of the holy temple. And we know that they were priests because later in the Old Testament, the job description of the actual priest in the temple in Israel matched identically the job given to Adam and Eve, to work and keep the temple. Working and keeping the garden temple in Eve is what Adam and Eve were called, in Eden is what Adam and Eve were called to do. But they failed at ruling over God's temple. And at keeping out what was unclean, the serpent entered, tempted them, and all mankind fell into sin. Later The nation of Israel was created by God and was similarly commissioned to be a nation of kings and priests, who lived in the land that He created for them, who listened to His word, and who lived by His laws, and so displayed. His glory. And the priests of Israel were to do what? They were to protect God's God's temple, God's presence from what was unclean. They were to separate the clean from the unclean, the holy from the unholy. But Israel Like Adam, they failed. They disobeyed God and failed to exercise their kingly and priestly commission. And so God, in his mercy, sent Jesus. The true Adam and the true Israel to fulfill the mission that God gave to mankind. He carried out God's purposes perfectly He never gave in to temptation. He was never defiled by sin, sexual or otherwise. And he died in our place so that we could be forgiven So that we could be cleansed from sin. And after rising from the dead, he ascended into heaven, where he sat down as both king and priest of God's heavenly temple. And through faith in him We now share in carrying out God's original purposes for mankind. God has made us with Christ a nation of kings and priests And now we have the same commission to rule over and protect God's temple as a holy priesthood. And where is his temple? Your heart. Your heart. You are his temple. Individually, as a Christian. And corporately as a church. We are the temple of the living God. By putting to death sexual immorality. We are sharing in Christ's priestly work of protecting God's temple, our heart, from all that is unholy and un unclean and we are walking in God's original purposes for mankind. When you see these commands in the context, of God's glorious story of redemption and restoration and where he's bringing us to in the new heavens and the new earth, the world's section Sexuality seems so empty. Creatures whose highest purpose it is to fulfill sexual urges. C. S. Lewis had it right when he said, we are half-hearted creatures, bowling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased Infinite joy is being offered to you, friends. Don't be so easily pleased. The world wants you to be easily pleas Don't make that choice. Infinite joy is being offered to us. Those pet sins won't bring ultimate joy. You may call them tiny now, but the more that you coddle them, nurture them, and feed them, the more they will grow and the more they will become A danger to your soul, put them to death. Heavenly Father, we repeat our need. We all have fallen short in this area. We all have defiled your temple. We have given over our hearts to idols, and we have not served you, the living God. Have mercy on us, as we've already sung this morning. Have mercy on us, O God. Encourage us also today. With the good news that for those who have repented and believed, Christ says, it is finished The work of atonement and redemption is done. We are not what we were. We look forward to what we will be. Hold us fast until then we pray. In Jesus name, Amen