Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you all today to have the honor and opportunity to open up God's Word. With you and to hear him speak to us, we saying in our very opening hymn, speak, O Lord. That's what's what we're doing. We're asking God to speak to us because we believe that the living God does speak And that we can hear his voice in his word. And we're going to ask now briefly, I want you to join me in prayer briefly, that we would ask his spirit to give us wisdom and insight. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning asking that you would speak to us, asking that you would cause us to be filled with the knowledge of your will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. And that we would see this morning by the power of the Spirit how Jesus Christ, in his very self, has the true riches of wisdom and knowledge and understanding. Help us. uh to grasp and and and behold those riches this morning we pray and we ask this in jesus name amen uh fakes forgeries Knockoffs, counterfeits. These words we're all pretty familiar with. For as long as expensive and rare items have existed in the world. People have found a way to create counterfeits of those items. In our day, entire industries have come into existence for the purpose of creating knockoffs of everything from uh paintings uh to currency, different types of monies, uh, to jewelry and to to fashion and accessories. But the reality is that no matter how skilled knockoff artists are, recreating the real thing is basically an impossible task. Now that's not to say that certain forgeries or fakes are not extremely well done, but it's almost always the case that there are telltale markers or characteristics that differentiate the fake from the real thing. I remember the first time that I found out that there was one of those like I don't know what kind of strip it's made out of, but one of those strips that's inside of a dollar bill or a hundred dollar bill and you can hold it up to the light, I was just amazed. Like I had no idea this was actually in there But it just goes to show you the lengths to which those who create the real thing will go to make sure that real fakes or fakes cannot be passed off as the real thing Now, this may seem like an odd way to start a sermon thinking about fakes and counterfeits and industries that have cropped up, and I get that. But the reason I've started this way is that when we turn to the Gospel of Mark We find out that Jesus himself is very concerned about fakes, about counterfeits, about knockoffs. Now he's not concerned about fake coach bags. Or fake Rolexes or fake Gucci belts. That's not what Jesus is concerned about. Though I'm sure he would be concerned about the motives behind people's hearts that that would then make those fake things. I'm sure he'd be concerned about that What he's most concerned about in the Gospel of Mark is fake disciples. Counterfeit Disciples, knockoffs, not the real thing. What distinguishes a knockoff disciple from a real disciple? We want to ask ourselves that question this morning. Are there traits that we can look for to help us tell if someone is a real disciple or just a counterfeit? And in fact, what we'll find is that there are traits that we can look for. And in our passage this morning, we find a man, a surprising man. Who bears three of those marks, three traits, three of those marks, three traits of a true disciple. And the question that we want to ask ourselves this morning is: do we see those same three traits in this man in our own lives today. So if you have your Bible, I want to encourage you to turn with me to Mark chapter ten. We're going to be looking specifically at verses 46 to 52 this morning. And if you're using one of the Bibles that we provided, you'll find our passage this morning on page 847. And as always, we say this almost every week. If you don't have a Bible of your own, we want you to take the copy that we've provided as a gift from us to you. We don't think there's anything more important than for you to have a copy of God's very own word, the word in which God has spoken to his people for yourself. So please do. Take a copy for yourself. Again, we're going to be looking at Mark chapter 10, verses 46 to 52. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now, and then we'll look at it more closely. This is God's word. And they came to Jericho, and as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped. And said, Call him. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take heart, get up, he's calling you. And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus And Jesus said to him, What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said to him, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way The surprise of our passage this morning is that even though Jesus has lived with and taught his very own disciples for roughly three years at this point They still show signs of being counterfeit disciples. Yet a blind beggar A blind beggar. This Bartimaeus shows himself to be a true disciple of Jesus. And in Bartimaeus. We see three traits of true disciples of Jesus Christ. And these three traits will form the outline of our sermon this morning so that you have an idea of where we're at in the sermon, so that you kind of understand, hey He's made it through two points. We've only got one more to go. We can make it. We can persevere with joy, even. Right? What are the three traits that we see in Bartimaeus this morning? First, True disciples correctly identify Jesus. Second, true disciples recognize their need for mercy And third, true disciples follow Jesus wherever he goes. So first. True disciples correctly identify Jesus. Why don't you just go ahead and look down with me at the passage? Look at verse 46. We see that Jesus and his disciples come to Jericho. So back at the beginning of chapter 10, they left the region of Galilee on their journey to Jerusalem, which was the capital of Judea. Jesus has the final events of his life in mind where he's going to go to the cross in Jerusalem, but they need to travel south To the region of Judea, and in traveling south, they come to the city of Jericho. If you're familiar with the Old Testament story of Jericho from the book of Joshua. This is basically the same city. I say basically because uh the city that Jesus would have been in in his time was about a mile south. of the original city because the original city uh had been destroyed, uh but a second Jericho was built just south of the original site. And you see there, Mark doesn't tell us anything that happened while Jesus was in Jericho, but instead focuses on something that happened as they were leaving the city. We see in verse 46 that as he was leaving the city A blind beggar named Bartimaeus was sitting by the roadside. Now what is a blind beggar doing by the roadside? Well, if you just think about this It would probably make sense to you. Beggars would sit on the entryways and the exitways, the roads leading into and going out of major cities. Uh they did not have uh social systems and structures in place to take care of them, and so many people were cast upon the mercy of others in order to get by. And so beggars who were uh for s you know if it was a physical cause like Bartimaeus, is he's blind, he's unable to work, if for some reason they were uh disabled or or or couldn't work for some reason. They had to cast themselves on the mercy of others in order to get by, and that's what Bartimaeus is doing. He's sitting at the exit way or the road leaving leaving Jericho and he's asking for mercy from others. Whether he would have received money or food, we don't know. It's probably a mix of both, but that's what he would have been doing there. Now look at verse 47. Because Bartimaeus is blind, he can't see who's walking by him. So he's really dependent upon others to tell him what's going on. And what he hears is that Jesus of Nazareth is passing By. Now we've seen many times throughout Mark's gospel how Jesus' fame spread over the entire region surrounding Galilee. So it was a fairly large region. His fame had spread to the north. And the northeast to Tyre and Sidon and Caesarea Philippi. His fame had spread to the east, to the Decapolis, his fame, his fame had spread to the south To Judea, people had heard all about the amazing works that Jesus was doing. And Bartimaeus is no different. People around him had heard, hey, this is Jesus of Nazareth. The guy we've been hearing about, he is in Jericho. He's walking by right now. These crowds were flocking to him. You see that there was even a great crowd around him in verse 46. Bartimaeus had clearly heard these stories about how Jesus had healed others, possibly even heard that Jesus had healed others of blindness, and now he knows I can find this same healing from Jesus of Nazareth. So what's he do? Look at verse forty seven. He cries out Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. It's surprisingly people tell him to be quiet. We don't know why. They're just kind of mercilessly telling him to be quiet. Then he says again, son of David, have mercy on me. And this is the first time in Mark's gospel that anyone has called Jesus the son of David. Why is that significant? Because in Scripture, the title, Son of David, is an explicitly messianic title. To call Jesus the son of David is to correctly identify him as the long-awaited offspring of King David. It's to correctly identify him as the one who would be God's own son, the one who would sit upon an eternal throne, ruling o ruling as Lord over all creation. It's to correctly identify him as the king who would come. Now I just want you to see something about what Mark's doing here. This is the first time anyone in the Gospel of Mark has called Jesus the son of David, which means he's the long-awaited king who's come to sit upon his throne. And what happens in the very next passage that we're going to look at in a couple weeks? You see the triumphal entry of the king riding upon a colt. into his city, to go up on his throne. Do you see how the the the theme is starting to shift to focus to focus on Jesus' Lordship, His kingship over the earth. But we're going to see what type of king Jesus is. To call Jesus the Son of David is to correctly identify him as God in the flesh, the one who is utterly unique and completely unlike any other leader of any other world religion. John mentioned this morning we were giving a book away called Who is Jesus? It's the most important question you can ask because how you answer that question literally determines your eternal fate. Who do you say that Jesus is this morning? That's a question I want you to consider. Who is Jesus? We live in a pluralistic culture. We believe that all religions have similar claims on the truth, and Jesus is just regarded as only one among many wise teachers. So you would hear people in our culture say something like, Yeah, well he had good and wise things to say for sure, but he only has a slice of the truth. And we should look to other religious leaders as well I wonder if that's how you view him this morning. Is that what you would say about Jesus? Do you think that he is any different from Mohammed or Buddha or Gandhi? And if so, in what way? So many people like to focus on the similarities between Jesus' teachings and the teachings of other religious leaders, and then they conclude from those similarities that they all essentially taught the same things. But the reality is The similarities between what Jesus taught and what other religions taught are similar superficial at best. Yes Yes, Jesus taught us to love our neighbors as ourselves, and other religions have similar types of golden Rules, other types of similar teachings, but that doesn't mean that Jesus isn't unique among the religious leaders of the world Why do I say that? First, from a Christian perspective, it is not surprising that other religions have small similarities in certain moral teachings. Why do I say that? Because God's moral law is written upon the hearts of all humans. And so we're not surprised when we find people of other religions who believe something like the Golden Rule. But second Jesus' uniqueness is most clearly seen in the very obvious and vast differences in his teachings from the teachings of other religious leaders. Consider some of these. He alone claimed Literally claimed to be one with the Father. Jesus alone claimed to be God in the flesh. Jesus alone claimed to be eternally existent. He alone taught that the only way for man to be forgiven of his sins was through turning from sin and trusting in his coming sacrifice upon the cross as payment for sin. He alone taught that all men would face eternal punishment or eternal reconciliation with God based on their response to him. He alone taught that he would come again to judge the living and the dead And he alone taught that the proof that all this was true was that he would one day rise from the dead after being crucified upon the cross. Consider the vast differences between what Jesus taught and what other religious leaders taught. The differences are unbelievably large. They are not similar in any ways in that sense. And his uniqueness doesn't end with his teachings. His life was utterly unique. No other religious leader was born of a virgin. No other leader lived a sinless life. Their sins, other religious leaders, are in fact well documented. No other leader caused paralyzed people to walk. Or stopped storms by speaking, or raised the dead, or willingly offered his life to pay for sins, or then got up from the dead after dying upon the cross. Only Jesus has done these things because Jesus is the utterly unique Son of David and Son of God, whom the Father has offered us as a sacrifice for sins. Jesus alone is the way and the truth and the life. He alone is the one who taught that nobody comes to the Father in heaven, the God who exists except through Him Jesus has not come to be added to our collection of worldviews and the different bits of different religions that we like to take and weave together. According to Jesus, if that's how you regard him, then you haven't correctly identified him. You haven't correctly identified him as the son of David, the true king, who will reign and is reigning eternally. And if you haven't correctly identified Jesus, then you aren't his disciple. And if you aren't his disciple, according to Jesus, You're still dead in your trespasses and sins and under God's just judgment. So my encouragement to you today would be to correctly identify Jesus Call out to him like Bartimaeus. Call him the Son of David, the Lord over all, and give your life to following him. Correctly identifying Jesus is a trait of a true disciple. But second. True disciples recognize their need for mercy. Look again at verses 47 and 48 Notice what Bartimaeus asks for. He says, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And then again, after being told to be quiet, he cries out even louder, son of David, have mercy on me. I mean that when you look at a passage like this, if you're trying to, when you're studying a passage in the Bible and you're trying to figure out what is the main point of the passage, what is this trying to teach? me. When you see something repeated like this boldly, back to back, you can know that one of the main points of the passage for you is that you should understand that Jesus is the son of David and you should be like Bartimaeus and cry out to him for mercy. That's one of the reasons that I think Mark records his repetition of it. Bartimaeus cries out for mercy. To have mercy on someone is to show compassion or forgiveness towards them when it's in your power to punish or harm them Right? Or you can understand it a slightly different way. You can understand mercy as extending help to the helpless when it's in your power to help. And Bartimaeus is calling for Jesus to show him this type of mercy. Look at verse 51. Bartimaeus is brought to Jesus. And Jesus asks him what he wants. And he says, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. The word translated rabbi is a term of extreme reverence used in Jewish literature to address God, which just underscores Jesus's Bartimaeus's estimation of Jesus. But more important than what he calls him here is what he asks him for. Rabbi, let me recover my sight. I want you to see what Mark is doing here in the way that he has arranged his gospel. I think this is important for us to see kind of bigger patterns in gospels because they teach us some awesome and wonderful truths. We've been in a section of teaching in Mark's gospel in which the dominant theme is. . Discipleship, yes, it's been working. Praise the Lord. Lord, thank you for that. Uh the that's a section on of teaching on discipleship, right? And this section of teaching on discipleship began with Peter's confession of Jesus as the Christ at the end of chapter 8. And that section is is largely coming to an end. in our passage this morning. But I want you to see right before the section of teaching on discipleship began, there was another healing. Can anybody tell me what happened in that healing? Does anyone remember? You can just look back in your Bible if you want. You don't have to like stare at me. Does anyone know what type of healing happened right before Peter confesses Jesus as the Christ? A blind man was healed. A blind man was healed before the teaching on discipleship begins, and a blind man is healed when the teaching on discipleship ends. Mark is framing for us this teaching on discipleship. He's trying to show us that true disciples see Jesus for who he really is, and true disciples see themselves for who they really are. They need mercy. Bartimaeus shows us the mercy, but I want us to peel back another layer of what I think is going on here that I just think is is so cool. As I study the Bible, I see these things. I'm like, I want to share this with somebody. The healing of the blind man at the end of chapter 8 is unlike any other healing in the Gospels. Can anybody tell me why Why is that healing unlike any other healing in the Gospels? It's gradual. It's the only healing that took Jesus two tries. And we said back when we preached on that back when I preached on that passage, this wasn't because Jesus wasn't good at healing. He's trying to show what is actually happening in the lives of the disciples through the healing of this blind man. He touches the blind man once, and the blind man says, I see people walking around, but they look like trees. They look blurry. Then he touches them again and he heals them completely. Right after that, Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ. So they're starting to see Jesus with blurry vision. But what then happens? What do we learn about the disciples in the rest of chapters 8, 9, and 10 in this section of teaching on discipleship? We learn that they still don't get it. They fight with one another. They don't understand Jesus' teaching on his need to die and rise from the dead. We don't get it. Why is he saying these things? They compete sinfully with each other. They don't have faith. They drive kids away. They're just making mistake after mistake. But I want you to see the way that Mark really puts this contrast between the disciples and Bartimaeus in a big red flashing light. Notice again. Notice again the question that Jesus asked Bartimaeus. Look at verse 51. Jesus says to him, What do you want me to do for you? Where has Jesus asked that question before? In the very the previous passage, the very last passage. He asked his disciples, they came to him, James and John, came seeking to serve themselves. And Jesus said to them, What do you want me to do for you? Word for word, the exact same question. And what did James and John say? We want power. We want glory. You're the king. We want to sit at your right hand and your left. We want to be the ones in power. You see what James and John are asking for? But notice Jesus asks the very same question to Barnamaeus: What do you want me to do for you? As compared to my disciples. And what does Bartimaeus say? Have mercy on me. You see the difference between Bartimaeus and the disciples? They are still concerned with themselves. They are still concerned with power and prestige and getting their own way. But a true disciple is a disciple who comes to Jesus and says, I don't care about myself anymore. I need mercy. And you have it. That's what Mark is wanting us to see in this healing of Bartimaeus. Mark punctuates the spiritual blindness of the disciples to their own need by contrasting them with a man who, though he was physically blind, saw both Jesus and himself with complete clarity. True disciples recognized their need. For mercy. Brothers and sisters in Christ, I want to ask you: do you recognize this morning that you are in need of mercy from God? If you are alive and breathing and sitting in a chair this morning, it doesn't matter if you follow Jesus or not, you are in need of mercy from God. And we praise God that Jesus has that mercy and can give that mercy to us. But a question I want to ask you is: when you pass through a room When you walk through a room, whether it's here or at home or you're out with friends, when you walk through a room, do you leave behind the aroma of someone who recognizes that before anything else they're in need of mercy from God. Is that the aroma that you leave behind? And so when a person says like what hey Mike just walked through the room, what do we what what did what was that like? What was that aroma like? What does that aroma smell like when somebody recognizes they need mercy? It smells like patience. Because patient people recognize that God has shown them mercy by being patient with them. It smells like gentleness. Because gentle people recognize that God has shown them mercy by being gentle with them. It smells like peacefulness and kindness because peaceful and kind people recognize that God has shown them mercy by extending peace and kindness to them. Think of all the New Testament letters that open up with the words Grace, mercy, and peace to you. He shows us peace, so we should be peace-loving people. That's what it looks like to be merciful. It smells like a person whose speech is seasoned with salt rather than with harshness or criticism or gossip or slander because they know that God has shown them mercy by not pointing out all their faults, of which there are many in all of our lives. We are people who need mercy. What aroma do you leave behind? And what does that say about your own recognition of your need for mercy from God? You see, the difficulty is that most of us are unaware of the aroma we leave behind. We're not very good at seeing ourselves clearly. So would those closest to you describe you as a merciful person? Ask the people today who are closest to you, say, hey look, I just want you to be honest with me, please. I'm gonna accept whatever you say to me. I'm gonna go to God, pray about it, and help him, you know, ask him to help me see the truth. What would they say about you? Would they describe you as a merciful person? And if not, why not? Think of the mercy that we have been shown in the gospel. We came into this world in bondage to sin We waged war against God by personally choosing to rebel against him. We were enemies of God, dead in trespasses, but God made us alive together with Christ. Why Do you ever ask God, God, why did you show me mercy? Have you ever asked him that? If you haven't asked him that, then I don't think you've grasped the depth of the mercy that you actually needed. Friends, we were dead in trespasses and sins. He had no reason whatsoever to show us mercy. There was nothing lovely in us that would cause him to love us, but he chose to love us because of the depth of his mercy. The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate, the merciful, the gracious God, showing love to thousands upon thousands. That is the mercy that we have received, the mercy that Dave was praising God for. Amazing grace, right? Amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found. I was blind like Bartimaeus, but now I see. And why do I see? And why do you see if you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ? Because God had mercy on you. We are in need of mercy. We need his mercy for our faithlessness. We need his mercy for our prayerlessness Our contentiousness, our sinful fears and anxieties, our anger, our grumbling, our complaining, our judgmental spirits, our rudeness, our harshness. The list goes on and on, right? I'm just describing myself This is all of us. We all struggle with this, and the list of reasons that we need mercy for could go on all day. And because of that, I want you to see the glorious encouragement that this passage has for us. Look at verse 49. Notice how Jesus responds to Bartimaeus. Bartimaeus cries for mercy and Jesus stops. He stops. Other people say, hey, be quiet. You're a blind beggar. You got nothing to offer here. You're just a person sitting on the side of the road. But Jesus stops What stops God in his tracks when men and women and children cry out to him for mercy? God isn't stopped in his tracks by our wisdom or our skills or the fact that we're good at our jobs or our parenting or we're an amazing spouse or friend. What stops him in his tracks is when we cry out to him for mercy. And when you cry out to God for mercy, look at how He will treat you. He will stop and He will turn and He will listen. He will say, Come to me. Come to me. I will listen to you and I will show you the mercy that you need. He won't pass by when you call out to him for mercy. He's not going to keep on walking like you're not there. He stops for those who recognize their need for mercy. I don't know how many of you who are followers of Jesus You know, you you you you get down on yourself because I haven't read the Bible enough recently. I've been praying enough recently, or I've been really rude and sinned against people, or I've been just giving into this same sin uh and and I'm really struggling against it. And you start to think God is gonna be he's gonna be upset with me. He's gonna stand at a distance. He's gonna cross his arms. He's going to kind of frown at me and I'm going to say, can I, can I come into your presence? And he's going to say, well, uh, yeah, sure. Fine. You can come into my presence. That's how we that's how we start to view God. But that is not what this passage is teaching us. God stops for those who need mercy. He turns to those and says, Please come into my presence. In fact, Jesus is like the prodigal father, even though it's teaching us about the Father in heaven. The Son is in a distance. Who knows that the father or thinks that the father isn't going to be happy to him? And what does the father do? He runs to the son. He knows that he needs mercy and he runs joyfully to help That is how God treats us even when we are struggling with sin and we cry out to Him for mercy. He will always welcome you into His presence if you recognize your need for mercy, and His mercy is offered to you today. Whether you follow Jesus or not, true disciples recognize their need for mercy. And finally, true disciples follow Jesus wherever he goes. Look at verse 52. After Bartimaeus asked for his sight, Jesus says to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. Now some of you, if you follow Jesus And you struggle in any way with a physical disease or disability or disorder, may wonder why God hasn't healed you. Does that mean there's something wrong with your faith? Does that mean that God doesn't love you? Uh I just want to say this briefly. You know, there are some uh even so-called preachers who even teach that if we aren't healed of our physical ailments, that it's a sign that our faith is defective. But But nothing, hear me, nothing could be further from the truth. It is not the strength of our faith that heals us or saves us. It is always the strength of the Savior who our faith is in. If you have faith like a mustard seed in the all-sufficient Savior, then you have all-sufficient faith. Your faith is not defective in any way. In the gospels. The healings that Jesus accomplishes are meant to authenticate his ministry as the Son of David, the Messiah who would come. And when he arrived, the Old Testament predicted, he would give sight to the blind, he would cause the lame to walk, the deaf to hear, and the mute to speak, all of which Jesus has done And there's a unique concentration of healings during the life of Jesus and during his ministry to prove that he is, in fact, the Son of God. Now that's not to say That God can't heal or doesn't heal today, far from it, but it is to say that the sheer number of healings in the Gospels and then shortly after in the book of Acts Serve to authenticate Jesus' identity and to affirm or confirm the truth of the gospel message that was being preached. says nothing about his love for you if you're struggling with physical ailments or the strength of your faith. God has promised to give you his grace each day, grace that we know is sufficient And he's promised that one day all will be made new, including our broken bodies. And on that day there will be no more aches. No more pains, no more sickness, no more death, and no more sin. And that day is coming for all of us today when all is made new, when everyone is healed who's put their faith in Jesus Christ. But I want us to see the main point of this passage, the main point of this verse. Jesus tells Bartimaeus in verse 52, he says to him. Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And Bartimaeus, you notice in the passage, instead of going his own way, follows Jesus on his way. He's the only person healed by Jesus in Mark's gospel who after being healed by Jesus follows him That's not to say I'm not implying by that that the other people didn't have true faith. I'm sure that there were true followers of Jesus Christ, especially when he tells people that their faith has made them well What do I want us to note here? I want us to note that Mark is bringing to a sharp point what Mark, that Jesus is bringing to a sharp point what Mark is trying to press home at the end of this section of teaching on discipleship. And that is that true disciples follow Jesus wherever he goes. For Bartimaeus, interestingly This would have meant that he would have had to have leave left behind his life as a beggar and embark on a life of work. Think about this. Bartimaeus has been blind, likely for years, maybe for his whole life. We don't know if recovering sight meant that he was once had sight and then it went away. And then it was restored again. But I think it's right to understand that Bartimaeus had been begging and used to begging for a long time. He had grown accustomed. uh to this way of life. But when Jesus calls him to follow him as his disciple, when he opens his eyes and gives him physical sight and spiritual sight, that means that Bartimaeus would have to leave behind his life of begging. We see in 2 Thessalonians 3, Paul teaches about the Christian life. And he says, disciples of Christ should work. If a man has physical capacity, or a woman has physical capacity to work, and they choose not to work, they will not eat. They should not eat. And so Bartimaeus here is going to be posed with a choice of following Jesus, though I'm sure I want to give up this life of begging. This is a hard life, a difficult life, but just think of human nature. Of all the types of habits and thoughts and experiences that would have settled into his life and his pattern of thinking, that would have been super difficult for him to leave behind when he becomes a disciple of Jesus Christ. Jesus is now calling him to a more difficult path in some ways of having to work to follow him as his disciple. Right? We can assume that Bartimaeus would have been thrilled to regain his sight and not to have to beg anymore, but we know human nature. This would not have been easy for him. What's my point? What's my point All of us have things that we are called to leave behind in order to follow Jesus This is part of what it means to call Jesus Lord. We're saying that we're no longer lords of our own lives, and we're choosing to submit to how He's called us to live in His Word, knowing that the way that He's called us to live is far better than any way that we would have chosen for ourselves, even if it's harder for us at first. I remember some of the changes That I had to make in my life when I first became a Christian. And I just thought I just have no idea how I'm going to give up this thing that has been part of my life for so long. How am I going to do this? How am I going to do this? For some of us, it means leaving behind our desire for fame and notoriety and wealth. Right, for others it may look like leaving behind being controlled by fear or lust or anger. For some others, it may look like leaving behind things like alcohol, drugs, or a self-medicating lifestyle. Kids even, if you think about following Jesus. I I know at that age, when I was that age, I wanted to be liked by all and liked by so many. I wanted to be popular. It's one of the things I really struggle with as a kid and I was willing to do whatever it took to be popular. But when you choose to follow Jesus, Jesus is going to ask you, hey, you need to leave behind wanting to be liked by all. You choose instead to be loved by me. Right? And the love that he gives is so much greater than anything this world can give. But what I'm saying here is that it's going to look different in everyone's life. But the call to follow him on his path is unequivocal, right? It's an either-or, not a both and we like to think, well, there's got to be a third way. Right? We can find the the via media, right? But following Jesus is not a both and. It's an either-or. You can't both keep your old way of living and follow him You either keep your old way of living or you follow him. And giving it up will be hard. That's why the Bible describes giving up our old ways of living as putting them to death. Right? But Jesus doesn't call us to put old ways of living to death just to be a killjoy. In fact, he calls us to follow him and put to death old ways of living so that we can truly experience life as it was meant to be lived. Think about what Jesus says in the Gospel of John. I came that they might have life and have it abundantly. Have it to the fullness. If you want the fullness of life, it's not going to be found in consuming all of your desires and satisfying all of your desires, but in denying self, taking up cross, and following Jesus Christ God created us with the intention to have that abundant life, but our sins have separated us from God. And so Jesus The son of David and son of God came to lead us back into that abundant life. But to do that Jesus as the Lord of life would himself have to lay down his life and die. You see, when when Bartimaeus chooses to follow Jesus on the way, The way that Mark is talking about on the way is the way to Jerusalem and the way to the cross. Imagine that. Bartimaeus says, hey, give me sight. I'm going to follow you. And Jesus opens his eyes and Bartimaeus is like, the cross. God, not what I thought. Right? I don't know how many of you have had that experience where you thought like I've been saved from my sins. Glory, glory, hallelujah. And there's a sense you have glory, glory, hallelujah. But now Jesus is calling you. Here's the cross Take it up and follow me. Right? It will be difficult. It may not be what Bartimaeus expected. It may not be what any of us expect. We may think that when Jesus Opens our eyes that we'll see comfort and ease, but often we find the way ahead has gotten more difficult. But that's been Jesus' point in this entire section on discipleship. Whoever would come after me, let him take up his cross and follow me. But we also know for thinking about the difficulty of the Christian life that that is not all that Jesus has taught That's not at all Jesus has taught in this section. Jesus has also covered this section three different times with predictions of his death. But what does each prediction of his death end with? A prediction of his resurrection. Each prediction has ended not at the cross, but at the empty tomb. The resurrection life that lies beyond the cross. We may have to take up our cross for a while in this life, but in the age to come, it will seem like a small thing. God has promised to all true disciples that they too, as Jesus rose from the dead, will rise with Jesus Christ in the end. And we will see him. Finally see him. Like Bartimaeus having his eyes open for the first time, we will see him as he is. Friends, we may have to take up the cross for a little while in this life, but take heart. In the end, Jesus will rise. And we too will rise with them. True disciples, correctly identify Jesus recognize their need for mercy and will follow Jesus wherever he goes. Are you a true disciple? Ask yourself that question. Are you a true disciple? That's great. Our Father in heaven, we come to you and we ask for mercy, Lord. Have mercy on us. We are a people who are in need. We pray, Father, that for any who are here today who are not truly following the Lord Jesus Christ, that you would have mercy by opening their eyes Helping them to see that Jesus truly is the Son of God, the risen and reigning Savior of all mankind. Help us all to see and recognize our need for mercy. Would you even show us the ways in our daily lives in which we show ourselves to be merciless and teach us the way that That the mercy that you have shown us that overflows and abounds to us, the way that that should overflow and abound to others in our own lives. And help us. Father, help us to follow Jesus on the way to the cross and to remember that behind the cross and beyond the cross is the empty tomb. Help us to hold fast to our hope in the resurrection, and we pray that you would send Lord Jesus to return today to return for his people. And we pray this in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.