So I want to encourage you to open up to Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 to 14, which we've been looking at for the past five weeks. Colossians, the letter to the Colossians, was written by the Apostle Paul to the church in Colossae in modern-day Turkey. And Paul was writing to them to encourage them to continue in the faith and to continue trusting in Jesus' finished work on the cross And in the resurrection. And the reason that he was writing them to continue in the faith was because and to continue trusting in the gospel is because other religious teachers were telling them that if they wanted to please God, that they needed to do more than just trust in Jesus' death and resurrection. They were being told that if they wanted to please God, they needed to obey the Jewish law and observe certain religious holidays and feasts. Other religious teachers were coming along and were telling them that they needed to sell all their goods and worship angels and have visions if they wanted to please God. And so so Paul writes. To dispel all these competing claims of how to live a life that pleases God and to describe for them clearly what type of life God is pleased with. And we see this clear and wonderful description in verses 9 to 14. Why don't you go ahead and look down there with me as I read these verses for us? And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. Bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, For all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Over the last four sermons in Colossians, we've looked at one specific aspect of the type of life that pleases God each week. And last week we saw that the type of life that pleases God looks like enduring with joy. And this week we see that it looks like a life of patience. With joy. Where do we see that? Why don't you look down again with me at verse 11? Paul says Being strengthened with all power according to God's glorious might. For what, Paul? For what purpose? What do we need to be strengthened for? For all endurance and patience with joy. The type of life that pleases God is a life of endurance and patience with joy. Now I said last week that endurance and patience are very similar though not identical, right? I don't think that Paul is saying the exact same thing two different ways. While there is certainly overlap in the meaning of these words, I'm going to make a simple and yet crucial distinction for our time together this morning. And what is that distinction? It is that endurance refers primarily to enduring difficult circumstances, and patience refers primarily to forbearing and being patient with difficult people. So, what Paul is saying is that the type of life that pleases God is one of enduring difficult circumstances and being patient with difficult people and doing both of those things with joy. God is pleased when we are joyfully patient towards difficult people God is pleased when we are long suffering with one another. God is pleased when we respond to provocation with grace and patience. rather than annoyance and anger. Just think about the reason that patience is even necessary in human relationships. The reason Patience is necessary is because sin has corrupted human relationships. And we see this right away in the book of Genesis, right? After Adam and Eve sinned against God, rejecting his instruction and deciding for themselves what was good for them, what do they do? They immediately turn on one another. Right? The entrance of sin into the world corrupted their relationship with one another, and the love, peace, and unity that they had experienced was replaced with hostility. Fear and blame shifting and the corruption they experienced in their relationship extended to all of mankind. Right? So extensive and radical was that corruption that one of their sons, Cain, murdered his brother Abel because he was jealous of him. Right? Sins, pervasive infection of the human heart produced in the heart things like anger Wrath, malice, bitterness, jealousy, envy, unkindness, condescension, rudeness, harshness, arrogance, pride, and so on But sin didn't only produce those things in the human heart, sin also corrupted our mental faculties. This is what theologians call the noetic effects of sin. You and I, to put it plainly, are not as sharp as we should be Even the smartest of us are like dull knives. We misunderstand one another. We misinterpret one another. We miscommunicate with each other and so on. And so what happens when you combine indwelling sin with corrupted mental faculties leading to all sorts of miscommunication? You have a perfect recipe for conflict. We all, at some point or another in our lives, either have been or will be on the receiving end and the giving end of outbursts of anger, hurtful comments Passive-aggressive behavior, condescending remarks, bad driving, screaming kids, inconsiderate roommates, Annoying neighbors, spouses who make the same mistake over and over again, bad customer service, and on and on and on the list Goes. We are provided numerous opportunities daily to be provoked to impatience towards difficult people, but God calls us to show patience towards difficult people and that patience pleases him. When your roommate leaves dishes in the sink again. God is pleased when you take that deep breath. Okay, Lord, I'm not going to say what I want to say. And He's pleased when you put off the impatience that you want to show and instead show them grace again When your spouse forgets the exact thing you told them not to forget at the store, God is pleased when you swallow your condescending remarks That are starting to make their way out of your mouth and you show patience towards them again. When someone cuts you off on the highway, God is pleased when you put off the choice words that you want to speak and instead choose to overlook it. When your husband doesn't show the sensitivity that God commands, or your wife doesn't show the respect that God commands, God is pleased when you choose patience rather than rolling your eyes, being passive aggressive, or just straight up flying off the handle in anger. Right? We could come up with different scenarios all day. Because all day we are faced with opportunities to either choose impatience or patience. And God is pleased when his people choose patience. Patiently forbearing with difficult people pleases God. Consider the reasons why our patience pleases God. Patience pleases God because patience is wise Patience is a form of wisdom. Wise people are patient people. Patent people are wise people. Patience is in 8K ultra high def diff definition display of wisdom. Proverbs 1429. Whoever is patient has great understanding, but one who is quick-tempered is foolish. I don't know about you or me, but I am too often the foolish man with my quick temper. Augustine, the great African theologian, put it quite simply when he said: patience. Is the companion of wisdom. Patience pleases God because patient people show that they trust God's wisdom over their own. After all, Proverbs is wisdom from God for daily living You see, man's wisdom leads to contention, conflict, and division because in our quote-unquote wisdom, we respond to evil with evil. You hurt me, I hurt you. You make me feel dumb, I'm gonna make you feel dumb. You make the mistake of annoying me, and I will ensure that you don't make that mistake again But what happens when we choose harshness, rudeness, passive aggressiveness, and condescension instead of patience? Well what does God's word say? Proverbs 51, 15, verse 1. A soft answer, a patient answer, turns away wrath. But a harsh word stirs up anger. When we choose impatience, when we choose to give vent to our impatience, we are foolishly choosing. Ourselves, we are choosing to make the situation worse rather than better. And we all know this, right? Has impatience ever for you produced the results that you would actually like to see? Impatience never brings unity, never brings understanding, and never brings love. And even if it causes the person who is frustrating us to stop doing what they're doing, it creates hardness in them towards us. It stirs up anger, whether they show that anger or not, and that anger creates friction in our relationships and ultimately costs us in the long run. There is simply nothing wise about impatience. And not only is patience wise, it's also persuasive Proverbs 25, 15. With patience, a ruler may be persuaded And a soft tongue will break a bone. The image of a soft tongue breaking a bone is to show how powerful soft words are, not how harmful they are. But notice that it is with patience. That a ruler may be persuaded. In your communication with others, when you are tempted to impatiently vent, insult, be rude, and do those types of things, you are shooting yourself in the foot. You will persuade no one of anything if you are impatient. If you want to winsomely win someone to your way of thinking, you must be patient. And even if you never win them to your way of thinking, the fact that you did it with patience will ultimately strengthen your relationship with them. This is just how God has created the world to work. We can either work the way God has created the world to work or work against it by being impatient. And that's just foolish to do. Patience is persuasive because patience is wise, and because patience is wise, patience pleases God. But patience also pleases God because patience is a form of love. In 1 Corinthians 13, the famous chapter on love, when Paul sets out to define and describe love, what is the first thing that he says? Love is, go ahead and shout it out, love is. Patience. Say like love is love is patient. Patience pleases God Because patience is a manifestation of the type of love that God commands of his people. The type of love that he commands us to show to one another. Do you want to know if you are a loving person? How are you doing with your patience? How are you doing showing patience to others? And look especially at how you're doing with showing patience to those you spend the most time with, right? It's so easy to put on a patient face with a stranger or neighbor because you just don't spend a whole lot of time around them. But how are you doing with those you're closest to and rubbing shoulders with most often? Think about how patience is a form of love. It's a display of the type of love that God shows to us. When we're patient with those who hurt us, We're simply showing the type of love, a shadow, a small picture of the type of love that God shows to his people, who offend him regularly by our sins, yet he continues to patiently forbear with us in love. Patience pleases God because patience is a form of love. But ultimately Our patience pleases God because it's a display of His divine nature. God, you gotta understand these when when Paul is listing off these things like bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God and enduring and showing patience. God didn't just think of like he didn't just grab this bucket of self-contained virtues that existed outside of himself and just randomly reach in and think, oh yeah, patience. That would be good for me to for me to command my people to do, right? Right? These virtues, this patience that God calls us to, every fruit of the Spirit that God commands his people to put on, like patience, flows out of his very nature. God commands us to be patient, and God is pleased when his people are patient because he himself is patient. It is of his very essence, his very nature to be patient. Think about this. When God reveals himself to Moses in Exodus, what does he say about himself? He says, the Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God Slow to anger. That is who God is. He's not just describing some attributes that are outside of himself. He's saying, This is who I am. I am slow to anger. Anger. God is eminently patient. Right? And he's not patient because he recognizes patience as a good virtue outside of himself. He is the source of all goodness. Patience flows from his very nature. Though patience is a virtue for us, it is a perfection in God. It is who he is. And since we have been united to God through faith in Jesus We have become partakers of his divine nature. We have become partakers of who God is. Not that we become divine ourselves, we don't become little gods, but that God has granted us the great gift of making us more like himself. And so as we grow in patience, we are becoming more and more like God The pursuit of patience, the pursuit of growing impatience is a pursuit of God Himself It is who he is. When you are pursuing, growing in patience, you are pursuing and becoming more like God. That is why patience pleases God. God delights to see his children displaying more and more of his attributes, which means he delights to see us grow in patience. So how are you doing? How are you doing with patience in your life Do you regularly find yourself getting annoyed or being frustrated with others? I do. Do you regularly communicate with harshness or shortness? Leave me alone. Do you yell or scream at others Do the people around you walk on eggshells? They never know when you're just gonna like snap at them. Now these are signs that you probably aren't a patient person. Ask the people around you who know you well how they think you're doing with patience, and if you ask. Be prepared to really listen to the answer. Listen, patience, impatience is something all of us Patience, not impatience. We don't need to grow in impatience. Patience is something all of us need to grow in. So if you ask and someone says you do need to grow in patience, guess what? You're not alone. Everyone here needs to grow in patience. And this is where we see how God uses the church to help us grow in patience. Last week we talked about how important the church is in our endurance, but it's not just our endurance. God uses the church to also make us more patient. How does he do that? Well, when we put our faith in Jesus, we aren't just united to him, to Jesus. We're also united to his people. And God intends for us to work out our faith in the midst of a community of believers, believers who are different from us. Ethnic differences, cultural differences, political differences, socioeconomic differences, educational differences, and basic differences of opinion on all types of things. And those differences Provide countless opportunities for us to respond with either impatience or patience. But it's not just the fact that in the church we are surrounded by people who are different than us In the church, we're also surrounded by people who are difficult to interact with. She talks way too much. He's always complaining about his life. She's always late. He never smiles. She smiles way too much. He is way too emotional. She's just really weird. The church is a community of difficult people. Now, some of you might be sitting there saying in your mind, that's right, John, tell them. There's some difficult people here. That's what you're thinking. I'm talking to you too I saw someone on Twitter say recently, love difficult people because you're one of them. And that is the truth All of us are difficult to others in different ways. As glaring as the deficiencies of others are to you. So yours are to them. The church, in that sense, is a giant furnace Where difficult people rub shoulders with one another regularly, and as we do that, there will inevitably be conflict. which gives us the glorious opportunity to work for the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace by repenting when we've sinned. Asking for forgiveness, extending forgiveness, and through it all, growing in more and more patience. And as we do that, God is pleased. And as we're thinking about how we might grow in patience, there are two things that I want to point out That I think will spur each of us on to become more and more patient towards others. The first, and I heard this from Ed Welch is to recognize that every Christian is simultaneously a sinner and a sufferer Because we live in a fallen world, we are all sinners by nature, but because we live in a fallen world, we all suffer as well in different ways. Now, how is that going to help you grow in patience? Towards others. Well, here's how. When we rub shoulders with difficult people and are on the receiving end of unkindness from them, it can be really easy to only see the sin. in them to only view them as a sinner. That was sin. They were unkind. That was wrong. They need to repent. I'm offended. And indeed whatever they did may have been sin. But think about this. We all also suffer in different ways in this fallen world. We are all sufferers. Now, what happens to you and your response to that person when you find out that the person who was unkind to you Just received news that someone in their family passed away. Or that they just lost their job. Or their spouse just yelled at them Or they just received a really difficult diagnosis, or they suffer from chronic illness. Friends, these circumstances are not far-fetched. These are circumstances from our very own congregation Everyone in this church has hard things going on in their life. All of us are suffering in different ways. And I don't say this in order to excuse sin, to excuse unkindness, to excuse rudeness, but simply to encourage Christian charity Extend the benefit of the doubt. Oh, they were unkind to me, but man, there may be something going on in their life that I just don't know about. I have hard things going on in my life, and that suffering causes me to sin against others, and I want them to be patient with me in my sins. So I'm going to do the same for them when they are unkind to me Extend the benefit of the doubt. Show patience. Remember that every Christian is a sinner and a sufferer And the second thing that will help you grow in patience is remembering God's patience towards you. This is really the engine of our growth in all sanctification, including patience. Remembering the gospel and the good news of God's patience towards a rebellious and unworthy people. The patience of God towards his people is endlessly applicable. Friend, if you're here this morning and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, Uh it could be really easy to interpret what I'm saying as, you know, Christians just need to be good people. They just need to try hard to obtain virtues, virtues like patience. And that if you are a patient person, regardless of whether you worship Jesus then you and God are are are on good terms. But if that's what you're thinking that we're preaching this morning, I just want to point out to you that's not what the Bible teaches. If you don't trust in Jesus, if you haven't repented of your sins and put your faith in him, no amount of patience or other good virtues in your life can close the gap that exists between you and God. Your sins and my sins have created an infinite chasm between us. He is holy and we are not. And because he is a perfect and good judge, he is going to judge us for our sins, regardless of how many good works we've done. I mean, think about it. Like if if you were in court, And you were on trial for a specific crime that you actually committed and were guilty of, but you said to the judge, But I did all these other things that are good in life, and he just let you go. That would be a uh a miscarriage of justice. No, God Because God is perfect, He will punish us for the sins we have committed, regardless of how much patience we might have shown in other areas of our life or other good things that we have done. Friend, all of us, the Bible says, have sinned against God, fallen short of his glory, and are under his judgment. But the Bible teaches that God is patient God's kindness and patience are meant to lead you and I to repentance, to see that, oh my gosh, God has not judged me for my sins as he should He is so patient with me, I should turn and trust in him today. And if you do that, God will show patience and forgive you for all of your sins. I want to encourage you, if you don't follow Jesus, to turn to him today. Now for the Christian, I want you to consider his patience, God's patience towards you before he saved you. You want to grow in patience. Meditate on God's patience towards you before He saved you. Though you and I lived in darkness, though we openly rejected God and sinned against Him, God did not judge us as we deserved. He patiently bore with us, and not only did he bear with us, but then he chose to lavish his grace on us through his son, undeserved, unmerited. What is the motivation for your unmerited patience towards others? God's unmerited patience towards you. His patience towards us is the engine of all of our patience towards one another. It's the motivation I have received from God what I did not deserve, so I'm going to show to others what they do not deserve and hope that they show to me what I do not deserve. Think about God's um unbelievable patience. This is why Paul in 1 Timothy, when he's reflecting on his murderous life for uh before he became Christian before God saved him, he considers how long-suffering God was with him in his rebellion, and he calls the patience of Jesus perfect patience. Jesus was perfectly patient towards him. And that perfect patience that God displays towards his people does not end when he saves you. It continues even now. I know some of you have a hard time believing that. I have a hard time believing that. But God's perfect patience continues unabated even today to every single one of his people. Are you struggling with sin? God is perfectly patient towards you. Did you struggle to believe in him this week God is perfectly patient towards you. Have you struggled with impatience towards others this week God is perfectly patient with you. Psalm 103, which is written to God's people and which is meant to be read today by God's people, says this. It says he does not treat us as our sins deserve or repay us according to our iniquities For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him, as far as the east is from the west So far has he removed our transgressions from us as a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. Oh friend, that promise, if you are in Christ, is for you today. He does not treat you as your sins deserve or repay you according to your iniquities. That is saying God is perfectly patient towards you today. He's saying if you need my help To turn from sin and to become more patient, turn to me and ask. This is why Paul starts a verse by saying, Being strengthened with all power according to God's glorious might. Patience, friend, isn't going to come from your own willpower. It's going to come from God's glorious might. God's strength is what propels us towards patience. Patience with others. And if God is patient with us, how much more should we be patient with one another Dane Ortland said this, how we treat other Christians reveals how we believe, how we really believe way down deep, God treats us. And not even God responds with vengeance, anger, or impatience toward his own people. So why should we towards one another And friend, this will take time to grow in, as all growth in sanctification does. You're thinking, John, what do I need to do now if I'm going to grow in patience? Continue casting yourself on the mercy of God Continue pleading with God day in and day out for his patience, for his strength, so that you might grow in patience and continue meditating on what God has done for you and continue meditating on God's continued. perfect patience towards you in the gospel. Your growth in patience will occur slowly over time as the truths of the gospel sink not only into our mind, but into our hearts. and start to work their way out of our hands and how we interact with others. It's not an overnight fix. Nothing is in the Christian life. And we won't achieve perfect patience in this life. It won't be until the life to come that God brings us into glory and completes his work of sanctification. But friend, if you want to see God's omnipotent power on display in this congregation, What type of things would you expect to see happening? Lots of baptisms? Acquiring a building? Bursting at the seams and numbers, more and more people come into faith. Surely God's power can be shown in those ways. But do not miss what this passage is saying. When we see growth in patience, With one another, towards one another, from others in the church, we are witnessing the power of God's glorious might. My friend, continue to turn to God. Ask Him to grow us in that type of power, that we would have the power to display the type of patience that God has shown towards us, to one another. That he might be glorified, that the world around us might say, you worship a God that is different from us. Tell us about your Lord. And then we can tell them how good and patient our God is. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are a patient God. You are slow to anger. And we are so grateful that you are a God who is slow to anger We pray that you would continue in your perfect patience towards us. And we cast ourselves now, Lord, on your glorious might to be strengthened by you. So that we might be patient with joy towards one another. Oh Lord, we pray that you would help us to endure also into the appearing of your Son from heaven. To bring us into your glory, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen