Good morning. It's a pleasure to see you all here. I'm excited to open up God's Word with you and to hear what God has to say to us this morning. But before we begin, I want to pray for us one more time briefly, even thinking again about the promise from 1 John, that if we ask anything according to his will, we know that he hears us. What a wonderful promise that is to us. So let's pray that the Lord would bless our time now Heavenly Father, you say very clearly in your word that if we ask anything in accordance with your will, you hear us. And we have the requests that we have asked for. Our request this morning is simple. Your word is the truth. Sanctify us in your truth, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, I'd invite you to open with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 9. This morning we're going to be looking specifically at verses 14 to 29. If you don't have a Bible of your own, You can open up on the uh Pew Bible that we have there, the Black Pew Bible. Does somebody know what page Mark chapter 9 is on? Are you there in your. 844. You can find our passage on page 844 this morning. And if you don't have a copy of your own Bible, we want to invite you to take the copy that we provided. There's Nothing more in this world than we would want you to have than a copy of God's very own word. We believe that God has spoken only through and in the 66 books. of the Old and New Testaments, and we believe that you can hear him speak for yourself as you open his word. And so we'd ask you to take a copy for yourself if you don't have one. Oh, friends, it's been about three weeks since we were last in Mark's Gospel, so we want to basically try to understand where we are again in the Gospel of Mark to figure out what the context of Mark's Gospel is surrounding our passage. So that we can better understand what's going on this morning. Now you might remember if you've been here through our study through the Gospel of Mark That Mark's gospel is divided basically into two big halves. So the first eight chapters are the first half of Mark's gospel, and then chapters nine to sixteen are the second half of Mark's Gospel. And the climax of the first half of Mark's gospel comes when Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ. And that comes at the end of eight chapters of Jesus doing miracle after miracle after miracle. in order to testify to his identity as the Son of God. So when Peter finally confesses that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. It's like a hallelujah moment in the Gospel of Mark. We finally are meant to uh to see that the disciples have gotten and have understood who Jesus truly is. Now, if you look at the first eight chapters, they're dominated by that theme of identifying rightly who Jesus is as the Son of God. But as we transition into the second half of Mark's gospel, immediately following Peter's confession, Jesus' identity as the Son of God Takes a backseat to the main theme, which is what it means to follow Jesus as the Son of God. The last half of Mark's gospel is dominated by the theme of discipleship. Do you recall, as soon as Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ, what does Jesus do? He teaches his disciples that he must suffer many things And that if anyone wants to follow him, they too must take up their cross and self-sacrifice and self-denial and follow him Then you think about how difficult that would have been for the disciples to hear. We need to give up our lives to follow you. Why would we do that? Well, then what does Jesus do after he teaches them that? He takes them up on the mountain? Transfigures into his divine glory. It's kind of like the veil of his humanity is pulled back. Well, why does he do that? He does that to give his disciples hope That if they are going to lay down their lives in this life, if they are going to take up their cross in this life, they would see that in the life to come They would share in the glory of the Son of God. They would stand with him on the Mount of Transfiguration, as it were. But then you remember that the transfiguration account comes to an end. Now is not the time for glory. Now is the time for Jesus' disciples to follow him, to suffer To face demonic forces, to face oppression and opposition. And so Jesus walks his disciples back down the mountain And as they come down the mountain after showing them the hope that they would one day have in his presence, he's going to show them another thing that is crucial for them in their discipleship and their following him. And what does he teach them in our passage this morning? Well, he teaches them that if they are going to follow him, they will need to be characterized by faith. Faith. Our passage this morning is all about faith. So let me go ahead and read verses 14 to 29 for us, and then we'll dive in. This is God's word. And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and the scribes arguing with them. And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed and ran up to him and greeted him. And he asked them, What are you arguing about with them? And someone from the crowd answered him, teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams, and grinds his teeth, and becomes rigid. So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able. And he answered them, O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me. And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth. And Jesus asked his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood, and it has often cast him into fire and into water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, If you can, all things are possible for one who believes. Immediately, father of the child cried out and said, I believe. Help my unbelief. And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again. And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said, he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand. And lifted him up, and he arose. And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately. Why could we not cast it out? And he said to them, this kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer. We've already said that faith, faith is central to this passage, and I want us to look at three different aspects of faith in our passage this morning. So if you're taking notes, we're going to look at our passage in three points. First, the necessity of faith Second, the power of faith. And third, the practice of faith. The necessity of faith, the power of faith, and the practice of faith. So first, the necessity of So the passage this morning begins where the last passage left off. Jesus and his disciples, the three, Peter, James, and John, were on their way down the mountain after they had seen him transfigured. They were coming back to be reunited with the other nine disciples, and when they come back down the mountain, they find the disciples surrounded by a crowd and in the middle of an argument with the scribes. If you have been following along at any at all in Mark's gospel, then you know that this is not out of the ordinary. The scribes have been following Jesus and his disciples around, arguing with them and disputing with them at every point. And apparently, as Jesus gets closer to the crowd, I don't know how how far off he would have been, he catches their attention, and when they see him, they're greatly amazed by him and come running up to him and greet him. So the crowd of people surrounds Jesus. And since Jesus saw the scribes arguing with the disciples, surrounded by this crowd, he says to the scribes, Hey, hey, what what were you arguing with my disciples about? But before any of the scribes can answer, a man from the crowd speaks up. Look at verse what he says in verse 17. He says, teacher. I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute. And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down. And he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid We need to pause here and see how terrible this boy's condition is. And notice what Mark tells us, and it's what Matthew and Luke also tell us that the boy is possessed. by an evil spirit. I just want to pause real quick. Some people today, when they read Bible passages like this, assume that the people who lived in biblical times were just naive, right? They were looking for ways to explain the world around them, and since they couldn't explain how the world worked and how the human body and the brain and those things work, they just chalk things up to evil spirits. But I hope you know that if you if you follow along in all of the gospels, you'll see that the people in bíblicos were not naive at all because they were very careful, even in Mark's gospel we've seen, to distinguish between sickness, mental illness. And demon possession. They distinguished between each of those categories throughout each of the gospels. So the people in biblical times weren't naive. I think it's just the case that they understood something about reality that maybe many of us in the West have lost. Which is the reality that a supernatural realm exists. And part of that supernatural realm is filled with evil spirits who are opposed to mankind, who want to see mankind lost and ruined by the fall. And these demon possessions are a very vibrant, living illustration of the demonic's desire to destroy mankind. And you see that even in the boy's life. And this boy was very clearly possessed. He couldn't speak. At seizure-like symptoms, foaming at the mouth, grinding his teeth, becoming completely rigid. And so you can understand that his father is desperate. Since Jesus hadn't yet returned from the mountain, apparently, when the man came to find Jesus, he says, I brought my boy to you, but your disciples couldn't cast the spirit out. So apparently the man came While Jesus was still on the mountain, he's desperate for help. And so he sees Jesus' disciple and said, Hey, you guys are his disciples. You should be able to do this. And I've even heard that back in chapter 6, y'all were able to do this. Work on my son. Cast this demon out. But the disciples try and are unsuccessful. And this provokes a frustrated lament from Jesus. Look at verse 19 with me. Look at what he says. Oh, faithless generation. How long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Just emphasizing his frustration. I mean, I think we're about two years into Jesus' ministry, and he's surrounded by faithlessness still. But the question we should ask is who who is this faithless generation? Right? Are we included in it? Who is Jesus describing? There are scribes. There's the disciples, there's the father, there's the boy, there's a crowd. Who is the faithless generation in this scene Well, I think whenever we need to understand that whenever Jesus uses the word generation in Mark's gospel, he uses it to describe a whole mass of people. So I think it was back in chapter 7. He described the scribes and all the crowds that were gathered around as a sinful and wicked generation. Just all of you. Just all of you, your crowd, you might be amazed by me, but you don't really want to follow me. You're just you're just kind of tantalized by the things that I do. You want to see these party tricks? Right? So he calls this whole mass a sinful generation. And I think that's what he's doing here. I think he's describing everyone in this scene as part of a faithless generation. The crowd. The crowd just follows him around being amazed by him, but they don't commit to actually making him their Lord and Savior. The disciples are faithless. You know, they they they couldn't cast the demon out. They weren't depending upon God, as we'll see, to cast the demon out. The scribes are faithless, they just keep arguing. The father of the boy is faithless. Do you notice what the father of the boy calls Jesus? Teacher. No, no, that's the point of Mark's gospel, not teacher. Yes, teacher, but much more than teacher. Lord, Savior, God, even the father of the boy is getting it wrong. He sees that Jesus can do amazing things, but he doesn't yet understand who Jesus is, and Jesus connects this all to faithlessness He's been laboring for over two years at this point, and he's still surrounded by faithlessness. And we just can't miss as we think about the necessity of Faith, we can't miss the warning that is implicit in Jesus' statement. And that's because Jesus' statement is nearly identical to two separate promises of judgment that God gave to Israel for their faithlessness to him in the wilderness. Because they were faithless children in the wilderness, God promised to hide his face from them in Deuteronomy 32. Then in Numbers 14, God says to them, How long? How long will they not believe in me in spite of all the signs that I have done among them? Think about what Jesus has been doing. Sign after sign after sign. And then think about Jesus' words here. How long am I going to bear with you? And in Numbers 14, God follows that up and says, I will strike you with pestilence and disinherit you. Faithlessness leads to judgment. Faithlessness, friends, provokes God's judgment. So when Jesus calls them a faithless generation, he is saying to them and to us today that to continue in faithlessness To continue in not believing in Jesus as God's Son will result in judgment. Think about the judgments we just heard from the Old Testament. I will hide my face from you. I will disinherit you. God treats faithlessness with the utmost seriousness. And so if you're here and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I just I want to thank you for being here. I am super encouraged that you would take time today. uh on your Sunday to spend it with us this morning. And I just want to I just want to underscore for you how important this is for you today. The Bible teaches that all of us were born into this world in a state of sin and faithlessness. We are by nature sinners. We are by nature sinners Faithless in our relationship with God. And because of our sins and our faithlessness, we are guilty and under the judgment of God. And the only thing that can save us is if God intervenes For us to rescue us from our helpless, hopeless, and faithless estate. And the reason I want to draw that out for you today is if you don't believe in Jesus, that's the state that you are now in. But I want to encourage you to look to what God has done for you to rescue you from that state of faithlessness. God sent his son into the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. He lived a perfect life. He perfectly believed in God. He was never faithless. He never doubted in God's power. He perfectly obeyed and loved God, and then he died on a cross willingly offering himself as a sacrifice to take the punishment for all of us who faithlessly reject God in our lives. And three days after Jesus died, he got up from the dead, proving that everything that he taught about God and about himself and about you and me is true. And what Jesus says about you and me is that we are by nature a faithless generation and under the judgment of God But Jesus Christ died and rose again for this very reason, that if you would turn from sin and put your trust in him He would willingly, joyfully, gladly take the punishment for your sins and faithlessness upon himself. He would put in your heart a new spirit, a spirit of faith in God. Not a perfect faith. He's the only perfect one. But he would put a new spirit in your heart and teach you to live after God's ways and to put your faith in him. And this is his promise to you today that if you would turn from sin, you would know forgiveness and you would be given a new heart. So I would just plead with you this morning. understand the necessity of faith because without faith there is only judgment. There is only judgment You might think, John, all this talk about judgment is a bit bit much, isn't it? I mean, come on, man. That's for like olden days. It's like medieval period or like early 1900s with preachers throwing Bibles at people and, you know, preaching fire and brimstone. Well, I get what you're talking about. I think some preachers have abused their their role in the way that they have preached the gospel towards people, but the reality is Jesus is very clear about the judgment to come. Not only that, I want you to see in this passage that like let's say if you if you're if you're just thinking about your life and your relationship with God and you think, hey John, look I get what you say about Jesus. I'm just not really there. But look, I'm sincere, trying to live a good life, trying to be kind to others I just want you to look again. Notice the passage. Notice who he describes as faithless. There's only one group in this passage who's actively opposed to God, the scribes. Everyone else seems positively inclined towards Jesus. Sincere. The Father is sincere. He sincerely believes that Jesus is a teacher who can heal him. But that's not enough. The crowd seems amazed, maybe positively inclined to Jesus. We're trying to live good lives. This guy seems like a good guy to follow. We'll maybe see what he can do for a little bit. But don't you see what Jesus is saying in this passage? Sincerity, kindness, niceness, none of those things will get us to heaven Because none of those things has the power to cleanse us of the sins that we have committed against a holy God. We need the perfect righteousness of Christ to be imputed to us. And as we'll see in our passage, through the power of faith, that is what can happen. If we reject the offer that God has extended to us in his son Jesus and continue in faithlessness, the only thing left for us. Is judgment. So we need to be warned about the consequences of faithfulness. But second, I want us to look at the power of faith. We've looked at the necessity of faith Now I want us to look at the power of faith. Look at me at verses 20 to 27. You can just let your eyes scan over those. Uh I've already read them for us. Jesus tells the man to bring the boy to him. So even though the man doesn't clearly understand who Jesus is, that's not going to stop Jesus from compassionately helping the boy. But as soon as the evil spirit sees Jesus, maybe he's brought around a corner or something like that. As soon as the evil spirit sees Jesus, it violently convulses the boy so that he ends up rolling around on the ground and foaming at the mouth. That's where Jesus looks to the Father and says, hey, how long? How long has this been happening to him? And the Father He he jumps on this as an opportunity to kind of state his case forcefully to Jesus. So Jesus asked him, how long has this been happening? You'd see the the right answer to that is only from childhood. But what does the father say? From childhood. And I just want to say again, it throws him into fire and into water, and it wants to destroy him. But you can feel the panic and anxiety and fear pour out of the Father's words. Right, this is a terrible situation. And so he pleads with Jesus, if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Right? The father needs and the boy needs compassion and help. But notice how Jesus responds in verse 23. Look there again. If you can, if you can, if if what do you mean by if you can? I have this is what he's saying. I have all power to do all things I am the Lord Jesus Christ. There is nothing I can't do. This one demon is not an obstacle for me. I don't know if you heard this But I took a man who was filled with thousands of demons, and with a word I drove all the thousands of demons out. This one demon isn't an obstacle for me. I can do all things, and so all things are possible for the one who believes in me. And so the father of the child, seeing that Jesus does have the power to help him, says I believe. Help my unbelief. And then we see in verses 26 and 27, Jesus do, Jesus does what he's done over and over and over again in Mark's gospel. With only a word, Jesus commands the Spirit to leave the boy, and the Spirit does. He's gone, never to return. And I think the first thing that we need to notice about this passage is what it teaches us about Jesus' power. If you can. Jesus is saying my my power is not conditional, right? There are no limits placed upon my power. Jesus' power is unlimited. This is what the what theologians would say. He is omnipotent. He is all powerful. That is to say, Jesus has the power and the ability to do all that he wills. He has all the necessary resources and power to carry out his will in any and every circumstance. All things are possible for the one who believes in me. Right? He is all powerful Which means for you and for me that no matter how difficult the circumstances you may be facing are Jesus can help you. Notice again. Notice how bad this boy's situation was Mark emphasizes three different times the effects that this spirit had had on the boy. Three different times in these 19 verses, and they take up most of the passage. He had been suffering from childhood, likely for years at this point. He had suffered terribly. The Spirit sent him into violent seizures, foamed at the mouth. He was mute. He was deaf. and would throw himself into fire and into water. But not only that, no human being could help him. The disciples couldn't help him. The scribes obviously couldn't help him. It's clear the boy is still possessed by a demon. No faith healer, no pagan faith healer could help him Mark is Mark wants us to feel the helplessness of the situation. The boy is in an impossible situation. He is beyond human help. And his impossible situation serves as the platform upon which the glory of Jesus' infinite power could be displayed. Mark is saying to us, there is nothing our God cannot do. There is nothing our God cannot do. And isn't this just like God? Isn't Jesus just like God? Hasn't He been doing this? From the beginning, let's think about the Old Testament. Think about the Israelites trapped between the oncoming Egyptian army and the Red Sea. There's nowhere to go. There's nowhere to run. They cannot get away from this army. So what does God do? He parts the Red Sea that his people can walk through on dry ground. Infinite power, seize, part, and they do. This is what God does. He works in impossible situations to display his omnipotence and his power to rescue his people. Think about his people wandering in the desert, starving, without food and without water. You're in the desert. What two things don't exist in the desert? Food and water. So what does God do? He makes bread fall from heaven and brings water from a rock. From a rock When have you last seen water come from a rock? It doesn't because God works in the midst of impossible situations to show that He alone can provide for His people. Think about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, right? King Nebuchadnezzar threatens to throw them into a fiery furnace. And what do they say to him? They say what they say, what we all would say, right? Good. Yeah, go right ahead. Of course I'm kidding. I I I wonder how many of us would say that I don't know that I would say that, but they they said it. And why did they say that? Do you recall what they followed up their statement with to Nebuchadnezzar? Listen to what they said to him. Go right ahead. Because our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the fiery furnace. So what does King Nebuchadnezzar do? Oh, really? Oh really? Well, I'm gonna throw you in. And the fire is so hot, you might remember from the story, that the servants who take the three men to the fire die because of the heat. Then they get thrown into the fire, and the three men turn into four. Why? Because the Lord God appeared on their side to defend them from the fiery furnace. And they get brought out of the furnace. And what does King Nebuchadnezzar say? These men's God is the true God. Why? Because he is the only God who delivers from impossible circumstances. This is our God. Our God delights. To work in impossible situations to show that nothing is impossible for him. Friends, nothing is impossible for our God. Won't he do it? Yes, he will. Our God does the impossible, and we see this infinite power at work in Jesus' ministry The God of the Old Testament appears in the person and work of Christ, calming deadly storms with a word, telling paralyzed people to get up and walk, taking a girl who is dead by the hand and lifting her up. And what does she say? I want something to eat. Right? This is what he does. He has all power to do all things. He delivers his people So I want to ask this morning, what circumstances are you facing today that seem like they're impossible to overcome? What circumstances are you facing today that seem like they're impossible to overcome? Are you in impossible, maybe in an impossible situation with a spouse? Maybe your marriage is so hard that it seems like it's beyond human power to repair. Maybe you're struggling so badly with a with a particular sin that it feels like a boulder is laying on your chest and nobody is strong enough to push the boulder off. And maybe you're facing a health crisis that no doctor has been able to help with. Whatever it might be, whatever seemingly impossible situation you're facing might be, I want to encourage you to remember that nothing is impossible for God. And if God can do the impossible, Can't He help you with your daily needs? Right, you might be thinking, maybe I'm not facing impossible circumstances together in my life today, and and so maybe that that means I I don't need uh God's power on my side. No, wrong. If God can do the impossible, then surely he can do everything else that falls underneath of it. What do you need today? What do you need this week Think about 1 John. We ask anything in accordance with His will. He hears our requests, and we have what we asked of Him. Now kids, I want to encourage you today to even think about start practicing this in your own life as you think about following Jesus. Jesus can do the impossible. There is nothing that he cannot do for you. He delights to help his people. There's no mountain that he can't climb. There's no mountain that he can't move. There's no sea that he can't part. He takes dead people and makes them alive. He can do whatever you need. So call out to him. Think about that in your lives today, kids. But I also recognize that if you're following Jesus, you probably don't doubt his ability to help. Right? You probably don't doubt that Jesus is all powerful if you've been following Jesus for any amount of time. If I'm going to guess anything, if you're anything like me, you're probably going to doubt his desire to help. That is, if you were here last week, Garrett said to us, most of us are not going to struggle with doubting God's sovereignty. We're going to struggle with doubting God's goodness. Yeah, I believe he's all powerful, but I'm really strong to believe that he's good because I've been asking for this thing that is good and he's not giving it to me. What what gives? That's you. I want to encourage you to consider a couple different things this morning. There is so much that could be said on this, but I just want to remind us briefly of two things. And the first thing that I want to remind us of is that our lives and the circumstances of all of our lives, whether we follow Jesus or not, the circumstances of all of our lives are part of a greater plan. God does have a plan for each of our lives. I fully believe that. But but those plans for all of our individual lives are serving a much greater plan, and that is to bring all things under the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ, to carry out God's eternal plan of redemption and salvation. All circumstances in your life are serving that greater plan. And that means that everything that comes to pass in our lives Everything that comes to pass in our lives has been ordained by God to come to pass so that it would result in, in order that it would bring about the completion of his plan to save his people through his son Jesus Christ. Now that does not mean that God causes evil to happen to us. Garrett even talked about that last week. God is never the author of evil Instead, God is so sovereign that we can have confidence in his goodness that he can take what is used for evil against us and use it for good in our lives. But it does also mean that since God created or cursed creation because of man's sin, we're also going to experience the sorrows of living in a fallen world. Bodies that break, relationships that sour, loneliness, sorrow, sadness, all of these will be part of our experience of living in a fallen world. But I also want you to remember a second thing, and that's the transfiguration of Jesus in the previous passage. The transfiguration, you'll recall, was intended to give hope to Jesus' disciples that they could endure the suffering of this life. Knowing that they would one day stand in the presence of the living God. And in his presence, they would fully and finally see him in all of his glory and become like him. The transfiguration gives us hope that after the sorrows of this life have passed, we will all one day stand in the presence of the glorified Savior in the new heavens and the new earth. This will be a place finally with no more tears, no more sorrow, no more crying, no more sin, no more pain. And that hope is yours this morning. Friends, the day is coming when there will be no more unanswered prayers. There will be no more unanswered prayers. The good things that you have been asking for for years will be eclipsed by the eternally good thing of coming into the presence of the Lamb of God. And you will be with him in his presence forever. It's a day when our struggles with weak faith and doubt will disappear because faith will be replaced by sight. when our eyes see the Lord Jesus as he truly is. So if you're struggling with unanswered good prayers this morning, wondering Why is God not giving me this thing? He says, if we just have faith, if we just believe that it'll answer our prayers, our friend, know that one day the period of unanswered prayers that you may be experiencing is going to come to an end. And until that day comes, we should expect to struggle in different ways, believing not only in God's power, but also in his desire to help his people. The boy's father is one of the most realistic examples of faith in a fallen world in all of the Bible, right? I believe. Help my unbelief. Aren't faith and faithlessness mixed so often in this life? Don't you just see it when you look at your heart on a daily basis, you just see, like, gosh, I see faith, but I also see so much unbelief. What is wrong with me, Lord? In so many ways, this father is symbolic of us all. How many of you have said what he says? How many of you have thought it? If we're honest with ourselves, it's something that all of us say every day. None of us has perfect faith. And the great encouragement of this passage is that Jesus shows compassion. to those who have weak faith. You notice that? Jesus answers the man's request This man has tiny amounts of faith. He's teetering on the verge of unbelief. He's struggling with unbelief, and yet Jesus compassionately comes alongside him and answers his prayer. I mean don't you love Jesus? He doesn't demand perfection from you to answer your prayers. He hasn't set up for you an unattainable standard of holiness that you must meet before he he finally says, okay, I'll do it. No, he looks down on our frail and feeble faith, and he says, it's not about your faith It's about me. And I can do it. Even if your faith is weak, your faith is in the strong one. And the strong one can do all things. He willingly comes to the aid of those whose faith is weak. He's the compassionate and sympathetic high priest. He's familiar with our temptations. If you think that you've struggled with unbelief this past week or you struggled in your faith that God won't answer your prayers, look at Jesus' compassion to help a man who is riddled with doubt. And we gotta see how much this passage flies in the face of prosperity gospel preachers who teach that if you if you just have enough faith, then God will finally answer your prayers. And if God doesn't answer your prayers, the problem is with your faith. They point to this verse. This verse. They cite this verse as reason for believing what they and teaching what they believe. And the unbelievable irony is that this verse teaches the exact opposite. The man is covered in unbelief. He's struggling in his faith, and yet God answers him. It has nothing to do with the power of our faith Faith in and of itself is meaningless if that faith is not connected to the powerful one. And if you have a a a tiny piece of sand on a m on a microscopic plate that you have to look at under a microscope to even see it, if you have that much faith You can have all things because your faith is in the Lord Jesus Christ. God does not demand that you become the perfection of faith. He doesn't require that you be like the chief faith warrior. God looks at us and he knows that we all struggle. The point is his power. And Kevin DeYoung used the illustration. He said, like you can look at uh extension cords, they come in all different sizes, right? You have these These small ones that maybe give you like an extra plug or two. They're little, they're short. Then you have extension cords that are kind of mid-heavy duty and they're like 50 feet long. And then you have super heavy duty extension cords. and they're hundreds of feet long and you can like take your leaf blower all across your backyard with it and they're just amazing. But how good is the extension cord if it's not plugged into the outlet? It doesn't matter if it's 500 feet long or 100 feet long or two feet long, unless the thing is plugged into its power source, you're not getting anywhere with it But even if it's a short one and it's plugged into a power source and you have a long one that's not plugged into the power source, the short one wins because it has power. So does your faith if it's connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh friends, if you're struggling today with faith, really, if you're thinking, why am I doing this? How am I going to continue in this life? I know that when I became a Christian, so I didn't become a Christian until I was 30. I'm 39 now. My life was marked by phase after phase. I was a guy who didn't complete anything in life because I was wandering. I was looking for something that would bring fulfillment and I could never find it. And I remember when I became a Christian that I thought to myself, how am I going to do this for the rest of my life? Because I didn't realize that I wasn't going to do it. It was going to be Christ in me. So friends, continue to call out to the Lord. Ask him to help you in your struggles with faith. The Lord answers. He upholds his people. It's by his hand. It's our faith that 1 Peter says in chapter 1. It's by faith that we're being protected by the power of God until that last day. Continue in faith. Fight for faith. Keep going. Keep going. One illustration that I think teaches this well. I saw this on an article on Desiring God this past week. The guy was talking about how he saw a documentary of these mountain warfare soldiers and the this crucible that they had to go through at the end of their training to see whether they would pass the training as they had to trek up this massive snowy mountain Uh and apparently this trek is extremely difficult. And one of the instructors who was had succeeded in the course in the past gave them this really interesting but very obvious advice that some of us might not take. He said to his soldiers If you want to fail, look at the top of the mountain. If you want to fail, look at the top of the mountain. But if you want to succeed, look at the next tree. Get to the next tree. When you get to that tree, find the next tree and get to it. Friend, if you are struggling with faith today and you wonder how you're going to make it through the rest of this life, don't look at the rest of this life. Look at today. Put one foot in front of the other. When you get through today, wake up tomorrow. Tomorrow has enough troubles of its own. You don't need to look to the end of your life. Look day by day to the Lord Jesus. He will sustain you That is the power of faith. He preserves us because of his power, not the power of our own faith. And Jesus, we also see at the end of our passage, intends our faith to be put into practice. Which brings me to my third and final point, the practice of faith. Look at verses 28 and 29. After Jesus cast the demon out of the disciples, after Jesus cast the demon out. The disciples ask him, hey, why couldn't we do that? And Jesus says to them, this kind can only be driven out by prayer. So apparently, what we can deduce from this passage is that there are different types of evil spirits, some of which can only be driven out by prayer. That's the extent of my demonology that I've got for you this morning. But I don't think Jesus is meaning to teach them about different types of spirits and how those spirits are cast out. I don't think that's his point at all. We need to remember that this passage is all about faith. The faithlessness of the generation, the faith, wavering faith of the Father. I believe, help my unbelief. Jesus says everything is possible for the one who believes. It's all about So when Jesus brings up prayer at the very end of a passage that's all about faith, we should ask ourselves: what is Jesus teaching us about the relationship between faith? And prayer. What does prayer have to do with faith? And the answer is that prayer is faith in practice. Prayer is faith in practice. Prayer is faith lived out. The reason the disciples couldn't cast a demon out Even though it doesn't say it in the passage, most of the scholars who study this passage and talked about it in commentaries agree is that the disciples were faithlessly trying to cast out the demon by their own strength. They should have recognized that they had no power in and of themselves against this entrenched evil spirit. And so they should have given themselves to praying to God for help. that God would cast the demon out of the man. Prayer would have been an an enactment of that faith. Right? But we must see that what got in the way, what got in the way of the disciples, and what is so important for us today to see this morning, what got in the way of the disciples faithfully and prayerfully, depending on God. to help cast this demon out was their own prior success. Interesting, huh? Remember back in chapter 6, Jesus sent them out by his authority to cast out demons, and they came back and they told Jesus about how all the demons are subject to us. By your authority. But to us. By your authority. But to us. The demons are subject to us. Amazing. We did it. Do you like, hey. Matthew, do you remember that time when that demon was like really trying to step up to me? And I said, In the name of Jesus, be out. And he was out, and I did it. It was like amazing. Wow. I have the power within me to do this I can accomplish this. This is the mindset that is at work in them. So when they come to this evil spirit to cast him out, they come in their own strength. We got this. We did it before. His power is surely still with us. Be gone. Oh wait. Not working this time. Not working this time. They are examples of followers of Jesus who have unknowingly ceased putting their faith in God. And have begun trusting in their own ability. They couldn't cast the demon out because they thought it had it down. We've got this, we've done it before, but they failed to remember Jesus' words. What does he say in John? I am the vine. You are the branches. Apart from me, you can do some things No, that's not what he says. That's not what he says. I am the vine. You are the branches. Apart from me, you can do nothing. What do you think Jesus meant by nothing? I think he meant nothing. Apart from him, we can do nothing. I want us as a church to meditate on that. Apart from Jesus, we can do nothing Now it doesn't literally mean we won't be able to actually do things with our bodies. We can do things with our bodies. We can hold services, host events, lead Bible studies. The list goes on and on. We'll be able to actually do those things with our bodies. Set up chairs. Hey, we're here this morning. I'm actually I'm speaking to you with with my body. But what does Psalm 127 tell us about the Lord's relationship to his people? If the laborers labor apart from the blessing of the Lord, how do they labor? They labor in vain. In vain It's in vain that you stay up late and you're go to bed early or go to bed late and wake up early. It's in vain that you do those things because you're not relying upon the Lord Apart from me, you can do nothing. So we can do a whole host of things, but those things won't be of any eternal value if they're not done in dependence upon the Lord. Oh, and how do we show our faith? How do we show that the things that we're doing are not being done in our own strength? That's what Jesus teaches us this morning. By praying. By ensuring that prayer happens before, during, and after all that we do as a church and as individual Christians. Maybe you're visiting with us today and you wonder why we spent so much time in prayer before the service and we're going to pray again after the service. Ryan's going to lead us in a prayer confession. Why do we do that? Because we need the Lord to answer our prayers. Apart from Him at work, we can do nothing of eternal value. And this type of prayer should characterize our individual lives as well. Not just our corporate lives together. Prayer is the chief display of faith in the life of the Christian Do you want to know how strong your faith is? Look at how much you pray. That will tell you how strong your faith is. Prayerlessness is a sign of faithlessness. Prayerlessness is practical atheism. When we go about our days without praying, we're living no different than those who don't even believe in God at all. I think there's a great illustration of this that came when I was watching Ken Burns' documentary on Vietnam. He tells these stories of all these different soldiers. He reads their letters home. And there's one soldier in particular that he follows along through the course of the war. And in one of that per one of that soldier's letters, he wrote to his sister and he said this, Dear Duff. Since I last wrote, which is several months, a number of exciting and terribly unpleasant events have occurred. The worst of which was being pinned down by two light machine guns firing 900 rounds per minute. Someday I may tell you the whole story if my nerves are not completely gone by then. Actually the latter is just wishful thinking in false hope that they will take me off the line. I was fantastically religious for a while, casting up various and sundry prayers, mostly concerned with staying alive. But I am once again an atheist. Until the shooting starts again, that is. That's an interesting admission from a guy who was an atheist. I wonder how many of him are how many of us are like him. Praying only for those things that rise up to the level of urgent needs. We pray when we need something really bad, but then when that thing is answered, we we stop praying again. That's It's like the practical atheist. That's foxhole Christianity, right? We're not called to be foxhole Christians. We're called to pray without ceasing. J. C. Ryles said, how a man can live and not breathe is beyond my comprehension. And how a Christian can have faith and not pray is beyond my comprehension too. You may be very sure of this. Christians fall in private prayer long before they fall in public. They are backsliders on their knees long before they backslide openly in the eyes of the world. This is the importance of prayer in the life of a Christian. Prayer is the chief display of faith in the life of the Christian. And yet, we will all fail at this, won't we? We'll struggle with faithlessness. We'll struggle to pray when we know that we should. Does that mean that Christ will abandon us? Oh no, we see evidence of that even in Mark's gospel, right? The disciples continued to act in faithlessness. They continued forgetting their need to pray at all times. If you're familiar with Mark's gospel, then you know this isn't the last time that the disciples would fail to pray when they should have. Right, the next time it happens, you'll recall that the disciples are with Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. He's taken them there on a prayer mission to pray. before his deliverance. And what happens to the disciples in the Garden of Gethsemane? They fall asleep on Jesus at his time of greatest need. Three different times they fall asleep. They don't pray as they ought to, but this did not keep Jesus from going to the cross for faithless and prayerless people, did it? Because even when we're faithless, he remains faithful. Because he cannot deny himself. He has pledged himself to us just as he pledged himself to his disciples You see, the demonic power in this passage that couldn't be overcome by anything but dependence on God points forward to the greater satanic power. That holds all men in bondage that can only become by the one who truly believed. Jesus Is the one who truly believed. Jesus is the one who willingly offered himself on the cross, not only to cleanse us from our sins, but to break Satan's power in our lives. He went to the cross willingly because he believed that God could and would raise him from the dead because he knew that God was good. And God was good. And three days after he died, Jesus was raised from the dead in power. And he promises to all who repent and put of their sins and put their wholehearted Faith in him that he will also cause their earthly bodies to be resurrected from the dead. You see this even in the passage. Look at verses 26 and 27. Though the boy appeared to be dead What does Jesus do? He reaches down, takes him by the hand, and raises him up. Now, friends, if God did not spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, Won't he also with him freely give us all things? Won't he do it? You bet he will. Jesus is worthy of your complete faith. And if you put your complete faith in Jesus, you can know that one day he will reach down. He will take your bones by the hand, he will lift him up out of the grave, and he will throw away that earthly body and clothe you with a heavenly body. Jesus is worthy of your complete faith because there's nothing you need that he cannot provide. I wonder if you're going to put your faith in him today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we believe. Help our unbelief, we pray Oh Lord, we ask that by faith in your Son, you would protect us by your power until that great day when your Son returns. For all of us who are struggling with faith today, strengthen us, hold us fast, preserve us, and fill us with a spirit of faith that we might live courageously for the name of Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.