Well, good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with you today and a privilege to have this opportunity to open up God's Word together with you I am going to pray again briefly for our time, and then we will look at Paul's letter to the Colossians. So please join me in praying one more time. Father in heaven, we know that the grass withers And the flowers fade. But the word of the Lord stands forever. But I'm sure to many of us this seems like what is going on here? How can your word and prayer and preaching and song change your people? We don't know all the answers to that, but we know that your word says it does. And your word stands forever. We pray that your word would be a firm foundation to our feet today. We pray that your people would seek Christ and his kingdom, which is above. And that we would be a people who pray for the spread of the gospel and who proclaim the gospel in our own lives. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in the wake of the crisis in Afghanistan, uh there has been understandably lots of conversation about foreign policy. Specifically in America, how America should pursue and advance its interests around the world Right? Conversations about how America as a as a kingdom of sorts can maintain and even grow its power. In opposition to other kingdoms and powers looking to advance their own agendas in the world, uh like China or Russia. Uh inevitably, in the course of those conversations, everyone at some point emphasizes the need for Military might. Right? If you want to have power in the world, if a nation wants to maintain or expand its kingdom, it must have military might. The biggest strongest army on the planet. That's how kingdoms in this world ascend to power and maintain their power. All except one, of course. There is one kingdom in our world that is different from all the others Now don't get me wrong, it's the same in some ways. It has a king, and it has citizens. But it's different from the kingdoms of this world because ever since this kingdom began, its ascent to power has proceeded unimpeded. Wherever the king of this kingdom desires to go and conquer, he goes and conquers. And he has largely done this away from the spotlight of the media. And without the weapons of warfare, the kingdoms of our world rely on. What kingdom and king am I speaking of? Well, I'm speaking of none other than King Jesus, who reigns over the kingdom of Christ, and who right now, this very minute. In churches just like this all across our country, and in churches just like this all around the world, he is expanding his kingdom. He is advancing his interest in the world, but he's doing so with very different weapons than the kingdom of this world rely on. He doesn't rely on Humvees or AR-15s or Black Hawk helicopters or nuclear weapons. But if he doesn't use those weapons that are absolute necessities for the kingdom of this world, what does he use? How does King Jesus advance his agenda in the world? Well, to answer that question, we're going to turn to Colossians chapter 4. Verses 2 to 6 today as we continue our study in Paul's letter to the Colossians. And as you're turning there in your Bibles, which want to encourage you to do because we're going to be looking often at the passage today, trying to understand what it says what the words mean, what they mean for us, and then how we can better apply them in the in our lives today. So I want to encourage you to keep your Bible open throughout. As you're turning there, I just want to provide some context for our verses today. Back in chapter 3, when chapter 3 started, Paul began by teaching us how our new life in Christ should transform our lives. We should now seek after Christ and his kingdom rather than chasing after the world and its values. We should put off the old self, ruled by lust and sexual immorality and anger, right? And put on the character of Christ. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ. Filled with the word of Christ and do everything for the glory of Christ. And then we saw over the past few weeks that this new life should transform our marriages. our parenting and our work life. And now as the end of the letter approaches, Paul calls us to action. And in doing so, he describes two weapons that God has given his church as he expands his kingdom in the world. So I want you to follow along in your Bible as I read Colossians chapter 4, verses 2 to 6 for us. This is God's word. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us That God may open to us a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison, that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt. So that you may know how you ought to answer each person. Well, the kingdoms of this world. advanced through military might, but God advances his kingdom in the world through prayer and proclamation. Those are going to be our two points this morning. If you're taking notes, point one is prayer, and point two is proclamation. So first, God advances his kingdom in the world through prayer, and prayer specifically for Effective gospel proclamation. I want you to look again with me at verse 2. Paul says. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. Right, Paul? Paul begins by telling the Colossians to continue steadfastly in prayer. He wants them to pray Constantly, pray without ceasing, pray always, right? He wants them to think of prayer not as something they do, but as a way they live, prayer as a way of life. They're to live a life of prayer and while I think Paul certainly has all kinds of prayers in mind for the Christian life Prayers like the ones that we find in chapter one of Colossians, like prayers for growing in the knowledge of the gospel, prayers for knowing the will of God, prayers for patience and strength and endurance. He obviously has All of those things in mind. But above all, what I think Paul wants them and us to be praying steadfastly for is effective gospel proclamation. Why do I say that? Well, look at how he tells them to pray. Look again at verse 2. He says, pray steadfastly, that is constantly, but then he says, being watchful in it. Being watchful in prayer. Can any of the teens tell me what you think it means to be watchful in prayer? What is that about? What do we watch? Like are we looking around for certain certain things while we're praying? What does it mean to be watchful in prayer? Any of the teens have any ideas? You can just raise your hand. Lois? Watch what you pray about. Now, why would you do that? Because you might ask for the wrong thing, so be watchful about what you're praying about. Other teens, what do you think it means to be watchful in prayer? Cooper. Not a teen yet, but hey, eight, nine, going on thirteen. Somebody shout out for me what Cooper said. Can anybody hear? Pull it down real quick and shout it out. Watch what you pray for. So he agrees with Lois. Watch what you pray for right up front. To be watchful for more prayer requests. Those are great answers. To be watchful, looking around for things to pray for, that is definitely part of what Paul means. But basically being watchful means to be alert. Stay awake. And throughout the Gospels, every time Jesus predicted his second coming, Or told a parable about his second coming, he told his disciples to be watchful. Be watchful for the coming of the Son of Man. Now again, that doesn't mean that he wants us to pray and watch as though we're we're constantly on the lookout for the second coming. To be watchful means to pray with an awareness of the nearness of his second coming, with an alertness. recognizing that Jesus could come at any moment. And because Paul knows that Jesus could come at any moment, he goes on to tell the Colossians. What they should be praying for. Look at verse 3. At the same time, pray also for us. Don't just pray steadfastly for yourselves, pray also for us. What do you want us to pray for, Paul? That God may open to us a door for the word to declare the mystery of Christ. Because Jesus' return is imminent. Because Christ could return at any moment. Because the kingdom of God is at hand and the end is near. Here's how you should be praying. Be praying for effective gospel proclamation so that as many people as possible would be transferred from the kingdom of darkness and brought into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. And we see that clearly in his prayer request. I want you to look again with me at verse 3. Notice he asked for prayer for God to open a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ. The Word And the mystery of Christ both refer to the good news of the gospel. Pray that God would open the door so that we could preach the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ's salvation to others. He calls it the mystery of Christ. The mystery of Christ is the culmination of God's unfolding plan of redemption fulfilled in Christ. The mystery of Christ is what Susan read to us of Stephen's speech just going through the whole Old Testament, and Stephen's just trying to say to them. Abraham wasn't the point. Jacob wasn't the point. The patriarchs weren't the point. Moses wasn't the point. The tabernacle wasn't the point. Jesus Christ is the point. And you keep hardening your hearts against him. That's the unfolding of the mystery of Christ. Jesus is the seed of the woman who came to crush the serpent's head. He's the offspring of Abraham, through whom all the nations would be blessed. He's the lion of the tribe of Judah, the one to whom the scepter would come. He's the root of Jesse. The servant of the Lord, the priest of God most high. He is, as Paul says earlier in Colossians, the preeminent creator and sustainer and redeemer of the entire creation. Right? The mystery of Christ is the unfolding plan of God's redemption as it's fulfilled in him. And Jesus is The atoning sacrifice for all who would turn for the sins of all who would turn from their sins and trust in him. Paul wants the Colossians and us to pray that God would open a door for that word. And when Paul asks them to pray that God would open a door for that word, He's asking for both opportunities to preach the gospel, like when God opened a wide door for ministry in Ephesus that we read about in the book of Acts. And what is Paul referring to there? He's referring to the fact that they prayed that God would open a door for ministry in Ephesus, and then he got to Ephesus, and he was able to preach the gospel for like two or three years. In the meeting hall of Tyrannis, where a lot of people would come and hear him. And even Epaphras, who returned to Colossae from Ephesus after hearing Paul preach the gospel, who then repented and believed, returned to Colasse, preached the gospel to them, and poof! The church appeared. People repented and believed they heard that good news. He's praying for opportunities for that word, but he's also praying. That God would make those opportunities effective by granting faith, like he did when he opened a door for faith for the Gentiles in the book of Acts. He's saying. Pray that God would give us opportunities to preach the gospel and make those opportunities effective by opening their eyes to the glory of Christ and the gospel. Pray that God would do the same thing that he did for Lydia in the book of Acts. And for the Thessalonians, when Paul says in chapter 1 of 1 Thessalonians, the word came to them in power. And in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. Power, Holy Spirit, full conviction, those are things that God gives. God opened the door of their hearts to receive the word. Pray that God would open the door of faith like He did for you, Colossians, because you remember when the gospel came to you and you understood and believed the grace of God and truth, and that word took root and started bearing fruit in your lives. What is, church, what is the most pressing need in Paul's mind in light of the imminent return of Christ? Effective gospel proclamation. What should take priority in this church in light of the fact that the end of days are at hand and Christ's return is also at hand Preaching the gospel, that God would give us opportunities to proclaim the gospel publicly like this and individually in our own lives, and that He would make those opportunities effective That he would reach in to the souls of uh to into the hearts and souls of people and click the door open Faith come in. Power come in. Holy Spirit come in. Eyes open. My gosh, Jesus Christ is the Lord of all. I didn't believe it yesterday. I believed it today. Why? Because God can open the hearts of whoever he pleases. That's what we should be praying for in this church. Effective gospel proclamation. Right? We want to be praying for people to be given the same hope of heaven that the Colossians were given. The same promised inheritance that you have now, that you are going to spend eternity on a new heavens and a new earth with God. embodied, perfect, sinless, forever, enjoying his presence, enjoying the presence of one another without sin forever. That's your inheritance And you should want other people to have that inheritance also. But if we are going to see that happen, we need to be praying for God to open the door of their hearts that they can both hear the gospel. And respond to the gospel, insofar as we are steadfastly praying for anything, we should be praying for God to open doors and open hearts. So that we would have opportunities to declare the mystery of Christ in the gospel. And that when we declare it, God would make it effective. You see, God advances his kingdom in this world through the church praying for effective gospel proclamation. And I want you to notice no church or Christian is above needing to pray steadfastly for God to open doors You recognize who it is that's asking for prayer here? It's the Apostle Paul. Like Paul, credentialed Paul. Saul, Hebrew of Hebrews, Saul the Lord Jesus Christ, was confronted by him. He was converted personally by the Lord Jesus Christ. Saul, turn from what you're doing. Stop persecuting me. His eyes were open. The man had a resume of resume, right? Credentials of credentials. He could say anything to anyone, and that that Paul is asking for prayer, right? Paul, who was caught up in a vision to the third heaven, into paradise, who heard things that other mortals cannot utter. Right? This same Paul asked for prayer from the Colossians. From people who got saved, listening to people who got saved by Paul, right? This is like Beethoven asking for prayer from a kid who just started taking music lessons Hey, okay, you'll pray for me that I can put together this piece of music, right? Like Socrates asking for prayer from a college freshman who just enrolled in philosophy 101. Like Socrates doesn't need your help, right? Socrates. No, I'm gonna ask for prayer because I need wisdom. Like LeBron James asking for prayer from a JV basketball player. But why? Why does someone as vaunted as Paul ask for prayer from the Colossians? Because he knows that apart from God opening doors, he has absolutely no hope to open them himself. His credentials are meaningless. His credentials are meaningless before heart and hearts. His resume cannot give anyone spiritual life. accolades have no hope of producing faith, neither does a big platform or name recognition or being an amazing speaker. Paul knows that apart from God giving him opportunities and making those opportunities effective, he has no hope whatsoever to cause people to believe in Christ. And apart from God, opening doors and opening hearts. We have no hope of saving anyone through the ministry here. So friends, we need to be praying We need to be praying steadfastly for God to open doors, give us opportunities, and open hearts by granting faith from heaven We need to be praying for opportunities to preach the gospel and to make and God to make those opportunities effective when it's preached. Right? We need to be praying for God to open doors for the Word on the campus of the University of Maryland. So that we can declare the mystery of Christ to the tens of thousands of students enrolled there. We need to be praying for God to open doors at Prince George's Community College. So that we can bring the word of truth to the students there. And as you pray for God to open doors on those campuses, pray also for funding that we would need so that we could hire someone to give themselves to the work going on there full time. Right? We need to pray for God to make the word effective in our preaching here, week in and week out. You realize like just like the Israelites in the Old Testament. They did not know or see when the glory of God had departed from the temple. They just weren't even paying attention. They were just going through the motions. It is so easy for Christians to show up and just go through the motions John's gonna get up, he's gonna preach, we're gonna sing some songs, we're gonna pray, we're gonna do that, and you know we we just think it's gonna happen. No, no, we need to be praying week in and week out for God to make the ministry here effective. We can do nothing apart. from him, right? Charles Spurgeon, in fact, credits the unbelievable work that God did at his church. To the church members who volunteered to not be in the service each week, but to sit in another room and to pray for God to bless the preaching as it was going on. Now we don't need to do the exact same thing, right? That's the thing you can reverse engineer God's blessing. But just notice what's going on there, right? Spurge is I he's not looking at himself, he's not saying, Hey, I'm an amazing speaker, and that's why tens of thousands of people came to me. He said, No, I had saints praying Praying for God to bless the ministry. And we want to be doing the same thing here. So whether it's on your way to church in the morning, whether it's when you pull up in the parking lot, when you get up on Sunday morning, or throughout the week Take opportunity. Doesn't have to be a lot. God, would you please bless the preaching of the word this Sunday? Would you save people? And would you create greater faith in your people? Would you cause spiritual fruit to be produced in our lives? We need to be praying steadfastly for that. And we need to pray also for God to make the teaching in the services and elsewhere effective, right? So think about praying for children's ministry and all of the teaching the kids are going to receive in children's ministry. Pray that God would make that effective. Pray for God to open hearts at VBS when we hold it. And in Iwana, if we start Iwana, and at the Fall Festival, and anytime we have opportunities to preach the gospel. And we need to pray because it's God who opens hearts and not us. But I want you also to recognize that because it's God who opens hearts and not us, we can pray with confidence. For all those things I just mentioned, because there exists no door on earth that our Almighty God can't open. And one of my favorite fail videos, I really enjoy, probably guilty pleasure I shouldn't uh mention, but I enjoy watching those fail videos. And one of my favorite fail videos is a video Of a SWAT team in a foreign country. I think they're in Europe. I can't quite make out the language uh that they're speaking because they have the the mask pulled down and everything. And they're attempting to raid an apartment And so they do what any SWAT team would do, right? The two guys run up to the door, they they pass the battering ram along to the front two dudes, right? They break out the battering ram to break down the door, and they start slamming. Boom! Boom, right? And those battery ramps are supposed to those are meant to take people by surprise, right? One to two swings at most, and the door should come down and the police should like bum rush through the door. These dudes start swinging. Boom! Boom, swinging, swinging, swinging. 150 swings later, the door was still not broken down. Dudes are passing the battering ram down, and they're like Yo, Pat, I'm I'm tapping out. They're like walking to the back of the line. The next dude comes up and he starts off like he thinks he's gonna break it down. The battery hits the door, bouncing back, hits the door, bounces back. Yeah, that Doesn't ever happen to God. When God reaches into a heart, he has a battery ram that breaks down every door that he wants. God is never kept out by human doors or human powers that might stand against his purposes. God doesn't need a battering ram. He says open and it opens. That's the power of our God. And so we can pray with confidence that God would make the preaching of his word effective. Nothing is impossible for God. God can do all his holy will. And if he has determined to open doors and open hearts, none can stop him Which is why we should not only be praying for the effectiveness of the preaching of the gospel here at CBC or locally, we should be praying for effective gospel ministry around the world. Did you notice that Paul says, pray also for us? You pray and pray also for us, right? Conceivably the Colossians would still be in Colossae. As Paul is traveling around the world on his missionary journeys with his team of ministers, but that distance between them didn't render the Colossians prayers ineffective on his behalf. The potency of our prayers isn't restricted by our limitations, but is opened wide by the omnipotence of our Almighty God. We can pray to God to open doors in other countries and know that if God intends to open the door there, there is nobody who can stop him. This is why William Gernall, when he was writing about Ephesians 6, reflecting on Ephesians 6, he wrote: One almighty is more than many mighties. Just let that sink in. Think about the nations of this world and the many mighty rulers that are in this world who might say, no, stop, we're gonna keep the gospel out. One Almighty Is more than many mighties. Even when they're all gathered together, Psalm 2, raising their fists against the Lord, the Lord sits in the heavens and he laughs. It says to your nation, open, and it opens. Right? One Almighty is more than many mighties. Christians in America Use the language of open countries and closed countries to refer to places that are or are not open, to allowing the gospel to be preached. But we need to recognize that there is no such thing as a closed country to God. That is a thoroughly human experience and phrase, right? When God looks down on the nations of the earth, they are all seven-elevens to Him. 24-7-365, you're all open to me. Wherever he wants to go, he goes. And whenever our prayers for open doors are met with his divine and powerful yes. Nobody on earth can keep the gospel out. This is why we pray for missionaries and churches doing gospel work around the world Right? God has decreed and determined to accomplish his purposes in the world as his people pray for those purposes. to be accomplished and one of his purposes is to gather a people from every tribe and tongue and nation through the preaching of the gospel. And so we want to be praying for that to happen. And that's why we pray almost every week in the pastoral prayer that you heard from Luke today for gospel work going on locally and globally Right? We want to pray for other gospel preaching churches in our area and around the world. Right? We pray for missionaries, pastors, and gospel workers in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia, and Asia, right? This is why, if you are following along with the newsletter, that we're including those interviews with other pastors from around the world in the newsletter. The reason for those interviews is so that we as a church can keep our eyes fixed on God's work going on around the world and also hear how we can be praying for those pastors and those ministers. That's why we've already heard interviews from Johnny Lithel in Sweden. and Conrad Mbeway and Zambia among others. And that's why in coming weeks you'll hear interviews from Kevin McKay in Providence, Rhode Island, Harry Fujiwara in Manhattan, New York, Mark Carrington in Kansas City, and Mes McConnell in Scotland. We get to hear about how God is opening doors in other places, and we get to hear about how we can continue praying for God to open doors and bless the preaching of the Word. And that's why I want to encourage you To be doing the same thing in your own lives throughout the week. Don't just wait to pray for those things when you gather on Sunday, right? Pray throughout the week. Pray for God's work going on around the world. If you don't know where to start, like who should I be praying for? I just don't know churches and pastors, I don't know where to begin, reach out to me. My email's on the back of the bulletin. I'll send you a whole list of churches throughout the states and throughout the world that you can be praying for. If you want to think about praying for missionaries in other countries, go to opendors. org. That has a list of how you can be praying for the persecuted church throughout the world. But we want to be praying not only for ourselves, but also for others. Paul commands prayer because prayer is one of God's weapons for advancing the kingdom. But we also see a second weapon for advancing God's kingdom, and that is proclamation. proclaiming the gospel. Want you to look with me at verse five. Paul says, walk in wisdom toward outsiders Making the best use of the time. So Paul tells them to walk in wisdom. Now kids, check this out I'm pretty confident that what Paul is not saying is, hey, when you walk, like make sure it's wise steps. Like you need to know exactly where to place your foot, right? What does it mean to walk in the Bible? What is walking representative of or symbolic of in the Bible? Kids, can any of y'all tell me? Abram. Yeah, it refers to the Christian life. Yeah, it refers to the way that you live. Your whole life, a person's entire life, the manner and character of it is described as their walk. How you walk is how you live your life. And he wants their life Especially when it comes to their relationships with outsiders, meaning non-Christians, he wants their relationships with non-Christians to be characterized by wisdom. Walk in wisdom. Well that's a really broad description, right? Sure, there's lots of things that could be described as wise in our relationships with non-Christians. What specifically does Paul have in mind? Let's just think about the broader context of Colossians. Wisdom has been a central theme of the entire letter So in chapter 1, verse 9, Paul prays that they'd be filled with all wisdom as they are filled with the knowledge of God's will. In chapter 1, verse 28, Paul's preaching of the gospel about Christ is done in all wisdom, wisdom that comes from Christ. In chapter 2, verse 3, Christ is the one in whom are hidden all the treasures of Wisdom and knowledge. The wisdom mentioned here that should characterize our relationships with outsiders is a Christ-centered wisdom. It's a wisdom that comes from knowing Christ Being transformed by Christ and wanting others to know Christ and be transformed by him as well. And he even goes on to tell us that's what he means because he tells us the two things he wants us to do as we walk in wisdom. Toward non-Christians. Look again at verse 5. Paul says, walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. You thought self-help books about time management were a new thing. I'm here to tell you, no, it comes straight from scripture, right? Paul says, make the best use of the time. But Paul isn't here recommending better time management skills, actually. The Greek phrase literally means to buy up or buy out the time, and it's translated in in other versions of the New Testament as redeem the time, make the best use of the time, as you see here in the ESV, or make the most of every opportunity. And that seems to be the idea here. Walk in wisdom toward outsiders by making the most of every opportunity you have with them And the reason that Paul is telling them to make the most of every opportunity connects back to being watchful and alert for the second coming of Christ. In light of the fact that Jesus' return is near, in light of the fact that he could come at every moment. We need to be making the most of every opportunity with our neighbors, with our coworkers, with our family, with our friends, but make the most of every opportunity how? To what end? What does it look like to make the most of every opportunity? Look again at the passage. He says in verse 6, let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person. I think in short, he wants them to make the most of every opportunity with non-Christians by proclaiming the gospel to them His instructions to let their speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, I think is equally about speaking kindly in a way that gives grace and builds up just in general ways. But I think it's also about holding out to them the grace of God in truth and the gospel. He just, the phrase there just says, speak grace words. Right? Speak about the grace of God in truth in the gospel. Right? Share the message of God's grace to them in the gospel. Walking in wisdom toward outsiders looks like making the most of every opportunity. To graciously proclaim the message of God's grace to them in the gospel. Because the two weapons God has given the church to advance his kingdom in the world are prayer and proclamation. All right, think about what Paul says in 2 Corinthians. God has given his church, us, today, the ministry of reconciliation. How do we carry out the ministry of reconciliation? By telling people how they can be reconciled to God through the gospel of Jesus Christ. God is advancing, building, and growing his kingdom right now, and he's doing it through the proclamation of the good news of the gospel. And that proclamation has been entrusted to his people. So that after we gather each Sunday to worship God, to adore Him and to be instructed from His Word, we would then scatter into the world and tell others about the great work God has done through Christ. You think about it, just take us as a congregation. Your pastor doesn't know all the people you know. Your pastor doesn't come into contact with all the people you know. You do. And just like you come in contact with a certain Sphere of people, other members of the church come in contact with a different sphere of people. We're to come to be built up by the gospel, to hear it, to meditate on it, to rejoice in it, and go out and say, Wow, world, let me tell you the good news that I have for you. This is not the end. Chasing after riches and fame and power, which are ultimately meaningless and empty, in the end of life, that's not the point of life The point of life is to walk in God's ways and to know him. And the way that you come to know God is through his son, who is the way, the truth, and the life. The only way we come to the Father is through Jesus. And you can come to the Father through Jesus by turning from your sins now and trusting in Him. All of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. None of us Can work our way back into God's presence. No good deeds that we do are enough to cover over the offensiveness of our sins against God. But God in his astounding mercy, who was offended against by our sins, has made a way for your sins to be forgiven by displaying his mercy and sending his son to be the propitiation. for our sins so that whoever would believe in him and repent of sins would have eternal life. What amazing news that we get to hold out to the world. Make the most of every opportunity to tell neighbors about that. It's that message that saves. It's that word that has the power to change. Right? The preeminent Christ died on a cross to bear the punishment for our sins. Redeem us from the curse of sin. Qualify us for life in his kingdom. Transfer us from darkness and into light. And in his kingdom, that word bears fruit and changes his people fundamentally. And you and I have been given the gift of sharing that glorious message with others. So I want to ask you. How are you doing? Making the most of every opportunity with your neighbors, your coworkers, with family, friends, strangers. Now, let me be clear. It goes without saying, but I'm going to go ahead and say it anyway, making the most of every opportunity. Doesn't mean you need to be on the lookout, you know, in your house for when your neighbor like walks out the door to their car so that you can like sprint across the street and intercept them and like declare the mystery of Christ to them or like maybe your coworkers going to the bathroom and you're like, now's the time, boom, gotta go make it. Make the most no, it's what opportunities do you have on a normal and natural basis And how can you make the most of those opportunities, right? Notice Paul says, let your speech, your conversations be seasoned with salt. Seasoned. He doesn't say dump the whole shaker out every conversation. Let it be seasoned with salt. Making the most of every opportunity might look like waving to them and saying hello from a distance. Just being a kind uh presence, right? Because that's all that uh opportunity affords. It may look like a five-minute conversation on the sidewalk or before a meeting at work, because that's all the opportunity allows. The point is Are you taking those opportunities to do what you can to build relational bridges? In some circumstances, whether it's with certain neighbors or coworkers, making the most of every opportunity might look like making the opportunity because you don't cross paths with them very much. Whether it's inviting a coworker to lunch or coffee because you otherwise wouldn't have time. To get to know them or taking your neighbors a plate of cookies or just stopping by and saying, hi, we're your neighbors. We just want to get to know you and say say hello. Simple gestures like that go a long way And God uses them to open doors for us to tell others about Christ. But again, not every conversation needs to be about Christ. It's likely even most of your conversations won't be about the gospel explicitly, but what should you be doing in those conversations Those of you who were part of the group that planted CBC a few years ago will remember reading The Art of Neighboring. One of the things I appreciated most about that book that I just want to remind us of today was the way it laid out Different levels of knowledge that you should have about your actual neighbors, right? Start at the surface level. Learn their names, whether it's your physical neighbors, your co-workers, people that you're getting to know around you, right? Get to know their names. Then get to know their family background. Then get to know more about whether they have children or not. And and what do they do for work and and what are their life experiences and and what brings them joy. You see how each interaction you're going deeper. Just be intentional. Make the most of every opportunity. Follow up on previous conversations that you've had with them to ask them about how things are going in their life. Let them know that you'll pray for them because you're a Christian and you know that there's a God in heaven. And you can say, hey, I you may this may make you feel weird I do bel I believe that there's a God, and I'm totally, if if you don't believe that there's a God, that's okay. I do so I would love to pray for you. How can I pray for you? Right? Just naturally, normally, like that, right? You just want to go deeper and deeper And that's a type of knowledge that leads to meaningful conversations about the gospel. But I also want to protect against another error. That doesn't mean you can't meaningfully share the gospel with a stranger. You can. The point is you want to regularly be moving towards knowing your neighbors, knowing your coworkers, knowing your family, knowing your friends more and more. Making the most of every opportunity so that when an opportunity arises, you're able to hold out the hope of the gospel to them So Mark Dever is a pastor of Capitol Hill Baptist Church in Washington, D. C. And over the course of his almost 30 years in D. C. , he's made it a point to go to the same places. All the time, week in, week out. He goes to the same restaurant, the same barber, the same dry cleaner, the same everything, so that he sees the same people and can get to know them. And Lord willing have an opportunity to share the gospel with them or invite them to church or to do a Bible study. And having been at those restaurants with him before, like he literally knows all the waiters' names. Because he's been going there week in and week out. And those things have resulted in open doors to share the gospel, right? What are ways that you And plot and plan to make the most of every opportunity with the people you see on a regular basis. How can you build rhythms into your life so that you're seeing the same people on a regular basis? And I want you to notice also, as we're coming to a close, that you don't need to have a stock approach to sharing the gospel memorized. You have things like the four spiritual laws or or Ray Comfort's way of doing evangelism. Those things are all fine and well and good, but look at what Paul says in verse 6. Let your speech always be gracious. Seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer each person. I think most commentators have the idea that think the idea here has less to do with being able to answer each person's questions And it's more about recognizing that every person's circumstances are unique. And so we walk in wisdom by presenting the gospel and biblical truth according to the circumstances of each person. Now it's true that all mankind is in sin, and we're all under judgment, and so what all people need is the same thing, to believe in Jesus. But some people. I'm sure you know this from your own life. Need to hear more about God's judgment of the proud, right? While others need to hear more of God's mercy toward the oppressed and the trampled down. As you make the most of every opportunity with others, Be learning about how their particular circumstances might require emphasizing different aspects of God's nature, his character, and its work. His word. It's totally fine to have a gospel presentation memorized, but your goal should be to become so immersed in God's plan of redemption, so familiar with the mystery of Christ. That you are able to tell people about who God is and what he's doing in the world in the midst of each particular conversation, right? So that you can wisely and winsomely answer each person But I also know that many of you have been doing that with neighbors and coworkers already for a long time. You shared the gospel with them. You make the most of opportunities, not perfectly because nobody does, but you're striving. And you haven't seen any fruit. What do you do if that describes you? My encouragement would be keep praying for them. Keep praying for God to open their hearts. It might be after you share the gospel that it's time to pull back a bit and just be praying for them in the background, recognizing that God has the power to change anyone at any time. And be patient. Recognize that God's timeline is not our timeline and his purposes for your relationship with that particular person may be for you to be a good witness. in their life before he moves one of the two of you on to another time and place. And even if that happens, remember that you are limited by time and space and God is not. The weapons of prayer and proclamation that God has given the church to advance his kingdom aren't effective because of who we are, but because of who God is. And the thing that's going to make us the type of people who pray steadfastly for God to open doors and who make the most of every opportunity is growing more and more in knowing who God is. We need to remember that this instruction here at the end of chapter 4 comes towards the end of a letter in which Paul has already laid out for the Colossians. who God is in all of his glory. And it's that vision of who God is that is to spur them on to this type of prayer and this type of proclamation. And what have we learned about who this God is? He's the Father who sent his Son, the preeminent creator and sustainer of the universe, into the world to die for the sins of his people. He's the Father who rescued us from the kingdom of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. He's the Father who nailed our sins to the cross in the body of his son. Jesus. He's the God who canceled the record of debt that stood against us, who made his enemies into his friends, who gave us his spirit to transform us into the image of his son. In short, he's the God who opened the door of our hearts. To look upon Jesus and see him as he truly is, the Lord of all. And he has given us a part in doing the same for others The kingdoms of this world struggle and vie for supremacy through military might, but we know that those kingdoms are built on sinking sand. Only one kingdom will last forever. The kingdom of Christ. And that kingdom is built now in this world on prayer and proclamation. So that's what we do. We pray for the spread of the gospel and proclaim the gospel, knowing that though that through it all, God is building a kingdom that will last forever. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we do pray. We thank you for the opportunity today to meet, to proclaim the gospel, to sing about the gospel, to pray to you. To ask for your blessing, to ask for you to save. And we pray that you would open the doors of people's hearts even now in this room. And that you would be doing that around the world now. Building your church by gathering a people from every tribe and tongue and nation to be your people, to give you praise and glorify you for all eternity in the kingdom of your beloved Son. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen