Good morning friends. How's everyone doing? Wonderful. It's great to see you all here this morning, and it's an honor to be able to bring you God's word. Before we open God's word, I want to lead us in prayer briefly one more time. So would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning. And we come, Lord, in dependence upon your word, asking that you would feed us by it. Lord, you tell us in your word, blessed are those whose way is blameless. Blessed are those who walk in the law of the Lord. Oh Lord, teach us your law today, we pray, so that we might walk in it. You know the blessing of the work of the Spirit in our life. We pray, Father, that your word would not return to you void today, but it would accomplish the purposes for which you have sent it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as a pastor, I love stories of unexpected faith, of uh surprising conversions, you might say. Stories about people who seemed so far from God that there was no earthly way that they would ever turn to follow Jesus and to uh to walk in his ways. Now there's something about their stories that just seems improbable. It just seems so unexpected. Like how could someone like that Turn to God. These stories seem to show God's power in a unique way, right, in in our eyes. from our perspective. One story of unexpected faith that I've appreciated over the past couple years is a story of Christopher Yuan. Uh Christopher grew up in a traditional Chinese family in America, but at an early age uh he got involved in some pretty serious Sins that really took a hold of his life. And over time, these sin patterns and these lifestyles really consumed his whole life and changed the whole direction of it. His life was filled with uh sexual immorality, uh, with drug use, even drug dealing at a at a pretty high and extensive large level. Eventually Chris contracted HIV and ended up in prison because of the type of drug dealing that he was doing. Right, he's the type of guy that you would look at from our perspective and you would say, There is no possible way that that guy would ever come to follow Jesus. He is a completely unlikely candidate. From a human perspective, that's kind of the ways that we we look at things. Yet it was in his prison cell that Christopher Saw scribbled on the bunk above him when he was laying on his prison cell bed, the bunk above him, he saw scribbled on the bottom of it, Jeremiah 29, 11. For I know the plans that I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper you and not to harm you. It was at this point that Christopher started looking back on the faith of his parents. His mom was a devout Christian who had been praying for him for years. And Christopher started thinking about the ways that the Lord had protected him and preserved him throughout the course of his life. even with the sinful choices that he was making. And it was at that point in prison that Christopher's heart started being knit to the Lord. And over time, Christopher came to follow Jesus Christ. What happened to Christopher Yuan? Well, decades later now he graduated from uh I think it was Wheaton College with an MDiv in theology. He's a professor at Moody Bible College and he's an apologist. He goes around. Teaching about how Jesus Christ is the only one who can provide the peace and joy and hope that we so long for Christopher is a story of unexpected salvation. And I bring Christopher up because we see in our passage this morning that Christopher's story of unexpected faith is just one of many Throughout history and in our passage this morning in Mark, we see a similar story of an unlikely person coming to faith In Jesus Christ. So go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 7. We're going to be looking today at verses 24 to 30 Specifically. So if you're using uh the black Bible that's provided in the seats around you, you'll find our passage on page 843 If you don't own a Bible of your own, we we would uh want to offer our Bible to you as a gift. So if you don't own a Bible, please take this one as a gift from us to you. I think there's nothing more important for you in this life than to own a copy of God's word and to read it. And I'm going to read Mark 7, 24 to 30 for us now. This is God's word. And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house and did not want any one to know. Yet he could not be hidden. But immediately a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard of him, and came, and fell down at his feet. Now the woman was a Gentile, a Saver Phoenician by birth, and she begged him to cast the demon out of her daughter And he said to her, let the children be fed first. It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. But she answered him, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs. And he said to her, For this statement you may go your way. The demon has left your daughter. And she went home and found the child lying in bed and the demon gone. It's kind of a normal practice for me after I read the passage to offer you the various points that we're going to work through. But this passage really only has one point. There's one point in this passage And the one thing this passage teaches us is that God saves unexpected people. So I'm just going to walk us through the passage. Going to lead us inductively through that. Then at the end, we're going to think about some ways that this should apply to our lives. All right? All right, so let's look down at the passage with me. Look at verse 24. It says. And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. So last week's passage ended with Jesus in some unnamed location. It's possible that he was in the region of Gennazareth, but we don't know. But what we do know is that Jesus was in a house. with his disciples, and he was teaching them about what truly makes a person unclean before the Lord. And he was saying to them, It's not what comes, uh it's not what goes into you that makes you unclean, but what comes out of your heart. It was in a house there with the disciples. And here in our passage, he arises from that house and he goes to the region of Tyre and Sidon. The region of Tyre and Sidon was an area northwest of Galilee on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea in what we would know as modern-day Lebanon. Uh and the reason it's called the region of Tyre and Sidon is because the region was dominated by those two prominent cities, cities that are still there today. So Tyre and Sidon still exist By name in the country of Lebanon, and there are ruins there uh dating back to the time of Jesus and even before that These were cities with a long and notorious history of being opposed to the people of Israel. Right, so the region of Tyre, if you think back to the Old Testament, the region of Tyre was a region that Queen Jezebel came from, the queen who almost up-ended the entire northern kingdom of Israel because of her pagan practices. And in the book of Ezekiel, there are a number of long prophecies directed against fire inside and from the Lord because of their opposition to God's people, but not only their opposition to God's people, but just their pride. Their love of money, uh their love of sin and their worship of false gods. It's all these vr various things that these Prophecies are directed against Tyre and Sidon for. And if you go back to the first century, you find one Jewish historian, not at all in the Bible. His name was Josephus. Uh this Jewish historian wrote about the inhabitants of Tyre that they were notoriously our bitterest enemies. Inhabitants of Tyre inside and were always fighting and at war with the people of Israel. So as we're reading through Mark's gospel, this should catch our attention, right? Up until this point, Jesus' ministry has almost entirely been centralized around the Sea of Galilee and is almost firmly entrenched in a Jewish context. He's only ventured out for one brief moment to a Gentile context, but then he's cast right out of there because of re the people beg him to leave. Right? So he's venturing well outside of the Jewish boundaries that he is typically ministering in to a region and a people that nearly all Jewish people would have considered them unclean by virtue of their ethnicity. And we might wonder why Jesus would go there if it was such a wicked place. Why would Jesus rise up and go to this region if it was such an unclean and sinful place? Well, Mark doesn't actually give us a reason. It could be, if you think back further in Mark's gospel, we know Herod Antipas was opposed to Jesus. He had already killed John the Baptist, and he thinks Jesus is a new John the Baptist. So it could be because he's trying to stay away from Herod. Or if you think in the immediate context, he just had this argument with the Pharisees, who are increasingly opposed to him. They want to kill Jesus. So it's possible he's just trying to get away for a little bit, to get out of the public eye, to get some rest in a region where people are probably not going to bother him. And that seems to be what Mark means when he says in verse 24 that Jesus entered a house and didn't want anyone to know. He wants to get some rest. He uh is fully God and fully man. In his humanity, he needs rest. He's looking for some downtime But we read at the end of verse 24 that he couldn't be hidden. He attracted attention wherever he went We shouldn't be surprised by this. This has been a consistent theme throughout Mark's gospel. Wherever Jesus of Nazareth went, it didn't matter where he went, crowds flocked to him because the guy did amazing things. And we read back in chapter 3, this shouldn't surprise us that people are coming to him in Tyrant Sidon, because back in chapter 3, we read that people from Tyrant Sidon were coming to see him in Galilee because of his healings. and his miracles. So now that he's in Tyrant Sidon, we should think there are people there who have heard of this guy and who want to know about him, who are trying to find him and maybe be healed by him. You see, that's actually what happens. Look at verse 25. Jesus' attempt to rest is interrupted by a woman whose daughter has an unclean spirit. Unclean spirits have made numerous appearances throughout Mark's gospel. These are demons or fallen angels. The Bible simply assumes that they exist. We live in a very Secular world that doesn't seem to think that the supernatural exists whatsoever, but the Bible takes it as an assumption. There is a supernatural world. There are unclean spirits. And so there's an unclean spirit here And Jesus' mission, we know, in bringing the kingdom of God was characterized by three things, right? It was characterized by preaching the gospel, by healing the sick, and by casting out the Demons, and because this woman has apparently heard of Jesus' unique power and authority to cast out demons, she comes to him for help But before Mark tells us what's happened, he what happens, he slows down and he offers a little bit more information about this woman. Look at verse 26. Notice verse 26, Mark tells us Now the woman was a Gentile. Basically, a Gentile was anyone who wasn't Jewish. So a Gentile was anyone who was not ethnically Jewish. And to the Jewish people who took great pride in their cultural and religious heritage, the Gentiles were viewed as an unclean people. You want to stay away from them. They're sinful. They're dirty. They're people to be avoided. Basically, they were enemies that were meant to be shunned by the Jews. But Mark adds another detail. He doesn't just tell us that she was a Gentile He tells us that she was Syrophoenician by birth. So she was born in Phoenicia in the Roman province of Syria. Syrophoenician. Basically, this is Mark's way of saying, this woman isn't any old Gentile. She's the worst of the worst. Right? This woman from Syria-Phoenicia is she can't cleanse herself of her own ethnicity. She was born a Gentile. She is the worst of the worst, the lowest of the lowest. So Syrophoenicians were known not only for their opposition to Jews, but for their deeply entrenched pagan practices, right? They worshipped false gods and engaged in shameful cultic rituals. Things that the Jews found totally inappropriate and ungodly. Why does Mark want us to know these details about this woman? But he wants us to be surprised by this woman and by Jesus' willingness to interact with her. So for any of the kids, for any of the youth here. Who are some other people in Mark's gospel that we wouldn't expect him to interact with? Think about our past studies. This is a theme that I I'm not bringing this theme back up because it's a favorite hobby horse of mine. It's because Mark wants us to know consistently. Jesus is constantly interacting with people we wouldn't expect him to. Who are some other people in Mark's gospel? Lois. The leper Right? If he would have touched the leper, he could have contracted his disease and become ceremonially unclean. But Jesus reached out and touched the leper. Who are some other people? Yeah, the poor woman who'd been bleeding for she had spent all her money looking for help from earthly doctors who couldn't help her. She comes to Jesus and he heals her. Right? A poor woman. Anyone else? Other people. The tax collector, Levi, Levi was uh would have been looked down on by the other disciples. He was like hated by his own people. Anyone else? Matthew, Levi the tax collector, who is Matthew? You think of the demoniac, right? The man who was filled with thousands of unclean spirits? Right, this is a constant theme throughout Mark because Jesus or Mark wants to show us as Christians and as people who may not follow Jesus, Jesus interacted with people you would never expect. Like a Gentile Syrophonician woman, the lowest of the low, right? Right? So Elsewhere, though, we've seen in Mark's gospel, people come to Jesus for help, right? Tons of sick people. A paralyzed person was brought on a mat, the woman with the issue of blood. Diris, the demoniac, all of them come to Jesus for help. And how does Jesus respond throughout Mark's gospel? He helps them. He does what they're looking for. He's a willing savior. But look how he responds to this woman in verse 27. He says, let the children be fed first. It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. Ouch! Yikes. Like right, we're not we're not supposed to read that and though, like, well this is this is Jesus. So that was a nice comment like ow Let the children be fed. No. No. Let the children be fed first. It's not right to take their bread and throw it to the dogs. Ah What do we do with this, right? Jesus gives her a stinging response to her request calling her a dog. How do we understand this? I don't think, I'm not gonna stand up here and say to you, I don't think there's any way to put a real positive spin on this. I'm not gonna like wind up the hermeneutical kind of toy and say, there, this is actually the great thing that Jesus was saying. I don't think it was a super positive thing. To be called a dog isn't a compliment. Right? Consider references to dogs in other parts of the Bible. So in Exodus 22, 1 Kings 21, they're associated with uncleanness. In Isaiah 56. 10, dogs are synonymous with worthless people. Worthless people. In Philippians 3, Paul says, look out for the dogs. The evildoers, the mutilators of the flesh, dogs, evildoers, mutilators of the flesh, not great company, right? Not great company. In the ancient world, dogs were wild scavengers. And especially dangerous when they roamed in packs. This isn't a compliment that he's given. Jesus calls this woman a dog. What do we do with this? Well, there are some scholars who have looked at this passage in the Greek and they've attempted to explain uh to explain this away by looking at the Greek word that Jesus is. uses for dog. So Jesus chooses a word for dog that's used almost nowhere else in the Bible that means little dog or puppy. So the same he he's He's saying she's not like the scavenging dogs. She's more like the house pet. That's gonna be better, right? It's we're we're trying to make it look better. They're saying he's referring to a little house pet, so it's not as harsh as we might think. And it's possible It's possible that that's what he intended, but does that really soften the blow a ton? You're not a child. You're still a dog. Still a hard comment. What do we do with this? First, I want you guys to think big picture. We need to take a step back. Think big picture. Whole Bible We can be reminded of the fact that Jesus never sinned. He was sinless in his words. He was sinless in all that he did. And that applies in this passage. Bible's crystal clear about that. Second, we also know from the New Testament that Jesus upheld the idea that every human being was made in the image of God and was therefore worthy of all dignity and value. So he wasn't looking at this woman as someone less than the Jewish people. When we hit verses like this one that are difficult to understand, we not only want to think about the whole Bible, but we want to think about the immediate context of the verse itself. Not only the paragraph that it exists in, because words and sentences are interpreted by their context, best interpreted by their context, but also the broader context. So think about this with me. Think about this with me Think about the broader context. In chapter 7, just before our passage, Jesus strongly opposes the religious authorities of Israel, the so-called clean people. For their empty traditions and their misunderstanding about what truly makes a person clean or unclean. They thought it was all about the external What comes into contact with you? What ethnicity you are. That's what makes you clean or unclean. You're contaminated by unclean foods Or touching unclean animals. Or touching unclean people, possibly like this woman. But Jesus called them Hypocrites. He called them hypocrites, and he taught that what makes a person unclean isn't what's on the outside of them. It isn't their ethnicity. It's what comes out of them. It's out of the evil of the heart that makes a person unclean. So Mark is not going to place a story Immediately after Jesus teaches on what makes a person unclean, that completely contradicts what he just taught So we should be thinking, wait a second, wait a second, as we read this, Jesus just taught on what really makes a person unclean, and now he's going to a unclean region. And is confronted by an unclean woman, could it be that we should conclude that there's something else going on here with his comment to her about letting the children be fed first and not taking their bread and throw it to the dogs? I think there is something else going here. I think the better way to understand what Jesus says to her is that he's just straight up testing her He's straight up testing her in a non-sinful, in a non-sinful way, he's being intentionally provocative. And this is helpful for us to just take a step back and make sure that our view of Jesus matches the Bible's view of Jesus. If your idea of Jesus is as some dopey, sappy guy who was just going around looking for friends, will you be my friend? Right? That's not Jesus in the Bible That's if that's how you view Jesus, you need to revise your view of Him. Jesus pushed people's buttons. Jesus got under their skin. He said things that were hard to swallow in the extreme. And he did this to wake people up. He did it so that they would wake up out of their slumber to see that their relationship with God maybe not, maybe wasn't like they thought it was. And to help them see the great danger that they were in so that they would turn and trust in him. Jesus said difficult things, and here he's being intentionally provocative. He's wanting to draw her out. Maybe see how she's going to respond to this verse. And what does she say in verse 28? It's almost like you should read verse 28 as, but she answered him, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs. The woman nails it. She nails it. She picks up on Jesus' intentionally provocative and cryptic statement, understands it perfectly, and then counters it with a remarkable statement of her own. One pastor said, it's like Jesus picked up a grenade and threw it at her. She saw it, picked it up, and threw it right back at him And that's, I think that's exactly what's going on here. Frankly, as I'm reading this passage and been meditating it, I imagine Jesus actually starting with a slow clap. Looking at his disciples, condescendingly looking at his disciples, and then just going faster and faster and faster. He says, For this statement, woman, you may go your way. Why do I say that? Think about Mark's gospel. His disciples constantly hear him teach, and what do they say? Teacher, we don't understand what you meant by the sowing the seed. What did you mean by that soil and that seed? Teacher, teacher, we We hear what you say about clean and unclean, but what do you mean that what goes into a person makes them isn't what makes them unclean, but what comes out of them Help us understand. Jesus is looking at them and saying, you disciples, you Jewish people who've grown up with the scriptures, you don't understand my teaching. And here, a woman Gentile pagan gets it and nails it. That's why he's just for this statement, woman, you may go your way. Disciples Take a hint, right? Take a hint. Finally, someone gets it. Someone understands his teaching. And it's a it's a gentile woman with a demon-possessed daughter. Right? What is it that she understands? What is it that she gets? How is it that she just threw this grenade back at him? Well, when Jesus says to her, let the children be fed first, it's not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs She knows that he's referring to the children of Israel, the Jewish people. And she also knows that the bread, think about Mark's gospel, the bread is Jesus. He is the bread of life. Remember the feeding of the 5,000. He is the one that offers bread that doesn't perish, that nourishes the soul. And she also knows that according to God's divine plan of redemption, that Jesus, as the Messiah, was sent first to the people of Israel in accordance with the scriptures. Let the children be fed first. We need to understand as we read the Gospels that Jesus' mission, his earthly mission, was primarily to the people of Israel and not to the surrounding Gentile nations. That's why you find Jesus telling his disciples in Matthew 10. When he sends him out on a mission trip, he says, go nowhere among the Gentiles. Why? Because my mission is to the house of Israel. My mission is to the house of Israel. Or in Matthew's account of this passage that we're looking at today, Jesus says, he says to the woman, I was sent only. to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And it's this look uh e Carl even prayed about it. It's like I I love how God's word just comes together. Carl and I didn't talk about this, but think about this. Jesus is being sent first to the Jewish people is a sign of God's unique relationship with the nation of Israel. But His plan of salvation has always included both Jew and Gentile. And the combining of God's unique relationship to Israel and the salvation to the Gentiles is combined perfectly in his promised blessing of all the nations that can be traced back to God's covenant with Abraham. Right in Genesis 12? God calls a pagan gentile named Abram out of the nations to be the forefather of the nation of Israel. And he promises that through Abraham, All the nations of the world will be blessed. And as the Old Testament unfolds, we learn that God's promise to bless all the nations. would be fulfilled through the one nation of Israel that directly descends from Abraham. Right? God promised to make them his chosen people So that in their obedience to his commands they would show off his glory and goodness to the world, and God's glory would spread throughout all the earth But we also learned that God's promise to bless the nations through Israel would not be because of their obedience. He knew that they would fail They would not spread his glory by how they live because they would consistently sin against him and disobey his commandments. Instead It was because God had chosen Israel as the nation and the people through whom he would send the promised deliverer. This promised Messiah who would be the Savior of the world. And this Messiah would not only be the Savior of Israel, but the Savior of all peoples and all nations. Psalm 86, it was our call to worship. I just thought this this morning because I wasn't even thinking about the call to worship before we started today. Dan read for us, or we read together with Dan, Psalm 86. Look at this, it's all throughout the Old Testament. Psalm 86, there is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there works like yours. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you. This is all throughout the Old Testament. That's why we see in Isaiah 2, we read of a day when the nations would flock to the mountain of the Lord. Or think about Isaiah 51, when God says through Isaiah, my righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arm will judge the peoples. The coastlands hope for me and for my arm. They wait. Who are the coastland peoples in Isaiah? Tyre and Sidon. The coastland peoples are waiting for the arm of the Lord to be revealed, and their hope is in him. Or Isaiah 56, the foreigners, the non-Jewish people, the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to him To love the name of the Lord and to be his servants. These I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. For my house of prayer shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. Right? And this Messiah, this one who would come as the arm of the Lord to bring salvation for all the nations, is revealed in Mark's gospel as Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Jesus is the promised deliverer, the seed of Abraham, who would bring God's promised blessing to the nations. And Jesus is healing of this pagan Gentile woman's daughter. Signals that the fulfillment of that promise to Abraham has begun in him. I mean, this is glorious. This is like thousands of years of prophecies are coming to pass in this healing. This is a glorious reality for us. But we also know that the fullness of that promised blessing would come only after Jesus completed his ministry to the Jews. A ministry that would include preaching a gospel of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. A ministry that included healing the sick, the lame, the blind, and the demon-possessed. And a ministry that included extreme opposition from his very own people. Opposition that led to his complete rejection and his death. on the cross. Yet it was in God's infinite wisdom. This was in accordance with the divine plan of redemption. Jesus came for this very reason. Jesus came to offer his life as a sacrifice for sins so that anyone, Jew or Gentile, could know God's forgiveness, mercy, and love through Jesus Christ. So I have said that Gentiles are non-Jewish people, ethnically non-Jewish people. If you are a Gentile, raise your hand. Jesus came for you. He came to show you God's love and mercy because the fact is all of us have sinned against God Jew and Gentile alike, none of us is righteous, no, not one. And I don't say that to condemn you. I'm standing right beside I'm standing beside you saying, hey, it's you and me together. We've sinned. We've done it. We have. It's the truth But you know what God has done? God, in his mercy and love, sent his son Jesus Christ into the world to take the punishment for our sins, to bear the judgment that we deserved, so that we could be forgiven and cleansed. So that we can be made like his children. This is God's mercy and love that's offered to you today. And I want you to see how clearly Mark shows that Gentiles would share in this salvation in his own gospel. So if you have your Bible open in front of you, turn to Mark 15. So Mark fifteen, Jesus has been handed over. He's been wrongly charged. He's been delivered by Pilate to be crucified. He's been mocked. And then he carries the cross to the hill of Golgotha where he's going to die a brutal death. Mark 15, Jesus has been crucified. He's on the brink of death. Look at verses 37 and following. I'll read them for us. And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, Truly This man was the son of God, the first person. To ever profess faith in the crucified and murdered Savior was a Gentile. A Roman centurion soldier. Truly, this man was the son of God. God's salvation begins with the Gentiles as soon as Jesus is dead. And then it spreads from there in the book of Acts, from Jerusalem. And onto Judea, and onto Samaria, and then on to the ends of the earth. You actually see in the Apostle Paul's ministry, if you look closely at the book of Acts, the Apostle Paul is looking back to Genesis 10. to the table of nations who formed around the Tower of Babel and who were dispersed from the tower. He's looking at those nations and he's saying, I'm going to get them. The people who were dispersed from the Tower of Babel who were judged by God because they wanted to make a name for themselves, the Apostle Paul is looking at that table and his ministry is going to each of them. The gospel is going to bring the Gentiles home. This is amazing. And as the gospel spread throughout space on earth, it also spread throughout time. That gospel message of salvation through faith in Jesus has been spreading for the last 2,000 years through the preaching of the gospel and the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit. Thousands upon thousands upon thousands upon thousands of Gentiles have been welcomed into God's family. And friends, you and I, if we have trusted in Christ Have been brought into God's family as well. And God doesn't look at us like dogs. Right? We have been made children through Jesus Christ, heirs of the promise. I I was sitting last night at my computer as I was working on this and I remembered a video that I've watched every couple years. If you have not seen this video, you need to go home. If there was ever any time that we were gonna use video in a sermon sermon, this would be it. But you need to go home and you need to search on YouTube Kim Yal Bible K-A-K-I-M-Y-A-L Bible. And it's a 10-minute video of the Indonesian tribe of the Kimyo people who, when finally receiving the Word of God in their own language, a plane had to land on their island. To bring copies of God's word to them. You see people dressed in tribal garb singing praises to the Lord Jesus Not being able to contain their joy because his word had finally arrived at them. And then when they receive his word, they lift up their voices in prayer with prayers that put me to shame. Oh God, oh God, before the foundations of the earth were laid, you determined the day on which the Kimul people would receive your word, and your word has arrived, and we now cherish it. And we exalt your name as Lord. Friends, this is a picture of what's going on here in this healing of this Gentile pagan woman's daughter. God's kindness and mercy is over all, and it's extended to all people. This is the love that has been shown to us in Jesus Christ. That is what this story is pointing us forward to. It's pointing us forward to the cross When Jesus would die as a sacrifice not only for the people of Israel, but for all who would repent and believe in him. How wonderful is God's salvation. How merciful he's been to people who Paul says in Ephesians walked and lived in darkness. We were separated from the covenant people of Israel. According to Paul, we were without hope. You and me, all of us without hope in this world, but God. Being rich in mercy because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. Living in darkness, he made us alive together with Christ Oh, praise be to God for his kindness to the Gentiles, for his kindness to us. Friends, this should move us to think about how we should live in light of what this passage teaches us and what it teaches us about God. And about the world and about ourselves. First, we should take away from this passage in our lives this week. We should take away the fact that God saves people that we never expect Him to save. God saves people we never expect him to save. This woman is the most unlikely candidate for salvation Right? Look at her. She shatters expectations. We talk in our culture about three strikes and you're out. Right? This woman has three strikes against her. First, she's a woman In the first century world, in Jewish culture and Greco-Roman culture, women were not afforded the same dignity and value and worth as men. They were not looked at with the same value as men. This is a fact in that in that culture. One strike against her, she's a woman. Two, she's a gentile, unclean. Three, she's Serophonician by birth There is no way that Jesus should interact with this woman, but Jesus is in the business of saving people that we would never expect him to save. That's why Paul says in 1 Corinthians. God's wisdom is the foolishness to the world. God confounds the wisdom of the world with the people he chooses to save. Right? He chooses the foolish things. If you follow Jesus Christ, I want to congratulate you today. You are officially qualified as a foolish thing in the world's eyes But that's what God does. He saves the foolish things to shame the wisdom of the wise. And we even see how Jesus' disciples reflected this attitude that she's not she's not worthy. To be around you. In Matthew's gospel, Matthew records that the disciples asked Jesus to send her away. Hey, send her away. No, no, no. Not her. That's not how God works. God doesn't judge based on external appearances. Go back to the beginning of chapter 7. He judges us based on the posture of this heart of our hearts. And look at what we learn about this woman's heart. She falls at Jesus' feet. She begs him to save her daughter. Do you know that in Mark's gospel, the only people to beg Jesus for anything are Gentiles? The Jews never ask him in such a way that it could be viewed as begging. She's one of the very few Gentiles who begs Jesus. And here you have this pagan Gentile woman who gets it She knows what faith is. We've seen the scholars of Israel, the Pharisees. We have scholars in our own day, people who spend their entire lives. Studying the Bible to pick it apart. They literally sit with God's word as a job to study it, to find things wrong with it. It just shows you how hard their hearts are. It's like as hard as this floor we're standing on. What does a soft and tender heart look like? It looks like falling at Jesus' feet, calling him Lord, and begging him for the help that we so desperately need. That's what faith looks like. That's what faith looks like His salvation does not depend on man-made categories or external appearances. Right? In our daily lives, we may run into various people who we think that for one reason or another are unlikely candidates for following Jesus. Right? But we always need to remember that the category of unlikely candidate does not exist for God. Kids, I want to impress this upon you. If you're following Jesus and you're thinking about the friends that you make in life, you may be tempted to think they maybe something about them won't want Jesus Maybe there's something about them that just you think I'm afraid to share with them or they're probably not going to follow because of X, Y, or Z. Those categories don't exist for God. He can overcome all categories that might make it seem like a person wouldn't turn to God. But I'm trust that most of us who are following Jesus here know and would say that God can save all people. We know that. Got that, John. I don't need to be told that again Right, but I think there are subtle ways that we may tempt it to be believed that these man-made categories actually prevent people from coming to Jesus. But think about your week. Think about the week you just had and the week you're gonna have. Think about the people that you interact with regularly. Who are those people that you're tempted to think won't come to Jesus for one reason or another? Put a face on it. And if you're thinking of them, why do you think they won't come to Jesus? Why would you think they wouldn't follow him What is it about them or their lifestyle that you think makes them an unlikely person to come to faith? This is what this is where we need to remember as Christians. We need to remember that all people are looking for the same thing in life. All of us. If you're around non-Christians, you may think they're very different from me. They have very different desires, and there's no way that we have anything in similar. Wrong. All people are looking for true joy, true peace, and true fulfillment. And the reality is that those things cannot be found apart from Jesus Christ This world may offer temporary joy, peace, and fulfillment, but at some point everyone in life comes to find that the world cannot deliver the peace that it seems to offer. Right? Augustine said, our our hearts are restless until we rest in you. The people around you, I trust, are restless. They're looking for hope and joy in the things of the world, but the world cannot deliver on those promises. And it doesn't matter what country a person's from. What their background is, what their lifestyle is, we're all searching for that. And Jesus alone can give it. I mean, you think about this, even in the case of this woman. She came from tire inside and tire inside and Full of pagan worship. There are surely people who work as a living in Tyre and Sidon whose job it is to exercise demons. But it's clear that no one in Tire and Sidon can help her. And so she comes to the only one who can Think of the ways that people are looking for that help in Tire and Side and in America today, who are not going to find what they need and who can come to Jesus Christ and find it. Be reminded. Everyone around you is looking for the same things, and only Jesus can truly offer those things. Second. Second. We should be humble. This passage should teach us humility. I know it's a very basic truth. Of course, we should be humble. This woman is a glorious. Picture of humility. She understands clearly who she is in relationship to God. I want you to notice two words that she says Two words that reveal a humility that I hope to cultivate in my own life and a humility I hope you cultivate in your life. What are those two words? Look at verse 28. Jesus has just called her a dog, and what are the first two words out of her mouth? Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Yes, I I am. Notice what she doesn't say. How dare you call me a dog? I'm a precious snowflake. Right? There's no way you should ever call me a dog. But he calls her dog. Yes, Lord. This is a woman who understands herself rightly in relationship to God. She understands that Jesus is Lord. She understands that he is completely holy and awesome, and she understands that she is sinful. And this basic math computes to you, yes, Lord. I have no answer for you. I actually am that. I'm actually worse than that. That's what honesty should say for all of us. I'm actually worse than that Right? Notice the connection between her humility and her not having an entitled attitude. He doesn't demand to be fed the food that the children get. She doesn't claim it's not fair that they got fed and she didn't. She knows that she has no place to demand anything from God Yes, Lord. Right, you see, humility and not having an entitled attitude go hand in hand. Or would you just flip it over and say that pride and entitlement go hand in hand? Right? See that agreement there, pride and entitlement go hand in hand. The more proud we are, the more we're going to feel entitled to. And because we're all human, we're all going to struggle with entitlement, right? But what we want to do is drag it out into the light and expose entitlement for what it is. It's a sinful form of pride. Sinful form of pride. Questions for you to consider. How do you feel when life doesn't turn out the way that you expect it to? Maybe you've wanted a spouse, maybe you've wanted a new job, maybe that you wanted something else, maybe uh you can look at your own relationships with other people. Why are you angry at other people for the things that they've not done for you? There are gonna be reasons in life because we live in a fallen world in which people have done things that are very wrong to us that should should cause righteous anger to rise up. But can you look at your relationships and see bitterness towards other people because they haven't done something that you think they should do for you? Entitlement. Pride. We want to cultivate the attitude of being a people who rightly understand ourselves in light of God's holiness. Yes, Lord. And then imagine how that attitude then gets translated to other people. I forgive you. Because I do the same things. I'm demanding things of you that I actually shouldn't be demanding because God has given me way more than I could ever deserve. You notice the the way that humility and a lack of an entitled attitude, they go together. So where you find an attitude of entitlement in your heart and in your life You're you're you're starting to pull at the the weeds that are on top of the ground, his roots are called pride. You want to start pulling those things. Oh, if you can talk about that in your own life today. When you face unmet expectations in your life, do you get angry? Do you get jealous? Do you get depressed? Does your attitude towards God change? These are all symptoms of entitlement, of thinking that God owes it to you. Go back to the woman. Let the children be fed first. It's not right to give the bread that's for the children to the dogs. It's true. Can't demand anything from you. Whenever we're struggling with believing that God owes us something, we can know that that thought is directly related to a wrong view of ourselves in relation to God, right? We've forgotten that none is righteous, no not one. We've forgotten that the wages of sin is death. We've forgotten that we were we were enemies of God. That's how God viewed us as enemies of God. As Christians, we can rightly say, though it sounds hard, we we should follow in Jesus' footsteps and be willing to say hard things, the only thing that God owes us is judgment. And literally everything that He gives us that is not judgment is mercy. Everything. We can talk about that after church if you want to find a way to trace what is going on in your life to God's mercy rather than Him giving you judgment. Which if you're honest with yourself as a Christian, you would say that you deserve. He hasn't just shown us a little mercy Notice this. All the woman asks for is crumbs. Right? She doesn't ask for the whole loaf. She just wants a little bit of what Jesus offers But God and Jesus especially and this passion, he doesn't give. He doesn't give according to the way that the world gives. He doesn't say to this woman, I'm only going to give you crumbs. I'm gonna give you my whole self. I'm gonna give you my whole loaf. Not only do you deserve judgment I'm not just gonna give you crumbs to kind of bring you out of judgment. I'm gonna give you the whole salvation, the whole kit and caboodle Justification, righteousness, sanctification. I'm gonna do everything. Then I'm gonna give you my spirit and put it in your heart and help you live the life that you need to live to obey me I'm going to preserve you so that you don't fall off the path. I'm going to take you by your right hand and hold you fast as we sing. Jesus doesn't give crumbs. He gives the whole thing. He lavishes his grace on us. He's given us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. He's removed our sins as far as the east is from the west. He's given us an imperishable inheritance and promised us an eternity in his presence forever. God has shown us mercy, has saved us, has reconciled us to himself. We who were dead, trespasses and sins have been made alive together with Christ. Friends, Christopher Yuan's story is a story of unexpected faith This Gentile woman's story is a story of unexpected faith. All of our stories are stories of unexpected faith. Because God took what was dead and made it alive. Friends, God is so good to us. It's only by the mercy of our God that we can be here today and not just be fed crumbs, but be fed richly from his word. His spirit as we look forward to that day when all the tribes and tongues and nations gather around his throne for the wedding feast of the Lamb. Or we will not have crumbs. We will have it all with Christ. Because all we have is Christ. Right Lord, you are so gracious to us. I'm saddened in my own life about how often those words come out of my mouth and there really is no true apprehension of the fact that you have been gracious to me But we all know that we struggle with speaking empty words from time to time. Our hearts are dry. But the reality is, Lord, it's not the state of our heart that saves us. It's Christ that saves us. It's his righteousness that we trust in. And we rejoice, Lord Jesus, that you have given us your perfect righteousness. You've brought us from the nations to the mountain of your holy hill. And we look forward to that day, Lord Jesus, when you return and we will be with you in heaven. And so we pray in light of that day, Lord Jesus, come. Even now, we ask. If you do not come, we pray that you would continue to gather the nations as your inheritance. And we pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Well friend in your uh friends in your bulletins, you'll find our final hymn on page seven. And if you look at verse 1 there with me, just see what we've been talking about in the sermon this morning. I once was lost in darkest night. Yet thought I knew the way, the sin that promised joy and life had led me to the grave. I had no hope that you would own a rebel to your will, and if you had not loved me first, I would refuse you still The reality is, friends, that if you're in Christ, all you have is Christ, and he has given you his entire self. Let's stand together and sing