The sermon passage this morning is Mark 14, 32 to 52. And they went to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed, that if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will. And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. And he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough. The hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand. And immediately while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs. From the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard. And when he came, he went up to him at once and said, Rabbi, and he kissed him. And they laid hands on him and seized him. But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. And Jesus said to them, Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. but let the scriptures be fulfilled and they all left him and fled. And a young man followed him with nothing but a linen cloth about his body, and they seized him, but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked. This is God's word Oh friends, we have a great privilege this morning to open up God's Word and to hear from the living God in and through Mark's gospel. The Holy Spirit spoke through Mark. So that we might know more about what Christ has done for us this morning. But we need God's help as we come to his word to understand it and to be moved. to be moved within our hearts to see just what Christ has done for us. So I want to pray for us one more time briefly before we open up God's word. Let's pray. Father, we pray in line with what Jesus said here in our passage. The spirit is willing. The flesh is weak. So many of the cares and concerns and desires of this world crowded out in our hearts a knowledge of what Christ has done for us and we have grown cold to his great sacrifice in our place. But we pray that the Spirit would remove those cares and concerns this morning and freshly amaze us with your great love for us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh friends, if you haven't already, I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 14, verses 32 to 52. If you're using one of the Bibles that we've provided, you'll find the passage on page 851. And if you don't own a Bible, we want to encourage you to take the copy that we have provided there in our seats as a gift from us to you. We come this morning to a portion of Scripture that is frankly difficult to preach. It's difficult to open up and and and even understand because what we are confronted with in this passage isn't ext experience unlike anything any of us have ever experienced in this life. There is there's no analogy that we can draw to it. I could work on an illustration. You know, one pastor talked about the difficulty of finding illustrations for this passage, and I totally agree with him. I could work on an illustration of how somebody experience some great suffering in their life and some great agony and the and then work that into uh how the that that connects with this passage and what we see here. But the reality is There is no experience of suffering, no agony that has ever been experienced by any human being in this life that can compare with what Christ experienced and suffered here. It is unlike anything anyone has ever experienced. We're going to see that as we open up the passage this morning. And honestly, as we come to this passage and to this experience in Gethsemane, it's not unlike the account of Moses and the burning bush. When Moses looked from a distance, he saw the bush that was on fire, but that was not being consumed. And so what did he decide to do? He decided to approach the bush, but the Lord called out to him and said, Stop. Do not come near because the place where you are standing is holy ground. Friends, the place that we come to this morning is holy ground as we witness Jesus Christ, fully God, and yet fully man, experience the fullness of the curse set before him that is about to be poured out upon him for us who were weak and frail and suffering and in need. This passage is holy ground. My only hope is that God would be gracious to us today, all of us, you and me both, and enable us to see. Just what it is that Christ has done for us to remove all of this baggage that we brought in here and cause us to stare at the Lord Jesus in the fullness of his human glory and be astounded, astounded at what he has suffered for you and me. And so what we're going to do with our time this morning is we are going to stare at Jesus. We're going to stare at three things that we see in the passage this morning that I think will be helpful for us. And these three things will form the outline for the message this morning. So if you are taking notes Those three things are Jesus' agony, Jesus' abandonment, and then finally Jesus' obedience. Jesus' obedience, Jesus' agony, Jesus' abandonment, and Jesus' obedience. So first we must see in this passage Jesus' agony. Jesus' entrance into Jerusalem at the beginning of chapter 11 was the intro into the final week of his life and his celebration of the Passover that we looked at last week with his disciples began the final day of his life, the final 24. to thirty-six hours, depending on how you count a day. They reckon days as beginning in the evening and ending the next evening. So it started uh in verse in chapter 14 with the afternoon before the evening that would form the last 24 hours of his life. And in chapter 14, he celebrates the Passover with his disciples. Then after the meal they sing a hymn and they travel out to the Mount of Olives. Now look with me at verse 32. They came to a place called Gethsemane. Also known as the Garden of Gethsemane. This garden was somewhere located on the Mount of Olives. Gethsemane means olive press, and it was appropriately named because the garden was uh a veritable olive grove. And we know from John's gospel that Jesus met with his disciples here on a number of occasions throughout his ministry. So this was a place that he frequented. So his disciples would have been expecting him to bring him to this Garden of Gethsemane. Then if you're looking down at the passage, you see that after a arriving in the garden, he tells his disciples, Hey sit in this particular place while I go further in to pray. And then if you look at verse 33, you see that he takes Peter and James and John along with him. He he separates the eight. From this three, because Judas, one of the twelve, has already left. Now there's eleven. Eight sit and stay. The other three come with him to venture further into the garden with him. Among all the disciples, Jesus did seem to invest uniquely in uh Peter, James, and John. This is the third time in Mark's gospel that he singled out these three to go with him to witness something that he's doing. So they saw him raise Jairus' daughter from the dead back in chapter five. Then you'll remember that in chapter nine, they went with him onto the Mount of Transfiguration where they saw him as they had never seen him before in the fullness. of his divine glory. It was like on the Mount of Transfiguration, kind of the human the human mask. That's not the best way to think of it. We'll just for this for the sake of this sermon. was pulled back and his divine glory was seen by all. They saw him as they never had before. And now they will see him again as they never had before. But this time Rather than being transfigured into the divine glory, he will be transfigured by agony. Look at verse 33 with me. Look at verse 33. He began to be greatly distressed and troubled. Mark even helps us to sense the acuteness of the distress and trouble that Jesus felt by using words that are only used in this way once in the entire New Testament. What he experiences here can only be described as soul crushing agony. Look at what he says to them in verse 34. My soul is very sorrowful, even to death Right? This this isn't a period of of spiritual dryness. This isn't a momentary experience of spiritual depression, so crushing was the agony he began to experience. So so tortuous was the darkness that settled in that he was brought to the very brink of death It was as though he was teetering on the very edge of the cliff of death, staring down into the gaping darkness below, and he felt as though he was going to fall into this pit of darkness. This is the type of distress and agony that sapped away his strength to even stand. Look at verse 35. Look at verse 35. And going a little farther, he fell on the ground. He was struck down in agony. The anguish and despair and sorrow he experienced were utterly overwhelming to him. So overwhelming was the agony, so dark the despair, so terrible the prospects of what awaited him that Luke Tells us in his gospel that Jesus sweat so profusely here that the sweat fell from him like drops of blood. The sinless Son of God. The one who had done nothing wrong to ever despair or fear of judgment is in agony The one who lived a perfect life experienced soul-crushing distress that brought him to the very edge of overlooking the pit of death, and his strength completely failed him. We need to ask the question, why? Why, right? You look at the Gospels and you read all four of the Gospels and never in his entire ministry Is Jesus ever described in these terms? Right? Never in Jesus' life did he experience such grief and anguish. We know that he cried, that he shed tears at the death of Lazarus, but But there can be no mistaking the sadness that he felt there with this type of sadness. We look at him in the rest of the gospels, we know that he he had compassion on others. He was troubled to see sheep without a shepherd The people of Israel who didn't have anyone to lead them well. He was troubled by that, but nowhere did he experience this type of agony. This is the one who was full of love. Who people approached willingly, who healed people of sin, who raised them from their sickness, who who forgave sin, who was kind to all and welcomed all, but here This one who had no sin to despair of his own, who had never experienced this type of agony in his life, is now crushed. He is being pressed like an olive in the olive press of Gethsemane, and he is sweating so profusely that it's like drops. of blood. Why? How could this happen to him? What was it that gripped him that would cause him to feel such desperate agony? Look at verse 35. We're given a hint there. Jesus prays that the hour might pass from him The hour. The hour that he had long predicted would come had come. Remember three times he had predicted in Mark's gospel already that he would be betrayed Then arrested, then mocked, then condemned, and then crucified. And that hour, the hour when he would be betrayed, that would start that terrible chain of events, had come But I think if we look more closely at this passage, we'll also see that it wasn't the prospect of his betrayal that gripped him with such agony. No, it's something far more dreadful that he's agonizing over. Look at verse 36. Mark tells us specifically what he prayed. Look at verse 36. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you Remove this cup from me, the cup It is the cup, the cup, that is causing this agony, this distress, this sorrow, this despair, this anguish. The cup is what is causing Jesus to be gripped by fear and terror at what is coming. The cup is an image used throughout Scripture, and depending on the context, it can either be used to symbolize God's blessings to his people, his cup is full of blessings, or can be used to symbolize God's wrath that will be poured out on his people for their sins. To think of Isaiah chapter 51, verse 17. Wake yourself, wake yourself, O Jerusalem. You who have drunk from the hand of the Lord the cup of his wrath, who have drunk to the dregs the cup of staggering, or Jeremiah 25, 15 and 16. Take from my hand this cup of the wine of wrath, and make all the nations to whom I send it drink it. They shall drink and stagger and be crazed because of the sword that I am sending among them. This cup of wrath, it is obvious from the context, it is this cup of wrath that is forming the terrible agony that Jesus is suffering and that he is asking to be removed from him. This cup. of God's wrath against sin, the cup that is full to the brim of God's anger and judgment against sin. And it's not just sin in general that it is full of, this abstract idea, the cup is full. of God's wrath toward every single sin that has ever been committed The cup is full of God's wrath against every single sin you and I have ever committed. Our impatience. Our anger, our gossip, our malice, our bitterness, our lying, our stealing, our cheating, our disobedience. Our sexual immorality, our idolatry, every single sin that you and I have ever committed is envisioned here as single grapes, individual grapes forming a cluster, but it's not just a cluster of your sins and mine. Now the cup envisions the sins of the entire world that have ever been committed from the beginning until the end. Every single sin, every single sin. Forming a cluster, a gigantic cluster that has been tread upon by the feet of the very living God Himself, and what has come out is distilled Press down, cold brewed, nitroed wrath filling this cup But this cup, this cup is full of the wrath for sins that you and I have committed. Why is this cup going to Jesus Christ? He is the one who's without sin. Right? He who knew no sin became sin for us, so that in him we could become the righteousness of God. He was He was crushed for our transgressions. He was pierced for our iniquities. The punishment that we deserve was laid on him. How could it be that this cup of God's wrath would come to the sinless Son of God? But you see, because of this wrath, how terrible this anger is against sin. You see why this cup causes such agony As Jesus, the sinless Son of God, who had never done anything to deserve punishment. Stares at the cup of God's judgment. Not just that God's judgment will be poured out on him But that our sins will be placed upon him. It's envisioned as though he is drinking into himself the wrath of God in the fullness of the curse. He's becoming a living curse for us because of our sins. Now you see, this is why he is filled with such agony, such distress. Father, I I have never done anything to deserve this. The cup is not full of wrath from my sins. The cup is full of wrath for their sins. But the cup is coming to me. My soul is greatly troubled. I am in distress I am greatly sorrowful to the point of death. He knew. He knew that in seeing that this cup was coming to him That what awaited him was not only the physical pain of crucifixion, but the spiritual despair of taking upon himself Our sins and becoming a curse for us. Jesus was agonized to the point of death because of us And for us. The sinless Son of God, the perfectly pure one, the spotless lamb Would have the hand of God placed upon his head and the sins of the whole world imputed into his very being. He had known perfect communion with God his entire life, and now he is gonna drink the curse and be separated from God. This is the terror. This is the cause of the terror that he is experiencing. This was the source of his agony, your sins and mine, coming to him. But it's not just his agony that we should see in this passage. We should also see his abandonment. In the garden, Jesus experienced inexpressible agony as well as total abandonment. Look with me again at verses 33 and following. Jesus, he selects Peter, James, and John out of the disciples to venture with them further into the garden. But then in verse 34, he even tells those three that they need to remain and watch while he goes further into the darkness of the garden. Jesus then goes on to pray, but when he returns in verse 37, he comes and finds them sleeping. And so he says, Simon Simon, Simon, who Jesus had himself named Peter. He gave him a new name. And he said, Hey, in your sleeping, you're living like the old self. Simon, why are you sleeping? Could you not watch one hour? One hour. Then in verse 39, he goes away again to pray a second time. But when he returns a second time, he finds him sleeping again Then in verse 41, he goes away a third time to pray and returns to find them sleeping yet again. And you can see you can sense the exasperation in his words. Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? This is the third time. Enough. Three separate times they fall asleep on him. And Mark, Mark tells us their eyes were heavy, right? We all know what that's like, right? They just had the Passover meal. They had a large meal, they drank wine, and it's late at night, and it's dark. Their eyes are getting heavy, right? This is the type of feeling that Mark is deciding. Describing, but we also need to see the symbolic role that eyes play in Scripture. When someone's eyes were light, then their whole soul was light. When your eyes were dark, then your whole soul is dark. The disciples inability to keep their eyes open reveals that their souls are not in a state of vigilance. They are not watching and praying. And so we shouldn't be surprised at what happens next. What happens next is that Jesus' abandonment begins. He says to them in verse 41, the hour has come, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. My betrayer is at hand. And immediately we see that Judas appears. Judas, who Jesus had predicted would betray him earlier in chapter 14, has come. And we see as we look at verses 43 and following. He had prearranged a sign with the soldiers who were with him so that they would know which one Jesus is, right? They're coming to a garden in the dark. At night, and there's 12 different men standing there. So Judas has prearranged a sign so that they know this is the right one to arrest. And so look at verse 45 with me. He walks up to Jesus. He greets Jesus with a kiss on the cheek, and the soldiers seize him. Then in verse 47, look there, there's a brief scuffle Then in verses 48 and 49, Jesus draws attention to how unjust their arrest of him is. He says, hey, I I've been in the temple every day teaching. You didn't arrest me there. It's kind of shedding light on the the the root of their uh malice towards him. But after that, I want you to let your eyes, I want you to see how the disciples slumbering, they're not vigilant, leads directly to verse 50. Look at verse 50 And they all left him and fled. And look at verses 51 and 52. Mark singles out one particular man who had his clothes torn off of him, but even there he wants us to know that that man ran away. They all left him and fled. They fled for their lives, fled for their own protection, fled out of self-interest, fled to avoid persecution, while the man who came to lay down his very life for them was seized and arrested. They completely abandoned him. And you need to read verse 50 In light of the fact that these are the exact same individuals who just a couple hours earlier pledged absolute allegiance to him. And they claim that they were willing to lay down their lives before they ever denied him. Look at chapter 14, verse 31. Peter said to him emphatically, if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all Said the same, and yet they all left him and fled Jesus is all alone, completely abandoned. Right during the Passover meal, Jesus had cited Zechariah 13, 7. to explain what was about to happen to him in the garden when they left him and fled. Zechariah 13, 7 says, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. Not only is Jesus in horrifying agony at drinking the cup of God's wrath when he had done nothing to deserve it, we also see that Jesus the chief shepherd, experiencing here the first blow from God's rod of judgment, striking him, and all of his sheep have scattered and abandoned him The chief priests and scribes have hated him from day one. The Romans have come to arrest him. One of his very own disciples betrays him, and the rest, the rest who claim that they would die before they ever abandon him, flee at the first sign of trouble. Jesus is completely abandoned in the garden. But it's like Mark wants us to know that this is how it had to be. Notice in verse 32, he st he tells his disciples to stay behind while he goes to pray. Then he takes Peter, James, and John with him, the inner circle to be with him. But then in verse 34, he tells even the inner circle to rain remain behind while he goes. further into watch while he goes further three separate times he goes further into the darkness of Gethsemane all alone Totally abandoned. And it is as it should be, because nobody, nobody on earth can venture into the depths of Gethsemane with Jesus. Gethsemane, the olive press. Only Jesus could bear the agonizing weight of the cup and the abandonment of all fellowship Only Jesus could be pressed like an olive to produce the oil that could possibly anoint and heal a sinful people. We cannot venture into the Garden of Agony with him because we are all the sleeping. slumbering spiritually dead people who need him to wake us up from the dead. You see what Jesus has experienced in Gethsemane. He experiences agony and abandonment. Agony and abandonment, which is what makes Jesus' choice in Gethsemane So marvelous. And what is his choice? His choice was obedience. Obedience. It's only when we come to terms with the agony produced by the darkness and terror of the cup of God's wrath and the total abandonment That Jesus experienced in the garden, that we can even begin to appreciate the choice that Jesus made to remain obedient. Look with me again at verse 36. Look at me again at verse 36. And he said, Abba, Father. All things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will. Three times. Three times, Mark tells us he went and prayed these very words. Abba, Father All things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will. In this very scene, we see Christ in the fullness of his humanity, the fullness of the extent to which he entered into human experience, taking to himself our nature. Not only the agony that he experienced in his humanity, but the choice, the choice that he had to obey or not to obey. And let's be clear on this: He has a choice. This is the mystery of the God man. As the eternal Son of God, Jesus knew full well why he had come to earth He had come to earth for this very hour, for this very moment. It was his plan as much as it was the Father's plan. But they agreed together that the Son should be offered for the sins of his people. And yet. And yet, in his humanity, he was faced with a perplexing and agonizing choice. He could choose not to accept the cup. He could flee from the hour that had come to pass. He could go live as a kind of monk in the wilderness, or he could flee to Egypt. Or to the surrounding nations to hide from those who were pursuing his very life. He has a choice. And Jesus' entire life has been preparing him for this very moment. The scriptures are clear. In his humanity, Jesus grew in wisdom and learned obedience. Right? But the fact that he learned obedience does not mean that he was at one point disobedient and then realized that he had to become obedient. It means that in every single moment of his life, from birth until his crucifixion, every single moment in his life He was faced, when he was faced with the choice to sin or not sin, he chose not to sin. He learned what it meant to be obedient in any and every circumstance. So as a child, kids, he was he was faced with the temptation, will I obey my parents or will I not obey my parents? And every single time Jesus chose to obey his parents. Every single time he was faced with a choice, will I take this toy from my brother or my sister? Or will I not take this toy from my brother or sister when I don't deserve it? He chose not to sin, not to take the toy from his brother or sister. He grew. He chose obedience at every step of his life. And you have to recognize what is happening when he makes these choices and he's learning obedience He is learning how to face greater and greater temptation. You see, you and I fail out of the school of temptation in pre-K Right? We we fail immediately and we fail every day. We face simple temptations. Oh my kids uh causing a ruckus and I'm gonna get angry, right? Like I like I I couldn't even put impatience to death for a moment. Jesus has been preparing and training every single moment of his life, tasting and seeing that the Lord and his ways are good, so that in every moment as temptation increased, his knowledge of the goodness of God's will superseded his own, so that he was able to choose God's will. And this is why it's so important, because when Jesus goes into the wilderness to face temptation from Satan, he is facing the greatest possible temptations he has ever faced in his life. I will give you the entire world. You can have it. Just say the word and it's yours. Prestige and power are yours. You can rule everything. And what does he say? Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of the living God. Be gone from me, Satan. He faces down every single opportunity to turn from God and to choose sin. And every decision to obey, to do the Father's will has been preparing him for this very moment. This agonizing, terrible moment is the moment upon which the eternal destiny of your soul and mine hangs. You and I were born in sin, consigned to suffer God's terrible wrath for our sins because of the decision of our first father, Adam. Adam. Adam, who was placed in a garden, a veritable paradise of a garden, who knew nothing of agony sorrow, despair, or anguish, who knew nothing of abandonment and loneliness, who experienced the very presence of God with him in the garden. That Adam had no reason to disobey God, and yet he chose his own will over God's, and so plunged all of humanity into darkness. And were Jesus to choose not to be obedient, were he to choose his own will rather than the Father's will, none of us would be here today. The world would have continued in darkness. The rain of sin and death would have grown stronger. There would have been no hope for salvation, no hope for redemption, no hope for deliverance from the curse. But the second Adam would not choose his own will over God's. He would enter not the Garden of Eden, but the Garden of Gethsemane. He would not know eternal joys of living in the paradise of God, but agony. He would not experience fellowship with man or God, but would suffer total abandonment, and yet with every possible reason to disobey. The Son of God chose to obey. Yet not my will, but yours be done Get not what I will, but what you will. Friends, these nine words are the sound of your freedom. These nine words are the sound of your chains falling off. These nine words led Jesus into the hands of Judas and the Romans. These nine words led him to his trial before the Sanhedrin. These nine words led him to stand before Pontius Pilate. These nine words Led to his horrible beating and shameful mocking. And these nine words led him to the cross. And on the cross, he suffered horrendous agony. Despair and sorrow. And on the cross, he was abandoned not by his disciples, but by his father in heaven. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Yet it was in that moment on the cross that Jesus took that terrible cup with both hands That cup that had our names engraved on it, and he drank that cup down to the dregs. Every last drop, it is. Finished. Friends, on the cross, Jesus drank the cup of God's wrath for us so that we would never have to experience the agony that he felt in facing the wrath of God coming for him. Listen to what Charles Spurgeon said about his choice in Gethsemane. The whole of the punishment of his people was distilled into one cup. No mortal lip might give it so much as a solitary sip. When he put it to his own lips, it was so bitter he well-nigh spurned it. Let this cup pass from me But his love for his people was so strong that he took the cup in both his hands and at one tremendous draught of love He drank damnation dry for all his people. He drank all. He endured all. He suffered all. so that now forever there are no flames of hell for them, no racks of torment, they have no eternal woes. Christ has suffered all they should have suffered, and they must, they shall go free. Oh friends, we cannot walk onto the holy ground that is Gethsemane and witness Jesus in all his horrible agony on the verge of total abandonment by the everyone he knew. suffering what can only be described as having his soul crucified before his body was crucified, and not be convinced of God's love for us. Oh friends, God sent his son into the world because he loved us to take the punishment, the cup of his wrath for us. And we need to recognize this morning what this passage teaches us about two things. We need to walk away this morning convinced of two things. We need to first walk away convinced. convinced of the heinousness of sin. Right to my non-Christian friend, I recognize that all of this talk about wrath and judgment may seem wildly inappropriate. They seem totally off base. What on earth is going on here? But I want to just pose this to you. I'm guessing that you and I would agree that crimes should be punished. And that the punishment for a crime should be consistent with the crime, right? You don't sentence a jaywalker to 20 years in prison any more than you sentence a murderer to simply pay a fine and go free. Justice demands that a punishment be consistent with the nature of the crime that was committed. And so if the Bible's language about God's judgment against sin seems totally foreign and uncalled for, I would just encourage you to consider that you may not understand how heinous sin actually is. Right, regardless of how much we minimize in our own minds how bad our sins are, and regardless of whether our culture wants to get rid of the notion of sin entirely anyway, the cross stands as a testimony. a testimony to the heinous nature of sin and proof of God's attitude towards it We cannot, in good conscience, say that sin is not terrible if the sinless Son of God had to suffer the wrath of God in our place for it. Sin is terrible not as only not only because it's harmful to others, but because also it's also an affront to God's holiness. And unless we come to understand that our sins occur both in a horizontal direction towards others and a vertical direction towards God, we'll never truly grasp how terrible our sins actually are. And if we don't ever see, then we won't see, if we don't ever see how terrible they are, then we won't see the need to repent. and ask God for forgiveness. But friends, you need to recognize that what Jesus suffered on the cross is proof of God's attitude towards sin. And Jesus Himself has promised that he will return one day and bring judgment against all who have sinned against God. Which is why he calls all people everywhere to turn from their sin and to put their trust in him for the forgiveness of sins. And if you haven't done that today, I want to encourage you to recognize that the agony that Jesus experienced in Gethsemane is a picture of the agony that all will experience who have not trusted in him. When they face a cup of God's wrath in their own strength. So please, friend, consider turning today from your sins. You can even talk to the people around you. I'm sure they'd be happy to talk to you after the service about what that would look like in your own life. But it's also Christians who need to be reminded of how heinous sin is. We of all people should understand this because we believe that Christ was crushed in our place. Right, we say this, we confess this. Christ died in our place, but we need to remember that he was crushed for our sins. Our sins caused it. So how can we who died to sin still live in it? How are you doing? Putting sin to death in your own life. How often do you do you just reckon and and consider the fact that your sins, my sins Cause the Son of God to suffer in this terrible way. Don't be deceived by the deceitfulness of sin. It is terrible. And proof of it is on the cross. Kids, I want to talk to you all for a moment. The Bible says that one of the ways that we can tell that our repentance and our faith are genuine is by our attitude towards sin. So I want you to think about this in your own life, right? Genuine faith in Jesus will produce a distaste for sin, and Lord willing, a growing distaste. It starts to taste bitter to us, like bitter grapes, like they actually like like it actually is. Sin won't taste like ice cream anymore, but like Brussels sprouts. Lord willing, you don't like Brussels sprouts because I hated them when I was a kid Right? But you get the point. It's not super tasty, but it's kind of yucky. Sin is like that. It'll taste like that. And if you put your faith in Christ and have trusted in him, you should be aware of a growing distaste. for sin in your own life. So I wonder, kids, today, a question that you might ask yourself is, what does my taste for sin say about my relationship to God today? You can even talk to your parents about that after the service. We must walk away from Gethsemane convinced of the heinousness of sin. But we must also walk away convinced of God's marvelous love for us. Why would Jesus suffer agony, abandonment, and crucifixion for us? Because God loves us. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Greater love has no man than this: that he laid down his life for his friends. God shows his love for us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Friends, see what is happening here in this passage. See what is happening here. Because Jesus entered Gethsemane and suffered the agony of accepting God's cup of wrath for sin, you will never, ever, ever have to enter your own Gethsemane. You will never have to enter your own Gethsemane. We may suffer in this life. In fact, it's likely that all of us will, but we will never have to suffer the way that Jesus suffered here. We will never have to suffer knowing that the cup of God's wrath is coming. We can suffer in hope, knowing that the sufferings of this life cannot compare with the glory that is to be revealed to those who have believed in Christ. And we can suffer with hope because Christ suffered the agony of Gethsemane for us. You will never have to enter your own Gethsemane. It's like this. Remember when Adam was cast out of the garden? What did God put? At the edge of the garden, he put a cherubim with a flaming sword to block the entrance. to the Garden of Eden, to block the entrance to that paradise. And it's as though, since Jesus has walked into the Garden of Gethsemane and has accepted the cup of God's wrath. It's like God has placed a cherubim with a flaming sword at the edge of the Garden of Gethsemane to keep all of God's people from thinking that they will ever have to enter into that dark And gloomy and agonizing garden on their own. That garden is closed off to you forever No agony will be kept for you in that way because Christ has paid it all. Because of Christ, there is no cup left for you. But it's not only that there's no cup left for you. God didn't just take the cup of condemnation away and leave your hands empty, not a chance. That would be totally inconsistent with God's lavish love for you and me. He not only took the cup of condemnation out of our hands, he replaced it with another cup. What cup? You have your Bible open, look at Mark 14, 23. And Jesus took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. And he said to them, this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many He took the cup of wrath out of your hands, and he put into it the cup of the new covenant. And in this cup, God poured every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Into this cup that you hold today, he poured out his lavish grace and mercy. The Son took the cup that we deserved to drink, so that we could have the cup that he deserved to drink. You prepare a table for me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. Oh friend, surely goodness and mercy will follow you all of the days of your life, and you will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Oh friends, stare at Jesus. I know it's a heavy thing to consider, but stare at Jesus. Stare at his agony. Stare at his abandonment. Stare at his obedience. He took the cup that we deserved so that we could have the cup that he deserved And now today in Christ, all of our cups overflow. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, these things are too great for us. Lord Jesus, we praise you. We praise you that you would experience the agony that you experienced in Gethsemane and on the cross for us. We praise you that you would experience the abandonment that you experienced in Gethsemane and on the cross for us, so that we would not have to experience that agony in our own lives and could be welcomed back into a reconciled relationship with God, no longer abandoned by him. We praise you, Lord Jesus, for your obedience. We love you and we desire to glorify you. Help us to be obedient in our own lives today and in the days to come. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.