Well, good morning friends. How's everyone doing? Great. It's a pleasure to see you all here this morning. It's a joy also to be able to bring to you God's word, to open God's word with you and to hear With the Lord our God, our great God, the Eternal One, who even though he was eternal in the heavens and dwells in unapproachable glory and light, also has had pity on us By condescending to us and giving us his word so that we could hear him speak and know how we might be saved. So I'm going to open our time now with a brief word of prayer, and then we'll dive into God's word. Let's pray. Forever, O Lord, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens. Your faithfulness, O God, endures to all generations. You have established the earth, and it stands fast. Oh Lord, we pray today that you would cause that everlasting word that is firmly fixed in the heavens to be our delight this morning. Help us to not forget your precepts and to know that by your precepts and your commands you give life. Open our ears to your word this morning, we pray Well, my wife and I have very different responses Uh, to when the gaslight in our car comes on. I don't know if you might experience this in your own life if you are married. Her typical and wise response is to heed the car's warning sign that the car is about to run out of gas, and so what she does is what we should all do. She finds the nearest gas station and she pulls in and she replenishes the fuel supply. My response is largely the opposite. Though the car is providing me with warnings about the rapidly diminishing fuel supply, I choose to ignore those warnings, deciding instead to push my car to the limits. Right. I want to see how long I can go with that with that info light reading zero miles to empty before I actually pull into a gas station. And this unsurprisingly has meant that uh on numerous occasions in my life I have actually run out of gas. Even one time I recall in college running out of gas on I sixty four West in Virginia. But luckily The Lord was kind, even though I didn't follow him at the time. He was providential and gracious to me. I was able to get off on an off-ramp and coast to the end. And at the end of that on-ramp or off-ramp, there was a gas station. And I coasted right into it. Luckily for my wife, this hasn't happened since we've been married. She is slowly rubbing off on me, but my instinct to ignore the warnings Still remains. It's like I just don't want to pay attention to them. And admittedly, this uh this this example of ignoring the warnings of our gas lamp or the gaslight in our car is a light-hearted example of what can be a very serious subject. Depending on the circumstances, ignoring warning signs can actually have devastating consequences So we consider NASA's uh choice to ignore the warnings that they received uh about the possible failure of crucial components in the Space Shuttle Challenger before it took off. we uh know the sad ending to that flight. Or we also think of the radio crewmen uh on the uh ship Titanic. Uh in the hours leading up to their striking the iceberg, they were receiving messages from another vessel called the Masaba, I believe it was. that had previously sailed through the waters that the Titanic was sailing through, and they sent messages to the Titanic warning them of numerous icebergs in the area to be careful with those. But the radio crewmen, as far as we understand it, never brought those messages to the captain. They ignored the warning signs that they were receiving. Failing to heed warning signs can have disastrous effects. And I bring that up this morning because the passage we're studying today is one that calls us to consider To pay attention to, to heed the warning signs that God is giving to mankind. So I want to encourage you to go ahead and open in your Bibles. Uh to Psalm uh to Psalm 90. Uh if you're using one of our pew Bibles, you'll find Psalm 90 on pages 496 and 497. Uh if you're not familiar with the Psalms, the Psalms are a collection of poems. prayers and songs written by members of the nation of Israel. And they wrote those psalms about living in relationship with God in the midst. of a fallen world. One famous theologian, John Calvin, called the Psalms an anatomy of all the parts of the soul. An anatomy of all the parts of the soul. Why would he call the psalms that? Well, it's because of the way that the Psalms, all of them taken as a whole, capture the numerous experiences and emotions that we face in this life. And our psalm this morning is no exception. Psalm 90 is frankly a somber and sober reflection on the lamentable condition of mankind. But while it's a sombre psalm, it truly does have wonderful things to teach us today about what it means to live relationship with God. So I'm going to go ahead and read Psalm 90 for us now, and then we'll dive in. So this is God's word. Psalm 90, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You return man to dust, and say, Return, O children of man, for a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is passed, or as a watch in the night You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed, and in the evening it fades and withers. For we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins, in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are 70, or even by reason of strength, 80. Yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger? And your wrath, according to the fear of you, to teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. This is God's word. Well friends, at its heart, Psalm 90 is a psalm that calls us to consider. to consider the signs of God's coming judgment. And then to consider the solution to God's coming judgment. First, look with me at verses one to twelve. We're going to consider the signs of God's coming judgment. If you're uh not familiar with uh sermons here at CBC, I'd encourage you to have your Bible open in front of you. We're gonna be looking at each of these verses, trying to understand what God has to say. say for us and we're going to look at verses 1 to 12 to consider the signs of God's coming judgment. I want to first look at verse 11. I said at its heart it's a psalm that calls us to consider. Look at me at verse 11. This is really the heart of Psalm 90. Everything pours into it that comes before it and flows out of it that comes after it. Moses says, Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath? According to the fear of you. This is a rhetorical question that Moses is asking. He's not expecting an answer. He's saying, Lord, nobody considers the power of your anger. Everybody goes about their days thinking this life will go on forever, living for the moment, failing to consider that one day we will all stand before you. The holy and awesome God. And that's why when we go back to the beginning of Psalm 90, we see how important it is that we understand God's nature. Look at me at verses 1 and 2. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. He's in front of one single generation of Israelites, but he's stretching back in time. He's saying. Throughout all generations, Lord, you have been our dwelling place. How is it possible that God can be a dwelling place for many generations? Well Because verse 2, before the mountains were brought forth or ever you had formed the earth or the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. This is why we've been talking about and singing about God's eternal nature, his infinite power. He existed before creation. And by his power he brought all of creation into existence. So when we have uh the blessing of the Hubble telescope and these pictures from heaven and we see just millions of galaxies, we are meant to say Whoever created this has infinite power. And whoever it was that created this is the Lord our God, Yahweh. The one who was revealed from everlasting to everlasting. And Moses wants to set up for us this contrast between his eternal and powerful nature and our Fallen, bleeding, and frail nature. Look at the power of God's anger that Moses is calling us to consider. It doesn't refer to a final judgment It's referring to the judgments and the warning signs of that coming judgment that God has placed all around us. Look at verses 3 to 6, the contrast between God's eternal nature and our nature. The first sign of the coming judgment is that life is fleeting. Life is fleeting. Look at verse 3 You return man to dust and say, Return, O children of man. And look down at verses 5 and 6 He describes people as like a piece of grass, grass that grows up in the morning, it flourishes for the moment, that by the evening time, as soon as evening rolls around, the grass has faded and withered and it's blown away. Think about these two images. Man is like dust. Man is like brass. pressing in on the fleeting and brief and passing nature of mankind. What does James say about our life? We are like a mist that appears for a moment And then vanishes. You ever think about taking a spray bottle of water and just spraying it in the air? You see this little puff of water, right? And then gone. That's what our life is like That's the first sign of the coming judgment. That life is fleeting. It is brief. We are like dust. We're returning to dust. But we also see the second sign of the coming judgment, and it's that life Life is difficult. Life is difficult. Look at verse 10. Moses says the years of our life are 70, or even by reason of strength, 80, yet their span is but. Toil and trouble. Toil and trouble. Notice how he describes life. It's difficult. It's like everything that we experience in life is tainted and marred by difficulty. Now he's not saying that all of life is difficult. By God's grace and kindness, we experience a number of joys and pleasures in this life. But what Moses is saying is that by the time you come to the end of life, however long that life is, you're going to turn around and be able to say, oh. Gosh, it was marred by difficulty. Sorrows. Failures. Losing loved ones Getting the diagnosis of a horrible disease. Having difficulty at work. Or thinking think about even the sweetness that we that we experience. Say you you finally get a job that you've been waiting forward to. You get it, and it's wonderful, and you think I'm gonna have joy in this world, and then the Lord puts you next to a coworker who is like a thorn in your side. It's like even the sweetest things in this life are tainted by sorrow. All of our years are but toil and trouble. All but toil and trouble. It's something that all of us know deeply, right? Something that all of us know deeply. We've experienced this difficulty in our own lives. Life is fleeting and life is difficult. Now you may be looking at that and you may be saying, well, sure, John, but Moses is pointing out the way that life is, it's just the way that things are. These aren't signs of God's coming judgment. I don't think that's actually true if you look at what Moses is saying and the images that he's using. Look back on the at verse 3. Notice again what Moses says. You return man to dust and say, return, O children of man. Can any of the young people here, no matter how how old you are, any of the young people, can any of you tell me Where that comes from in the Bible. Return to dust. Return, O children of man, to dust. Abram Ecclesiastes will be one place, but I'm thinking earlier in the Bible, where do we hear man told that he's going to return to dust? Ava Genesis 3. When God curses Adam for sinning against him, he says, What? You were made of dust, and to dust you shall return. This comes straight out of Genesis 3. And then when he describes the toil and trouble of life, right, that we experience, he's looking back on Genesis 3 again. Think about the curses on Eve. You're going to have relationship issues and pain in childbirth, and then on Adam, you're going to have relationship issues and then trouble at work. Thorns and thistles, by the sweat of your brow, you will bring forth fruit from the ground. All of life is going to be toil and trouble for you. Moses is reaching back to the curse in Genesis 3, and he's saying that this is the fruit of it. Man is but dust, and our life we experience toil and trouble, the fleeting and difficult lives that we live. as a result of our sinning against God, are the sign of the curse that God has placed on this world for rejecting him and point forward to that judgment to come. What does the author of Hebrew say? It is appointed for man to die once. To suffer that curse, to return to dust, and then what? To face judgment, the fleeting life. The brevity of life, the difficulty of life are God's warning signs. Hey, hey, man, pay attention. Pay attention. All is not well between you and I. Our relationship is broken. The brevity and difficulty of life are a result of God's anger toward us for our sins. And our sins are always before Him Lest anyone think it's possible that God won't find out about this sin or that, our secret sins. Look at verse 8. He says, our sins are always before him. Our secret sins are in the light of his presence. Not even the sins that nobody else knows about in our life, not even the horrible things we thought or the things that we've done that we somehow think that we are going to hide from other people, none of this can be hidden from God. It's all the result of our sins against him. They are always before him. And this is where we need to pay attention to the careful contrast that Moses is setting up. The reason why these warning signs are so important that life is short, that we're going to return to dust, and that life is difficult. It's meant to show us that our relationship with God is broken. But what do we learn about God? We are going to face an eternal God. Look at what we learn about him. He is the eternal God, the one who is from everlasting to everlasting. The one who existed before and created all things. The one who declares that all men will return to dust and has anyone succeeded? All that have ever lived have returned to dust. His word, his decree is certain. He's the one for whom a thousand years is like a single day. The one who can summon the flood and sweep away every living thing on earth. The one who is so holy, holy. holy that even all of our sins when brought into the power of his glorious presence, his light pierces into the darkness of our hearts and draws out all of our sins right before him. He summons our own hearts as evidence against us. There's nothing that we can do before this holy and eternal and awesome God. The signs of his coming judgment that life is fleeting and difficult, should strike a bit of terror and fear in us, because we are going to stand before a God whom no man can stand before. This is why Moses says in verse eleven Who considers, who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? Lord, why don't people see that the death and sorrow that surrounds us are signs of a coming judgment where they will have to stand before you, the holy and awesome God? Why doesn't man consider this and see it? And so the lesson that Moses draws from all of this is in verse 12. Look at verse 12 with me. He says, teach us. Teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. What does that mean for us Well, wisdom according to the Bible is to fear the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And what does it mean to fear the Lord? I think the New Testament would look back on the fear of the Lord and interpret it as repent. To properly understand your sinfulness before the Lord and the fact that you have offended him and to know that he is a holy and just judge Who will carry out a swift and perfect judgment on all who've sinned and to turn and to plead for forgiveness from him. Lord, teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom Teach us how short our lives truly are so that we would serve you wholeheartedly with the time that we have. That's Moses' conclusion. You, the eternal and awesome God, are so holy. We are fallen. We are like dust. We have sinned against you. We have no hope. Teach us to repent now while we still have life, that we may live out our days serving you. That's the lesson that we need to draw from this Psalm. That is the point of Psalm 90. If you're going to take away anything from the sermon this morning, it is. We are fallen. Our lives are short and they are difficult, and we are headed for a judgment before God. So teach us to number our days so we might live wisely before you, the Lord. You see, so many people in this life live only for momentary pleasure. Live only for momentary pleasure, not considering that the pleasures of this life will be gone in an instant. They will be gone in an instant in comparison with the length of eternity. We will look back on this life and it'll be like a breath and you'll think. Why did I pursue such fleeting pleasures in this life when I had all eternity to consider before me? So many people live only for a momentary pleasure not considering how soon this life will be gone And if we don't consider how to live wisely before the Lord and to repent before him, the fleeting pleasures that we pursue in this life, if we don't repent. will result in an eternal judgment against or underneath this God. Eternity is at stake, friends That's what Psalm 90 is pointing out. Moses is saying, your life is short, it's coming to an end soon. Eternity is long. Turn now while you still have time. Live wisely in the fear of him today. Repent, friends. Now for the teenagers and the kids here. I think one of the things that I want to say to you, and it's I know it's super hard, and I am confident that my words are going to go in one ear and out the other because I was once your age. It's the only reason I say that But what I want to point out is that when I when I was your age, I thought that life was going to go on forever. Right? I thought life just. It's never gonna end. I mean, this summer felt like it was so long, and so the rest of my life must just go on forever. But friends, it's just not the way that it is. I think one of the reasons you might feel that way is because at this stage in life you haven't lived such a long time, and so your summer times or your years. form a larger percentage of your life. And so it seems like they're longer. But as you get further down the road, summers and years, spring, fall, summer, winter, they start to roll by. This life goes so fast. It goes so fast. And so I have two exhortations for you this morning, if you're here as one of the kids or the teenagers here. The first is Please, please, do not buy into the American mentality of trying to live the most comfortable life that you can possibly live. Do not buy into it. It is a lie that will not pay back. It holds out something that it cannot it cannot fulfill. It cannot give you what it says that it can give you. Wealth and cars and clothes and comfort, none of those things will last in this life. None of those things will last in this life, and none of them will bring the joy that knowing Jesus Christ. And having God as your dwelling kit place can bring you. That's my first exhortation. Don't buy into the mindset Of trying to live the most comfortable life possible. Second kids, you don't have to wait until you grow up to think about serving Jesus. You don't have to wait until you grow up to think about serving Jesus. Alex Harris said this. He said The teenage years are not a vacation from responsibility. They are the training ground of future leaders who dare to be responsible. Think about what you're doing with your time. Dream big now about how you can live for Jesus Christ. Do hard things for God's kingdom. Think and pray about how you can use your life to serve Jesus Christ. It will pay back an eternal reward. It is an investment that multiplies constantly. It's not like earthly investments that your parents probably have. We tend to worry about those investments because they're fragile, they're fleeting, they can fail. Our 401ks won't last. But when we invest in eternity, it pays eternal rewards. I think one of the things if you're young, I'd encourage you, if your parents know about Jonathan Edwards, his resolutions, you should ask your parents if he know if they know about them today after church. One of the things about Jonathan Edwards is he sat down and he just wrote out a ton of amazing resolutions. And he wrote them when he was a teenager I read these things and I'm like, my gosh, that guy must have been like nearing the end of his life when he wrote these resolutions about living to serve the Lord. And he was 17. You don't have to wait to start serving the Lord. Think about how you can live your life for Him now. And this is something all of us need to think about, young or old. None of us knows how long we will have on this earth. We need to be very honest with ourselves. None of us knows that we are going to make it home from church today. None of us knows that we are going to live through this week or this month or this year. We don't have that kind of guarantee. Our life is like a vapor. It will be over before we know it. Think about this. Moses says a thousand years are like a watch in the night to God. He says a thousand years are like a watch in the night to God. A watch in the night in Israel was three hours. So if we take Moses literally, which we shouldn't. Because he's speaking figuratively. If we took him literally just for kicks, if a thousand years are like three hours to God, then if you live to be 80, that is like 15 minutes to God If you live to be 80, that's like 15 minutes to God. It is over like that Friends, our life is short. God gives these warning signs to his people so that we would lift our eyes off this world and fix our eyes on the world beyond. So my question to you this morning, if you're following Jesus, is how are you doing that? How are you prioritizing eternal life over this life? Well, one way to narrow in on that a little bit is to draw out two of the most important commodities to Americans, time and money. What does your calendar and your daily schedule say about how you're prioritizing the next life over this life? Or what does your checking account or your credit card statements say about how you're prioritizing the next life over this life? Because we are going to invest our time and our money in the things that we value as most important in this life. And so one thing you just consider. What does my spending of time and money say about how I'm prioritizing the next life? You can talk about that today. And knowing how short this life is should also change the way that we think about our neighbors. Friends, think about this. If what Moses says is true, our neighbors do not have a long time to live And if what Moses says is true, our neighbors are going to perish. And if they perish apart from Christ, they will stand under this judgment before a holy and eternal and awesome God. How does the brevity of life influence and encourage you to be more urgent with sharing the gospel? You think about your neighbors. If we take this analogy about life being like 15 minutes, if they live to be 80, their life is like 15 minutes before the Lord, whose a thousand years is like a day. How much longer is your neighbor going to be alive? How many more opportunities Will you have to tell them about what Jesus has done for them? We can't be certain that they will make it through this week, this month, or this year, just like we can't be certain. And this should create in us a sense of urgency in how we go about sharing the gospel with our neighbors. Christ has entrusted you and I with the only message that can bring hope. to a quickly dying world. So how do you see the urgent need to share the gospel work itself out in your life? Hey, if you're struggling with this, confess it to others. It's something I've had to confess because it's just not on my heart as much as it should be. And I trust like we're we're all human. It fades to the background. But we need to realize this life is not all. And we believe that there's a life to come where we will live in the eternal presence of God, knowing his pleasure, and that this is offered to all who repent and believe. What glorious news! What should keep us from sharing that If it's not urgent to you, why not? Amy Carmichael said this. She said, we will have eternity to celebrate the victories, but only a few hours before sunset to win them. Friends, time is short, and the brevity and difficulty of life are signs of God's coming judgment. But Moses also calls us to consider the solution to God's coming judgment. Second, consider the solution to God's coming judgment. Really, verses 11 and 12, when you look at them, I said that they're the heartbeat of this passage when Moses Calls us to consider the power of God's anger and then says, teach us to number our days. It really functions as a hinge that the door of Psalm 90 swings on. So Moses' lament about the condition of man turns into prayers for God's help. So just you can actually see this change for yourself when you look at the Psalm. And if you get into studying psalms and studying passages, one of the things I want to point out in the Psalms is you you can often see how there there is a topic or theme change in the psalm by seeing how there are certain things that repeat themselves. So before in verses 1 to 11, we've seen the contrast of God's eternal nature and that we are dust and like grass, we fade, we wither, life is short. You see the emphasis on that. But now he's going to turn to this God, and he's going to begin praying. Look at me at verses 713 to 17. Just let your eyes scan over the first words of each of those verses. Verse 13, return, O Lord. Verse 14, satisfy us. Verse 15, make us glad. Verse 16, let your work be shown. Verse 17, let your favor be upon us. Moses is now making requests of God. He's praying to God. And though Moses makes multiple requests here, I think we can summarize them as requests for God's presence, his love And his favor. That's what Moses is asking for here. He's asking for God's presence, his love, and his favor. In verse 13, Moses calls out for the Lord to return. All of his reflections on the lamentable state of mankind cause him to call out for God to return to be with his people. And you notice what's interesting here, inherent in Moses' request, is the recognition by Moses that even though the people have sinned, God will still dwell with them if they pursue him. Even though we've sinned against them, this holy God will take up residence among his people if we call out for them for him. God will make a way to dwell with them. You know, Moses isn't asking God to return in judgment. He's saying, come to be with us, even though we've sinned against you, come rescue us. And he knows God will. And why is that? Well, let's keep going. Look at verse 14 He says, satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Moses asks for God's steadfast love. This is a particular word in the Hebrew that has a truly special and deep meaning. The word is It's his steadfast love, and it's crucial that we understand what Moses is actually asking for here. In the Old Testament, God's steadfast love refers to his covenant love for the people of Israel. Chosen people. It's his covenant love towards the people of Israel. God had committed himself to Israel when he rescued them out of slavery in Egypt. He made them his very own people and his steadfast love Refers to his sure and certain love that will not let his people go. Even though Israel was persistent in their waywardness, even though they continued to sin against him, their sins and waywardness could never destroy his steadfast love for his chosen people. Though Israel was faithless, God remained faithful. And this steady, persistent refusal of God to abandon his covenant people, even though they continue to sin against him, is a result. of his steadfast love, as the Jesus storybook Bible calls it. It's his never-stopping, never giving up, unfailing, always and forever love Because even when his chosen covenant people sin, his love is never stopping, never giving up, always an unfailing love. That is his steadfast love for his people. And Moses knows that God's covenant love is Hesed. His steadfast love is Israel's only hope. Without it, they await the same judgment as the rest of mankind for their sins. But with it, Moses says they can rejoice and be glad all their days. Then in verse 15, he asks God to even the scales. Even this life out, Lord. Don't let our sorrows outweigh our joys. Let us experience as much joy as we've experienced sorrow in this life. Then finally in verses 16 and 17, Moses asked for God to show the people of Israel and their descendants his glorious power. This calls back to God's work of saving the nation of Israel out of Egypt. His saving acts of redeeming his people out of slavery in Egypt are often referred to in the Psalms as his glorious power. And his mighty acts, he's saying, let that salvation be seen again by your people and by our descendants. Then finally the psalm closes with a simple plea. He says, show us favor, right? Establish the work of our hands. Don't let our lives be in vain. Let our work count for something, O Lord. Moses prays for God's love, presence, and favor. And in those requests, we see the solution. the God's coming judgment. But where do we see that? Well I think to see it we need to take a step back and consider what happened to the people of Israel that that Moses was writing this psalm on behalf of. As the Old Testament unfolds, we find that even though God had committed himself to the nation of Israel and to the people of Israel, they were unfaithful to him. by continually breaking his commands and sinning against him until uh centuries later, this sinning went on for centuries and centuries, generation after generation, of Israelites sinned against God until finally God sends the nation of Israel away into exile. His presence among the people, his presence living among them departs. The temple and the people of Israel were exiled from the promised land that God had specially created for them. And think about this. These psalms, this psalm that Moses read would have been for the nation of Israel for all generations when they got together to worship As a people, they would read the Psalms and sing the Psalms, and they would be reminders about their relationship with God. So if you are an Israelite in exile, you're reading Psalm 90 with new eyes and you're saying to the Lord Lord, who has considered the power of your anger? Who has considered your wrath? We thought we were your covenant people and we have been exiled. Return, O Lord, how long? You think it's odd for Moses to be actually writing return, O Lord, because the Lord was dwelling with them, but he's looking forward to generations of Israelites. Who would be exiled and who would read this psalm and would say to the Lord, Lord, return to us. Let your presence be known among us again. You see, to be exiled from the land for the people of Israel meant that they had not only lost the land, but that they had lost their covenant relationship with the Lord. When his presence departed, his people, they thought they had lost him as well, and they say to him, Lord, return. To your people, your covenant people. Show us your steadfast love once again, O God, pleading with Him for His presence, His love, and His favor, and in the fullness of time. God would hear their prayers and their pleas for mercy because the Lord Jesus Christ would return to the covenant people of God. Jesus would come into the world to bear the wrath of God for the sins of all who put their trust in him. Though Jesus had no iniquities of his own, no secret sins to hide, he took his life to the cross, knowing the joy that was set before him, the eternal Joy in the presence of Lord, enable him to take our sins to the cross, bearing in his flesh our sins. He took our punishment upon the tree, the wrath that we deserved. The wrath that should fall upon us for the ways that we have sinned against God fell on the Lord Jesus Christ instead. He offered his life to take the punishment that we deserve, so that we who trust in Christ would know. God's steadfast love, His covenant love for His people and in Christ, we now know God's steadfast love perfectly. Because in Christ, God no longer judges us on the basis of our sins, but on the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. So that we who've come in here this morning struggling with sin, feeling beat down after another week, thinking that God must not love us because we just Keep stumbling in the same way. We can hear again the Lord say, as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love for his people, towards those who fear him. And as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. In Christ, God has completely removed the record of our sins, covering us instead with the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ so that when he looks at us He sees a beloved and perfect child. That is God's steadfast love for you displayed perfectly in Jesus Christ It is his never stopping, never giving up, unfailing, always and forever love. Jesus' perfection assures you of your acceptance before God so that when you come before God in judgment You know that you will be forgiven because the Lord Jesus Christ was raised from the dead. His sacrifice was accepted on your behalf. And it's in removing our sins and the guilt of our sins through Jesus that God has provided the solution to our coming judgment. If you're here today and you don't follow Jesus, I just want to plead with you. Consider how short this life is. Your life will be over in an instant, and God has given us this life only to repent. When we die, we go before Him in judgment. And apart from Christ, there is no hope for anyone. Turn to Christ now and know God's steadfast love and his presence. And this is what's amazing about this psalm. Those of us who've trusted in Christ and have experienced the fullness of God's steadfast love can now face the most extreme trials of life with an unquenchable joy. Right, you think about the toils and trouble that that Moses was talking about But we can face the toils and troubles of this life with an unquenchable joy because we know that the sufferings of this life are not the final word. Right? So when Moses says, when Moses says to God, show us your steadfast love that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Isn't it interesting that Moses has just talked about how all our days are toil and trouble? Yet he's saying that the people who experience God's steadfast love can know joy all of our days in the midst of that toil and trouble. And that is because in Christ, God has removed our transgressions, has given us the assurance of salvation and the fullness of joy that comes with knowing that we will dwell with Him forever so that we can look at this life. And the trials of this life and say with Paul, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that our suffering produces endurance And endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. It is God's steadfast love to us in Christ that enables us to face the trials of this life with an unquenchable joy because we know that in Christ God has provided a solution for our coming judgment. It's a solution for our greatest problem, which is sin. But not only has he provided a solution for that, Christ has also guaranteed that our sufferings in this life will pale in comparison to the joy we will experience in the life to come. Look again at verse 15. Moses prays for God to balance the scales of his suffering. He says, Let me experience as much joy as I've experienced evil in this life, O Lord. Do you know what God's answer to this prayer is? No. No, I will not let you experience as much joy as you've experienced evil. I will show you far greater joy than you've experienced evil in this life. I will not let you see as much joy as you've seen suffering, for those who know my steadfast love will experience joys that far outweigh the toils and troubles of this life. Even Moses couldn't imagine how God would far exceed his expectations for answering his prayer in his own life. What happened to Moses? He died. Died looking at the promised land. He returned to dust. But you know the next time that we see Moses alive, where is he? On the Mount of Transfiguration. In the presence of God Himself. Moses had his prayer answered by God. Moses, I'm going to give you far greater joy. Than you could ever expect. You're going to stand in the presence of my beloved son, Moses and Elijah, right there on the Mount of Transfiguration, raised from the dead, living in the presence of God. Moses couldn't imagine the joy that awaited him in God's presence for eternity and the hope of heaven and the eternal joys that are awaiting us in the presence of God are what enable us now. are what enable us now to endure the hardships of this life with unflinching joy and hope. Doesn't mean the trials aren't hard. They are But they pale in comparison to how glorious the life to come will be. The knowledge of this glory that awaits us that caused Paul to say I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Think about Paul saying this. The man had been stoned on multiple occasions. The man had been whipped and beaten on multiple occasions. The man had been shipwrecked. He had suffered over and over and over again. And he's saying with confidence, I do not consider them worthy to compare. Worthy to compare with the glory that will be revealed to us, it will far outweigh it. And because that glory far surpasses even the darkest trials of this life, we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For these light and momentary afflictions, These light and momentary afflictions are preparing for us an eternal weight, glory, beyond all comparison. The only way that we will be able to develop a perspective like Paul on the brevity and difficulty of life is by keeping our minds fixed on the glory to come. That is what enabled Paul to develop that perspective. He kept his mind fixed on Christ, seated at the right hand of God. Let your mind be set in heaven above. Not that you might be no earthly good, but that you might live this life as it ought to be lived for Christ and for His kingdom These light and momentary afflictions are preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. If we don't keep our minds fixed on heaven, the toil and trouble of this life will settle in like a fog. And it just threatens to keep us from seeing that glory to come. In 1952 Florence Chadwick stepped into the waters of the Pacific Ocean. Some of you may be familiar with the story. She stepped into the waters of the Pacific Ocean off the Catalina Islands, determined to become the first woman to swim to the shore of mainland California. And she was already the first woman. who had swum the English Channel both ways. And that day that she got into the waters off of the Catalina Islands, the weather was foggy and chilly She could hardly see the boats that were accompanying her. Those boats were there to provide her help if she needed it. And still she swam for 15 hours. In the thick fog and cold water. Fifteen hours Well, it turns out that she began begging to be taken out of the water along the way. She just couldn't do it anymore The fog was too thick. She couldn't see where she was going. She had been in the water for fifteen hours, but her mom, in one of the boats next to her, called out to her, saying, Florence, you're close. Just keep on going. You can't see it, but just keep on going, Florence. Convincing her that she could make it. But finally, physically, emotionally exhausted, Lawrence stopped. And she was pulled out of the water. She gave up. And after she was pulled out of the water, she got into the boat. And soon after getting into the boat, the fog parted. And it turned out that Florence was less than half a mile from the shore. For fifteen hours in the water. At a news conference the next day, she said, all I could see was the fog. I think if I could have seen the shore, I would have made it. She was so close. But all she could see was a fog. Our friends, if you're here and the toil and troubles just seem to be settling around you like a thick fog, know that this life is short. It will be over in an instant That shoreline will be glorious, an eternal weight of glory, beyond all comparison Friends, consider. Consider how short life is. Number your days that you would get a heart. Heavenly Father, we so desperately need your help to do what you have called us to do. Apart from the Spirit's work in us, there's no possibility that we could find our way to a wise heart and a wise way of living. We need your grace and your spirit to work this in us. So we pray, Lord, help us by the power of the Holy Spirit to number our days To let go of this life, to live it as it ought to be lived, and to live it in light of the glory to come. Oh, we pray, Father, that you would help us to fix our eyes on Christ. And we call out to you, Lord Jesus, today, return to us, O Lord. Make your presence known again among your people. And we ask this in your name. Amen.