Well good morning friends. How is everyone doing? It's a pleasure to see you all here this morning. I'm going to pray for us again briefly and then we'll dive into God's word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our request this morning is simple. Grant us a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of your Son, Jesus Christ. That in seeing him, we might become more like him in every way. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I want to start off our time with a question. A question. Jonathan and I didn't talk at all about his service leading or my sermon, but so many of the things that he said. Uh are repeated in this sermon this morning. I want to start off our time with a question and see if anyone can name for me the last president of the United States who was able to carry out and establish Perfect justice in this country Okay, so then let's broaden the scope. Let's go outside our country. Can anybody name for me the last head of state who was able to carry out and establish perfect justice in their respective country? All right, well let's let's just not broaden the scope to here and now. Let's go back through history. Can anybody name for me a king or a queen or any type of ruler ever who was able to carry out and establish perfect and lasting? Justice. Like the silence is deafening, isn't it? Even the best of rulers this world has ever known were unable to carry out or establish perfect and lasting justice. Which leads us to conclude one of two things. We only have two options at that point. First option. It will never, ever happen. That's option number one. Based on the evidence that we have, that's possible. Or option number two. We haven't yet met the person who's able to make it happen. That's option number two. And if our passage this morning is telling us the truth, Then there is a person who is coming who will establish a perfect and lasting justice not only in one country but throughout the entire So let me invite you to open with me in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 42. We're going to be looking especially at verses 1 to 4 this morning. And today we begin an Advent series. And over the next four weeks, we're going to be studying four passages in Isaiah that are popularly known as the servant. songs because they describe the coming, the future coming of a mysterious servant, a servant who would bring justice A servant who would be righteous, a servant who would be innocent, and a servant who would be stricken. and cut down. And according to Isaiah, this servant would come to bring comfort to God's people. And comfort would be much needed by them, because much of Isaiah's book Predicts condemnation for the people of God, for the nation of Israel. And since we're driving straight into the second half of Isaiah's book Which apart from the Psalms is the longest book in the Bible. It's 66 chapters. We need to take a moment to get our bearings so that we can understand what's going on in chapter 42 and what we're So first off, Isaiah was a prophet, which basically means that he was specially chosen by God to call the people of Israel to repentance. And now most people think of prophets when they hear the word prophet, they think of somebody who's always telling the future, who's predicting things that haven't yet happened. And that's true. Prophets do that. But that's actually when you look at the prophets and read through them, that's actually a small portion of their overall ministry. Their broader ministry was simply reminding the people of the commandments of God, showing them the ways that they were breaking those commandments in their own lives, and calling them to repentance, and warning them that if they didn't turn and repent of their sin, that there would be a judgment. to come. And there would be a judgment to come. And that's part of Isaiah's message. It actually forms a large part of Isaiah's message. Isaiah the prophet was sent to preach to the southern kingdom of Judah. Quick history flyby. We're going to go like 50,000 feet because we need to understand what's going on here so that we're not just bewildered by the things that Isaiah is talking about. A flyover of Israel's history. 700 years before Isaiah, God brought Israel out of Egypt. He rescued them from slavery, brought them out into the wilderness and into the promised land. The people of Israel promised to obey God's commands. They said, Yes, we have heard all that you've called us to do, and we will do it. We will be your people. But over the course of the next three hundred years they fell into deeper and deeper sin. God called them to be different from the nations around them, but over the course of those three hundred years. They devolved in such a way, falling into such deep and grievous sin that they became just like the nations around them. Then they asked for a king, even though God was their king. They said, we want a human king like the rest of the nations because their kings are great. We want someone strong and big and mighty. So God gave them Saul, but Saul was not the king that Israel needed. He failed. Then God gave them David, and then after David came Solomon, and during the day the reigns of David and Solomon, Israel is really at its high point. They are the two Great kings in Israel's history. David's the righteous king who defeats the nations, and Solomon's the wise king who brings prosperity to the land. But what is clear through the ministry or through the reigns of David and Solomon that even the best of kings fail, and they both sinned and fall. Solomon even turns away from the Lord towards the end of his life. After Solomon dies, there's a conflict in the nation of Israel, the one nation, about who should be the next king And that conflict got so bad that the people of Israel, the one people of God, split into two kingdoms. You had the northern kingdom of Israel. Its capital was Samaria and the southern kingdom of Judah. Its capital was Jerusalem. It's to the southern kingdom of Judah that Isaiah is sent to prophesy. And that's what he's sent to prophesy to. And God sends Isaiah to remind them. He says, hey, back in the day, back in the day, guys, when God saved your great-great great-great-grandparents out of Egypt and they promised to obey his commands, he told them That if they sinned and continued sinning, he would send them into exile. And now he wants me to tell you that because you've continued sinning and you have not repented, that exile is coming. It is coming. That is the message of the first 39 chapters of Isaiah. Chapters 1 to 39 can be summarized as. You have sinned, you have not repented, and the promised exile is certain. The Babylonians will come in and they will take you into exile But then in chapter 40, a new message arises. And in the last 26 chapters of Isaiah's book, the message turns from a message of judgment and promised exile to a message of comfort and hope beyond exile. God would yet again show mercy to his people. He would pardon them for their iniquities, and they were called then to hope in that message of comfort, so that when they went into exile, they would be able to bear up under that exile and know that one day God would restore them. But that restoration would come at the hands of a surprising servant, a servant who would come and rescue his people and establish justice not only in Israel. But in the entire earth. And it's that servant that we hear about this morning, this one who would bring hope to the people of Israel and to the people of earth. So why don't you go ahead and look with me at the passage? It's Isaiah chapter 42, verses 1 to 4. I'm going to read this for us. This is God's word. Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law The comforting message that Isaiah has for God's people is that God's promised and anointed servant. Will establish perfect justice in all the earth in a surprising way. God's anointed servant will establish perfect justice in all the earth in a surprising way. And if you're taking notes this morning, we're going to break down our passage into two points. First, the servant foretold And then second, the servant fulfilled. Point one, the servant foretold, and point two, the servant fulfilled First, the servant foretold. When we're looking at these verses and when we hear them read, the first thing that we need to notice is that this is a prediction of the future. Right? Notice the language about his coming. It's all Future tense. He will establish justice. He will bring forth justice. But what we also notice, not just that it's a future prediction, but we need to notice the uniqueness of this servant. Now he's not unique because he's called a servant. Lots of different people in the Old Testament are called God's servant. So Moses was called a servant of God. The King David was called a servant of God. Isaiah in chapter 20 was called God's servant. And even the entire nation of Israel was referred to at times as the servant. If you have your Bible up and look at chapter 41, verse 8. It should be on one of those pages. Chapter 41, verse 8. But you, Israel, my servant. There he's talking to the nation of Israel, the people. So we see that even the nation of Israel is called God's servant. But this servant in chapter 42 is clearly not any of them. Why do I say that? I want you to just look at the first three lines of verse one. Notice his unique anointing He is upheld by God. When this servant comes, he will know a special empowering and sustaining by God for the difficult tasks that God has called him to carry out. If he ever grows weary or weak or fearful, he will have the powerful hand of God to uphold him. But not only is he upheld by God, he's chosen by God. He is the elect one of God called to carry out this special task. There's no one else who can carry out this task of bringing forth justice in the earth. All the other servants of God, Moses, David, Israel, Isaiah, they all show that they fail. That they sinned. They can't carry out or bring forth perfect justice in the earth. But this servant is the chosen servant. He's not only the chosen servant. Look at the second line of verse 2. He is my chosen servant, in whom my soul delights God loves this servant, rejoices over him. He is God's beloved servant Not only is he upheld by God, chosen by God, and loved by God, he's also anointed with God's Spirit. If you're familiar with the Old Testament, especially kids, if you're If your parents are reading to you stories out of the Old Testament, then this phrase of the Spirit coming upon him or my Spirit resting upon him will seem familiar to you. It's especially common in the books of judges and kings when the Spirit of God would come upon a person, that Spirit would enable the person to carry out miraculous feats that would otherwise be impossible. So this servant, like those people, but in a greater way, this servant will be specially anointed by God's Spirit. It's as though God's Spirit will descend upon him and rest on him in a special way for the task that God has given him. Then what is that task? Look at the last line of verse 1. The one who's upheld, chosen, loved, and anointed by God is being sent to bring forth Justice. This is the dominant theme of these four verses. He repeats it four times at the end of verse one. Then again at the end of verse 3, look, he he is he will faithfully bring forth justice. And then again in verse 4. He will establish justice in all the earth. The servant's task is to bring forth justice, and he won't stop until that justice has been perfectly established in all the earth. But it's crucial for us at this point to understand the way the word justice is used in the Old Testament if we're going to rightly understand what it is that the servant is actually going to do. Right, in our culture, we think of and use the word justice in a much narrower way than the word justice is used in Hebrew. So in Hebrew, it has a much broader word than our word for the uh for justice. In Hebrew, it can it can narrowly refer to right, legal decisions, and judgments. So it can refer to that, making a right judgment. That is right, that is true. You talk about just in the Old Testament, they talk about just weights and just balances Judges were called to carry out just decisions. So it can refer narrowly to that, but it also has a broader scope of reference that can mean just restoring right order. Putting things the way that they ought to be, putting everything back in order. Right? So this beloved and anointed servant will come proclaiming the just judgments of God, saying what is true and not true about what God says, and then he will also, through doing that, Restore right order in the world. He will bring things back to the way that they ought to be. And this restoration Won't only be for the nation of Israel. And that is one of the surprises of this passage. We need to remember that Isaiah is a prophet to the nation of Israel. And throughout the book of Isaiah, in the first thirty-nine chapters Israel is being condemned for constantly relying on the powers of the nations around them. They're reaching out to the king of Assyria. They're reaching out to the king of Egypt. They're reaching out to the king of Babylon, trying to form alliances so that they can survive as a people. They've forgotten that they serve the Lord God. who can sustain them at all times. And so it's surprising to us that here, God, through the prophet Isaiah, is saying that this anointed servant Won't come just for the people of Israel to establish justice among them, but he is coming to establish justice among all the peoples of the earth. Assyrian Babylonian, Greek, Roman, American, Asian, whatever nation on earth, this servant is coming for all peoples to see perfect justice done in every nation. And this restoration will be perfect. This will be an expansive justice that fills the whole earth And what is remarkable about this is the way that the servant will carry out this work. Think of the world that we live in today. Think of things as they are right now in this nation and in other nations around the world. If someone was going to come and establish perfect justice in this world, this fallen world, they're gonna have to come with a sword. With an army, with pomp and circumstance, they're going to have to be proud, belligerent, unabashedly self-centered. demanding their own way, doing whatever it takes to get people to fall in line. That's the way the rulers of this world go about their business of seeing justice. done in their nations. But notice the servant's demeanor in our passage. Look at what verse 2 says. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice. He will not make it heard in the street. What Isaiah is saying is that this servant's work, this task of carrying out perfect justice, will be done in an understated way. He won't be rude or arrogant. He's not gonna shout people down or draw attention to himself. Hey, look like me. Look at me. Look at the justice that I'm bringing. He will be humble And he'll also be tender. Look at verse 3. A bruised reed he will not break. A faintly burning wick he will not quench. The bruised reed and the faintly burning wick refer to people who've just been crushed by the pain, sorrow, sadness, injustice, and oppression of this world. They're the type of people who are just barely hanging on. If one more storm in life comes along, they will be completely un Done and the servant will be tender with those people. He's not going to treat them as others treat them. He won't have the attitudes of the rulers of this world. His way will be one of humility. His way will be one of tenderness. His way will be one of meekness. That's what these passages are saying. And he's going to be utterly faithful in carrying out his work. Look at verse 4. He will not grow faint or be discouraged until he has established a justice in the earth It says he won't grow faint or be discouraged. The reason Isaiah is saying this about him, and God through Isaiah is saying this is because he's going to have plenty of reason to grow faint or be discouraged because he's going to face opposition in his work. It's going to be difficult for him to carry out, but no matter what difficulty he faces or what persecution he suffers, he will not be stopped. He will complete the task that he has been sent for until established justice is established in all the earth But who? Who is this servant, this anointed servant, this meek servant who will faithfully establish justice in all the earth? And when would he come? That brings me to point two, the servant fulfilled. The servant fulfilled. I mentioned that this prophecy Of God's anointed servant is part of a larger message of comfort for God's people that begins at chapter 40 Right, remember that I already said that the first 39 chapters, God has been promising the people of Israel that they would go into exile in Babylon for their sins. But then he turns in chapter 40, and from chapter 40 to chapter 66, Isaiah preaches a message of comfort and hope. So in those last 26 chapters, God essentially says to them, if you're going to boil down those last 26 chapters into one sentence, what God is saying to Israel is this: even though you're going into exile, All hope is not lost. I will come for you. I will send my servant to rescue you. That's the message of chapters forty to sixty-six. The people of Israel knowing that in about seventy years, because about seventy years after Isaiah comes and preaches this message. Babylon would come in and destroy Judah and tear down the temple, and the people of Israel would be taken off into exile. And they would have this message of hope. They would they would they were meant to say to themselves When they were in Babylon, guys, guys, remember, remember, hold fast. God said to us, He promised that we were going to go into exile. But remember his other promise. He said, comfort. Comfort my people. I will pardon your iniquities. He said that he would send a servant to come and get us. So let's hold fast. That is the point of chapters 40 to 66, to give them comfort in the midst of exile. And I want you to see how chapter 42 fits into this broader message. So turn with me to chapter 40. You should just turn back one page to chapter 40 where this message of comfort begins. I want you to see what happens here in the text that will help us to see who this servant is. Chapter 40 begins with words of comfort. See that first line there, comfort Comfort, my people, says your God. After 39 chapters of condemnation, this is a welcome reprieve. Thank you for this promise of comfort, oh God. Verses 1 and 2 are God's promise to Israel that He will one day bring them back from exile. Israel's iniquity will one day be pardoned. So as an Israelite, You're reading this or you're hearing it, and you're going to want to know when will this pardoning happen? When will this iniquity happen? When will all of our sins been paid for so that we can return from exile? So look at verse 3 Look at verse 3, the very next thing Isaiah says, A voice cries, in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. God is saying to Israel, that promised time of restoration. When I gather you out of exile, I myself will come in the wilderness to pardon your iniquity and bring you back to myself. That's when this promised restoration will happen. And when we turn to the New Testament, we see this passage in chapter 40, verse 3 from Isaiah quoted in three of the four Gospels in reference to who? To Jesus Christ. Prepare the way for the Lord. Make straight his path. And then who appears in the Gospel of Mark? Jesus came from Nazareth. Jesus came from Nazareth after Jesus appears in the wilderness, fulfilling the passage from Isaiah 40 about the Lord appearing What happens next to Jesus in those gospels? What is the very next thing that he does He's baptized. He's baptized. What happens during his baptism? The heavens? And the Spirit descends like a dove. Isaiah 42, 1. Behold, my servant. I have put my spirit upon him. And then after the spirit descends, what does the voice from heaven say? This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. Isaiah 42, 1. Behold my servant. my chosen, in whom my soul delights, the appearing of the Lord in the wilderness to rescue his people from exile and to pardon their iniquities was fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord who appeared in the wilderness is the servant. Jesus Christ. The servant is the Lord himself. Jesus is the servant of God. Come to rescue his people and pardon their iniquity. And what was a servant sent to do? He was sent to bring forth justice by declaring God's judgments to man and restoring all things to their proper order. And that's what Jesus sets about doing immediately after his baptism. He arrives in Galilee and enters Galilee and begins preaching the gospel of the kingdom, calling all people to repent. and believe, declaring to all that God's justice is perfect and God will carry out perfect justice and punishment on all who sinned. And not only does he declare the truth about God to man, he sets about restoring all things to their proper order. Think about our studies through the Gospel of Mark by healing the sick, by giving sight to the blind, by opening the ears of the deaf. How many times have we seen this in Mark's Gospel? Look at Isaiah chapter 42. Look at verse 7. You want to see what is this what is this carrying out of justice going to look like? Look at verse 7. He's going to open the eyes of the blind and bring out prisoners from the dungeon. I mean, we literally saw in Mark's gospel last week, Jesus healed the blind man. Two weeks before that, he healed the deaf man. He's healed paralyzed people and brought the dead to life. He's showing his power to bring expansive justice, the type of justice that God envisions by restoring the physical world to its proper order and by healing disease and sickness and death. And but more than restoring the physical world, those healings have pointed to the spiritual disorder that exists in the world. All mankind has chosen, like the Israelites, to reject God and to sin against them. And because of that choice, this world is not as it should be. And Jesus has come to bring God's just order to the world by restoring mankind. To a right relationship with God. This is the expansive justice that Jesus is bringing on behalf of God. And like the servant Jesus would carry out this task of bringing forth justice in humility Think about the gospel of Mark. Though the large crowds have gathered around him, they did so not because of his self-promotion, but because of his authoritative teaching and his miraculous work. He didn't cry aloud or lift up his voice in the streets. He didn't seek to draw attention to himself. He even told people in Mark's gospel, do not talk about me. Right, think about all the commands to silence. He doesn't want the word going out in the same way that someone else who might have brought justice to the world. Hey, tell everyone about me. I want everyone to know that I'm the justice bringer. That's not the way of Jesus Christ. His way was marked by understatement and humility. And it was also marked by tenderness. A bruised reed he would not break. A faintly burning wick he would not quench. Think of his tenderness Recall this healing of the leper, the man who had been an outcast his entire life, the man who nobody would come near and nobody would touch but for fear of contracting his disease of leprosy. And what does Jesus allow the man to do? To come near to him. And then what does Jesus do? He reaches out. and touches him. He says to him, I am here with you. He did not come with Harsh commands. Think of the woman suffering from the issue of blood, or the pagan woman whose daughter was possessed by a demon, or the Samaritan woman at the well. He doesn't come with harsh commands. He didn't come to trample down the weak, but to stoop down with them. And to say with them, it's okay. It's okay. I'm here. I'll strengthen you in your weakness. And not only was he humble But he's faithful. His faithfulness is remarkable. He would not grow faint or be discouraged And he would have plenty of reason to grow faint given the opposition that he faced. Opposition from the Pharisees, opposition from his own family. Remember when he goes to Nazareth and they reject him? Opposition from Herod, opposition from the Roman authorities who want to put him to death. And their opposition was so fierce that it would bring him to the brink of giving up. I'll remember him in the garden. Mother. Father. If it be possible, let this cup pass on from me But what does he say next? Yet not your will. Yet not my will, but your will be done. He would not be discouraged He would not give up because he came to establish justice in all the earth And he would not stop until his task was complete. And so he would go to the cross To the very place where God's justice would be brought forth and established for all to see. What does the cross teach you and I today? It teaches us that God will punish sin. God will punish sin perfectly. God will punish sin He will not let sin go unpunished. He will not be bribed. He will not show favoritism. He will perfectly punish all sin, all injustice, and all oppression. But the cross is not only the place where we see God's justice. It's also the place where we see God's perfect mercy. Remember, as the servant, Jesus taught that he did not come to be served, but to serve And to give his life as a ransom for many. He came to give his life to pay for our sins. For us, bruised reeds and faintly burning wicks. To us, Jesus proclaims, look to me On the cross, look to me. On the cross, my reed was crushed and my wick was snuffed out so that you could be healed And given life so that your iniquity could be pardoned and that you could be restored and reconciled to God. He was killed on the cross for our sins. And buried. But because he is the true reed and the flame that cannot be quenched, he did not stay dead. Three days after he was buried, he rose from the dead, and now he calls all people everywhere to repent and believe in him for the forgiveness of the And that offer stands for you today. God welcomes you into his presence. He will humbly and tenderly stoop down to you and say to you, My son. My daughter, your sins are forgiven. He offers that to all. So whether you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus or you're here and you're a follower of Jesus and you feel condemned for your sins, look to Jesus who took upon himself your bruised reed and your faintly burning wick so that you could be a strong reed and a flame that he breathes upon by his spirit He loves you and he welcomes you into God's presence and through him all of us can have confidence to come into the presence of God. Even though we continue to sin and stumble and fall, it is his perfect righteousness that is that we need, and it is his perfect righteousness that God extends to us, and we've received if we put our faith in Jesus Christ. And for those of you who've trusted in Christ, I want you to see today the great encouragement this passage offers you, especially, especially if you've been struggling with sin. If you've put your trust in Christ and you've been united to Christ, then being united to Christ, you now share in and receive the same affection the Father has for his son, the servant. Look at verse 1 again Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights I have put my spirit upon him. If you have put your faith in Christ and been united to Christ, then God says the very same thing about you. Each and every one of you, you are my servant, whom I uphold. You are my chosen in Christ, in whom my soul delights. Remember the picture of God from Zephaniah. He did he dances over his He sings and he rejoices over his people, Israel. He looks upon you today if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, and he says to you, You are my chosen. You I delight in. My soul, the soul of the living God, the creator of the ends of the earth, delights in you if you've trusted in Christ. And he has put his spirit within you. You can look at chapter 42, verse 1, and through faith in Christ you can hear these words. Spoken to you in Christ, your sins have been cast into the depths of the sea. They have been removed from you as far as the east is from the west. And when God looks at you, he says this about you. He doesn't see you in your sin and your stronghold. At least he doesn't treat you that way. He treats you as he treats his son. And his son was perfect. If you feel like you're condemned today, or God doesn't like you, or he even hates you, he can't hate you. Because to hate you, he would have to hate his son, and that would mean he hates himself because he and the Son and the Spirit are one. He loves the Son. He adores the Son and has given to the Son his spirit. And with the same love that he loves the Son, he loves you if you are in Jesus Christ. Be encouraged that the work of the Spirit has been and the servant has been applied to you in Jesus Christ today, and you now stand cleansed, justified, adopted, innocent, perfect, righteous before God. That is your standing in Christ. Yet not only do we share in the love of the Son, but He shows to us His tender mercy How many of you feel today like bruised reeds? How many of you today feel like Faintly burning wicks. If one more thing goes wrong in life, I am going to collapse. I don't know about you. I feel that way. Life is hard. This is not easy. Everything that we experience in life, even thinking about Ecclesiastes and our small groups this past week, there's a season for joy and there's a season for mourning. Feels like gosh, there's like lots of seasons of mourning, Lord. Give more joy. And it's hard. And when we experience those seasons where we just feel like we're going to collapse, whether we're struggling with illness. Maybe our marriage is in a rough place. Maybe we're just dying at work because we're not doing well at our job. No. Know this for a fact. That God will not stamp out your flame. He will not crush you. He will not break you. He upholds those who are bowed down. He says to you, lean on me. Lean on me. I am the true reed. This picture of the reed comes right out of Isaiah Because the people of Israel were leaning on the king of Egypt, a broken reed, who is only going to splinter them, because we can't lean on other rulers. for protection or for deliverance. We're only called to lean on the Lord. He is the true reed who upholds us And you're upheld by the same power as the servant. Even if you feel like you're being crushed, we even know from the New Testament where Paul talks about being pressed in on all sides. Yet it's to show our weakness so that the surpassing glory and strength and power of God is revealed in us, that even as our outer body wastes away, our inner man is being renewed and strengthened. How by the Spirit who lives in us. So that even when you're bowed down and you feel like a bruised reed and you feel like your wick's about to go out. Jesus sits at the right hand of God. The servant sits at the right hand of God and he pleads for you, for your help to God. And he says to God, God, blow upon their wick. And he continues to give life. You ever see you ever been sitting at a fire? You're just trying to get the fire started, what do you do? You blow on it. Give it some air. Give it some oxygen. This is what Christ does for us. He doesn't stamp out our wick. He breathes upon us. Receive the Holy Spirit. He upholds us by the power of his right hand. He tenderly carries us as we live in this world. And having received God's tender mercy, And forgiveness of sins, we now carry out in our own lives the mission of the servant to bring justice to the world around us. No, I'm not nearly I don't have nearly have enough time to talk about what that looks like in any expansive way in our lives, but I can tell you Two ways that that's carried out in your life and my life today if you're a follower of Jesus. How do we carry out the work of the servant and bringing justice to the world around it? Us we do it in two ways by obeying the Great Commission And by obeying the great commandment, Christ's task in bringing justice to the world has as its chief end Not the restoration of human systems and structures and institutions. It has as its chief end the renewing and restoring and salvation of souls from God's judgment against sin. and the restoration of mankind into a right relationship with God. And insofar as we want to see God's justice established in the world, we must do what Jonathan prayed for this morning and ask for God to save people and share the gospel with them. We ourselves must give ourselves to carrying out the Great Commission and calling people to repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and into a restored and right relationship with God. You think about how that happens. This is God's justice. This is how he's putting all things right. He's taken men and women who have rebelled against him, whose lives are disordered because they're pursuing sin and not his glory. They're living in the kingdom of darkness. He snatches them from Satan's hand, brings them into the kingdom of light, teaches them to love God and love man, and the world becomes as it was ought to be, as it should have been. He's restoring all things through faith in Christ. But Jesus' teaching also calls us to bring justice by obeying the great commandment. To love the Lord with all of your heart, with all of your soul, and with all of your mind, and with all of your strength, and to love your neighbor as yourselves. We can bring God's justice to our neighbors by getting to know them. Think about who are your immediate neighbors. This is what he means by loves your neighbor love your neighbors. It is good and right for Christians insofar as we have the opportunity and the power to pursue Good leadership, putting good leadership in place and to pursue good policies. But Jesus never said that as the primary task. It was neighbor, person, love your neighbor. And that's a way of loving our neighbors, but he means it immediately. Directly with your neighbor as you get to know them and you see the ways that your neighbors might be suffering from oppression and injustice or abuse or other forms of sin, we should be a people who work with all our power to see those things changed in their lives and to see those relationships Restored to the way that God intended them to work. So we bring God's justice in the world by obeying the Great Commission and preaching the gospel, seeing man restored. to right relationship with God and by obeying the great commandment, by loving our neighbor as ourselves. Who is our neighbor and how do I love him? Read the parable of the Good Samaritan. It's a great way to start. And this work we need to recognize will be hard. It will be tiring. It will require us to give more of ourselves and more of our time to see God's kingdom, His just kingdom grow and expand. And we may even feel like giving up at times, but we Don't need to grow faint or be discouraged. Why is that? Well, look at me at chapter 41 Chapter 41. I was reading it in a different Bible and now I'm reading it in my Bible and I've lost it. No chapter 40, verse 28. Why do we not need to grow faint or grow weary? Chapter 40 verse 28. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not grow faint or weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint. And to him who has no might, he increases strength The Lord will sustain us for this task, and we also don't need to get to get discouraged because the task doesn't ultimately rely on us. Because we know that after Jesus ascended into heaven, He sat down at God's right hand and even now rules over all of the nations and is bringing about his perfect purposes in the world. And he promised that a day would come when he would return. And when he returns, he will usher in his perfect kingdom, a kingdom where peace and justice would reign, a kingdom that would fill the whole earth. And how can we know that this will happen? Because he will not grow faint or become discouraged. Until he has established justice in all the earth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray to you and we ask that you would send the Son, Lord Jesus. Return to us, come back today and bring in that kingdom, that perfect kingdom where peace and justice would reign. Help us to remember today and in the week to come your tender mercies towards us. Help us to remember that you've in Christ pardoned us of all of our iniquities and now you tenderly care for us and uphold us by the power of your spirit. And so help us, equip us, cause us to walk in the good works that you prepared for us, so that we might be a people who bring justice. to the world by preaching the gospel and by loving our neighbor. And we pray this all in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.