Luke, your prayers about prayer inspire me to pray again. Let me pray again Father, we know we don't need a lot of words, but a heart of faith to ask you to help. And so we pray that you would help. Help us understand what your word would teach us and help us to be changed. by it, even in the coming few minutes now. In Christ's name. Amen. Now, God often uses External and internal challenges in the life of the church to help the church think more carefully about what the Bible teaches So he used the challenges of Arianism to help the church think about the Trinity, challenges of the medieval Roman Catholic Church. To think about salvation, the recent challenges of second-wave feminism and identity politics to help to think about what the Bible teaches on men and women. Now, as the church was coming out of COVID, John and the elders thought it would be worthwhile to spend an extra little bit of time thinking specifically about the church. Especially since the church hadn't been able to gather fully for some time and were scattered and there was all this talk of virtual church, it seemed like an opportunity and helpful moment for us to stop and think, okay, what exactly is the church? And today, even specifically, the question, why does the church have to gather? Is the gathering a necessary part of a church being a church? Now, obviously, this isn't quite as big or significant as the challenges of Nicaea and the Trinity or the challenges that were addressed by the Protestant Reformation. Nonetheless. I hope you'll agree with me that thinking about the gathering itself, is it at least worth a sermon, maybe a book or two, right? That's what we're going to think about this morning. And you can find books as Luke said on the back table, one called One Assembly and one called Church Membership. which I I hope you'll find useful. And if you don't aren't able to get one of those, feel free to ask me and I can I can talk to you about it. Or I can give you an An extra copy. Part of the reason that the gathered church is worth thinking about isn't just because of the present pandemic moment. If we go back to the 1960s, you see the advent of multi-service churches and that grew in the into the 1980s into the multi-site church that continued to evolve into the early 2000s with the virtual church I mean, if we don't have to gather at the same time, do we really have to gather at the same place? And if we don't have to gather at the same place, do we really need to gather at all? I mean, can't we get what we need by tuning in, watching the television screen or the live stream on the internet? Well, three thoughts about the gathering, three thoughts for us this morning. Number one, the gathering is essential for becoming a church. Number two, the gathering is essential for Christian growth. And number three, the gathering is essential for Christian witness. Both in our gathering and in our scattering. Okay? So it's essential for being a church. It's essential for Christian growth. It's essential for Christian witness both in the gathering and in the scattering. Point one, as I said, is that the church gathering is essential. for becoming a church. People these days like to emphasize the fact that the church is not a building but a people, and that's true. But it's even more true to say that the church is a gathered and covenanted people. Now, in some ways, this point is super easy to easy to make. Jesus named us an assembly. That's what the Greek word ekklesia means. The word that we translate as church is actually taken from the German word kirscha. Not sure I'm pronouncing it that right, but the German word Kirsche, which kind of has a long and meandering etymological history, and so we say that today, but in fact, if you're going to translate Ecclesia Honestly and directly, it simply means assembly. Now, in other ways that this point here, the church, the gathering is necessary for being a church, is probably my most theological point this morning. And honestly, it's the hardest climb. Okay? But hopefully as we we make that climb in the first point, we'll be able to see some nice vistas in the second and third point. Well let me start by telling you about my friend Joshua. Joshua is his American name and Joshua is Chinese and he Grew up in rural China and then he moved to Shanghai to attend university as an engineer, then he graduated and uh became an engineer. But while he was in university, somebody shared the gospel with Joshua and he He repented and believed and became a Christian. He was baptized and joined a local house church there in Shanghai. Joshua was also an avid evangelist, and he frequently shared the gospel, and more and more people came to a saving knowledge of Christ through his evangelistic witness. First, five people, ten people, and then fifteen, and then twenty, and eventually thirty, thirty-five, forty. And he would take these brand new young believers to his pastor of his little house church, and that man would baptize them, but they had no room. To meet in this house church. And so they began meeting in Joshua's house, his little studio apartment there in Shanghai on Wednesday nights for a Bible study. There they were sitting on the bed and sitting on the floor and they'd open the Bible, he'd read the Bible, and maybe they'd sing some and they'd pray And then one day Joshua said, you know, I think I want to do a this cutting out. No. Then one day He decided I want to do a PhD in engineering, so I'm going to move to Singapore. Hey, all of you, you need to find your own churches. And they all responded to him. No, no, no, no. We are a church. And you're our pastor. He said, I'm an engineer. I'm not your pastor. This is not a church. Well what we have right here I think is kind of a church laboratory. We got our test tubes, we got our bunsen burners, got our flasks. What do we need to pour into what so that poof a church What are the necessary ingredients of a church? I mean, after all, we're we're doing this series on a church. It's probably worth stopping and thinking for a moment. Okay, what exactly makes a church a church? And that brings us to our text for this morning. Go ahead and turn first to Matthew 16. We're going to focus on Matthew 18, but let's do a little bit of review from last week. We looked at Matthew 16 last week, and we we focused on that language of heaven and earth and binding and loosing. You see there in verses 18 and 19. And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven And then we see that same language of binding and loosing on earth and heaven from verse 19. Now flip to chapter 18. We see that same language again in verses 15 to 17 where. Jesus is talk about confronting a brother or sister, and if they remain unrepentant, remove them from the church, verse 17 and then verse 18. The authority to do this is provided truly I say to you, and we said that was a plural, y'all. I say to y'all, whatever y'all bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever y'all loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. And the authority of the keys, I said, was the authority to stand in front of a confessor and say, yeah, that's a true confession, and that's a true confessor I said it's a bit like what uh the U. S. Embassy did with me in Brussels when I had the expired passport. And though they didn't make me a U. S. citizen that day, they had an authority to affirm me. as a U. S. citizen on that day, just like Jesus did with Peter's confession. That's right, the Father in heaven told you that. And on this rock, this confessor confessing the right confession, I will build my church. And from there we went on to contend that church membership consists of our affirmation of one another. That's right. The Father in heaven told you that. That's right. That's the gospel. We do that through baptism and the Lord's Supper. And one early Baptist document, the London Confession, referred to this affirmation as a mutual agreement. Where does this idea of a mutual agreement come from? Well look look at verse 19. If two of you agree on earth. The very heart of church authority doesn't come from the Pope, a Presbytery, a Pastor. It comes from these priests, these priest kings that we call Christians coming together and agreeing. As they make these key wielding affirmations. At the heart of church authority is an agreement. An agreement about who Jesus is and who belongs to him And that brings us to today's verse. Look at verse 20. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. Let's break this down word by word, shall we? There's only a few. It won't take long. Four Why does Jesus start with for? Well, the word for tells us that we're about to hear the because, we're about to hear the foundation. The grounds for everything that preceded it in verses 15 to 19. Hey, verses 15 and to 19 are all true because Verse 20. 4, where two or three are gathered. Notice that Jesus has a gathering in mind. Not an internet connection, not a phone call, a gathering. Why two or three? By a gathering of two or three. We'll look back at verse 16. Take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. Jesus has the same principle from Deuteronomy 19 that he quotes there in verse 16 in mind here in verse 20. And Deuteronomy 19 talks about the necessary courtroom or legal criteria for establishing a charge in court. Two or three have to come together and agree. That what the person is charging happened actually happened. They agree with each other and they agree with the charge. Now Jesus is taking that Old Testament legal glue, you might say, and he's now applying it, squeezing into A new situation where two or three are gathered in my name These two or three, or two or three hundred, or two or three thousand, think the Jerusalem church. are coming together and agreeing, yeah, that's Jesus. That's who he is. That's what he's done You see? And in that setting, they have the ability not simply to excommunicate someone, look back at verse 19, anything they ask. Right? Anything they ask in this posture of wielding the keys, coming together, speaking on behalf of heaven, such as removing someone, such as receiving someone Again, even as Jesus did with Peter. When they come together, they agree that this is the Christ. This is the Son of the living God. They agree that this is the gospel. Jesus has come as the Messiah. to save his people from their sins by dying and rising again. That's the good news of the gospel that Christians gather together in in agreement. In agreement with that gospel, and agreement with one another's inclusion in that gospel. Now look at the last phrase. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them Does that mean that the Holy Spirit indwells us? Well, that's true. That's not what Jesus is talking about here. Does that mean when we come together as CBC, Jesus kind of comes into the room in a special way with a sort of mystical thought? And somehow he's here in a way he's not actually with us kind of the rest of the week Well, we know that Jesus has ascended bodily and sit in heaven. We know that he is omnipresent. We know we have his spirit. No, I don't think that's what it's talking about here. Rather Jesus is saying, where these two or three are gathered, they represent me. They speak for me. In the place of this embassy, my flag flies. Or like Yahweh in the Old Testament, they are my people, I am their God. When these two or three or two or three hundred gather, I'm there. Listen to them. They're gonna tell you what I think. You see? So again, this six-week series on the church. What makes a church a church? And I think Matthew 18. 20 is telling us that we have some of the most essential ingredients. Both in this verse and the immediately preceding verses and in chapter 16. Gathering is essential A gathering in which there is a London Baptist confession, mutual agreement on this gospel, and one another's inclusion in this gospel are essential. How do we make this agreement? Well, we keep reading and we eventually get to Matthew 26 where we see the Lord's Supper a little bit further to Matthew. And we have baptism and we baptize one another into the name so that we can then gather in the name. And I got my my beakers and my test tubes and poof we have a church. Or let me put it like this. You're on a cruise ship. You're out there, the cruise ship sinks, you manage to climb, and most of the people manage to climb, let's say all the people, this is a this is a good crash. Everybody climbs on to The desert island, right? That just happens to be right there. Right before you're on the island, you see this Bible floating. You grab the Bible, you get on the island, a few weeks pass, it drives, you're sitting on the beach one day And you're reading this Bible, and then a person comes up to you and says, You're reading the Bible, are you a Christian? And you say, In fact, I am. And the person says, Wonderful, so am I. And you say, Great. And then you say something like, isn't Jesus a good God? And the person says, well, well, wait a second. I didn't say Jesus. I think Jesus is the greatest creation that ever was, the firstborn of creation, a great teacher. And you say You're a Jehovah's Witness. And the person says, yeah, that's right. And you say, we don't really agree on who Jesus is or what he's come to do. We we can be a church. Well, at this point, I walk up to you, I see the Bible, you and I have the same conversation. But this time when you say, well, who do you say Jesus Jonathan? You say, well, he's God of God, light of God, light, true God of true God, begotten, not made, of the same essence of the Father. Who died for our sins and rose again on the third day. And at that point you come up to me, you grab me by the cheeks, and you're like, a brother! And you and I agree at that point, hey, let's get together. Let's read from this book every week Let's find some coconut milk, maybe some purple flowers and make some dye to make it look like wine. And we'll gather every week and affirm one another in the gospel. Well at that point, friends, poof, you have First Baptist Church of this desert island. There it is. That's what it takes. Does that make sense? Back to Joshua's studio apartment. You have these young believers sitting there And they knew that gathering to read the Bible and to pray and to sing meant something. They had good instincts. They knew that that gathering was part of being a church They had an ecclesia, an assembly. And at this point, all they were really missing were the ordinances And so, in this particular story, Joshua decided not to move to Singapore. He decided to stay and become their pastor, and they changed their meeting from Wednesday nights to Sundays and They began performing the ordinances and poof, they were a church. Point one, the gathering is essential for becoming a church. Okay, I think that's the toughest part of the climb. Alright. Two more points, two more vistas to look out on. Point two The gathering is essential for Christian growth. The gathering is essential for Christian growth. Listen to Hebrews 10 Let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good deeds, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. Now, I think the most obvious sense in which the gathering is essential to growth is the gathering is where we come to Hear the Bible and sing the Bible and pray the Bible and be formed by the Bible and participate in the ordinances. Christians have understood this from scripture and just intuitively, frankly, for 2,000 years. But now with the advent of television and the technology of the internet, I think Christians begin to think, well, can I get a lot of that stuff just by watching a screen? Is the gathering really finally essential? Well, let's think about why the gathering itself is essential to your Christian growth. Gatherings in general, I trust you know are powerful. Just think about the political protests of 2020, folks on the political left protesting police brutality, folks on the right protesting stolen elections. When thousands gather and march, the public pays attention Reporters show up. Cameras click. Journalists write stories People get on their phones and pay attention, right? When gat thousands gather, the public pays attention. Groups of people are powerful, not just for what happens when they gather. but for what that group actually becomes by gathering. In the gathering, the people can become a movement, a force. A changed world. For better or for worse Why why are gatherings powerful? Well, people show up with their desires or grievances. The charismatic speaker affirms those desires or grievances. People look around, they see heads nodding, they hear voices of agreement. Individuals discover they're not alone. Gatherings are powerful because you are physically there. You see, hear. You feel. It defines your reality around you. God made us body and soul. and somehow he mysteriously intertwines them so that what affects the one affects the other. In a gathering, our sense of what's normal and what's right Can strengthen or shift comparatively quickly. The loves, the fears, the beliefs, the hates of the crowd can quickly become ours But of course gatherings aren't just powerful for the people inside of them. Have you ever been walking through a park? And you you you saw kind of a crowd over there and people huddled and talking and maybe somebody was in the middle and you you kind of craned your neck. What's going on over there? Maybe, maybe you faded over there just to sort of look in. It grabs attention. You don't want to miss something. Gatherings change lives, change cultures Change the world. They're powerful. And like a political protest, the church gathers and shapes a people. But a church gathering is different It gathers around the very words of God. See John's sermon from several weeks ago We come in, we hear God's word, we echo them back to Him in song and in prayer. And we conform our lives little by little, individually and corporally, to those words. And since the keys of the kingdom are in motion in the gathering, our consciences are bound by those words. Take about a man walks into a room, he he opens the Bible, we all listen, and our hearts and our consciences are pierced little by little over the years. We are changed individually, collectively, into a culture, force, a movement, the city of God. And like a protest, this gathering offers a visible testimony for the whole world to see what's going on over there. Why are these Christians all gathering every Sunday? What's going on inside? Maybe I'll send the secret police. Maybe I'll send a reporter. Maybe I'll show up Again, listen to Hebrews 20, 10, 24. Let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good deeds, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of sun, but encouraging one another. The author knew that it would be the habit of some to neglect the meeting. Are you tempted to make that a habit? The author also knew we needed the gathering to be stirred to love and good works and encouragement and to stir others up to these same things. How are you doing at stirring others up to love and good deeds and being stirred up to love and good deeds. Followers of Jesus work To stir one another up to love and good deeds by gathering together. Very simple. Now, what goes missing When your church experience is nothing more than a weekly live stream. Well, for starters, you think less about your fellow members. Don't come to mind, you don't bump into them, you remove yourself from the path of encouragement and accountability and love Praise God that we can download Christian truths virtually, but the Christian life is more than just an information download. When church is only online, we can't feel or experience or witness those truths becoming enfleshed in the family of God. Which fortifies our faith and creates bonds of affection between us and other believers. I was with several pastors back in December, and one pastor was testifying that his church had just begun to gather again and he said it's just wonderful and it's it's just so spiritual and that was the word he used spiritual And that's true. It is spiritual. But it's spiritual, at least in part, because it's physical. We're not Gnostics. We're not computer programs that just process things up here. We're embodied. We come together, and what affects soul affects body, and what affects body affects soul is we step into this corporate reality together. Think about it. Maybe you struggle with hidden bitterness towards a brother or sister all week in his presence at the Lord's table. Draws you to conviction and confession. You struggle with suspicion toward a sister But then you look over and you see her singing the same songs of praise that you're singing. And your heart starts to warm a little bit You struggle with what's happening politically in the nation. But then the preacher comes and he declares Christ's certain victory and vindication and you hear shouts of amen all around you and you recall that you are a heavenly citizenry allied in hope None of this can be experienced virtually. Paul therefore tells Timothy, watch your life and your doctrine. You need both To save yourself and your hears. You see? Think about the Lord's Supper and how Paul said we should approach it. 1 Corinthians 11. You've heard this almost. Every week or every month of your life as a Christian. So then whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. Everyone ought to examine themselves before they eat the bread and drink from the cup. I remember one occasion when I had a considerably sized dispute with a brother. Over the next few days, my heart grew in some level of bitterness for the ways that I thought he had wronged me in this dispute Then I kind of forgot about it, and the following Sunday I showed up and I saw him, and I'm like, oh yeah, him. And about the same time I realized, we're taking the Lord's Supper today So over the next hour, quietly in my head, there was this argument going on. You can take the supper It's his fault. Your conscience is clean. And then the little voice came saying, Really? Is it totally clean, Jonathan? Be sure you've done everything you can to reconcile with his brother and not offend him. Holy Spirit there whispering And I'm thinking to myself, okay, fine. Maybe, maybe I could have done more I really don't want to eat this piece of humble pie. And so I decided not to take the supper that Sunday. By the way, at any given week, if you happen to look over during the Lord's Supper and you don't see me doing this, you'll know a little something about my week. Alright? What happened? Well, in that moment, I knew the right doctrines. I knew that I was united in faith by Christ to this brother. But the fact that we had to come together and take the supper forced a kind of humbling on me. As opposed to relationships I can think with friends in other churches. I can think of another time I felt slighted by a Christian in a faraway church And bitterness grew in my heart. It crept into my heart over a while before I even recognized it and knew to repent of it. And it took me some time then to repent of that. bitterness. I didn't have the weekly enforcement unity enforcement mechanism of the Lord's Supper convicting me, saying, don't you come to this table until you've done all you can. To prostrate yourself before God's throne and to be reconciled to this brother The gathering forces yields is essential to Christian growth That's why Paul is so serious about togetherness. Look, listen to verse 33. So then, my brothers and sisters, when you gather to eat, you should all eat together. Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home. So that when you meet together, it may not result in judgment Point two, the gathering is essential for Christian growth. Jesus designed Christianity and the progress of our faith. to center around these gatherings so that we would dwell with one another, anticipating the day we dwell with him. The math here is really simple Not gathering with the church is not good for you spiritually. Gathering with the church is good for you spiritually Point three The gathering is essential for Christian witness, both in the gathering and in our scattering The gathering is essential for Christian witness, both in our gathering and in our scattering. If you take the time this afternoon or later this evening to read 1 Corinthians 14, you'll see that the entire thing is about what to do in the gathering. But I want you to turn there and take a look at verses 23 and following especially. 1 Corinthians 14, verses 23 and following. So if the whole church comes together. Okay, notice he has the gathering of the whole church in mind. And everyone speaks in tongues and inquires or unbelievers come in. Will they not say that you are out of your mind? But if an unbeliever or an inquirer comes in while everyone is prophesying, that is, proclaiming the revealed truths of God, they are convicted of sin. And are brought under judgment by all. As the secrets of their hearts are laid bare, so they will fall down and worship God, exclaiming, God is really among you. Now permit me to skip over questions of tongues and prophecy and what those specifically are, just for the sake of time, and just focus on the picture of these unbelievers coming in. Here we have that walk through the park where you're seeing a crowd and maybe you you're tempted to walk up to it as I mentioned a moment ago. What's going on there? Okay, so what we have here is we have an unbeliever coming in They hear God's truth proclaimed, not just from the preaching, but look at verse 24 again, everyone. is somehow preaching, teaching God's word. All are prophesying. This is a gathering of people in Christ's Who audibly agree with one another that Jesus is king. And then how does the unbeliever respond? Look at verse 25. He or she is convicted of sin and is brought under judgment by all. Again, not just brought under conviction by the preacher, but brought under judgment by all. All somehow testify to the fact that God's judgment is on all of us, on us, on you, my non-Christian visiting friend. That the secrets of the unbelievers' hearts are laid bare, it's said. You might have heard Mark Dever say that coming into the church is, and the church gathering is like throwing paint. onto the invisible man. He can see himself for the first time. Oh, there's my arm. Oh, there's my sin. My secret things are being laid bare. I see that I'm under judgment. And this person finally falls down and worships God and says, God really is among you. In other words, friends, non-Christians need not just a picture of you sharing the gospel with them. They need a picture of you sharing the gospel with them and a picture of believers loving one another. And believers together by mutual agreement affirming who Jesus is, and affirming that the judgment of God is upon all of us, apart from the good news of the gospel. Unbelievers need the assembly first in its gathering, as I just mentioned. Invite non-Christian friends to church Yet the gathering is also essential for Christian witness because it equips us to scatter, share our fellowship with each other, and through that fellowship to evangelize. How many of you have heard the testimony of my boss, Ryan Townsend? Has anybody heard that Ryan grew up as an atheist in Houston. Being around Christians, and yet the Christians he grew up around would go out and party and get drunk with him on Friday and Saturday nights, and then they would go to church on Sunday and he would think to himself, well, you call yourself Christians, but you're just like me. Why would I ever join you? And then he came to Washington, D. C. for college, and his family entered a season of pretty devastating crisis. His mom then also moved to Washington, D. C. And someone shared the gospel with her and she joined a church. And then she asked Ryan and his brother Jason to join him in the church and one day, a Mother's Day, he thought to himself, hey, that's a inexpensive gift for Mother's Day to get my mom, I'll go to church with her And so Ryan went to church and he heard the gospel preached. And he saw how they loved his mom. And he started spending time with these church people. He started going to their weekend barbecues and These guys would ask him to lunch. Little by little, Ryan too began to repent and believe And I'll testify to you today that previously what had kept him from Christianity were the churches he knew in Houston, which were too often more pictures of hell than heaven. Then he moved to Washington and he found a church that felt more like a picture of heaven And it was the individual and corporate testimony of that church gathered and scattered, which brought this man to faith. And as I said today, he's my boss. The gathered church is where heaven comes to earth, I said last week. And that gathering, I'm saying right now, is what makes a church a church, and it is essential to you Your growth and it is essential to our witness. No doubt providential hindrances are sometimes real. If the flu keeps you home from work and church, stay home. Don't feel guilty about it. If a pandemic makes it impossible for you to gather it with the church, it makes it impossible. Likewise, we trust the Lord makes provision for the stranded and the soldier and the shut-in and the high-risk senior saint. Still, I want to leave a little pebble in your shoe if you are not able to gather If you can't attend, I want you to be a little frustrated with the fact that you cannot attend. As you get too comfortable Because if you're not frustrated, something's wrong. Watching a church online might make for an occasional supplement, but it certainly should not be a substitute Regularly assembling makes us a church. Virtual church is an oxymoron. It is like saying unrelated family Ungathered gathering just doesn't work. Christianity shows the world a picture of Christianity through not just words, but words and lives. The virtual church risks making us self-centered. Jesus wanted us to be other-centered, M-centered. And so he told us to gather together regularly, every week. Spiritual things happen when fresh Christians physically gather. You look around and you think, I'm not alone in this faith. Maybe we should do something together. Maybe we can change things Let's pray. Father, we confess we can take the gathering to lightly every one of us in here can stand. I trust and say that. We take it too lightly. We grumble in our hearts. We too quickly find excuses not to be there. We confess this as sin. And we know that you forgive us. And so we pray, Lord, that as we can, as we are able, you would help us to gather and encourage and stir one another up to love and good deeds. We pray this all in Christ's name, for whom who died for us. Amen.