This is the scripture passage for today's sermon, Psalm 6, to the choir master with stringed instruments, according to the Shemin Sheminith, a Psalm of David O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled. My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord, how long? Turn, O Lord, deliver my life. Save me for the sake of your steadfast love. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who will give you praise? I am weary with my moaning. Every night I flood my bed with tears. I drench my couch with my weeping. My eye wastes away because of grief. It grows weak because of all of my foes. Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. The Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer. All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. This is God's word. Successful with our career, something will inevitably ruin it. That's from Tim Keller's book, Walking with God Through Pain and Suffering. And the point that Keller is making is that no matter how hard we try to fortify the walls of our lives. Suffering and sorrow always find a way in. At times suffering and sorrow are more like a Battering ram that bring down our walls by brute force as some people experience trial after trial after trial. It's like he's like it feels like the walls of your life are being torn down by a battering ram At other times, they appear out of nowhere as though someone just opened the city gates of our lives while we were sleeping, and we awake one morning to find suffering and sorrow present. Where did it come from? In this world, sorrow and at times deep, soul-wrenching sorrow is unavoidable. Perhaps you're experiencing that type of sorrow this morning. Maybe you've recently lost a loved one. or you've received a heartbreaking diagnosis of some sort, or your marriage or family relationships are are breaking down. Or maybe it just seems like the clouds of sorrow have rolled in on the shores of your life and they've just settled there for really no apparent reason. Deep sorrow is a reality of the fallen world that we live in, and it's a reality that Psalm 6 really deals with in living color. So if you haven't opened in your Bibles to Psalm 6 already, I want to encourage you to do that. We're going to be looking very carefully and often at the passage if you're using the Bible that we provided. You'll find it on pages 448 and 449. And we want to encourage you also, if you don't own a Bible, uh that we would want to offer the gift, the Bible that we have provided there as a gift from us to you. You can take that. But we also see that while Psalm 6 teaches us about the reality of deep sorrow, it also points us to the glorious reality. A reality that infuses deep sorrow with hope and steadfast confidence. And it's the reality that we can survive deep sorrow. Deep sorrow is not a reality that will ultimately last forever. Suffering, sorrow, and sadness have an expiration date. And Psalm 6 holds out to us the cure for deep sorrow, the cure that will help us to survive deep sorrow. And it's a cure that does more than temporarily heal an aching soul. So what I want us to do this morning is to look at deep sorrow as though we are doctors, spiritual doctors of a sort. I want us to recognize first the symptoms. Of deep sorrow, the symptoms of deep sorrow. Then I want us to assess its causes as they're laid out in Psalm 6. And then finally, I want us to look at the cure for deep sorrow, which we also see in Psalm 6. But I do want to point out that as I use the illustration of the image of a doctor I do not intend for us whatsoever to engage with this psalm in a clinical or detached manner. Not at all. I want us to attempt as best we're able to enter into David's deep sorrow because the reality is, if you haven't experienced this type of sorrow in your life. If you live long enough, you eventually will. And so for the kids who are here, just kind of want to emphasize that point for you. Childhood is often a time of kind of lightheartedness, and it as it should be. You're growing, you're learning, you're having fun. But kids, I want to prepare you for the reality, the biblical reality that God says that we will likely all suffer at some point. And so you want to know what happens to your faith when that comes. What will you do in that day when that sorrow and suffering comes? Well, I want you to also see what Psalm 6 has to teach you this morning. So first, here's what I wanted us to do. I want us to look at the symptoms. the symptoms of deep sorrow. Go ahead and look down with me at Psalm 6 verse 1. David begins his psalm by pleading for God not to rebuke him in anger, nor discipline him in wrath. This psalm opens up and it's clear that something hard, some trial is happening in David's life that seems to David to be a manifestation of God's rebuke or God's discipline and he's pleading with God that it would not be a result of or a manifestation of God's wrath or anger towards him. At this point we don't know what it is that's happening But what we do know is that it's causing David to experience deep sorrow. Look at verse 2. He pleads for God to be gracious to him because he is languishing. It's a great word to describe what he feels. He feels weak, withered. Feeble and frail. He can barely go on. He's kind of like a spider web that's barely hanging on to the edge of the house that's being blown by the wind. It's just hanging on by a thread. Then we see in verses 2 and 3 that this is affecting his entire being. He says there, my bones are troubled. My soul also is greatly troubled. The word for troubled there is really much stronger than it sounds. The Hebrew word that's used in this sense can mean to be horrified or terrified, struck down, and even dismayed. So let's let's just rephrase what David is saying. A horrible terror Has stricken his bones and his soul. It's kind of anxious, languishing has penetrated to the very marrow of his bones and the deepest recesses of his soul. And it's either been happening for a long time, or it feels like it's been happening for a long time. Look at the second half of verse 3. Look at what he says. But you, O Lord, how long? I really think this line captures best what David is experiencing. David is so deeply sorrowful that he can't even finish his prayers. It's like he starts to recall. something about God and his character. But you, oh God, it's like he's about to to remind himself of something about who God is that might encourage him. But I can't even get the words out How long? How long? Then we can he continues even even after that. We see the the heartbreaking nature of his sorrow. Look at the next verses. He weeps constantly. Look at verse 6. I am weary with my moaning. I drench my couch with weeping. I flood my bed with tears. Verse seven, my eye wastes away with grief. It's as though the dam within his soul has broken and a flood of tears has overwhelmed David. Can you relate to David in his deep sorrow? Can you relate to this description? Have you ever experienced these symptoms before? The the anxious languish the languishing The feeling like the sorrow has worked its way down into the belly of your bones and soul, the flood of tears that overwhelms, the questioning, how long, oh God? This is a very real experience, isn't it? Whether you have experienced it immediately in your life, I'm confident that you have watched others experience it. In his book, A Grief Observed, which he wrote after his wife's tragic death, C. S. Lewis described the experience of deep sorrow this way. He said, no one ever told me that grief felt so much like fear. I am not afraid, but the sensation is like being afraid. The same fluttering in the stomach, the same restlessness, the yawning, I keep on swallowing. At other times it feels like being mildly drunk or concussed. There is a sort of invisible blanket between the world and me. I find it hard to take in what anyone says, or perhaps hard to want to take it in. I dread the moments when the house is empty. For in grief, nothing stays put. One keeps on emerging from a phase But it always recurs. Round and round. Everything repeats. Am I going in circles? Or dare I hope I am on a spiral, but if if a spiral am I going up or down? How often? Will it be for always? How often will the vast emptiness astonish me like a complete novelty and make me say, I never realize my loss till this moment? It's like the same lug leg is cut off time after time. I thought I could describe sorrow, make a map of it. Sorrow, however, turns out not to be a state, but a process That's a magnificent description of the symptoms of deep sorrow. Symptoms that we see here in Psalm 6. Lewis helpfully notes that sorrow is a process. It is a process. So if you find yourself in a state of deep sorrow this morning, remember that it is a process. It may feel like it will last forever, but it will not. And not only is deep sorrow a process, but deep sorrow has a purpose. You see, in times of deep distress, suffering, and sorrow, Christianity really rises like a mountain of hope and light. Amidst the other religions and belief systems of the world. Consider what some of them have to offer to those who are experiencing deep sorrow. Buddhism holds that deep suffering and sorrow is an illusion. The experience of sorrow or suffering is the result of desires within yourself that need to be relinquished. But just think about that. Consider someone whose child is ill and possibly on the verge of death. Those people would need to relinquish the desire for their child to be well because it's that desire that is causing them. To feel suffering. Does this accord with reality? Hinduism and its pantheon of gods would say that possibly sacrifices need to be offered to an innumerable number of gods to possibly appease them. But when the sacrifices are offered, these gods there are so many they can't possibly all be known. And one cannot be sure that the sacrifice is ever received and will appease that God Who will then quiet the suffering? Or in our country, just think of secularism. We are, on secularism, biological machines. And our sorrow is nothing more than a meaningless chemical reaction taking place inside of our body, which exists within a meaningless universe, and we are all at the mercy of blind fate. It's no wonder when you adopt that worldview that life becomes bleak and sorrow seems purposeless and there is no point for going on. But within Christianity, sorrow is central to our understanding of the world. And far from being meaningless or an illusion, sorrow is real and it is filled with purpose. For those who don't follow Jesus Sorrow reveals to us that all is not well with the world. And it leads us to the reality that our sins have separated us from God. And as a result, we dwell in a fallen world in which we will experience sorrow. For those of us who follow Jesus, Saul reminds us of the same thing. All is not well in the world. It reminds us of the reality that our sins have separated us from God and we dwell in a world filled with sorrow. Yet for the Christian, sorrow and suffering also has a preparatory purpose. It prepares us for the glory that is coming. And consider what Paul said in 2 Corinthians. Though outwardly we are wasting away Experiencing deep sorrow, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day, for our light and momentary afflictions are preparing for us. and eternal glory beyond comparison. The suffering and sorrow of this life as mysterious as it may sound, are renewing us and preparing us for life in God's purpose Right now, I want you to think about this. Because we cannot completely grasp the ways and reasons that God might have for allowing us to experience sorrow. does not then mean that God cannot use sorrow and suffering in our lives. Think about what it means to grasp all the manifold ways that God works in the world. One theologian said, if you want a God who is small enough to understand, then you also want a God who is not big enough to worship. Now friends, God is big enough to worship and he works in ways that are at times puzzling and even painful in our lives. But he's using that pain for a preparatory purpose, and that purpose is to prepare us for life in his presence and to make us more like his son, Jesus. You see, the suffering and sorrow of this life are working in our lives now to bring us to our knees in our own strength. so that we might cast ourselves in weakness on God's strength. Johnny Erickson Tata, a woman who became a paraplegic as a Teenager after a terrible diving accident and who has known deep suffering and sorrow said this: The weaker I am, the harder I must lean on God's grace. The harder I lean on him, the stronger I discover him to be, and the bolder my testimony to his grace becomes. Our friends, God has purposed our sorrows to bring us closer to Him and to reveal to us His sustaining and inexhaustible power. And because Christians recognize that God has ordained that sorrow exists and has redemptive purposes for it. We as a church should be prepared to respond to and enter into the lives of those who are mourning and suffering through sorrow. God has called us as a community to mourn with those who mourn and to weep with those who weep, to use our past experiences of Receiving God's comfort during our suffering and sorrow to then administer comfort and peace and love to those who are in the presence of sorrow and suffering. Recall that we follow a Savior who was acquainted with grief. And so we should be a place where deeply sorrowful people can come and be administered to by others who have experienced sorrow in this life. The way the church should respond to sorrow and suffering in the lives of its members, I think of it a bit like the body, and it's an image that's used in the New Testament. When the body is injured, say a cut happens, well what happens to the body? The body starts dispatching resources to the cut. It it it sends its resources to that area to begin working around that area to heal it and to comfort it and to bring complete healing. A scab and then a scar and then the scar fades away. The body sends resources there. In the same way, when the members of our church or when people come into our church who are suffering in sorrow We should respond in that way at the cellular level. Our people should deploy and move towards those who are experiencing sorrow and come alongside them to help them in their suffering and in their need. I think one of the most important things that we can do is just think about very practical and basic ways that we can love those who are experiencing sorrow. Any one helpful way for those who you know are experiencing sorrow is probably don't ask them how they're doing. Right? We know how they're doing, if they've shared it with us. Just talk to them. Let them know that you are praying for them and that you love them and that you want to help them. A second basic way that you can help those who are experiencing sorrow is don't ask them or tell them, hey, if you need me to do anything for you, I would love to do it. Because in all all likelihood, they're not going to reach out to you to tell you that they need help. It's kind of like basic one of those things about our human nature. We don't really like to reach out and ask for help. Find ways that you know that they need to be served and do those things. Right? And then a third basic way is don't forget those who are experiencing sorrow and suffering. When you pray with them once or talk to them once, follow up with them. Some of our experiences of sorrow and suffering in this life go on for years. And so we should be a community of people who recognize that and who continue to follow up with those who are experiencing sorrow, to love them and to pray with them. It's when we encounter the symptoms of deep sorrow that we're given the opportunity to enter in and walk alongside those who are suffering. And we do that to help uphold them by God's strength when they're weak and to point them to the cure for deep sorrow. And what is that cure? Well, we don't want to get ahead of ourselves. Like before we look at the cure for deep sorrow, we also want to take a look at the causes of deep sorrow. So we want to look at Psalm 6 and see the causes of deep sorrow. But I think it's here that we also have to deal honestly that when it comes to the causes of deep sorrow, we need to recognize that Psalm 6 does not present us with a comprehensive list. Of causes. But it does provide us with one cause that, when understood on this side of the cross, has far-ranging implications. I want you to look down with me at verse 7. It's there that David is concluding his description of how he weeps constantly. Notice the cause of his deep sorrow that he lists there. He says, My eye wastes away because of grief. It grows weak because of all my foes. Then again in verse 8, if you look there, he tells his enemies to depart from him, calling them workers of evil. Then again in verse 10, you can look down there, he brings attention to all of his enemies. The deep sorrow that David is experiencing is a result of the attacks of his enemies. But who are these enemies? The passage doesn't really give us much of an indication of their identity I think if we went back and we looked at the accounts of David's life in 1st and 2nd Samuel and then 1 Kings, we realize that David had numerous enemies throughout the course of his life. He was attacked by Saul and Saul's forces. He was opposed and attacked by the Philistines and the surrounding nations, and then later in his life his own son Absalom revolted against him and gathered a group of men to hunt and attack David. Psalm six really could have been written during any of these periods. But while we may not know exactly who these enemies were, we do know that the presence of enemies attacking David resulted in deep sorrow, anguish, grief, and weeping. This type of deep sorrow is a natural response to experiencing opposition and attacks and persecution. There are we just need to recognize God's grace and kindness to the church in America that for the last couple hundred years we have not experienced open persecution on the whole. Right? Just kind of outright attacks on the church. But we need to recognize that in Africa, in Nigeria, in China, in numerous places around the world, Christians are being attacked. And openly opposed and persecuted. One missionary couple that I know was driven out of their country, had to flee to another country because someone threw a grenade into the home that they were living in. So we do need to recognize when we come to Psalm 6 that these type of attacks are happening today to the church. And so we need to be praying for them. But there are also ways in which persecution happens in our own country. And I trust that some of you have experienced this in obvious ways. Right? While you may not have enemies hunting you down, we need to remember that Peter includes simply being insulted for following Christ as a form of persecution. And perhaps your peers treat you like an outcast. Or your neighbors may view you as hateful or bigoted Perhaps you have a spouse who doesn't follow the Lord, who's hostile to your faith. Maybe your parents or your siblings have distanced themselves from you, or you have classmates who laugh at you. These are all ways in which we, like David, may experience deep sorrow as a result of being opposed or attacked. But I also realize that some of you may be thinking, John, I I have actually never had enemies like this I honestly can say that I haven't known opposition from my faith and nothing like this type of deep sorrow that David feels as a result of being attacked. Does this mean that Psalm 6 doesn't really have any Any application for me? Any is it does it not intersect with my life in any way? I think I I would want to say to you no. On this side of the cross, it doesn't mean that at all. Because while you may not be suffering attacks from physical enemies, the New Testament makes it crystal clear That all of God's people have one great spiritual enemy who is always, always actively seeking to oppose them. Kids, can any of you tell me who the great spiritual enemy of the church is. Just raise your hand if you know the answer. Any of the kids, let's go. Eliana in the back? Satan, that's exactly right. Satan is actively opposed at all times against God's people and against his church. He is the great enemy of the church. And if he is the enemy of the church, And you are a follower of Christ, and he is your enemy. And Paul is very clear on this, isn't he? Our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, and against the powers of this dark world, the church and all its members are actively opposed at all times by Satan and his forces. We live in a secular world that has completely cut off the realm of the soul and the reality of the spiritual world uh from life. The way Francis Schaeffer described it is we used to live, humanity lived in a two-story home. And the bottom level was kind of the world, the physical world that we lived in, but there was a second story to that home, the spiritual realm. And you could walk up and down on that staircase and mankind has always recognize that, but the secular man has cut off the second floor. He just kind of decapitated the top of the house. And now it's just us in this world. But the reality is that's not true And we need to realize that as Christians, secularism uh has had a terrible effect on Christianity in the West in one way is that it has impaired Our recognition of the active opposition that we face in the spiritual realm and the way that it manifests itself in the physical realm. And there's a popular quote. This is not from the Bible. Not quoting the Bible right now, but it's a helpful quote in this regard. The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world that he didn't exist. And the secular world has fallen for that trick. But there are ways in which Christians, especially Christians from a reformed background, can also functionally act like Satan doesn't exist. I wonder if you never think about, mention, or pray for protection from Satan, perhaps you've fallen for this trick. Right? I I in no way, and I want to be very clear, and I'm I think I'm going to repeat this multiple times in the next few minutes, so bear with me. I in no way Intend for us to get carried away on super unhelpful speculations about whether what is happening in your life right now is a result of demonic activity. Many Christians have made that mistake. But But if you never speak about, consider, or pray against Satan's schemes, my fear is that you have made the opposite, but no less dangerous mistake of ignoring his existence. While the New Testament does not provide us a complete understanding of how Satan works in the world and how he is our enemy and carries out attacks against us, it does tell us some things. Right? He personally opposed Jesus, tempting him to reject God's will. He is the great tempter who tempts God's people to turn against God's will. Now we also have indwelling sin and the flesh. That is absolutely true. These things work together, but it doesn't mean that Satan doesn't exist and doesn't tempt us in our flesh to reject God's will or to turn against him. Peter. It tells us that Satan is like a roaring lion who is prowling around. What do prowling lions do? What are they doing? They're hunting. They're looking. They are looking for prey to attack. Paul tells us in Ephesians that he's the prince of the kingdom of darkness. And according to Jude, numerous angels fell with Satan. In Revelation, he's pictured like a dragon who is seeking to consume the church and a war against Christ. And his active attacks on God's people occur in a variety of ways. Recall the book of Job when Satan was given Freedom by God to carry out attacks on Job. You ever recognize the different ways that Satan attacked him? He stirred up the Sabaeans and the Chaldeans, a group of people to raid Job's land, kill his servants, and steal his property. So Job knew the deep sorrow of having enemies just like David. But then Satan also attacked Job by destroying his home. A catastrophe that included the loss of all of Job's children And then after doing that, Satan attacked Job by striking his health. So he he attacked him via his health and his body. striking him with sores all over his body. So so Job lost his property, his home, his children, and his health, and all of those things were a result of being attacked. And in the same way, the church has an enemy in Satan who is able to carry out against us a variety of attacks. He doesn't just attack God's people through stirring up people who oppose him in in in persecution, though he does do that. He looks at every opportunity, every angle. He attacks property, family, health, he attacks through false teaching to lead away God's people, and he attacks consciences by accusing of guilt. John Calvin, reflecting on Satan, wrote, Satan, who is a wonderful contriver of delusions, is constantly laying snares to entrap ignorant and heedless Now again, I just want to say again, my goal is not to make you think that everything that bad that bad that happens to you is a satanic attack. My goal, though, is to remind you that you have an enemy who is opposed to you. Who wants to see you overtaken and destroyed? An enemy who wants you to experience such deep sorrow that you might do what he hoped Job would do, which is curse God and walk away from him. You have an enemy. And so when you open up Psalm 6, because you do not see physical enemies attacking you like David, that does not mean that you don't have an enemy. And Psalm 6 doesn't mean anything for you. You have an enemy. And you have an enemy that you need to be delivered from. The church needs to be delivered from. And if you're suffering in a season of deep sorrow right now I want to encourage you to also pray for God to deliver you from the evil one. Prayers for deliverance from Satan should be central to your prayer life. Why do I say that? Do you recall that when Jesus set out to teach his people how to pray in the Lord's Prayer, what was the final prayer request he included in that prayer? Deliver us from the evil one. Disciples, when you pray, praise God. Hallowed be your name Ask God, let your will be done on earth just as it is in heaven. Ask God to provide you your daily bread. Ask God to forgive you for your sins. Ask God to lead you not into temptation and ask God to deliver you from the enemy who desires to attack you and overtake you. So again, just want to repeat myself. I in no way intend for you to look at your life and try to seek out and search out all the ways that Satan might be attacking you. I will be like, I just may be plainly honest with you I have no idea if what is bad is happening in your life is a satanic attack, and I don't think the Bible tells us. But you should be praying against Satan's schemes. He is your enemy and he is opposed to you. But we also need to remember that God is sovereign over Satan, so we need not fear his attacks. God has Satan on a leash. And insofar as God has allowed Satan to attack you in any way, you should remember that God has allowed it. And why would he allow that? Because God desires for his people to become more like Jesus. And if he's going to make you more like Jesus, then he is going to sovereignly allow and ordain suffering as a means for refining your faith. For allowing you the grace of sharing in Christ's sufferings and knowing the opposition of the evil one and gently, lovingly disciplining you as a father who loves his child disciplines his children. And even as we consider that we have an enemy who actively opposes us, we need to remember that God is greater than Satan. Remember what Jesus said: greater is he who is in you. Than he who is in the world. And God has a cure for those who need to be delivered not only from Satan, but also from deep sorrow. So we've seen the symptoms of deep sorrow. The anguish, the languishing, the weeping. We've seen the cause of deep sorrow, active opposition from enemies. Now let's look at the cure. for deep sorrow. I want you to look back with me at Psalm 6. We're going to look at verse 2. Notice David's request. Be gracious to me, O Lord. Then in the second line of verse 2 Heal me, O Lord. David pleads with God for his grace, his unmerited favor to restore his body and his soul. Now look at me at verse 4. Turn, O Lord, deliver my life. Save me for the sake of your steadfast love. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who will give you praise? In the Old Testament, Sheol was the place where souls went to dwell after dying. And David's basically saying, what good is it if I'm dead? I can no longer tell others about you, which is why in verse 4 he asked God to turn, deliver, and save him. David recognizes that the cure for deep sorrow is found in his deliverance The cure for deep sorrow is God delivering him from his deep sorrow, a deliverance that will be a display of God's grace to him. A deliverance that will include the healing of his body and his soul, and a deliverance that includes final and full protection from his enemies. And one of the most surprising things about Psalm 6 is the way that it ends. I don't know if you notice that when Heather was reading the passage to us, the deep sorrow of verses 1 to 7 is Suddenly replaced with a confident declaration that the Lord had delivered him in verses 8 to 10. Look down there with me in verses 8 to 10. Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping, the Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer. All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. You remember from the beginning of the psalm how David said his bones and his soul were troubled. how he had this this desperate anguish languishing deep inside of his bones and soul. Look at verse 10. We see that there's a reversal of fortunes. The enemies who cause David to be troubled are themselves troubled when the Lord comes to deliver David We've got to recognize that this is remarkable because it's such a drastic and immediate turn of events, right? When all hope seemed to be lost. When deep sorrow had so settled into David's soul that he was weeping constantly, all of a sudden the sorrow is replaced with grace, healing, deliverance, and salvation. This is a remarkable turn of events. Just like with the identity of David's enemies, it really is not clear when or how this deliverance happened. We know from those accounts in the Old Testament of David's life that God acted on numerous occasions to deliver David and uh from his enemies throughout his life. So this really could have been referring to any of those events But, but, if we look carefully at the Psalm, it seems as though the deliverance from deep sorrow David was seeking was not fully realized in his lifetime. David wasn't fully delivered from his enemies David experienced at best temporary deliverance from his enemies, but his enemies remained until the end of his life and his death. And then even in his death, we see that David's plea for deliverance wasn't fully realized. Look again at verse 5. David is seeking a deliverance from deep sorrow that will rescue him from the grave. But King David died and is still dead to this day. His life wasn't delivered. So does that mean as we come to Psalm 6, gosh, God actually can't deliver us from deep sorrow or our enemies? Is that the conclusion that we should reach? Well, no, that's definitely not the conclusion that we should reach. Because this psalm isn't ultimately about David. Recall that God had promised to David not that he would be delivered from all his enemies and sit on an eternal throne. But that one of his descendants would be the one who would come and experience the deliverance promised in Psalm 6. Remember that David is God's chosen and anointed king, the one who would rescue enemy rescue Israel from her enemies. And as he rose to the throne in Israel, David experienced Numerous attacks from people seeking to take his life. And as God's chosen, anointed, and attacked King and Deliverer, David foreshadows for us the true chosen. anointed and attacked king and deliverer of God's people who is Jesus Christ. Psalm 6 Is ultimately a psalm about Jesus. Jesus is the one who truly knew deep sorrow Had no sin of his own to speak of, and yet numerous people attacked him. He's the one who Isaiah said was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He is the one who pleaded with God for grace as he languished from the attacks of his enemies, the one who knew trouble deep within his bones. and soul. You recall even his words from the Gospel of John while he was in the Garden of Gethsemane that echo Psalm 6. What did he say while he was in the garden? Now is my soul troubled father deliver me from this hour and he said that as he sweat and groaned so profusely that his sweat fell like drops of blood. And why was his soul troubled? Because the plots of his enemies to take his life were about to come to pass. He was hunted by enemies who sought to take his life. Yet he was not delivered from his enemies, but delivered over to his enemies. It was his enemies who appeared to win against him as they condemned him to death on a cross. Yet even as they appeared to defeat Jesus, in Jesus, God was defeating all of his enemies. Physical and spiritual. On the cross, Jesus bore the wrath and anger of God for the sins of those who would trust in him. Look at verse 1 again. Look at verse 1 Oh Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Friend, you and I cannot read that with a straight face and think that applies to us because our sins Deserve the wrath and anger and judgment of God. We should not be able to say to God, Rebuke me not in your anger. We should say, God, we deserve your anger because we have sinned against you. He is the one who never sinned. He did not deserve your anger or your wrath, yet on the cross he bore the wrath and anger of God, so that you and I, having been reconciled to God through Christ might know the loving discipline of God and can now take up Psalm 6 and read it confidently and say, Lord, do not rebuke us in anger or discipline us in wrath, because you have poured out your wrath for our sins on your son, and you have reconciled to us to yourself. Through the cross, you have defeated the hostility, you have crushed our enemies, and you have made us one with you in Christ. We can read Psalm 6, verse 1, because of Jesus. Jesus took the anger and the punishment from God that we deserved. And though he died on the cross And all hope seemed to be lost, there was a sudden and surprising turn of events Three days after he died, God delivered Jesus from death by resurrecting him from the grave. The Lord heard the sound of Jesus' weeping. The Lord heard the sound of Jesus' pleas. And the Lord accepted Jesus' prayers. And when he rose from the dead, Jesus brought with him hope. for the hurting, joy for the downtrodden, and deliverance for those suffering through deep sorrow. And he did that first By forgiving us for our sins. The deep sorrow that we experience in this life are the direct result of mankind's sins against God. Our sins have separated us from God, and we now dwell in the kingdom of darkness. But when we repent of our sins and put our trust in Jesus, God delivers us from the kingdom of darkness. and brings us into the kingdom of his beloved son, fills us with his spirit, and gives us the hope of eternal life. A hope that cannot be quenched by the sorrows of this life, no matter how great they might be. But even though God has delivered us from the sorrow of our sins, He has ordained that while we remain in this world, we will continue to face attacks from other people. We will continue to face attacks from Satan, and we will at times experience deep sorrow. But we need to recognize that when we're experiencing deep sorrow or suffering of some kind, that we are never experiencing it as a result of God's wrath and anger. Jesus has fully taken those for us so that when we experience sorrow or suffering, we can know for certain that it's not a sign of God's judgment against us. Instead, we can be confident that the Lord is disciplining us. And the Lord does that because he loves us, for the Lord disciplines those he loves. His discipline is the means by which he shapes us more and more into the image of his son. And his discipline will at times feel like a furnace, like fires that threaten to consume us, but we can know that they won't because God is with us in the flames and in the furnace. He upholds us, he sustains us, and he strengthens us when we're weak. So if you're in a season of deep sorrow today, rest in the confidence that God is able to sustain you. even at your weakest. He will not break a bruised reed. He will not quench a smoldering wick. He will protect the embers of your faith from going out, because your faith is a gift of his in the first place. And though it may seem like sorrow has the final word in this life, a day is coming when there will be a surprising turn of events. In a moment, our sorrow will be turned to joy, and that joy will be everlasting. I began with a Keller quote. I'll close with a Keller quote. He says, while other worldviews lead us to sit in the midst of life's joys for seeing the coming sorrows of death. Christianity empowers its people to sit in the midst of this world's sorrows and taste the coming joy. And that joy will far surpass the sorrow of this life because when Jesus appears, He will finally and fully deliver us from our enemies. He will deliver us from Satan. He will deliver us from death. And he will deliver us from deep sorrow. Behold, the dwelling place of God will be with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore. For the former things have passed away. Friend, that day is coming, and when it comes, it will come suddenly and it will be glorious. And you will say, my Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. My Lord has heard my pleas. My Lord has answered my prayers. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are weak. The sorrow of this life is so great at times, it is hard to handle. We entrust ourselves to you. We cast ourselves on your mercy and on your strength Oh Lord, strengthen those who are weak even in this moment. Uphold those who are failing. Be like one who comes on wings with eagles, who lifts us up and carries us in your strength. Oh Lord, write your words, the words of Psalm 6 upon our heart, and comfort us by your spirit, we pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.