Well, good afternoon, friends. It is a pleasure to be with you, to have this opportunity to open up God's Word. I'm going to pray again briefly for our time, looking at Colossians 3, and we'll dive in. Let's pray. Heavenly Father David wrote in Psalm 119 that your testimonies are wonderful. The unfolding of your word gives light It imparts understanding to the simple. We are here to testify, to agree together that your testimonies truly are wonderful. They are the path to eternal life. The unfolding of your word gives light. Lord, grant the Spirit to unfold your word before us today, that light might come into the darkness yet again That our eyes might behold the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ, and beholding his glory, renew us more and more into his very image, that we might bring glory to you in our life. lives. That's our genuine desire today. We can't make it happen by our own strength, but you can. We ask that you would. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Do clothes make the person? Some would argue that what we wear is unimportant and interest in discussing fashion is shallow. But we would argue that trivializing fashion struggles is not only uninformed, but it's also naive, because what we wear can make or break our confidence, which makes it worthy of discussion. Clothes can be a shield we use to get through challenging times, but more importantly, clothing tells the world who we are. Whether we like it or not, we're judged by our appearance and the clothes we wear matter. Clothing carries symbolic meaning When a woman puts on a black dress to go to a funeral or running pants to go to the gym, her brain is primed to behave in ways consistent with that meaning. We act in a manner consistent with our dress When we put on a stained t-shirt and an ill-fitting pair of jeans, our brain won't think it needs to try that hard either That's from the website, A Well-Styled Life, a website dedicated to giving fashion advice to its followers. Now you may be wondering what clothing advice has to do with the Bible. Well, it doesn't have much to do with the Bible, at least not directly anyway. I bring it up though because of how widely agreed upon what they're saying is Clothing tells the world something about us. Doctors wear white coats, nurses wear scrubs. Businessmen wear suits and so on. And what we're going to see in our passage is that Paul gives the Colossians spiritual clothing advice. He's going to tell them, hey, the way you talk tells the world who you belong to and who you are. And you need to take off your old way of talking and put on the new way of talking because you have been made new in Christ. I want you to go ahead and look at Colossians chapter 3, verses 5 to 11. I'm going to read it for us now. This is God's word. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you. sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these, the wrath of God is coming In these you two once walked, when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Here, there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian slave free, but Christ is all and in all Uh we're in week two of a three-week series on just these verses. Uh last week we looked at putting sexual sin to death in verses five and six. And next week we're going to look at putting off disunity and partiality in verse 11. And this week, we're looking at verses 7 to 10. And the main point, if you're taking notes, is that we should put off sinful speech because we've put on the new self in Christ. We're going to break that up into two points for you note takers. First, point one, put off sinful speech. Point two, because you've been made new in Christ. You've put on the new self in Christ. So first, let's take a look at putting off sinful speech. I want you to look with me at verse 7 and following. Paul says In these you two once walked, when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Then he goes on in verse nine. Do not lie to one another. Now, while anger, wrath, and malice are certainly descriptive of emotional states that aren't necessarily related to speech, Paul's concerned here with how we talk. With what comes out of our mouths. I want you to notice verse 7 again. Look at the list. He says in his list, he says to put away anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk. From your mouth. That from your mouth doesn't just modify obscene talk. Because slander also comes out of our out of our mouth. And anger, wrath, and malice. also can come out of our mouths, and lying comes out of our mouths. Paul's telling us that we must put away angry, wrathful, malicious, slanderous, obscene, and lying talk from our mouths. We must put off sinful speech. Sometimes when I sit down to prepare a sermon, I look at the passage and after reading it a few times, I wonder how on earth I'm ever going to fit in all that needs to be said to explain and help you all understand the passage without ending up preaching for an hour or more. This isn't one of those passages. Right? Well what what Paul says and what Paul means are obvious. There are no surprising definitions for these words. They mean what they appear to mean, and we need to put them off. We need to put all of these types of speech away, like a wardrobe that's gone permanently out of season We need to take angry, wrathful, malicious, slanderous, obscene, and lying speech. We need to put them into a storage box and put them up into our attic for good. Right? Angry, wrathful, and malicious speech is speech that aims to hurt the hearer Right? It generally swells from deep within, kind of rises through the fruit the throat. You can feel it coming out of your face, and it erupts in various forms. It can be hateful Spiteful, venomous, insulting, condescending, cruel, unkind, cutting, bitter, or just plain hurtful But the reality is, we need to be careful because angry, wrathful, and malicious speech doesn't necessarily have to burn hot and erupt. Right? Anger, wrath, and malice can also be cold as ice. Right? Cold anger, wrath, and malice appear in people who rather than explode in anger Turn a cold shoulder. Yet when they speak, their words have a calculated and chilling insensitivity to them, right? There's almost an intentionally heartless tone to their words. And one of the reasons we need to put angry, wrathful, and malicious speech away is because it destroys. Both hot anger and cold anger destroy. I want you to think of it like fire and ice Or even better yet, like lava and ice. Think about in your mind two different landscapes with me. They're completely different from one another. One where a volcano has just erupted. It's surrounded by a lush green forest, but the lava that is coming down the side of the mountain, what does it do? It carves right through the forest, leaving devastation in its wake. No life present because it just burns it all down. And then the second landscape, which is very different from this one, is one like Antarctica, right? A land encased in ice and snow because of the chilling temperatures. What do both of those landscapes have in common? They're both essentially devoid of life. The heat of the lava destroys everything in its path, and the coldness of the ice prevents anything from growing. Both are destructive to life in the same way. Hot anger and cold anger expressed in words destroy. They destroy relationships and even lives. One well-known early American theologian had a daughter who was really well known to have an anger problem, and he was approached by a young man who wanted to take his daughter's hand in marriage, to which he replied, You can't have her. The confused young man used every variation of the question, Can I marry your daughter? He could think of, only to find the same firm reply. You can't have her. Finally, the young man asked, Why can I not have your daughter? To which he replied, Because she is not worthy of you. But the man asked, She is a Christian, is she not? Yeah, yes, he replied But the grace of God can live with some people that no one else should ever live with. Her anger made it so that it was impossible to have a relationship with her. That's how destructive anger, wrath, and malice can be. This is the same thing that James teaches in James chapter 3, right? How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire! And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell. It is a restless evil. Full of deadly poison. That that image, a restless evil full of deadly poison. It is like you have a snake in your mouth that is coiled up and ready to come out. Restless. Wants to fling poison everywhere. That is the tongue. Unrestrained, unguided, unsanctified by the Holy Spirit The tongue can set on fire your entire course of life. How many of you would be willing to leave on a stovetop burner in your house while you head out of the home for the day to run errands? I trust none of you would because none of you wants to come back to a house that's burned down. But how many of you are as careful with your speech? Which can burn down your entire life. Friends, we need to take off angry, wrathful, and malicious speech. We need to put it away. If you speak maliciously about coworkers or people in your neighborhood, you need to put that off. Kids and teens, if you struggle in with yelling in anger at your siblings or your parents, or maybe perhaps speaking in cold, calculated, and cutting ways You need to put that off. If you're married or you're a parent, it is never okay. It is never okay. To yell in anger at your spouse or your kids. Neither is it okay to make cutting insults or snide remarks You need to put it off. And you need to put it off because it destroys A lady once came to Billy Sunday, an evangelist in the early 20th century, and attempted to rationalize her angry outburst. She said, There's nothing wrong with losing my temper. I blow up, and then it's all over. To which Sunday replied, So does a shotgun, and look at the damage it leaves behind. Charles Spurgeon once said, Do not say, I cannot help having a bad temper. Friend, you must help it Pray to God to help you overcome it at once. For either you must kill it, or it will kill you. You cannot carry a bad temper into heaven. Friend, you cannot carry angry, wrathful, and malicious speech into the presence of God. You need to put it off. And we also need to put off slander. We keep going on the list. He says anger, wrath, malice, and slander. The slander here is a type of gossip. Right? We're not talking about the American legal definition of slander here. It's just smearing people's reputations, is what Paul has in mind. Almost always done behind someone's back, and we need to put it off. And we need to put off defaming others, insulting others, speaking poorly about them, or badmouthing them behind their backs, which is almost always done out of a heart that just wants to make itself feel better. But think about the idolatry of that. I so want to feel better about myself, to worship my self-esteem, that I'm going to cut down this other person in order to achieve that. So that I might feel built up, right? We need to put off that type of speech. But I also want to take it a step further. I want to encourage us to not only put slander off, but to positively be the type of people who don't listen to slander without speaking up. Jared Wilson is an author and professor at Midwestern Baptist Seminary, and he offered a great example of this from his own life recently on Twitter. He said this. He said, I was in a van once with another speaker at a mutual engagement when he began badmouthing another well-known Christian leader. He was saying these things to me in such a way that I could tell he assumed I would be in total agreement with him And when he finally paused, I said, Well, I think he's great. There was a great silence after that I think about this moment a lot. I could have said nothing and kept the peace. I could have murmured a fake agreement for the same reason. I decided to take the risk and disagree. Mainly because I genuinely felt moved to offer a contrary opinion, but also because I imagine I might be badmouthed somewhere, and I'd love to think somebody present there would stick up from me. Talk well about people behind their backs. What a great application of the golden rule applied to speech and applied to slander when you're hearing slander coming at you from other people. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. To you. If you would like others to stand up for you if people are speaking poorly, wrongly about you behind your back, then do that for them. If people speak poorly about them to you. Say hey. Because it's kind of awkward, right? You're like what does that sound like? Say hey. That's not been my experience with that person I'm actually kind of surprised to hear that. I I don't know that to be true in my interactions with them. Or it sounds like you might be frustrated with that person. Have you talked with them about this issue that you're speaking about, speaking to me about? It's far better to endure in awkward silence Than to silently stand by without speaking up, which is almost always universally assumed to be agreement. Right? We also need to put off obscene talk. Paul goes on, put off obscene talk from your mouths. It's also translated as filthy talk, crude language, or shameful words. The Greek word used here for obscene speech is used elsewhere in Greek literature in reference to the type of language that was commonly used in Greek comedies. This was vulgar language that included private body parts, sexual acts, sexual innuendo, or language that was just clearly meant to shock the listener Right? Now the Bible doesn't offer a specific list of words because those vulgar expressions will differ culture to culture. But I think we could very quickly and easily come up with a list of expressions that are obscene in our culture. And we need to put them off from our speech. If you're the type of person who likes to push the envelope with language, the with the language that you use because of the quote-unquote freedom you have in Christ, I just want to ask the question Why? Why? Christian speech isn't just judged merely on the basis of whether it's true or false, but also whether it is Good for building up, whether it gives grace to the person who hears. So for the teens and preteens, I want to get your get your attention real quick. I want you to think about this with me As you're growing up and you're feeling more of the freedom that comes with maturity, you're probably going to be tempted to push the bounds on your speech. Both what comes out of your mouth And what you type online, because that's a type of digital speech. If you find yourself saying certain things to shock others or to get laughs and attention, I just encourage you to reconsider. Like straight up. It may seem cool. It is not cool. There's really nothing cool about it. From a listener's perspective, I've never found myself thinking, you know. That obscenity really made their point. I wasn't quite tracking with their argument. Wasn't sure I was kind of persuaded to it, but when they dropped that bomb on me, well yes. It clearly makes sense now, and I entirely buy into it. And I get what you're saying, and I agree with you, right? That curse word really sealed the deal for me. Right, if you enjoy vulgar speech, if you find yourself wanting to drop it into conversation to shock or to just prove that you can, I'd ask you to consider, is it necessary? And is it good? Does it build up? Does it encourage? Is this like Salt that I'm seasoning on my conversation, or if you've ever made it to the end of a bag of sour Skittles, you know that sour powder that is left over. And you're like, man, I'm just gonna get this, I'm gonna put it straight into my veins. It's just kind of like chug it, and you're just like, blah! Like worst decision ever, right? That is what the curse words are like. They're not like salt sprinkled on your your your your meal To make it taste better? It's like sour skittle powder. Boom! Why did you have to drop that in there? Put it off. Put it off Finally, Paul tells us to put off lying. Do not lie to one another. We should be a people who love the truth and speak the truth. To the young kids in here, you're like four, five, six, seven, to the youngins in here, I want to encourage you guys to tell the truth always. Tell the truth all the time. So when your parents ask you, when you come out of the bathroom, did you wash your hands? If you didn't wash your hands, Should tell them, I didn't wash my hands. Right? If you broke something down in the basement or in another room, and your parent comes up and they say, Did you break that? You don't say, oh, I don't, I have no idea. It just fell off the wall. Right? No, you tell them, I did. I broke it. I I did that. You want to tell the truth always. And kids, if you do lie, confess it Re just hey mom, dad, teacher, I lied to you. I shouldn't have. Totally wrong. God's called me to live in a in a different and better way. Failed, but God calls me to confess. He knows what's right, and I'm gonna confess. And I'm gonna walk in his ways. The confessed sin. Parents, I want to say a quick word to y'all too on lying and helping your kids, training them up to tell the truth How to create a culture in your house that celebrates truth-telling. It's one of the most important things you can do to help your kids not lie. Build a culture in your home that celebrates truth-telling. So when they mess up and they own it, yes, great job. That's a what it is more important to us that you tell the truth. Because it is more important that they tell the truth. When you lie, you have to start adding more lies in because you're creating an alternate reality. And we can't support that reality. We're not all wise, all knowing. We're gonna drop the ball at some point. Tell the truth, even when it hurts. Parents, celebrate when your kids tell the truth. Also, if you're the type of parent who struggles maybe a little bit with flipping out when things go wrong, just bah everything gets amped up. You're creating this mindset in your kids where they're going to be fearful to tell the truth because they don't want to see that happen. Right? And they think, well, if I can just lie, I won't have to see my parent explode. Right? So you can help your kids But just being calm. Oh, something broke. Your eternal soul is far more valuable to us than whatever that was. Be calm. Welcome them. Draw them out. Make it easy for them to tell the truth, right? This isn't something that kids should just do. It's something we should all do. So how can we better apply the ninth commandment? Thou shalt not bear false witness in our lives Why don't you listen to what the authors of the Heidelberg Catechism say? This is how they describe it. That I never give false testimony against anyone. That I never twist anyone's words, that I not gossip or slander, nor join in condemning anyone rashly without a hearing Rather, in court and everywhere else, I should avoid lying and deceit of every kind. These are the devices the devil uses, and they would call down on me God's intense wrath I should love the truth, speak it candidly, and openly acknowledge it, and I should do what I can to guard and advance my neighbor's good name. In first century Israel, clothing identified a person. It revealed a person's profession and where they fell on the socioeconomic spectrum And by adopting the language of putting off and putting on clothing in relation to our speech, Paul is implicitly telling us that we are identified by our speech. And nowhere is this more true. Than in the realm of truth-telling or lying. Speaking to Jews who were lying about him to kill him, Jesus says in John 8, verse 44: You are of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. When we lie, we are aligning ourselves with Satan. What do you think about Pharaoh? The Pharaohs, what did they have on their headdress? A serpent coming off the front. When you lie, it's like you're putting on Pharaoh's hat. I'm aligning myself with the serpent. I'm against Christ and against his people. But we don't want to be against Christ and against his people because we have been made new. If you have repented of your sins, if you put your trust in Jesus Christ, God has given you a new heart, a new mind, and in a sense, a new tongue, a new mouth to speak out of that new heart. We have been made new, which brings us to our second point. We put off sinful speech, not because we're trying to earn our way into heaven. But because God has already done everything necessary to qualify us to come into his presence. We've put on the new self in Christ. Look at verse 8 and following again. But now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge, after the image of its creator. We put off sinful speech because we have put on the new self. We put off sinful speech because the person that we were Who gave themselves to anger, wrath, malice, slander, obscene talk, and lying, has died with Christ. Remember that this passage is following verses 1 to 4. Since we have died together with Christ and been raised to new life, we're now to put to death, put off, put away the old self. Right? And for some of us this will take longer and require more effort than it will in other people's lives. But look at what Paul says in verse nine. He says, Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self. With its practices. Sinful speech is something we practiced in our old self. And because it was a practice, a habit It's going to take work to break for some of you, right? So if you find yourself commonly falling, stumbling, struggling in this area, know that there is grace abounding in the Lord Jesus Christ. for those who struggle with sinful speech. And yet there is a real call to holiness here for God's people. And commentators who have been who were working on these verses that I was looking at as I was preparing my sermons just talked about the rigor of Christian ethics. There is a true holiness. We need to put to death sexual sin. We need to put off sinful speech. These are not empty empty words There is grace, grace abounding for when we fall, and there is a real call to holiness that we must heed and seek after in our lives. Right? If anyone would see me, he must be holy as I am holy. But Christ said, right? Christ gives to us his holiness Praise God. His righteousness brings us into God's presence. No condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. But now, by the power of the Spirit, we put to death the deeds of the body because of the grace that He's shown us. Right? And here's the amazing reality of Colossians 3, verses 5 to 11. Because we have already died, and because we have already been raised to new life. We can actually put sinful speech to death before we had been raised to new life. We were under sin's dominion It kept us in chains. We had no power to break those chains ourselves, but the Spirit came into our hearts, freed us from sin. gave us life and with that life also gave to us the power to say no to sin and yes to righteousness Friends, as Christians, you can actually put off sinful speech by the power of the Spirit. That is good news for you. You're no longer under its power. It may be hard. You may have practiced it for a long time in your life, but with the Spirit's help and reliance on the Father, you can put it to death. That's good news. That is good news for us. Nobody goes for a long and arduous hike, gets sweaty, stinky, and dirty, comes home, showers, and then puts the same clothes back on. Right? You've been cleaned in the shower, and now it's time to put on fresh clothes. In the same way, you've been cleaned by Christ. The Spirit has given you a new heart and a new mouth, and so now we put on new speech. We don't put back on anger and wrath and malice and slander and obscene talk and lying. That's like putting the dirty clothes back on. Friend, those are dirty, they stink. You were on a long hike. Take them off. You just showered. You got fresh clothes in the drawer. The spirit is always providing fresh clothing to you. Fresh because it's clean and fresh because it's fresh. It looks good. It's good to be around, right? Put off sinful speech by the power of the Spirit. We're called to put off the dirty clothes and to put on the new clothes. And the thing that Paul says is going to help grow us in putting off sinful speech is Growing and knowing Christ more and more. Look at verses 9 to 10. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and put on the new self. which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Our new self is being renewed in knowledge or through knowledge, personal, relational knowledge. We are being formed, shaped, changed into the image of our Creator. Think about the book of Colossians 1. 15. Are you thinking about the book of Colossians? Chapter 1 verse 15. Who is the image of our Creator? Jesus He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth. Visible and invisible. It is into Jesus' image that we are being conformed, renewed in knowledge. The more we come to know Jesus through the Word. And through prayer and filled with his Spirit, the more we will come to be like Him. The more our speech will be patterned after His speech. And what do we learn about his speech? Just think about Genesis chapter 1, right? It was through his speech that God brought all things into creation. God's word brings life. And so our speech should bring life. That it gives grace to those who hear, right? Not that we speak things into existence. None of us have that power. Right? But our words should build up and not tear down. Kids, your words should be like building blocks, not wrecking balls. Right? Build others up with your words. Jesus' death on the cross was a result, in part, of all the sinful speech we see here. The Pharisees slandered him and lied about him. The crowd yelled in anger for his crucifixion, crucify him! The Roman soldiers obscenely mocked him. And yet Jesus took our verbal curses, our anger, our obscenities, slander, and lying, so that if we would turn from sinful speech And confess the truth about him, that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father, we could be forgiven and given a new heart, a new mind, and a new tongue. If you go back to Zechariah chapter 8, the reason we read those verses is because they are a prediction of when Yahweh comes in salvation for his people. He then did through the Lord Jesus Christ, Yahweh would form a community of believers who are marked by speaking the truth to their neighbor. Putting off falsehood. Not loving lies or obscenity or slander. So significant is our speech that it marks us out as God's people. It tells the world, like our clothing, who we are and who we belong to. Give yourself to knowing Jesus and watch God work in your heart, in your mind, and in your speech. Friends, if you have hurt somebody with your words in anger, maybe you started a fire before the service that you're going to need to put out after the service. If you have lied. If you've slandered others behind their backs, if you've put on sinful speech, repent. Turn. Go in humility. Ask for forgiveness. Own your words. Own their effect. Own what you said. And ask for forgiveness. Ask for forgiveness from the person you've hurt and from God. Put off the old clothes of sinful speech. If you've died and been raised with Christ, that wardrobe is permanently out of season. Doesn't look good on us anymore. Put on the new clothes of Christ and put on speech that builds up. Let's pray Heavenly Father, James had some hard words for us. Who contain the tongue? We can't. Not apart from the power of the Spirit, but we rejoice that you have given the Spirit to those who've turned and trusted in Christ And now by the power of the Spirit, we can put to death the restless evil of our tongue. Help us to do that. Lord, help us to be a people who are humble enough that when we misuse our tongue and we put on anger, wrath, malice, slander, obscene talk, and lying, that we would actually Earn that we would repent. What do you say in James? For those who are humble, you will exalt them at the right time. Help us to be a humble People who admit when we're wrong. Help us to also be a community that is active in speaking words that build up. We're not trying to be stand in a neutral space where we're just putting off the old. We want to put on the new. Help us to put on new speech. Gentle, kind, peace-loving, truthful, humble, all of it. Help us to be that. We want to be that. We pray that you would do this for your glory. In Jesus' name, Amen