Good morning friends. How's everyone doing today? Wonderful. It's a pleasure to see you all here. And I'm excited about diving into God's word with all of you. But before we do that, I'm going to open us in a brief word of prayer. So let's pray. Again now. Father, we ask humbly this morning that you would remember your word to your servants in which you have caused us to hope. Lord, your word is our comfort in affliction. It is your promises that give us life. Help us to believe in your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, if you have your Bibles with you, I want to encourage you to open with me to Mark chapter 8. We've been studying the Gospel of Mark for a few months now. And this morning we're going to be studying specifically Mark chapter 8 verses 11 to 21. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you can find our passage this morning on page 843. I'm going to grab one more music stand real quick. It will give me a little more room to work with, because Oh, on the stand A lesson in perspective. What you may not see, others may see Thank you for that, friends. That was very helpful. Again, we are or have been in a study through the Gospel of Mark And I want to point out to you before we begin a few things about the structure of Mark. If you've been here with us through this study in the Gospel of Mark, I want to just offer this as a question to you, pose this as a question to you. What is the purpose of Mark's gospel? Raise your hand if you think you know the answer. What is the purpose of Mark's gospel? This is for anyone. Adults, youth, kids, Adam. Yes, to tell people what God is like and what he actually came to do. I'm thinking of a specific phrase to prove something about Jesus, that Jesus is The Son of God. So I want to show this to you in Mark's gospel. And there's a reason I'm showing this to you. I want you to go back with me to Mark chapter 1. Mark chapter 1. You see this at the very beginning. How does Mark open his gospel? The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Son of God. So he's starting out right at the very beginning. He wants us to know, not to miss, exactly who Jesus is. Jesus is the Son of God. Chapter 1, verse 1. Now go with me to chapter 15. The very end of the book. The very end of the book. Chapter 15. Jesus is being crucified. He has just breathed his last. He's died on the cross. Chapter 15, verse 39, the centurion, the Roman centurion who saw him, who was standing there guarding the cross as Jesus died after he jot died, the centurion proclaims truly This man was the Son of God. So you see the declaration at the very beginning of Mark's gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God Then this declaration that punctuates the end of the gospel. Truly, this man was the son of God or is the son of God. Well, why do I point that out? Well, now go with me to the middle of Mark's Gospel, to chapter 8. Chapter 8. The chapter that we're in this morning. Chapter 8, verse 29. He asked them, that is the disciples, Who do you say that I am? And Peter answered him. You are the Christ, that is, the Son of God. So you see this theme of Jesus being the Son of God punctuated at the beginning. And then in the middle, and then at the very end of Mark's gospel, because Mark doesn't want us to miss that Jesus is the Son of God. Well, why do I point that out to you? Well, it's because we are approaching the very middle of the book. Our passage this morning. precedes the climax of the first half of Mark's gospel. This profession by Jesus that you are the Christ This is the climax of the first eight chapters of Mark's gospel. It's all been building up to this. It's like we've climbed now a hill, and as we get to the top of that hill, we're going to be able to see the hill of Galgotha in the distance. Where Jesus' identity truly as the Son of God will be seen by all, the one who came to suffer and die in his people's place. So we're we're we're approaching the climax of the first half of Mark's gospel, and I point that out because our passage this morning. Happens right before the climax of Mark's gospel. And what we find in our passage this morning is a climactic uh encounter with two of the main characters of mark's gospel. And we see that this this uh these characters that Jesus interacts with this climactic interaction occurs with the Pharisees and the disciples. Those are the two people he interacts with in our passage this morning. And throughout Mark's gospel Both groups of people, the Pharisees and the disciples, have played important roles in the unfolding drama of Jesus' ministry. The Pharisees, as we've seen already, have consistently opposed Jesus, right? They've questioned his authority They've attributed his his power to the devil and they have even plotted to take Jesus' life Well, that's the Pharisees. That's who he's going to interact with, this climactic interaction with them. And then also the disciples, who, though they're not opposed to Jesus, have displayed a persistent dullness and lack of understanding who Jesus is and what he came to do. And in our passage this morning, as we reach this climax of Mark's gospel, We're going to find that both groups continue on that same course. The Pharisees in opposition and the disciples in just not understanding. Just Getting not getting it. It makes me think of uh Back to the Future. McFly. You know that C come on McFly. Why don't you get it? Uh that's probably not the best scene because that's not how Jesus treats us, but it just it came to mind. It was off the cuff. I probably shouldn't have said it. We'll move on now. So we see there that the Pharisees oppose Jesus, the disciples are slow to understand And what we find in response to these provocations by the Pharisees and the disciples, Jesus delivers his harshest rebuke yet. You're going to see it's like a buildup of everything that's happened in the gospel is about to pour out in this scene right here. So I want to go ahead and read for us Mark chapter 8, verses 11 to 21 And then we will dive into the text. This is God's word. The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him. And he sighed deeply in his spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. And he left them, got into the boat again, and went to the other side. Now they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat. And he cautioned them, saying, Watch out, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they began discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread. And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened? Having eyes do you not see? And having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many basketfuls of broken pieces did you take up? They said to him, twelve. And the seven for the four thousand, how many basketfuls of broken pieces did you take up? And they said to him, seven. And he said to them, Do you not yet understand? Oh friends, at the heart of our passage this morning is a warning. Is a warning. Our passage is a warning about unbelief. Unbelief and its consequences. And that warning is directed to all of us who are here today. Whether you are know yourself to be a follower of Jesus or you're here. Wanting to learn more about what the Bible says to you. This passage speaks to both of us, to all of us, to both groups of people. It is a warning about unbelief. And there's two things in particular about unbelief that God is warning us of today. The first thing that God is warning us of is that unbelief provokes God's judgment. Unbelief provokes God's judgment. And second, unbelief can permeate God's people. Unbelief can permeate God's people. If you're the type who likes to take notes, that will be our the two points of our outline this morning. Unbelief provokes God's judgment, and second Unbelief can permeate God's people. Now first look at me at verses 11 to 13. We see that unbelief provokes God's anger. So at the end of our passage a few weeks ago, we saw that Jesus and his disciples went to the region of Dalmenutha. That was after they fed uh Miraculo Jesus miraculously fed the 4,000. And Dalmenutha was a small town On the western side of the Sea of Galilee, in a region that was largely inhabited by Jewish people. And we see that, we notice that because of the presence of Pharisees. These are the religious authorities of Israel. And so at some point after coming ashore, Jesus is accosted, confronted, disputed with by a group of Pharisees, they came, we see in verse 11. The Pharisees came. And why did they come? They came to begin to argue with him. And what were they arguing with him about? Look again at verse 11 with me. They were seeking from him a sign from heaven. They were seeking from him a sign from heaven, right? The type of sign that they're looking for is unclear to us. It doesn't say exactly what type of sign this is. Now, what we do know about the Pharisees is that they have seen his miracles. They've seen him firsthand. They witnessed Jesus heal a paralyzed man. Get up, take your mat. The man did it right in front of the Pharisees. They've watched him drive out demons. They see him exercising demons out of people, and they would have certainly heard about his power over nature to calm the storm or to walk on the water. So one wonders when you read this passage, what What else are they looking for? What other kind of sign could you possibly have in mind? What else is going to prove to you that Jesus is the Son of God? One hint that we have is that Mark says they're looking for a sign from heaven or of heaven. Well, this could mean a sign that occurs in the heavens. Remember if you think about your Old Testament Joshua commands the sun to stand still, and it does, according to God. God does it for him. That's a heavenly sign, or it could be a sign that comes from heaven. You think of Elijah on Mount Carmel when he calls down fire from heaven, and when it comes down and consumes his sacrifice, that's proof to everyone around. This guy is a servant of the true Lord. He is a prophet of God. So, whatever it is that they're looking for, whether it's a sign from heaven or in heaven, they're looking for something that more clearly authenticates or proves that Jesus is who he says he is. But here's the thing. If we're familiar at all and been tracking with Jesus' interactions with the Pharisees, it's clear from this interaction that it doesn't matter what Jesus does. It doesn't matter what he does in front of them, whatever sign he performs, they are not going to believe him. And why do we see that? Well, because we already know that they've seen his power in action and denied it. You go back to chapter 3. You go back to chapter 3. In the synagogue, he calls a man with a withered hand, something was It was deformed or was not right about this man's hand. Right in front of the Pharisees. He calls him in front of the Pharisees for this purpose, so that he can heal his hand in front of them. He does it, and then how do they respond? They go plotting to murder him. They've just seen his power. Then later in chapter 3, he's exercising demons in front of them, and they hear about it or see it, and what do they say? His power comes from Beelzebub, which is to say his power comes from Satan. It doesn't matter what Jesus does in front of them. They're not actually seeking a sign to believe Oh no, what we learned is actually this subtle way that Mark teaches us about their opposition to Jesus. Notice that he says they were seeking a sign. Why? to test him. Almost every single time in the Gospels where you find a purpose statement given. It's usually significant for your understanding of the passage. And what Mark wants you to understand is that they aren't interested in belief. They're interested in testing Jesus. And the type of test they have in mind is not a pass-fail test. This isn't the type of test that you and I take in school. They're testing him in order to trap him. Every time the Pharisees test Jesus, it's in order to trap him. You might say, well what's the trap that they're setting here? You go back to Deuteronomy chapter 13, and the Lord warns Israel and says to them, if someone comes among you claiming to be The Lord or claiming to be from God and He performs signs and wonders, do not follow that man, but put him to death. He's saying, Stay away from those who would lead you away from me. And I think the trap that they're setting for Jesus is Great, you performed the sign. Now you are dead because you're this guy that the Lord was warning us about. Well, it's not just that It's not just that, also. I think one of the other subtleties of this test that they are throwing out in front of Jesus, demanding a sign, something else that we learn about this is that the word test is used three times in Mark's gospel. Twice the Pharisees use it. They test him here, demanding a sign. They test him later in the gospel asking a question about divorce and remarriage. And then there's one other time that Jesus is tested with the same word in Mark's Gospel. You know who tests them? Satan. Satan. So the two groups of people, the two persons Large scale, who test Jesus are Satan and the Pharisees. And what Mark wants us to see is that the opposite that the Pharisees hold towards Jesus is satanic in nature. They stand aligned with Satan, accusing the God of the universe. They want nothing to do with him. And that's why Jesus responds like he does. Look at verse 12 Look at verse 12. He sighed deeply, deeply in his spirit. So think about this. We remember three weeks ago when Jesus healed the deaf man. Uh he this is in the area of the Decapolis. He he right before he heals the deaf man, he puts his fingers in his ears, then he touches his tongue, and right before he heals him, he sighs The deaf man, the deaf man's physical deafness causes him to sigh, causes him to lament his state. The only other place that Jesus sighs in the Gospel of Mark is there and here. And it's as though the Pharisees' opposition to Jesus, it's analogous to the man's physical deafness, their spiritual deafness, their inability or unwillingness to listen. causes him to sigh, but not only to sigh, to sigh deeply. It's like to say, this is worse to me than that That man's physical deafness was easier to overcome than your opposition towards me. He sighs deeply in his spirit. And because the Pharisees are so hardened in their unbelief, so unwilling to acknowledge that Jesus is the son of God in the face of such great evidence already Jesus refuses to do another sign notice in verse 12 Verse 12, he says, truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. This is a serious statement. Jesus starts his proclamation with truly, it's to underscore. I just want to highlight this for you. Truly, what I'm about to say will never happen. I will not give you a sign. Mark my words. The construction that's used in the Greek is used in the in the Old Testament as well, and in the translation of the Old Testament, and it can be translated. If I were to give you a sign, may death fall upon me. That's strong of a proclamation. No way, no chance, no-how. This pardoned unbelief of yours. I'm not going to respond to it. I'm not going to be bent to your will. I've done everything that could possibly be done to prove to you who I am. And your unbelief, unbelief continues. In Matthew's gospel, Matthew records Jesus as saying that no sign will be given except the sign of Jonah I think Mark chooses to not include that to communicate the finality of Jesus' response. No, I'm done. You notice even the finality of it in verse 13. Look at verse 13. And he left them. Got into the boat again and went to the other side. He left. No sign. And this really actually in Mark's gospel is a culmination of Jesus' ministry in the area of Galilee. He will return to Galilee again. But his focus now is now towards Jerusalem and towards the cross. This is a a crucial moment where he's saying, this does it. Eight chapters of your opposition. Eight chapters of your unbelief. I am done. And I'm leaving now. Unbelief. Persistent, recalcitrant unbelief provokes God's judgment. Scene of judgment, God's leaving them, departing from them. And this is a sober thing for for us to consider. I I wonder if you're here this morning and Maybe you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, still thinking about what it what it means to follow him. I'm guessing it's likely that you hear about the Pharisees' attitude towards Jesus and you say, you know, I'm not like them, right? I may not follow Jesus, but I'm definitely not as bad as them. And I think in in one sense I could probably agree with you, friend, you you probably aren't Sitting around thinking about how or plotting about how you would take Jesus' life, not in not in the same way that they were But I do want to point out to you that according to Scripture, that doesn't mean that God will deal with your unbelief any differently than he dealt with theirs. Here's what I mean. According to Scripture, unbelief manifests itself in all different types of attitudes and behaviors. manifests itself in all different types of ways. In one person, unbelief may look like a person who openly rejects Jesus. Think Richard Dawkins, right? Can't stand Jesus, thinks it's all ridiculous. But unbelief may also look in another person like someone who just doesn't really think about Jesus at all. Yeah, I don't really care. What point does Jesus I don't hate him, but he just doesn't have any bearing on my life. He's he's meaningless. In other people it may look like a person who's happy to come to church, but unwilling to actually submit themselves to what Jesus asks of them to repent and believe and to and to follow. You see how unbelief can manifest itself in all sorts of attitudes and behaviors. And at the root of all of these attitudes and behaviors is unbelief. Unbelief is underlying all of it. And you see this even in the passage. Notice, look what that look back with me when Jesus says no sign will be given in verse verse 12. He says, Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to you. The Pharisees, no. He says, truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. It's not just the Pharisees. There's all sorts of people who are manifesting unbelief in their life. There are people who are happy to follow along and be fed by his bread, but don't want anything to do about submitting to his lordship. There are people who are just like, whoa, awesome miracles. I want to go watch those. And then there are people like the Pharisees who hate Jesus and are opposed to him. And Jesus says, this whole generation It's characterized by the same unbelief that I see in you. No sign will be given to this generation. All of the groups, regardless of their attitudes and behaviors, fail to believe in Jesus. So if you're here this morning and you're you're not a follower of Christ, one question I'd have for you is, do you believe in that Jesus is the Son of God. And if not, why not? You know, if you're here right now, kids and adults, think about that question. Do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? Yes or no, you don't have to say it out loud, just think in your own minds, and if not, why not? Think about that question. Think about how you could talk about it with your parents today. If you're a kid that's here and you're you don't believe that Jesus is the Son of God. If your answer is no, I'd love to talk with you about your reasons. You can even come see me at the door. It's not going to offend me. I know that there are lots of people who don't believe that Jesus is God. I'm 39 years old. I didn't become a Christian until I was 30. I spent 30 years, most of those 30 years, thinking that religion and Jesus were just kind of foolish. It's silly. But at some point I came to understand and believe all of the signs that Jesus had done pointed to the fact that he is the Son of God. So if you don't believe this morning, I'd love to talk to you about that. But another question for you, if you don't believe, what would it take for you to believe? What sign would God have to give for you to believe? Would it take him writing a message in the sky? Like if he signed it with your name, there is a God. Love you. Heart-shaped like cloud. Would you believe if you could hear God speak audibly to you, or maybe if he appeared to you, told you that he existed? If that's you, if you're here and you say, John, actually, yes, if God did that, then I would believe. Well, then I'd want you to see that you're actually not all that different from the Pharisees. This is what they're saying. I'll believe it if you prove it. Prove it to me, based on my standards of what constitutes the proper evidence for God, not on the standards that you say you've given, like the existence of the universe and the moral law written upon our hearts, all determine what the standards are, and then you meet them. But John even prayed about this this morning. Friends, even as Christians, we can do this. Think about as a Christian. Yes, you believe that that Jesus is the Son of God, so you got the existence thing out of the way, but do you believe that God is good to you? God, I'll believe it if you answer this prayer. God, you're not answering this prayer, so you must not be good. Do you believe that God is sovereign over your life? God, all this stuff is happening in my life and you don't seem to be responding to my prayers. So is it true that you're actually sovereign? If you if you prove it to me, then I'll believe it. It's the same attitude. It comes from the same root of unbelief. To say or think that you'd believe in Jesus if God performs some miracle that you could see is essentially to make a demand of Him You might not say it forcefully or rudely, but it's a demand nonetheless. It's to place a qualification or a condition on your faith. What you need to realize is that God doesn't pander to our demands. In that sense, he doesn't condescend to us. When we make demands of him, he's not going to bend down and answer those. He is the creator, and we are the creatures. He has said that he's given us all the evidence we need to believe that he exists and that Jesus is the Son of God. He's given it all of us Now the question is, will we respond to his demands of us? That's the case. We don't make demands of him. He makes demands of us, and his chief demand of all of us is that we repent Turn from sin and believe in Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God. You see, Jesus offered himself as a sacrifice. for our sins. He paid the penalty in our place, and then after dying upon the cross, he was buried in the ground and rose three days later, granting to all the greatest sign that could ever possibly be offered to underscore and authenticate that he is the Son of God and that everything he taught about himself And about us and about the Father in heaven is true. If you can't believe in the resurrection, nothing else is going to prove it to you. But I want you to also think about this. If you're here and not a follower of Christ, you should really look into the resurrection. If it happened, I mean seriously, let's just let's just confront this. If it happened, everything changes in life If Jesus actually got up from the dead, then everything he said is true. He's coming back. He's taking us to the promised land. He's going to hold us fast forever. He's going to protect us from the evil one. He is the one with all authority and power and glory in heaven and on earth, seated at the right hand of God. And you should bow the knee to him. He's worthy of being submitted to because he is a good king. It's not like earthly kings. Not like our current president or any other president or any other king and any other nation. He is the great and good king. He alone is worthy of your trust. And if he got up from the dead, oh friend, you should follow him. And if you're here today and you do follow him, remember he got up from the dead. Everything he did say is true. His resurrection from the dead is the great sign that he was and is everything he claimed to be. But if we continue in unbelief in spite of that great sign, we need to remember the warning from this passage that unbelief, persistent unbelief, provokes God's judgment. The second warning from this passage is that unbelief can also permeate God's people. It can spread throughout God's people. Look at me at verses 14 to 21. After leaving the Pharisees, Jesus and his disciples get into a boat, and they are traveling to the town of Bethsaida on the north side of the Sea of Galilee. And as they're making their way in the boat, at some point the disciples realize that they don't have enough bread for the trip. Look at verse 14. They only have one loaf. In those days, uh a loaf of bread was just enough for one person if it was rationed out across the period of an entire day So a loaf of bread is enough for one disciple in a 24-hour period. But there are 12 disciples and Jesus. There's 13 people in the bread. There's just not enough bread for them. Right? But Jesus is obviously aware of the fact that they're concerned about their lack of bread. So he cautions them in verse 15 saying, watch out. Beware. There's a forcefulness here that we need to take note of. He is putting two imperatives in a row. These are two commands. To tell us the same thing. Warning, beware. Beware of what? Jesus. Beware the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. What does he mean by that? That's weird. Like we don't have bread. What are you talking about? Heaven. Well, we need to think about what leaven is to try to figure out what Jesus is referring to. Leaven, if you bake it all, would you would know that leaven was commonly added to dough to prepare it For baking, leaven would be added to the dough, and since leaven is living, it's a living bacteria, it spreads throughout the dough, it ferments the dough, and it causes it to rise So I think the image that we're supposed to grasp onto here is that the leaven of the Pharisees, whatever that is, we need to be careful of it because it spreads. You disciples, be careful of them, something that they're doing can spread to you. Right? That's the image that he wants us to grab On to. There's something about the Pharisees and about Herod that Jesus warns the disciples against being infected by, you could say. But what is it that he wants them to be aware of? So we have this account in both Matthew and Luke. In Matthew, Jesus says that the leaven is the leaven of their teaching. In Luke, he says it's the leaven of their hypocrisy. It's possible that Jesus named multiple things. And each writer grabs one of them and just conveys it as to say this this is kind of what Jesus is talking about. You even think about hypocrisy and teaching going hand in hand. Jesus already called them in chapter seven hypocrites for their teaching, their traditions. Going to see how that goes hand in hand. But Mark doesn't say exactly what the leaven is. He leaves it open-ended. And when we look at the passage in Mark, I think the immediate context Would want us, would have us to say, the leaven of the Pharisees and the Leaven of Herod must have something to do with the interaction that just happened. And that interaction was characterized by hardened unbelief. Unbelief like leaven can permeate and spread through God's people. That unbelief is also shared by Herod, right? It's that unbelief that caused Herod to kill John the Baptist and to continue to oppose Jesus. We even actually see at the end of Luke that Herod Calls Jesus before him and seeks a sign. Just like he does, just like the Pharisees do. There's this shared unbelief and opposition. Do more for us. Party tricks. Show us that you are who you say you are But we see in verses 14 to 21 that Jesus' warning to his disciples falls on deaf ears. Falls on deaf ears. Apparently they misunderstand his reference to Levin. Thinking it has something to do with the physical bread that they're talking about. Right? And they start discussing. We have no bread. What does he mean by love? We don't have enough. What's he talking about? And their misunderstanding, their deafness to his teaching, leads to his longest rebuke of the disciples in the gospel so far. Look at verse 17 with me. Because Jesus, aware of this, said to them, why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened? Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember? Then he does the two miracles of the 5,000, the 4,000. At the very end, he says again, do you not yet understand? Right, this is basically Jesus taking all of the individual rebukes that he's had for the disciples throughout Mark's gospel and just weaving them together into like one long mega rebuke. Here it comes All the questions I've asked you, all the rhetorical questions in which I have basically pointed out the fact that you don't understand and you don't believe, I'm just going to weave them together into one single tapestry so that it's clear Remember, we talked about we're reaching the climax of Mark's gospel and you have these climactic encounters. This is just his way of saying eight chapters, Pharisees don't get it, you don't get it. Do you not yet see or understand? Your heart's hardened? Do you not yet understand? Miracle, miracle, sign, sign. I'm questioning you about these. You were involved in these and you still don't get it. Right? He asks them if they don't understand. Then he asks them if their hearts are hardened. This is interesting too because when he asks them if their hearts are hardened, this comes from the passage. Where he walked to them on water. After he walked to them on water, it says they did not yet understand because their hearts were hardened. Then it gets worse. He says, you have eyes but don't see, ears but don't hear. What's scary about that rebuke is that back when Jesus told the parable of the sower, he said that it's those who are on the outside. who have eyes but don't see, and ears but don't hear. And these disciples who've been living with him now for three years, maybe a year and a half, we don't know exactly where we're at, they've been with him. They're supposed to be on the inside, and now he's applying the same rebuke to them. Those who are on the inside are in danger of being on the outside because those on the inside clearly don't believe. They clearly don't believe. Then he brings up the feeding miracles, right? You guys were there You picked up the leftovers. You picked up the leftovers. If I was to unpack Jesus' warning to the disciples about the leaven when he when he warns them about the leaven. supposed to tell you might give you my interpretation of what I think he's saying. Here's what I think he's saying. The Pharisees don't get it. They reject me, completely opposed to me, hardened in their unbelief. They refuse to see me for who I am. They have hard, unbelieving hearts. Yet you, my disciples, you also clearly don't get it. You continue to misunderstand the works that I'm doing Yes, you are following me. If you're not careful, the unbelief that's causing you to not see me for who I am may eventually turn into unbelief. that causes you to stand in utter opposition to me. We also have a test case of that. There was one disciple who that ended up happening to. Judas. His unbelief. Send him on a trajectory. Let him away from the living God. Here's what's interesting about this. The Pharisees demand signs The disciples don't understand signs. Unbelief is underneath all of it. The Pharisees demand signs, the disciples don't understand signs, and unbelief is underneath all of it. If you're here and you follow Jesus, I trust you are well aware of the danger of unbelief. Right? I'm sure all of us would say we need to beware of hardened unbelief in God, like that of the Pharisees. I want you to notice something that happens in this passage. Did you notice that Jesus rebukes the disciples not for obstinate unbelief? But, and this is crucial, for unbelief that fails to connect his identity with everyday reality. You see this? In the boat with them is Jesus, the one who can create food for thousands of people from nothing. And yet they're concerned that they don't have enough food. They're not connecting his identity as the Son of God who can provide everything they need. to their everyday reality of not having enough food. And underneath their inability to connect his identity to their everyday reality is unbelief. Unbelief is underneath all of it. I want you to imagine with me that you have a house. You're the owner of a house and you have a large, large-ish backyard. And that backyard is full of tall weeds. Some of you may be better at imagining this than others, but just imagine with me that backyard. I'm one of those people. That backyard is full of tall weeds The weeds that have been growing for a long time. And so one day you set aside time, you say, I'm going to take care of this. I'm going to root it up. So you go out to pull up the weeds. You walk up to the first weed, and it's large, and you start to pull on the weed. But when you pull at it, the roots seem to spread so deep and so wide into the ground that that the weed can't be pulled up. You say, okay. You're going to leave that one. I'm going to go on to the next weed. And you start pulling on that one, and it's the same. It gives away a little bit. But it's just clearly starting to pull up the root and the the the ground around you. And it's just too hard to pull up. So you you leave it and you Move on to the next one. And the same thing happens again. As you pull on the root, it won't come up because it's clear the roots spread so far and so wide in the yard. The root system is so entrenched that it won't come up. You move on to the next and the next and the next and you find the same thing until you finally say, enough with this. I'm gonna go get the spade and the shovel. These roots are not gonna defeat me. I will have the day, right? I will defeat them. So you're just going to start hacking at the roots and digging them up. And as you do that, you realize the reason you couldn't pull up the weeds was because all the weeds in the yard share the same root structure. Oh friends, that's unbelief. You look at your life. I look at my life. This is not me saying you need to do that. I'm like when we look at our lives as Christians And we see lust, anger, impatience, rudeness, coldness, callousness. Bitterness, envy, strife, quarreling, grumbling, Exodus 17. When you pull on those weeds, do you know why they're so hard to pull up? Because they all share the same root structure. Underneath, all of it is unbelief. Spreads throughout the whole human heart. Manifests itself in so many different ways, but that is why it's so hard to pull up, because it is spread throughout. It is the common core of those weeds. It is the root. That is a picture of all the different manifestations of sin in our lives. The spiritual root system of sin is unbelief. It holds sin together. It nourishes sin and it feeds sin. Consider the disciples again. They're worried about not having enough food because they're not believing that Jesus is able to provide the food they need. If they connected his identity to their everyday reality, they say, we don't have enough food. Well, that's okay. I mean, we got the divine food bank with us. He will provide everything we need. Right, but that's not what they do. They start to question. They start to wonder. I wonder, what does this look like in your life? What does this look like in your life? How can you find unbelief underneath the sin patterns in your life? Does it look like losing patience with your kids? For their interrupting your quiet time. This is m this is mommy and daddy's special time. Get out of here. So when they come, you lose your patience because they've interrupted you because you believe that your peace comes from getting alone time where you can read a book and not from the God of all peace. The God who can provide you peace in the midst of storms, you're not believing that. You're not connecting his identity as the God of all peace To your circumstances of everyday life who can provide peace in everything you do. It may look like getting angry with a spouse or a friend For not providing the affirmation. You feel you need to feel good about yourself. This happens to me with Leah sometimes. I'm like, no, you n please say that that was a good idea. Like I need to hear that you say like you think that what I was gonna say was a good idea, because it's like I need to believe that My goodness as a person or my wisdom depends on her affirmation rather than on the God who fully affirms you and loves you completely and totally in Christ. You see how unbelief is underneath that sin? Maybe it looks like being consumed with concern about your financial state because you believe that money provides your security rather than believing that your security comes from God. who is our refuge and our rock. You see, God's identity is not supposed to be this distant, abstract thing. It's supposed to translate how we live in this world. We're supposed to change because of it. And I trust that if you start to dig around the soil of sin patterns in your life, what you will find is unbelief. Might be even helpful to think about this afternoon if there's ways in particular that you're struggling. All these are forms of unbelief that we need to be aware of in our hearts because unbelief is living. It's like leaven. It grows, it spreads, it consumes. It's why the author of Hebrews says in chapter 3 to the New Testament church. Take care, beware, take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart leading you to fall away from the living God. Do you see the movement in that? The movement? Unbelief leads us away from the living God. It's like it subtly takes our hand and says, no, no, no. Don't go that way. Unbelief is at the root of the first sin. Adam and Eve did not believe God's word. Unbelief is at the root of all of it. This is something we're all going to struggle with as well, right? As a church, we we can be comforted by this in a way that we're all gonna struggle in various ways with unbelief. Like the people who were right in front of Jesus struggled with it. On this side of heaven, unbelief and belief will exist together in the same heart. But saying that they will exist together in the same heart is not saying that they should coexist together. We should be at war with unbelief. It should be a battle. It should be an ongoing battle that causes us to struggle day in and day out. That's why Paul would say at the end of his life, looking back, after he wrote 2 Timothy, because he knows he's about to die, he says, I have fought the good fight. Because fighting for faith and against unbelief lasts our entire life. And I want to pull out an important An important thing for us here, Klon talked about the ear earlier that the importance of being a part of a local church, whether you're a part of a local church here, this church, or wherever it is that you're From the benefits that he's talking about were not material benefits per se. They're mostly spiritual benefits. We battle together as one people, one family, one body against Unbelief. When we go back to the book of Hebrews, immediately after warning the people about the danger of unbelief in their own hearts, the author says to them, But exhort one another every day. Exhort one another every day. Notice, exhort one another. The author assumes that his readers are living in community with one another. And this community in the New Testament is the local church. The Christian life was not meant to be lived on our own, but in community with other Christians. And that community is called to exhort. one another or strongly encourage one another to keep fighting the good fight of faith. And if we're going to exhort one another, we're going to need to share with one another the ways in which we're struggling for faith. Struggling with sin and the ways in which we see unbelief creeping up in our lives. Right, there isn't anyone in this congregation who's immune from unbelief. There isn't anyone who's immune from unbelief. So we should all be working together, exhorting one another as the day draws near to root up that unbelief from our hearts. And another way that we do that isn't just by exhorting one another, it's by praying for one another, both individually and then together as a body. This is one of the reasons that we have a sharing in prayer time, so that we can be praying together as a family. So this is what this means for you if you're a member of CBC. This is what I just want to throw out to you. If there is a particular way that you have been struggling against sin in your life for a long period of time and you are struggling to overcome it, you've shared it with other people. Consider if it's appropriate, you can talk with me about whether it'd be appropriate to share with the whole congregation. Consider coming up front, sharing with us, and allowing us to pray together as a body. This is what we're here for. This is what the sharing of prayer time is supposed to be about. We are able to share these things, understanding that there's no temptation that's not common to all mankind. And we pray because we believe that prayer brings us to the throne of God, the God of all grace, we can lay hold of it boldly, and he will respond to our prayers and answer them. This is what we do together as a family. So think about that in your own life. If there's a way that you've been struggling for a long period of time, that we might be able to pray for you. I want us to be the type of people who aren't afraid to share those things because we understand that all of us are struggling in different ways. I want us to be the type of people who recognize the power of prayer against in in battle against long-standing. sin and to the kids who are here not just the the younger kids but to the to the younger adults I I think this idea that unbelief is at the root of sin The unbelief is at the root of all sin, and so it's something that we all struggle with, is important for you to understand. And it's important for you to understand because if unbelief is at the root of all sin And we all struggle with sin, that means that you are going to struggle with unbelief as well. Right? And that's okay I hope that one of the things, and trust that one of the things that your parents are teaching you is that God doesn't accept you on the basis of the strength of your faith. If you struggle with unbelief in any any way, that doesn't mean God will reject you. All of us will struggle with it. All of us will have weak faith He doesn't accept us on the basis of the strength of our faith, but on the perfection of Jesus Christ. He's not a stingy inspector who only looks at that heart at hearts that are flawless and says, I'll take these. If he was, then none of us would be accepted, right? Now, God's acceptance of you and of me is always, always, always based on the perfection of Jesus Christ. Jesus alone perfectly believed in God. Jesus alone perfectly trusted in God. Jesus alone perfectly overcame all temptation. He alone is your hope. He alone is your salvation. He alone can hold us even when it feels like our feet are slipping off the path of belief. It's Jesus who can do this, and you can be certain that if you've repented of sin And trusted in Christ that he will hold you through all of your struggles with sin and unbelief. How can you know that? Look at the disciples. The story isn't over yet. Notice that little word. Verse 21. And he said to them, Do you not yet understand? He's even kind of subtly foreshadowing that there would come a day when the disciples would understand. But we know in this story now that their unbelief And their lack of understanding Jesus' teaching will actually lead them to abandon Jesus Christ on the cross. But even their abandoning them did not cause him to abandon them because before the foundations of the earth God in heaven, the Father above, had set his electing love upon these disciples so that even if they abandoned him, he would come back and rescue them. He would set his love upon them. If you feel condemned at all this morning, because you think, oh my gosh, I see unbelief everywhere in my life, do not fret, friends. Christ knows that you will struggle with unbelief. Your perfection is his belief. That's why he gives it to you. So that when God looks at you, he sees Christ's perfect belief. Christ's perfect righteousness. It is applied to you and in Christ you are completely righteous this morning. What a gift of grace! And empowered by that grace. Oh, let us believe. Let us believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, the way that He's called us to. I even love how this scene foreshadows what's about to happen in Mark's Gospel. Chapter 9, you have the healing of the boys. possessed by a demon keeps falling into the spirit and Jesus goes to the man to the boy's father and the what does the boy's father say? I believe help my unbelief Oh Christian the Christian life in one sentence. That's it. I believe. Help my unbelief. Lord, be merciful to me. I am weak Lord, be merciful to me. I have continued to sin this week and I see unbelief at the root of it. Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Oh friends, continue to continue to fight against unbelief in your hearts. As we do that, we we look forward to the day where we will see the wondrous mystery The wondrous mystery of the Son of God who took on flesh, who perfectly fulfilled the law of God, went to the cross bearing the punishment for their sins and ours. Sins that were rooted in unbelief, and this wondrous mystery didn't end on the cross because Jesus rose from the dead proclaiming victory over sin and death and hell. And in his resurrection, we have a foretaste of our deliverance, a deliverance that will eventually include your rescue from struggling with unbelief. When Jesus returns and we see him as he is, he will take us to be with him. And one of the things that we'll be no more as we set our sights on the living God is that faith will turn to sight. Unbelief will be no more. Keep fighting the good fight of faith. Keep believing. Lord, we believe. Help our unbelief. To be your prayer this week and in the weeks to come. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we confess. That we do not believe as we ought, but we sincerely desire to follow the Lord Jesus. Lord, we believe. Help our unbelief. Even as we reflect on the word we've heard this morning, strengthen us, nourish us, help us to connect who you are to how we live every day We sincerely desire to glorify you with our lives. We pray that you would do this work in us. And even as we turn to this last song, help the words of this song to encourage our hearts to believe, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen