Well, friends, I want to invite you to open in your Bibles to Ruth chapter 2. We are continuing in our Advent study through the book of Ruth. As we can consider how God worked to prepare and preserve the family line through whom Jesus would be born. We have a lot of ground to cover today in a short amount of time. So I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us. And then we'll consider what it has to say to us today. One last encouragement before I read the passage, I want to uh encourage you to keep the Bible open in front of you because we're covering a whole chapter. We're going to be looking at it often, considering the various details and nuances of the story and how they prepare us for Jesus. So follow along as I read for us Ruth chapter 2. This is God's word Now Naomi had a relative of her husband's, a worthy man of the clan of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz. And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor. And she said to her, Go, my daughter. So she set out, and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz who was of the clan of Elimelech. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and he said to the reapers, The Lord be with you and they answered, The Lord bless you. Then Boaz said to his young man who was in charge of the reapers, Whose young woman is this? And the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered, She is the young Moabite woman, who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab She said, Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves after the reapers. So she came, and she has continued from early morning until now, except for a short rest. Then Boaz said to Ruth, Now listen, my daughter, do not go to glean in another field or leave this one. But keep close to my young women. Let your eyes be on the field that they are reaping, and go after them. Have I not charged the young men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink what the young men have drawn. Then she fell on her face, bowing to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner? But Boaz answered her, All that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband has been fully told to me, and how you left your father and mother and your native land, and came to a people that you did not know before. The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. Then she said, I have found favor in your eyes, my lord, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, though I am not one of your servants. And at mealtime Boaz said to her, Come here and eat some bread and dip your morsel in the wine. So she sat beside the reapers, and he passed to her roasted grain. And she ate until she was satisfied, and she had some left over When she rose to glean, Boaz instructed his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and do not reproach her. And also pull out some from the bundles for her, and leave it for her to glean, and do not rebuke her So she gleaned in the field until evening, then she beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about an epha of barley. And she took it up and went into the city. Her mother in law saw what she had gleaned. She also brought out and gave her what food she had left over after being satisfied, and her mother in law said to her, Where did you glean today? And where have you worked? Blessed be the man who took notice of you. So she told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked, and said, The man's name with whom I work today is Boaz. And Naomi said to her daughter in law, May he be blessed by the Lord, whose kindness has not forsaken the living or the dead. Naomi also said to her, The man is a close relative of ours, one of our redeemers. And Ruth the Moabite said, Besides, he said to me, You shall keep close by my young men until they have finished all my harvest. And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young women, lest in another field you be assaulted. So she kept close to the young woman of Boaz, gleaning until the end of the barley and wheat harvests, and she lived with her mother-in-law If you're taking notes, the message of Ruth 2 is that God abundantly provides for his needy people through a righteous redeemer. God abundantly provides for his needy people through a righteous redeemer. And we're going to consider this chapter under two headings. First, a needy woman. And second, a righteous redeemer. First, a needy woman If you were here last Sunday, you'll recall that in chapter 1, there's a progression from famine to fullness, right? The hopelessness Of Naomi's circumstances at the beginning of the chapter, namely the death of her husband and then the death of her two sons, is replaced by a glimmer of hope at the end. When she returns with her daughter-in-law Ruth to Bethlehem at the beginning of the barley harvest. In chapter 2. We see then that the focus shifts from Naomi to Ruth. And what the author wants us to see is that Ruth is needy. He highlights her neediness by focusing on three things about her that are important for us to consider. The first aspect of her neediness that he emphasizes is that she is a foreigner. She's a foreigner, an alien among the people of Israel. I want you to notice the emphasis on her nationality. Look again at verse 2. The author describes her as Ruth the Moabite. Then in verse 6, when Boaz asks who Ruth is, his servant describes her as the young Moabite woman who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab. You see already building up this repetition. Then look again at verse 10. After Boaz shows Ruth kindness, she says, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner? Or again in verse 21. As if the author hadn't made it clear enough because you've got to recognize back in chapter 1, he calls Aruth the Moabite like four different times. So now we're like eight, nine different times in the book already. He's emphasized it in verse 21. He describes her again as Ruth the Moabite. He doesn't want us to forget that she's a foreigner. In the Old Testament, the foreigner or the alien essentially symbolizes homelessness. Estrangement and vulnerability. They symbolize neediness. Being a foreigner made Ruth especially susceptible to oppression Discrimination, being taken advantage of, and even violence. Because who's around to care for her? Nobody. She's already left her family and friends and her country. She's a foreigner. And because of that, she's needy. But we also see that she's needy because she's poor This is a double whammy. Not only is she a foreigner, but she's poor, right? It's not like she's the foreigner Queen Sheba coming from Egypt with her royal court to visit Solomon. Ruth has nothing. Look at verse 2. Ruth says to Naomi, Let me go to the field and glean. The fact that Ruth is gleaning is mentioned twelve times in this chapter. Why is that important? Because in the Old Testament, God commanded landowners not to harvest their entire field, but to leave the gleanings. The leftovers for the poor. So the reapers would walk through the field with their sickle, cutting down the grain And then their harvesters would follow behind them, picking up the grain and gathering it into sheaves or bundles, and inevitably along the way, they would drop They wouldn't pick up all of it. And the poor of the nation of Israel could follow behind the harvesters and glean. Pick up the remaining barley or grain. And the fact that she has to glean to get food is a sign of her neediness. It says to others, I am needy, I am vulnerable. Right, to bring it into our day. It would be like a person needing to go to a homeless shelter or needing to beg for food or money The very act of doing those things communicates need. And the fact that Ruth has to glean to get her food tells us how needy she is. But there's also a third aspect of her neediness evident in this chapter. And that is that Ruth is a woman Now let me be clear, there is nothing inherent about being a woman that makes them needy. It's just that in this particular context Being a woman put Ruth in great danger. I want you to look at verse 2 again. We see hints of this in verse 2. Ruth says to Naomi, let me go to the field And glean. Right at the very beginning of the Bible, Cain calls his brother Abel out to the field. Where he then murders him. In the Old Testament, the field is at times associated with darkness and danger and violence. And that danger and violence is present in our passage. Three different times, reference is made to the danger she is in as a woman working in the field. Look at verse 8. Boaz tells her that he's given instructions to his men not to touch her. That is harm her. Hey, don't harm her Then at the end of the chapter in verse 22, Naomi says bluntly, stay with his women so that you don't get assaulted. Being a woman put her in great danger of being assaulted And why is that? Well, we've got to think about the context of this book. We learned at the beginning of chapter one that it was written in the days of the judges, which was a particularly dark and violent time in Israel's history. And we have to assume that in the days of the judges, assaulting of women in the fields was a common occurrence. We see the violence that happens to women, even at the terrible violence that happens to women at the end of the book of Judges. We have to assume that this was a common occurrence. So all of these factors combined, she is a foreigner. She's poor. Being a woman in this context made her susceptible to being assaulted. All of these factors underscore how Vulnerable, how needy Ruth is. Yet we see that for this needy woman, God abundantly provides Through a righteous redeemer. And we're introduced to that Redeemer right away in verse 1 I want you to look there with me. The author sets up the drama of chapter two by telling us that Naomi has a relative from the clan of her now deceased husband, Elimelech. Whose name is Boaz. So the author wants to get our attention right at the beginning of the chapter so that we're on the lookout for this Boaz. Maybe, maybe he will be a good guy and help out Ruth and Naomi. And what we find in chapter 2 is that Boaz is much more than a good guy, and he will do much more than just help them out. The author wants us to see that Boaz is a righteous redeemer. We see this right away. Look again at verse 1. The author says that Naomi had a relative, a worthy man of the clan of Elimelech named Boaz. That word Worthy means warrior or mighty or valiant, right? It's used throughout the Old Testament to refer to valiant men. Upstanding men, noble men, and this Boaz is a worthy man whose righteousness is on full display in chapter two. We see his righteousness on display first In his obedience to Yahweh's commands. We've got to think about the context of Ruth in the scope of the Old Testament and all the commands that have come before it. In Leviticus 19, God gave the people of Israel commands about caring for the needy and the foreigner, and he said this. When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner, the foreigner. I am the Lord your God. And if you look at verses 2 to 8, what we see happen there is Ruth ventures out into the fields to glean. She does not know where she is going to end up. She's going out without knowing whose field she will end up in. She's just. Putting all our hope, eggs in one basket. Maybe somebody will let me reap and glean in their field. She essentially says, I'm going to go out and hope that someone shows me favor. Now remember again this is happening in the days of the judges when everyone did what was right in their own eyes. The people of Israel didn't obey God's commands. So we have to assume That many Israelites didn't obey God's commands to let the poor and the foreigner glean on their field. In fact, we know that they didn't Because throughout the prophets, the prophets charge rich landowners with being greedy and oppressing the poor and taking advantage of the foreigner, not providing for them. But now look down at verses 5 to 7. Boaz shows up at his field, sees Ruth, and asks one of his employees who she is. The employee tells him she's a Moabite, and you might think, oh no. Is he gonna run her off? Is he gonna tell her to get lost? Is he gonna obey Yahweh's commands? Well look at verses 8 and 9. Look at what he says to her. He tells her to stay with the women working in his field and to follow them. Oh praise God. A righteous Israelite who fears Yahweh and keeps his commands. The worthy man, Boaz, shows her favor. He obeys God's commands. And we also see in this chapter that his obedience goes far beyond obeying the letter of the law. He seems to embody the very nature of God in chapter 2. We see this all over the place. First, we see that Boaz embodies God's nature by being a protector. Right, Psalm 146, verse 9 says, the Lord protects the foreigner and sustains the fatherless and the widow. Ruth is two of those three. She's a foreigner and a widow. The Lord protects the foreigner and sustains the fatherless and the widow. Now look at verse 9. Boaz tells her that he's instructed his young men not to harm her Foreigners may be assaulted and taken advantage of in other fields, but not my field, Ruth. I will protect you. Like the Lord, Boaz is a protector of the foreigner. But that's not all. Like the Lord, Boaz shows abundant generosity. Abundant generosity. Look at verse 9 again. He essentially says to her, hey, hey, hey, when you're thirsty, go to the vessels and drink what the men have drawn. Not in the law. He wasn't required to do this, but it's good for her. Hey, go to the vessels and drink what the men have drawn. In Boaz's culture, it was foreigners and women who drew water for men. But Boaz's generosity isn't restrained by cultural conventions. And we see even more of his abundant generosity. Look at verse 14. He invites Ruth to dine with him and his workers, again, breaking cultural conventions to show abundant generosity. Look at what verse 14 says. She ate until she was satisfied and she had some left over. He didn't just give her a little. He didn't just give her scraps. He gave enough for leftovers. Have as much as you want, eat until you're satisfied. And here is more to take home with you. And yet his generosity continues. Look at verse 15. In verse 15, Ruth goes back to Glean, and notice what Boaz tells his employees. He says, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and pull out some from the bundles for her The sheaves, the bundles, were the best of the harvest. After the reapers would go through the field and cut down the grain. The harvesters would come, they would gather the grain and put them into sheaves and put them into bundles, these big, you know, round baths, kind of like a hay bale almost, but smaller that you could carry. Right, this is the crop that they are gonna get their grain from. And and the poor were supposed to get the gleanings, the leftovers. But Boaz is saying to his employees, No, pull out some of the best of the harvest and let her take that as well. He was so generous with her that we see in verse 17, after she's done beating out the wheat, she has what commentators uh think amounts to a forty to fifty pound sack of grain. This is a huge reaping for a poor foreigner They would have never expected to get this out of the field from the gleanings of 40 to 50 pound sack of grain. And now obviously Ruth is strong, right? She's been working in the field all day. One of his employees tells Boas, she's been here from the morning all day. And then we learn at the end of the chapter, she works all day into the night, and then she beats out the grain herself. She's strong, right But you have to chuckle at the vision of her buckling under the weight of Boaz's generosity as she carries the grain from the field back to Bethlehem Buckling under his generosity. Boaz is a righteous man. He keeps the law, but he doesn't only keep the letter of the law. He goes far beyond it in spirit, displaying the protection and comfort and generosity of God Himself to Ruth. But we also see that Boaz is a redeemer. He's not only righteous, he's a redeemer. In verses 18 and following. Look down there with me. When Ruth gets home to Naomi, Naomi sees all the grain. She's floored. Where did you work today? Where did you get all this grain? Who took notice of you And Ruth tells her that she worked in the field that belonged to Boaz. Now remember, at the beginning of the chapter, the author sets up this whole chapter by telling us. That Naomi had a relative, a worthy man of the clan of Elimedech, named Boaz. So we're supposed to be watching out for this Boaz. Naomi has no idea that this is going on, right? We've got to step into her shoes. She's been home all day, likely nervously, anxiously waiting. Will Ruth find somewhere to work? And if she does, will she get hurt or taken advantage of? And because of how life has been going for her, for Naomi, her husband has died, her two sons have died, she's got to assume that the worst is also happening to Ruth. She's got to be thinking that. And then in bursts Ruth with a gigantic sack of grain. And not only does she have grain for them to make food, but she tells them tells Naomi that she worked with Boaz. And Naomi responds at the end of verse 20, look there. The man is a close relative of ours, one of our redeemers. At this point, Naomi's head would have to be spinning. Not only has my daughter-in-law come home safe. But she has abundant grain and she just so happened to work for one of my family's redeemers A Redeemer is someone who delivers or rescues one of the most important roles in Old Testament Israel In the Old Testament, God gave specific laws for redeemers. These were men who had the responsibility to act on behalf of a relative who was in need. Oftentimes a widow like Naomi and Ruth, who, if they also didn't have children, like Naomi and Ruth, were in a particularly vulnerable position. So the Redeemer was a super crucial role for these types of women. Who were in these situations. And so, according to God's law, a redeemer, a man from the husband's family, could accept the financial and social obligations of marrying the woman. providing for her and raising up children for her in order to deliver her from the curse of essentially being without a future or a hope. No one to carry on the lineage. God is abundantly providing for Ruth and Naomi's need Through the righteous Redeemer Boaz. But Ruth, too Is also a story about God's abundant provision for our need through a greater and more righteous. Redeemer. In the New Testament, the foreigner and the widow take on spiritual symbolic sym symbolic properties. They symbolize spiritual realities. Ever since Adam and Eve sinned against God and were cast out of his presence in the garden, All of mankind has been spiritually wandering in sin away from our homeland, away from the presence of God. Paul says in Ephesians 2 that all of the nations outside of Israel, all of the Gentiles, which if you are not of Jewish descent here today, that would be you and me. All of us are foreigners. We are foreigners from the nation of Israel and strangers to God, strangers to his covenant promises, and strangers to hope. We have no hope in the world. And because we were foreigners to God, we were without hope in the world. Spiritual widows like Ruth and Naomi, entirely in need of a redeemer to rescue and deliver us. From our hopeless circumstances. And God being rich in mercy And because of the great love with which he loved us, made us alive together with Christ. our true righteous Redeemer. Do you see how Boaz prepares us for Jesus in this chapter Jesus is the truly worthy man, the true, noble, valiant. trustworthy man, the truly righteous Redeemer who kept all of God's law. What does Peter tell us? There's no sin in his life He had never committed any sin, yet he took our sins and bore our punishment on the cross. We hear echoes of Jesus in this story if we listen closely. Like Boaz, Jesus repeatedly broke social norms to comfort and provide for foreign women and widows Think of the Canaanite woman whose daughter was possessed. Or the woman with an issue of blood. Or the women he took as disciples, taking women as disciples, that itself was a breaking of cultural conventions, but taking women who would live scandalous lives. Well, the Samaritan foreigner woman at the well, to whom he offers the water of eternal life. And we hear echoes of Boaz's generosity in Jesus' life Just as Boaz dines with the foreigner Ruth and gives her so much that she is satisfied and has some left over, so Jesus. Would miraculously feed thousands by multiplying bread and fish. And each time he did that, what do all of the gospel writers make sure to note for you and me? Everyone ate until they were satisfied and they had more to take home with them. Jesus is the true Boaz. We see even a picture here of Jesus' generous Last Supper with his disciples, sharing food with them, even though he knew that they would abandon him. Yet Jesus displayed an even more profound generosity than Boaz because he didn't just give us grain. He gave us his very life. And in giving his life, he redeemed us from the curse of the law Jesus is our righteous Redeemer through whom God has abundantly provided for our spiritual needs. We are Ruth Not buckling under the weight of a sack of grain, but under the abundant mercy and grace of God, who has given us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Think about the generosity of God towards us in the New Testament. In Him, we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace which he lavished upon us. He didn't look down and just say, you get a little, you get a little. I'm gonna give you, I'll give you a little bit more, even though you've continued to fail. No He lavishes grace on you and me. He says, come, come, come. Why will you not drink from my fountain? It is a Fountain of eternal life. I lavish my grace and mercy on all who would turn from their sins and trust in me. And once you repent and believe, I don't cut off the stream of grace. I continue to give it abundantly. He lavishes his grace on us. He who did not spare his own son. How will he not with him also graciously give us all things? All things buckling under the weight of his grace and mercy. That is you and me today if you've trusted in Jesus. How do we respond to this abundant generosity from God? Look at verse 10. Then Ruth fell on her face, bowing to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes? That you should take notice of me. Ruth is amazed by Boaz's loving kindness. How much more should we be amazed by God's favor that He's shown us There's there's a there's a a wow factor to God's love, isn't there? Wow He loves me. He loves you. Wow. Right? I mean, you know what you're like. I know what I'm like. There's no reason that God should love me, yet He loves me. Gave His own Son to die for me to rescue you and me from the curse of sin. And give us all things that we don't deserve. But he happily gives them. And he's building us up into the likeness of his son, Jesus Christ. It was a wow factor. Charles Spurgeon said this. He said, I can never cease to wonder that God has chosen me. I believe the doctrine of election because I am quite certain that if God had not chosen me, I should never have chosen him. And I am sure he chose me before I was born, or else he never would have chosen me afterwards. And he must have chosen me for reasons unknown to me. For I could never find in myself why he should have looked upon me with special love. Why have you shown us favor? That God has redeemed us should have a humbling effect on us, shouldn't it? How can we be quick to get angry with each other when God has been so kind to us? How can we be defensive towards one another when we agree with God that we're needy? How can we be so impatient towards others when God has been so patient towards us? How can we judge others for things that God doesn't judge us for God's abundant generosity should humble us, should a leavening effect on our relationships. And how we interact with one another. That humility should produce a meekness, not weakness, meekness. That seeks to so show generosity to others in light of the generosity we've been shown But this passage also has something specific to teach us, and I want to use this time to speak to the teenagers and kids. When we believe in Jesus, God begins working in us to make us more like Jesus. He sanctifies us. So that we start to think, act, and speak more like Jesus would. I bring that up because Boaz is a great illustration Of what it looks like to live like Jesus. To the young men and to the boys in the congregation today. Becoming more like Jesus will include for you using your strength to help and protect women. Did you notice how Boaz protects Ruth? Men in Boaz's day, just like today, use their strength to take advantage of women and hurt women But Boaz displays the righteousness of Christ by using his strength to help him protect Ruth. Growing in Christ-likeness means for you to use your strength to do the same. That means you should never hit your sisters. You should never wrongly take things from your sisters. You shouldn't hurt them with your words And I'm pointing this out now to you because the behavior that you practice now will spill over into your relationships with women in the future. And for all the youth, boys and girls alike, living like Jesus means caring for the needy, the lowly, the outcast. So in your circles of influence, whether it's at your school or in your neighborhood, you should be on the lookout for kids who are getting picked on. Or you uh you shouldn't join in with picking on kids. You shouldn't join in with the other kids who make fun of lowly or needy kids or kids who don't fit in. Now here's here's another way you can walk like Boaz as he walked like Christ. Not joining in those things would be keeping the letter of the law But you can display the abundant nature of God by becoming a protector to others. Not just not joining in, but standing up for them. Protecting them as God has protected you. Finally, we should consider Boaz's generosity. We've already pointed out how he didn't just obey the letter of the law He was only commanded to let her glean. But he gave her so much more than that. He gave her the best of his harvest. And then Ruth, having received in abundance, went home and shared all that she had been given with Naomi. Having received so much from God, how can we go above and beyond to use the resources God has given us to bless others Think about the different resources God has given you. They usually find fall into time resources, material resources, and then financial resources. How can you think about your resources going above and beyond to bless others with the blessing that you've received from God? No, I point that out only to encourage us because so many in this congregation, the stories that I hear, I get a bit of a butt behind-the-scenes look into what different people are doing. Y'all might not be aware of what's going on in other people's lives But I see so much work behind the scenes of people using their resources to bless others, to be generous to others, so that others might come to know God through his Son Jesus Christ. So I just want to encourage you With the generosity that you are already showing, continue to show it more and more. We have been given so much. More than we could ever comprehend. What does Paul pray for the Ephesians? That you and I would, that they would, and that we would have strength to comprehend what is the breadth and length and height and depth. Like you can't plumb the generosity God has shown us. But let's continue asking God for strength to know him more, to comprehend his goodness more, his generosity more. God abundantly provides for his needy people Through a righteous redeemer. Let's pray That is our prayer, Lord, that you would give us strength to comprehend What is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge I guess that means we'll never fully know it. It surpasses knowledge. But you can teach us. You can show us. We want to be like you. We thank you for redeeming us. We thank you for your love. We thank you for being a good God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.