Trailblazers, pioneers, innovators, trendsetters Who do you think of when you hear those words? So a couple names that come to mind for me. So I think of Michael Jackson. Trailblazer, right? Pioneer. Did things that people had never done in music and dance and combining the two and created you know an industry that followed him. Michael Jordan. A game changer in the game of basketball, right? I mean, right around the time that Jordan came, the game changed. He was a trailblazer, a pioneer. In the way that he played the game, he thought outside of the box and he caused other people to follow him. Steve Jobs. Right? Steve Jobs was a pioneer. Rather than just selling computers, Steve Jobs thought outside of the box. He sold a whole lifestyle. Right? The Apple world. It wasn't about, hey, just we have a computer for you that'll help you get done the things that you need to get done. It was no. We have something that will change your life. Look how sleek. this is look at the design come be a part of our tribe he was an innovator trendsetter a pioneer Right? And many of those people that we think of, right, we I'm sure we can come up with a list of that's that's long of people who are trailblazers and innovators and trendsetters. These are people who changed the world that we live in because they were willing to think outside of the box, to take a different approach to the ways that people were doing things. I wonder this morning, when you think of an innovator, a trailblazer, a trendsetter, do you ever think of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Does his name come anywhere on your list? Do you see him as a trendsetter? Well, I bring that up because what we're going to find in our passage this morning is that Jesus Christ thought outside of the box. Just as Steve Jobs said about building an empire and a kingdom, the Apple Kingdom. Jesus Christ came about building a different kind of kingdom. And what we're going to find in our passage this morning is that the approach that Jesus took was a surprising approach, he thought, outside. of the box. So let me encourage you to turn uh in your Bibles to Mark chapter 1, verses 14 to 20. If you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles around you, you're going to find our passage this morning. on page 836 of those Bibles. If you're not really all that familiar with using a Bible, uh no sweat with that, uh just open up to page 836. You want to look for the big number one. That's chapter one And then you'll see those smaller numbers that follow after that. Those are our verse numbers. And we're going to be reading verses 14 to 20 this morning. As you're turning there, as we're thinking about our text this morning, let's refresh ourselves on what we saw last week in the first 13 verses of our study in Mark, right? So you'll recall, if you were here, that the point of those verses was to correctly identify Jesus Christ as not a good moral man, not a great teacher, not a wise sage, but as the Son of God. Right? So we saw in those passages that Jesus' coming was predicted in the Old Testament, then it was prepared for through the ministry of John the Baptist. And then he was identified. The heavens parted. The Spirit came upon him, and the Father spoke. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Right, you might remember also that we talked about how Jesus is the true Israel. So just as Israel passed through the waters of the Red Sea and went out into the wilderness and were battled by Satan. Jesus went down into the waters of baptism, came up out of those waters, went out into the wilderness. But he was victorious over Satan. He is the true Israel, the great king. And Jesus, after his baptism comes into Galilee. And he comes into Galilee as a king seeking to build a kingdom with a message for the people. So let me go ahead and read the passage for you. us. What is this surprising way that Jesus would go about building his kingdom? Verses 14 to 20 of chapter 1. Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea. For they were were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him And going on a little farther, he saw James, the son of Zebedee and John, his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets, and immediately he called them And they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him. So how is Jesus a trendsetter? How is he an innovator? What we see in our passage is that Jesus chooses an utterly unique approach to building his kingdom. He comes building his kingdom through a surprising medium with a surprising message upon a surprising people, which gives way to a surprising response. You don't have to remember those all now. I'll state them more slowly. As we go along through that. But those are going to be our four points this morning. First, we see that Jesus comes building his kingdom using a surprising medium. Look at me at verses 14 and 15. We see that as quickly as he came onto the scene in Mark's gospel, John the Baptist is now moving off the scene. And he's moving off the scene in an ominous fashion. He's been arrested. Right, so we talked last week about his rock star status in the area around Israel. And yet it wasn't a rock star lifestyle that landed him behind bars. No, we learn later in the Gospel of Mark that he ends up being arrested because he tells a ruler of the land what he doesn't want to hear. He tells him that he's involved in an illegal marriage, and so that ruler is like, I don't want to I don't want to listen to this anymore because I have power over you, you're going into prison. So he puts John in prison. And yet John's arrest and disappearance from the scene in the Gospel of Mark sets the stage for the true star of Mark's Gospel, and that is Jesus, right? Jesus Christ is the star of Mark's gospel and no one else. Jesus arrives in Galilee to set out on his mission of building the kingdom of God. And how does he go about doing that? How does he go about doing that? He proclaims. He preaches. He proclaims the gospel of God at the outset of Jesus' public ministry. Jesus doesn't wow the crowds with miracles. He doesn't cause the sun to stop in the sky. He doesn't cause bread to fall from heaven to feed the people. He preaches. He preaches. You'll recall, even from our study last week, if you have your Bible open in front of you, look in verse 4. How did John appear baptizing in the wilderness? He appeared baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance. Right? So Jesus is taking up that surprising medium to build his kingdom. And as we study the book of Mark, we're going to find that preaching, proclaiming, and teaching form the foundation of Jesus' ministry. Preaching, proclaiming, and teaching form the foundation of Jesus' ministry. So if you have your Bible open, just look real quick. Look at me at chapter 1, verses 38 and 39. Verses 38 and 39. And he said to them, This is Jesus. Jesus speaking, let us go on to the next towns that I may preach there also, for that is why I have come. Why has Jesus come in the Gospel of Mark? To preach the gospel. Then look at chapter 2, verse 2. And many were gathered together so that there was no more room because he was was extremely famous, not even at the door. And what was he doing? And he was preaching the word to them. 15 times In 16 chapters of Mark's gospel, Mark is going to underscore and highlight Jesus' teaching ministry. He's gonna capture Jesus teaching and preaching. And we want to think about the structure of Mark's gospel. It's not often that we're we think about why has Mark put this right at the front of his gospel? Why is this the first thing that we see Jesus doing? And it's because Mark wants us to understand and see all of Jesus' work that comes after this scene as through the lens of his teaching. All the miracles, all the healings, all the amazing work that he does has to be seen through the lens of his preaching and teaching, or else we misunderstand who Jesus is. Right, so last year during the eclipse, Leah and I were driving home from Charlotte. How many of you were eclipse chasers last year? Raise your hands. We have two eclipse chasers. Akil a little bit? Stephen, did you travel to another part of the country? Well done. Kids, how many of you had eclipsed glasses? Raise your hands if you got eclipsed glasses, right? All right, so I want you to think of this illustration. This is what Mark is doing here. Last year, as Lee and I were driving home from Charlotte on our trip back, that was the day of the eclipse, my sister would give me a pair of those eclipse glasses. And I recall being in the car on the way home, I was disappointed that I wasn't going to be at a a great vantage point to see the eclipse. But we had a sunroof. Praise God for modern technology. So I looked up through the sun loop. Sunroof didn't have the glasses on. What did I see? I saw a a glowing hot ball of liquid magma, right? I mean I couldn't look at the sun. You're not supposed to look at the sun That might be why I'm still seeing spots to this day. Right? But then what happened? What happened when I put the glasses on? Well, I could actually look at the sun safely, I hope And when I looked at the sun, what did I see? I saw a perfect outline of the sun. There was no brightness to keep me from looking at it. I saw a perfect outline of it, and I could see the moon creeping right across the sun. Right? Those glasses are like Jesus' teaching. Right? When we look at Jesus' miracles and all his healings, it's kind of like staring at the sun. You can't really look right at it. You're not going to understand it right. But when you put the glasses of his teaching on, you begin to see, oh. All the miracles now make sense. Jesus is coming to declare his authority as the Son of God. He's coming to build his kingdom. He's coming to preach the good news. And why are the miracles and healings and all of that amazing stuff that Jesus is doing? Why are those things happening? To confirm the message that he's preaching. So that we see, oh, this message that he preaches of repentance and faith needs to be believed. The miracles aren't the point. The point is Jesus and his message. And it shouldn't surprise us that Jesus begins his public ministry with his word. He begins his public ministry with his word. Think of the pattern that we have laid down in Scripture already. How did God bring everything into existence in the beginning? By His Word. How did God God call and create His people in the Old Testament? By His Word His people in the Old Testament didn't live on the miraculous bread that fell from heaven, but they lived on every word that came from the mouth of God. It has always been and always will be that God's word creates, shapes, instructs, and sustains his people. Right, so I'm sure many of us are familiar with the equ with the quote attributed to St. Francis. Francis, whether you know it's from St. Francis or not, right? You've heard this line, preach the gospel at all times. Use words if necessary Right, not only is it almost certain that St. Francis never said this, but it's missing the point. Right? You can't preach the gospel without words. Yes, you should live a life of good deeds. You should live a life that displays the effects of the gospel. That's what that quote gets right. But you cannot preach the gospel without Words, right? Think of what the Bible says about faith. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. So saving faith requires hearing. Hearing requires someone speaking, and speaking requires using words. We cannot preach the gospel without words. We have to preach the gospel. So if you're here and you're not sure that you're a follower or if you're a follower of Jesus, or maybe you know that you're not a follower of Jesus, I'm really glad that you're here, but I want you to think about this. I'm guessing that you may think or you may know other people who think that Christians are self-righteous because we preach at you. These people, they're always preaching at me. Why do they keep preaching at me? Well, if there's ever been an instance in your life where someone who is a Christian, who's following Jesus, has been rude to you, has been disrespectful in the way that they go about preaching the gospel, I want to say I'm sorry for that We are a broken people. We are a prideful people. We of all people shouldn't be self-righteous, but we are from time to time. And I am sorry for that. I do the same thing. But what I want you to think about is that I hope you don't immediately conclude that any Christian who wants to talk to you about Jesus is self-righteous. Right? Because in wanting to talk to you about following Jesus, we're merely following the pattern that Jesus laid down in Scripture. for us. He taught us to follow in his footsteps, to be a people who tell others about him and tell others what he's done. And I'm willing to bet, if you think about this Right? I'm willing to bet if you're if we're just thinking about life and how we come to know what we know, just consider this. I'd say that you already know from experience that coming to believe something in tr is true. Requires listening to somebody present a case for why it's true, right? None of us was born believing what we believe. Unless you were, you might be, you know, a special case who came into the world with a full set of beliefs, but none of us is born believing what we believe. Right? We are all taught what we believe. And to be taught it, we have to be told it and we have to be willing to listen to it. So I wonder if you're willing to listen to a case for why Jesus Christ is worth following. And if you're not willing to listen to a case for why Jesus Christ is worth following, I just ask you why. Why not hear it out? Why not listen to why Jesus Christ is worth following? I'm sure those things that you believe in your life, you believe them because you were persuaded by the arguments for it and you saw good evidence for it If you're one of those people, I'd encourage you to keep coming back for this study in the Gospel of Mark, right? Because throughout the Gospel of Mark, Jesus Jesus is going to provide you with good evidence for why he really is the Son of God. And not only is gonna is he gonna provide good evidence, but he's gonna provide persuasive arguments. So if you're not sure if there's a God, if you're not sure if Jesus Christ really is God, please keep coming back. We'd invite you to come back and listen to his teaching and watch what he does throughout this study in the Gospel of Mark. Right? What he's going to do throughout this gospel is to persuade through preaching, proclaiming, and teaching, which is a surprising medium for building a kingdom. But not only does Jesus use a surprising medium to build his kingdom, he delivers a surprising message. Look again at verses 14 and 15 in your Bibles Jesus comes proclaiming the gospel of God. The word gospel literally means good news. So this is a message of good news that he brings. And the message of good news that Jesus is proclaiming is that the time is fulfilled. Right? This statement is loaded with meaning. This is a baked potato with all of the fixings on top of it. He can't fit any more meaning into this statement than he's already fit in with it, right? The word that Mark uses for time there, the time is fulfilled, doesn't refer to chronological time. in terms of like second by second passing. What he's referring to is a history-altering event. Jesus is saying that in his arrival a history-altering event is occurring. So Jesus himself, he is the hinge upon which the door of history swings. One of the things I hope to impress upon you as we go about studying the Bible in the years to come as members of CBC is to show you how prophetic the entire Old Testament is. The whole Old Testament from Genesis to Malachi. is pointing us forward. It's saying, look forward to the latter days, to the last days, to the time to come when God would fulfill his promise from Genesis 3 verse 16. To send a king who would crush the serpent's head, to bring judgment on the earth, and to restore and redeem his people. And that forward-looking time, those last days, those latter days, have come in Jesus Christ. He is ushering in those last days. And not only is the time fulfilled, but in his arrival, the kingdom of God has come And his coming. The idea of a coming kingdom would have been richly embedded in the Jewish culture that Jesus grew up in. But what they thought about the kingdom and what Jesus taught about the kingdom were two very different things. So the people in the Jewish culture, the Jewish people at the time were expecting from the Old Testament manuscripts, from the Old Testament scriptures, they were expecting a king. A physical king who would come and set up his rule on earth, and that he would establish a kind of a a Jewish geopolitical dominance in the world. That's what they're expecting. And we're even going to see this misunderstanding later in the gospel. So these disciples that Jesus calls later in our passage this morning, we'll see them later in the Gospel of Mark misunderstanding this because they say to Jesus, hey, when you come to power, let us sit at your right hand. Because they think they are going to come to power as well. They expect Jesus to set up an earthly kingdom, but that's not what he's doing. He's declaring that in his arrival a new kingdom has come, but this kingdom won't be limited to one location. It won't be limited to one people. Entrance into this kingdom won't be by birth. Instead, the citizens of this kingdom will be those people who respond to Jesus' surprising message and then and the demands that he makes in his message. And what are those demands? Look at our passage. Since the time is fulfilled, and since the kingdom of God is at hand, Jesus calls everyone to repent And believe in this good news. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, declares to all men everywhere, all people and all nations to repent and believe this good news, that the time is fulfilled and the Savior has come. Right? Repentance. We talked about this some last week in our passage, right? Repentance means to turn around, to go the opposite direction that you're headed in. You might ask yourself, what's wrong with the direction that I'm that I'm headed in? Right? Why do I need to turn from that direction? Well, Jesus teaches what the whole Bible teaches And what he teaches is that from the beginning, our first parents, the very first humans, they chose not to obey God. They rejected his rule and turned from him. They chose to serve themselves. They chose to be rulers of their own lives. God was their king when he created them But when they disobeyed him and they fell and brought sin and the curse upon the world, they were choosing in essence to be their own kings, their own queens, rather than following him. And all humans that have ever been born since them. That means all of us. And all people in this town and all people in this state and all people in this nation and all people in this world, all of us in our hearts are self-sovereigns. We are self-rulers. All of us has rejected God's rule in our lives and has changed chosen to rule ourselves. That's what the Bible calls sin. And Jesus is saying, turn around. Turn around. Turn back to God. The way that you're going is gonna lead to judgment. Repent, turn around. If you know the story, I brought this up last week. If you know the story of the prodigal son, that is a beautiful picture of repentance. The prodigal son finally finds himself with the pigs eating their food and he says, what am I doing? This isn't what God made me to do. And he turns around and he returns. turns to his father. But he doesn't only tell them to repent, does he? He also says that they need to believe the gospel. The gospel is the good news that even though we've all rejected God as our King and chosen to rule ourselves, God has been gracious and merciful. And God sent his son into the world, Jesus Christ, to live a perfect life. The life that neither you nor I have lived, but we should have lived. And then he died upon the cross to bear the punishment in our place for our sins. Jesus took our punishment. And after he was dead and buried, he got up from the grave. He laid down his own life and he had power to take it up again. Look, he got up from the grave What other evidence do you need that he is the Son of God? And if he got up from the grave, why wouldn't you listen to this message that he's proclaiming? Repent and believe the good news. Right? This is what the message that Jesus teaches. Kids, I want you to think about this. It's important. I'm confident that as you guys are learning from your parents what it means to follow Jesus, it's important to recognize what Jesus means by believe. It's important to recognize what Jesus means by belief. The type of belief that Jesus is talking about isn't just knowing facts. It isn't just knowing that he's the Son of God. the third person of the Trinity. It isn't just knowing that he came to take my place, right? But it's it's belief that leads to action It's belief that leads to action. So I want you to imagine something with me, kids. Imagine that we are on a giant plane and we're flying. Where are we flying to? You guys pick. Where do you want to fly to? Paris. We're on a giant plane and we are flying to Paris. Well done, Claire. Right? So we're flying on this gigantic plane, and all of a sudden. There's a problem with the engines. Both engines go out. I hope this doesn't terrify you. This won't end bad. Both engines go out. But what's amazing about this plane is about that that this plane has come custom fitted with parachutes for every passenger. Praise God, right? It's come custom fitted with parachutes for every passenger. Now I want to ask you, if you're on that plane Are you going to look at the parachute and say, I believe this is a parachute? I believe that if I put it on and I pull the string, it will open. and help me to safely fall to land. Are you just going to look at that parachute and recite those facts until the plane hits the ground? No. What are you going to do? You're gonna put the parachute on. You show that you believe that the parachute has the power to save you from this plane that's fallen from the sky by putting it on and jumping and pulling the cord. It's that type of belief that Jesus is talking about. It's not just knowing things about Jesus. It's It's putting Jesus on, resting by faith in him. It's not just that you know that he's the son of God. If he is the son of God, then I'm gonna commit my ways to him. I trust that he has paid for all of my sins and I'm going to follow him. You don't just look at the parachute. You put the parachute on. what Jesus is calling you to do. So just think about that in the week to come, kids. And what's surprising is that when we do put on Jesus, when we do put him on, God will forgive us. And he'll give his spirit to us to help us follow him. And in doing that, God surprisingly builds his kingdom. A kingdom that he builds with a surprising medium, a surprising message, and third, a surprising people. After coming into Galilee proclaiming that the kingdom of God had arrived, Jesus goes in search of people to fill his kingdom. And so at the time Galilee was the home I I think some people think of Galilee as being this like gentle, quiet country place that Jesus went and And not much was going on, but that's not what Galilee was. It was the home of a thoroughly cosmopolitan population. So in Galilee, you would have found Syrians. You would have found Jews, you would have found Romans, you would have found Parthians, so it was a bustling mini metropolis. There were lots of people there, and it would have been bustling with important people because Galilee sat in between the coastline of Tyre and Sidon, and it sat between kind of the eastern kingdoms that used to be would have been Babylon or Assyria. I can't even think of what they would have been in Jesus' day, but it sits right at the crossroads. And so what's happening? Important people, diplomats, are crossing through Galilee, going to the coast. Merchants are coming from the coast, bringing their goods inland. So there would have been lots of important people in Galilee, lots of influential people, people with money. Does Jesus go to those people? You would think if he was wise and he wanted to build his kingdom, that's he would who he'd pursue. But Jesus, like we said, he's a trendsetter. He's thinking outside of the box. Look where he goes in verse 16. He goes to the Sea of Galilee and starts with four fishermen. Way to blow it, Jesus, right from the beginning, right? This is what you're supposed to think when you start this like fishermen You're gonna start the kingdom of God with four fishermen? What are you crazy? Go to the city. Get the diplomats. Get the people who are wealthy. But God's ways are not our ways. He knows more than us. And look at what Jesus did. Verse 16, he sees Simon and Andrew casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then in verse 17, he calls them to follow him. Then again in verse 19, look, going on a little farther, he sees James and John mending their nets. He calls them as well. Jesus starts building his kingdom with Fishermen. Fishermen. Right? These men were not the prized of society. They weren't the rich. They weren't the powerful. They weren't the famous. They weren't the ones that you would expect Jesus to start with. That's the point of what's going on here. And then look at the job that Jesus says he has for them in his kingdom. He says in verse, where is it, verse 17? Verse 17, I will make you become fishers of men. The image of fishers of men comes straight out of the Old Testament. So I didn't realize this until I started studying it. I don't know if you realize this. I think At least I thought fishers of men just he's just using a play on words and he's saying you're gonna go from catching fish to catching people. And while that may be partially true, the image of fishers of men comes straight out of the Old Testament From the book of Jeremiah and other places to be fishing for men in the Old Testament was a picture of judgment. So God in the Old Testament is portrayed as a fisher of men. He says he's going to send fishers of men to gather people for judgment. But Jesus is taking that image and he's flipping it on his head and he's describing this work that these men are going to set out to do to be those who rescue men for judge from judgment, from salvation. So think about to fish for men, he's saying you're gonna pull them out of the water to be fishing for men in Jewish symbolism. The waters were a place of coldness, darkness, chaos, and judgment, right? So to be a fisher of men is to rescue people. out of that chaos, out of that judgment. And as the New Testament unfolds, we find that the way that they're going to fish for men and the way that we fish for men is by doing what Jesus did, by telling others. about the kingdom of God, calling them to repent and believe the good news. Right? And listen, there's no way for people to be saved unless they hear or read this message. Right? So we need to think about that for our own lives. Some of you may have heard, this is something that I heard growing up. It's that famous sports maxim. You miss 100% of the shots you never take, right? You miss 100% of the shots you don't take. That holds true in our evangelism. That holds true. As we think about sharing the gospel with others, you will never be a fisher of men if you don't fish for men. You miss 100% of the shots you don't take. You can't catch what you don't fish for. And all of us, Jesus is calling all of us who follow him, men, women, and children, all of us who follow him to be fishers of men. This is something that not just some of us do, but all of us. But here's what I want you to be encouraged by in this passage. I don't want you to just think, gosh, I'm not doing a good job. I need to do this more. I need to be sharing the gospel more. Here's what I want you to be encouraged by in this passage. Jesus isn't burdening you with more commands here. He's not burdening you with a job that you just need to do now. Right? This isn't something, this isn't about you buckling down and committing to share the gospel more, though that's a fine thing to do if you want to do it. This is about all of us recognizing that when Jesus speaks and wants a person to listen, he will open their ears and cause them to listen. I mean look at the passage. Follow me and they go. Follow me. It's about his word having the power to open people's ears and eyes to hear the gospel. So what I want you to be encouraged by this morning as you think about fishing for people, it doesn't depend on you. It's not about how persuasive you are. It's not about how how how awesome you are and how much the person likes you. It's not about you even needing to have anything in common with the person. It's about the fact that when God wants to open a person's ears to hear the gospel, nothing in the world can stop it So why wouldn't we want to share the gospel with everyone we meet? God is the one who works salvation. It's not up to us. How freeing is that? How freeing is that? So we think about fearing. I don't I don't I just I fear sharing the gospel. I struggle with that same fear. But what gives me the most comfort is not I'm just gonna do it, it's God is in control. God has the power to open hearts. God has the power to open ears. When God speaks and he wants somebody to listen, it happens. And he does that work. Let that freedom fuel your evangelism. Let that freedom fuel your evangelism. Not only that, I want you to also be encouraged by one other thing that we see in this past. that I think we can just quickly move right over. Right? So just as it's certain that these men had to learn how to become actual fishermen, they would also have to learn to become fishers of men. It didn't happen overnight. It didn't happen overnight. Look at what the verse says. Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. I will make you become fishers of men. Jesus is going to take these disciples on a journey. And Jesus' work on them in that journey and through that journey is what is going to make them them fishers of men. And that journey started as soon as they began following him. But here's what you need to know about this that journey. These disciples had no clue where Jesus was actually going to take them. They had no clue where Jesus was actually going to take them. They thought following Jesus was going to be from going from good to better to great to greatest. They were going to ascend in his earthly kingdom. They thought following, if this is the Messiah, if this is the one that the Lord has chosen to set up his rule, this is going to be a great Great journey. Surely we'll become follow we'll become your followers and trust in you and become fishers of men. But what happens to these disciples within the course of a few years? What happens to them? They would be opposed. They would face trials. They'd fight with one another. another. They'd fail. They'd betray Jesus. Think of Peter? Denied him three times. Right? Think of where this journey took these disciples This was a journey that Jesus was taking them on that was completely unexpected that he was using to make them fishers of men. And listen, it's the same for us, right? When we choose to follow Jesus, we're choosing to take a journey that simply cannot be predicted. The course is not laid out right in front of us. The Lord does not work the way that we work, right? He is a trendsetter. He's not going to do what we think he should do. We should expect the unexpected on this journey. When you start to follow Jesus, you have no idea where where he's going to take you. He'll take you into some of the hardest land spiritually. that you've ever been through. He will take you into a spiritual wilderness. He'll lead you up to mountains sometimes, let you see his glory. But often in the Christian life, you're down in the the valley. The clouds are over you. You can't see where you're going. You're going to face suffering. You're going to face trials. He's going to break you of your pride. He's going to break you of your self-screen. centerness, he'll humble you, and he's going to do all of this so that you would become a fisher of men. Now you may think that that Jesus can do that work in other people's lives, but not yours, right? That's not the journey he has you on. But I just want you to, if you think that, just Look at this text. Do you realize? Do you realize that the world that we live in today, in large part, is the way that it is, because of four fishermen? Jesus took four fishermen, these guys, provincial little lives, just traveling back and forth to the Sea of Galilee. I'm just gonna drag my nets out here again, cast them out in the sea again, gonna gather them again, gonna go back, I'm gonna sell the fish again. He took four men From the country of Galilee, and he changed the world and the course of history through them. Do you think that God can't empower you? to change lives by becoming a fisher of men. Look at Simon. Look at Andrew. Look at James. Look at John. Simon, we know Miss Peter goes on to be the pastor of the church in Rome. John goes on to pastor a church in Ephesus, one of the most bustling and big metropolises of his day. Four fishermen. Can he use you and me? Well, by his power, he can do anything he wants. Four fishermen is who he chooses. Friends, he can use us to be fishers of men if he can use them. Jesus can take anyone and use them to change the world and in building his kingdom, Jesus uses a surprising people. Finally, we see that Jesus is building his kingdom Through a surprising response. Look at verses 17 and 18. Jesus called Simon and Andrew to follow him in verse 17. Then we read in verse 18, and immediately they left their nets and followed him. Then again, in verse 20, after he calls James and John to follow him, he says, They left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him. And not only is the fact that they followed him surprising, notice what it is that they gave up. Simon and Andrew give up their net. They leave behind their nets, that is their livelihood, their jobs, and then James and John leave behind their father, their family. So their livelihoods and their families are what they leave behind to follow Jesus. This is no small thing that they are forsaking to follow him Right, so leaving their father behind, leaving their family behind to follow Jesus, and then leaving their father behind. Think about what James and John are forfeiting. They're likely forfeiting their inheritance. So many sons in this day would have taken over businesses for their fathers. And so in leaving their father, they're also saying, we are leaving the family business. And socially, this would have had implications for James and John and for Zebedee. To have your sons just get up and leave you like that and forsake their inheritance would have brought shame on Zebedee. It would have brought shame on him. But this surprising response is what the call to discipleship and the call to following Jesus looks like. This immediate willingness to follow Jesus and to forsake all is the transforming effect of the power of the gospel and the authority of Jesus Christ, that when you hear the gospel and God awakens faith in your heart, He's calling you to whole-hearted, undivided, utterly committed trust in Him. That's what their response shows us. It shows us that in principle, Jesus calls all of us to abandon all earthly allegiances to follow him. So if you're here today and you're considering what it means to follow Jesus, but you know that it means that you'll have to upset your family for doing Maybe you come from a religious background where following Jesus would be something that brings shame on you, or that following Jesus would have implications for your work. Or that it means following Jesus would would mean that you have to give up other ways of living. You know, you know that there are certain behaviors and things that you're doing in life that you'll have to give up to follow him. Right? And that's preventing you from wanting to follow him. Well, I need you to know you have to recognize that Jesus is calling you to count following him as more valuable than all of those things. He is counting you, he's calling you to count following him as more valuable than all of those things. So if you're here Today. And this is the first time that you're hearing the gospel message and you're hearing about following Jesus. Or you've heard about him before and you're thinking about what it means to follow him. I want to ask you today: what is it in your life that would prevent you from following Jesus today. What is that thing? What is that thing that you know you just can't give up? What is that thing that you just can't give up? Maybe it's something as serious as choosing to follow Jesus in spite of family opposition. That's no laughing matter. You have to count the cost to following Jesus? Or could it be that you just don't want to give up control? You just don't want to give up being in charge of your life. Recognizing that there is another Lord. You'd prefer to be the boss of your own life. Well, I want to ask you, whatever that thing is that prevents you from being willing, to follow Jesus Christ that you're unwilling to give up? I wonder, is it providing for you the joy and the fulfillment that you thought it would Are those things pro are those things that you're unwilling to give up providing you with the joy that you thought they would? Or are you finding that that you're still looking for something more. Friend, if your heart is restless, if your heart is restless, your heart will be restless until it finds. It's rest in God. Only He can provide the hope and joy and fulfillment that our hearts so desperately long for. And he provides that through Jesus Christ. And listen, here's the encouraging thing for you. If you're considering what it means to count all as lost and to follow Jesus, Jesus isn't calling you to something that he himself hasn't already done. He doesn't call his people to endure what he hasn't endured. So if you're feeling the sting of having to give up things to follow Jesus, know that he understands more than anyone what it what that's like. Because in coming to rescue you from the waters of judgment, to be the chief fisher of men, think about what Jesus gave up He gave up the riches of heaven and fellowship with the Father to come and rescue us. Think about what the Apostle Paul says: for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake He became poor, so that by his poverty you might become rich. What will move you to become a person who will give up all to follow Jesus? What will move you to be a person who will give up all to follow Jesus? Meditating on what Christ was willing to give up to come. And give up his life for you. Consider what Jesus gave up to secure your salvation. Consider that Jesus gave up the riches of heaven and fellowship with the Father to come and pursue you. And I for salvation. What is our money that we can't give it up for the gospel? Considering what Christ has done, what he would forsake for us, what is our money that we can't give it up for the gospel? What is our schedule that we can't change it to pursue others? Consider what Christ has done for us. The Christian life is all about sacrifice, but it's not about you going around hunting now. for things that you need to forsake in your life to follow Jesus. It's about you following Jesus, not turning to the right, not turning to the left, obeying his commandments Trusting in his will and believing that as you continue in his footsteps through faith-fueled, grace-fueled obedience, that when God brings you to a place in life, that he calls you to forsake something that is dear to you. He will also provide you the power to do it, just like he does to these disciples. The surprising response that we see in our passage was brought about by Jesus' power and his power would continue to sustain these disciples throughout the course of their lives, just as his power will continue to sustain you throughout your course until he calls you home. It's a surprising approach to building a kingdom, isn't it? Most surprising of all is how Jesus would make it possible for broken people like you and me to enter this kingdom. The passage this morning even foreshadows this surprising event. Look again at verse 14. It says, after Jesus was arrested That word that's translated arrested is translated elsewhere in this letter as handed over. John was handed over. It foreshadows a time when Jesus himself would be handed over to the authorities When he would be wrongly charged, when he'd be murdered. And in that death upon the cross, surprisingly, God in the flesh was dying for the sins of all mankind, for all who would turn from their sins, who would repent and believe and trust in Him. And three days after he died, he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death and hell, and he calls all people everywhere to repent and believe the good name. News. He calls all people into his kingdom. It's a surprising approach, isn't it? Jesus is the trailblazer. Jesus is an innovator. But only Jesus has created a kingdom. Kingdom that will never end. Heavenly Father, we come to you now in the name of your Son Jesus Christ, and we give thanks to you, Father We give thanks to you for empowering us to follow you, for giving us grace to forsake all, to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. If there are those who are here today who are considering what it means to follow Jesus, Lord, I pray that you would awaken faith in their hearts, that you would help them to know what it means, to repent and believe. It's only by your power that any man is saved. We ask, oh God, in your grace and your mercy, that you would cause that to happen today. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, considering this great kingdom that is at hand and is coming, Christians can know that we have complete confidence that that kingdom will come. We have an inheritance that is imperishable, that will never fade. And because of that, we can say today, even in the midst of trials and suffering, that it is well with our souls. Let's stand together and sing our final hymn on page eight of your bulletins. Let's sing.