The sermon passage for this morning is 2 John. The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth. Because of the truth that abides in us and be with us forever. Grace and mercy and peace be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, in truth and love. I rejoice greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear lady. Not as though I were writing to you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments. And this is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such as one is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, or give him any greeting. For whomever greets him takes part in his wicked works Though I have much to write to you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to come to you and talk face to face. so that our joy may be complete. The children of your lect sister greet you. This is God's word. Good morning, friends. Grateful to bring God's word to you. I'm continuing in my series of like whole Bible book. Sermons. Picked a really long one today, 2 John. Alright, raise your hand. If you're familiar with this distinction that people sometimes make between Say being a truth person and being kind of like a relational or loving person. Like you guys know that distinction sometimes? People make what's the idea there? The idea is that love and truth are a little bit at odds with one another, right? They're kind of foes in a way. So a truth person can kind of be severe and harsh, how about the truth? Whereas a relational love person is a little softer, a little friendlier. We have those stereotypes in our heads, right? And I think these days that dichotomy might even be a bit stark, more stark as we as we talk about trigger warnings and safe spaces, right? So if you're going to talk about something that you think is truth, you better give me a trigger warning. Or I'm going to be offended. Might be triggered. Right? And I think we can talk about churches this way as well. You think of those truth churches Or people will talk about kind of more relational. Oh, it's a really loving church. That's not one of those truth churches. Truth churches major in apologetics. Doctrine, preaching, evangelizing, love churches, love and relational churches focus on counseling and fellowship and Recovery groups, maybe good works like soup kitchens. What do you think? Let me admit up front Love and truth, or truth and love, can sometimes feel like they're not. They can be foes. So you might think about the people who love truth, but somehow they don't seem to do a good job of loving people, right? Uh think about the pastor who knows his theology, but he's not the most relational person. Or think about the husband who can tell you everything the Bible says about you know headship But he doesn't do a good job of living with his wife in an understanding way. And at the same time, we know that some people are wonderfully sensitive love people, relational people, but maybe they're a little fearful of of stating hard truths, right? So they're they're wonderfully sensitive to visitors, but they're not so much going to talk about doctrinal distinctives. Or when they sit down with you, they give you a really warm, empathetic ear, they just have a hard time kind of stating the truth that needs to be stated. I think, however, when we stop and think about it, we all know that this is a false dichotomy. We all know at some level that truth and love are not foes. Truth and love are friends. It's not loving to deny someone the truth We want to build our relationships on truth. At the same time, who do you want to hear truth from? Well, you want to hear truth from somebody who you know loves you. You can hear truth from somebody who loves you in a way you can't hear truth from someone who you're not convinced don't trust does love you. Right? Truth and love are friends. Truth and love are to work together. Well, the book of 2 John, which uh Arika just read for us, turn there if you haven't already. You can find it on page 1025. In the chair Bibles, 2 John insists on this very thing, on the inseparability, on the partnership. between truth and love. John is writing to a church who has been encountering false teachers. They've been teaching untruths. And John responds, interestingly, not just by asserting the truth, though he does that. He responds to untruth by asserting love. Hey, if you if you guys love each other, don't you want the truth? How he responds. Let's let's walk through the text. quickly again just make some observations. I'm going to draw out four different commands and then we're going to meditate on those four commands. So look there, verse 1, the elder That's John. He seems to be acting in a capacity not so much as apostle as as an elder of one church to another. The elder to the elect lady and her children. Who is this elect lady and children? Well, that's that's a church. It's referring to a church. Okay? The elder to the lect lady and her children, whom I love in truth. Interesting phrase, love and truth. Not only I, but also all who know the truth Okay, so those who know the truth love each other in that truth. Because of, why? Well, because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. Okay, that's that's interesting. You uh you have a group of people gathered around truth and that truth is the foundation of their love. That's that's different In a lot of the organizations we have today. Why do we gather with people today? Well, we gather because we have a common interest, a common ambition. But here John is saying, well, no, we're a people who love each other because of the truth. Okay, and so then he goes from the greeting in verse 3 now to a blessing. Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, in truth And love. Two things to notice. He's asserting Jesus as God's son. That's the very thing we'll see. It's contested. And he's asserting also, interestingly, did you notice grace, mercy, and peace, how will those come? Grace, mercy, and peace will come in truth and love. We receive grace, mercy, and peace through truth and love. Okay, then now look at verses 4 to 11, what we have here Or the body of the letter. And what we're going to see is one observation, verse 4, and then we're going to see four different commands that he gives us. Okay? Look at verse 4. I rejoice greatly to find some of your children, some, apparently not all, some of your children walking in the truth. What are Christians? Christians are people who walk in the truth. Just as we were commanded by the Father. Okay, so in the same way there's a relationship between truth and love, there's also a relationship between truth and obedience. We were walking in truth as commanded. Okay? And then verses 5 and 6 we get our first command. And now I ask you, dear lady, Not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning, the beginning of what? Well, at least since they first heard the gospel Maybe since John received this gospel from Jesus and began to preach it, we've heard this from the beginning. I ask you now, dear lady, that we love. One another. What's the first command that he gives us? Love one another. Okay. Well, how do we love one another? Keep reading, verse 6. And this is love. That we walk according to his commandments. This is his commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. Okay, so command one, love one another by Walking in Christ's commandments. That's the first that we see. And then look at verses 7 and 8, and we're going to get a second command there. For many deceivers What's the connection? Well, remember, verse 4, he rejoiced in walking in truth and love, and that they were walking the truth. But now, I'm gonna warn you, many deceivers Many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist. Okay, so there's these group of Christian teachers who have gone out and they're teaching a false thing. What are they teaching? That Jesus Christ has not come in the flesh, that Jesus is not the son of God. And notice the movement from deceivers to deceiver. Antichrist, singular. What's that? Well the deceiver, the Antichrist, if we look to the rest of Scripture, is this in time Almost supernatural figure who comes to oppose God's people But it seems these deceivers, these teachers, are now doing the work of that one. Yet interestingly, everywhere else in Scripture, save first and second John Those deceivers are coming, that Antichrist comes from outside of the church, whereas here they're coming from inside of the church. They're claiming to be Christians Keep your finger here. Flip back a few pages to 1 John 2. Look at verse 18. Children, it is the last hour, and you have heard the Antichrist, singular, is coming. So now many Antichrists Many of these false teachers have come. Therefore, we know that it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out from us, that it might be plain that they are not of us. Okay, so it seems that it's possible to be inside of a church, to believe the right things, to be a Christian. But then to have somebody come and teach you a false thing, to forsake that teaching, and to expose that you were never really a Christian at all. And so what does John say in light of that possibility? Look at verse 8, back in our text. Watch yourselves. He doesn't say, watch the deceivers, he says, watch yourselves. Why? Well, because you can be led astray. You can be, we can be. tempted and led astray. Watch yourselves. What's the second commandment he gives us? Watch yourselves. Why do we watch ourselves? Keep reading, so that we may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward. Again, just because you're a member of a church now, doesn't mean you will persevere to the end and be saved And so John is warning us of that. Okay, so command one, love each other by keeping Christ's commands, verses five and six. Command 2, verses 7 and 8, watch yourselves lest these Christian teachers deceive and destroy you. And then look at verse 9. We find a ninth, at least implicit, command. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. So if you abide In the right teaching, the right truth, you have the Father and the right and the Son. And if you have the Father and the Son, that means you are abiding in the truth. You are abiding in right teaching. What's command three here Hold on to right truth, right? Hold on to right teaching. And then we get a fourth command in verses 10 and 11. Look there again. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house. Or give him any greeting. For whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works. That is, if anyone comes to you claiming to be a Christian, Christian teacher, But does not have this teaching that Jesus is God's Son, that he is fully God, that he is fully man, that he has come to make an atonement for our sins through his death. and resurrection, do not give him any greeting. Do not receive him into your house. And and house here probably refers to church. Remember this is a letter to the lady and her children. And the word house here probably refers to the church. Do not receive him into your fellowship. For, why? For whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works. Okay, so we have we have four commands. In the body of this letter, Command 1, verses 5 and 6, love one another by keeping Christ's teaching. Command 2, watch yourselves. Lest these Christian teachers deceive and destroy you. Command 3. Hold on to right teaching. And command four, don't welcome false teachers into your fellowship. Don't welcome false teachers into your fellowship. And then we get Paul's final or John's final greetings here in verses 12 and 13. Though I have much to write you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to come to you and talk face to face. Good pastor, right? I want to talk to you face to face. I want to be with you Why again, so that our joy may be complete. I rejoiced at hearing of these things. My joy will be complete by seeing you face to face and witnessing these things for myself. And then concluding, the children of your elect sister greet you. My church, as an elder of my church, wants to greet you and your church. Okay, that's That's the letter of 1 John. That's a quick summary. What's the point of 2 John? Well, it's a warning, right And it's a warning against these false teachers who say that Jesus is not the Son of God. Who say that Jesus has not come in the flesh. He is not fully God and fully man. So it is a warning against those who teach false things about the gospel and appealing to them in love and their love for each other to hold on to this truth Okay, that's the point of 2 John. Holding on to truth requires us to love each other. Holding on to the truth of the gospel. requires us to love each other in the gospel. And what I'd like to do in the remainder of our time is meditate on these four different commands that He has. Given us, okay? Command one, verses five and six, command one, love one another by keeping Christ's commands Love one another by keeping Christ's commands. Verse 5, I ask you church to love one another, and we do this, verse 6, by keeping Christ's commandments. Now suppose I just stopped with verse five. Love one another. That would be a very easy thing to say in our culture today, right? People in our culture today love love. But love in our culture today is helping people to discover themselves define themselves, create themselves, express themselves. Love in our culture today never corrects Never judges, never insists on objective truth out there. Rather, the only truth is being true to yourself. Right? Now, if my daughter's understanding of love depended entirely on Disney princess movies, I think this is what they would think love is. Now I'm a father of four, you know that. I think I've a right for a moment just to pick on Disney Princess movies, okay? Think of Ariel. There she is, determined to love whom she wants to love, even though, well, he's a man, but I'm a mermaid. Or think of Belle. What does Belle do? Belle wants to define herself against anything that the village would impose on her and kind of define her own way and find love as she would have it. And then of course we have Elsa. Elsa from Frozen, who boldly sings, no right, no wrong, no rules for me, I'm free from the hit single, Let It Go. Now I'm not saying all of the things in these movies are all bad, okay? I like the movies. I'll admit it to you I just want you to notice the emphases, notice the focus of what's going on here. It's the same kind of love that cropped up in every single movie and every after school special and every love song that I heard growing up. From Dead Poet Society to Dating Myself Stings, if you love someone, set them free Right? That's what love in our culture is. Helping people to know themselves and be true to themselves and then express themselves. In fact, I dare say it say the LGBT revolution in the early two thousands never would have happened or gained such quick popularity if we'd not first, as a people, as a culture, redefined what love is. Heart plus heart equals marriage. They love each other. Who's going to stand in the way of love? Well, what do you mean by love? Well, letting me be myself, and not hindering me, not imposing your truth, your morality on me in any sort of way. Now the irony, of course, is we know that such love does correct, does judge. It does even excommunicate. If you don't love me and who I know I am, and if you don't love me, let me love who I want to love, well then you're a hater. You're a bigot, you're intolerant. I cannot have communion. I will excommunion you. Such love does judge, it does correct, it does even excommunicate, but it's the different kind of love. Is it possible that we as Christians need a radical reorientation of what love is? See, in the Bible, love leads to obedience. I'm giving you a flowchart. Pretend there's a whiteboard here. I'm giving you a flowchart. Love leads to obedience. And obedience is a sign of love. Love leads to obedience And obedience is a sign of love. Isn't that what John is telling us here? Jesus says the same thing of himself. Listen to what Jesus says. He says, I do as the Father has commanded me So that the world may know I love the Father. I do as He commands me. Love creates obedience. So that the world may know I love the Father Love leads to obedience. Obedience is a sign of love. And it's the same thing he says about us. Jesus says, whoever has my commandments and keep them He it is who loves me. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he Is the one who loves me. Love leads to obedience, and obedience is a sign of love throughout Scripture. That is not culturally intuitive to us. But it makes sense when you remember this one simple fact. God is love. Love and truth are a person. Which means, among other things, all love comes from God. So if if you have something that you call love that's not from God, it's not actually love. Because God is love. We love people most by pointing them to God, who is love. So when people claim to love God but walk away from God or oppose them, we love them most by saying, no, no, no, no, God is love. If you would have love, you must go back to God. Because God is love. So when people disobey and oppose God, they do not have love. Even if they think they have love and they call what they're doing love. We know it is not love because God is love. If we want to pursue love, we must pursue God. We must follow after God, imitate God, walk in God's ways, not our own. Do what God says. Keep his Commandments, remember, because he is love. We image our lives, we pattern our lives after him, who is love And that is to walk in the way of love, keeping his commandments. And sure enough, Jesus models this for us perfectly. Remember, Jesus says I have kept his commandments and so abided in the Father's love. Jesus himself remained in the Father's love by keeping his commandments. So love in the Bible centers on God. You cannot have love apart from the truth of God. And knowing the truth of God always issues forth in Love. Okay, so how do we as a church love one another? Verse 6, by keeping his commands. Well how how do we do that practically? Well I think most fundamentally we do that by when we gathering together when we gather together, we center on teaching. We center on teaching all that He has taught, all the commandments of God. If we want to be a loving church, we have to be a truth church. You can't separate the two. I think we love one another by attending small groups and taking them seriously and giving attention to the study. And working them to apply them to ourselves and to one another, insofar as we are able to attend small groups I think we love one another by building the kinds of relationships where we can speak honestly to one another. So just stop and think, friends. When was the last time you confessed something embarrassing about yourself to another member of this church? Or when was the last time you had that tough conversation where you spoke a word of truth to a brother or sister in Christ? Well, if we would be a loving church according to John, we will help each other fight to keep his commandments. Fight together for this truth. Uh husbands. We do this by loving our wives in an understanding way. We've been commanded to do that. So if you would love your wife and if you would keep truth, you will love her in an understanding way Elders of the congregation, we do this by being patient and by being gentle. Why? That's what we've been commanded to do. We hold on to truth and we hold on to love together I get keep going, you get the point. Jesus, John commands us to love one another, and he tells us to do that by keeping Christ's commandments. Command one, command two, watch yourselves because of the Christian deceivers who will destroy you. That's verses 7-8. Watch yourselves, because of the Christian deceivers who will destroy you. Verse 7: many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Notice they're going out into the world uh seemingly almost as missionaries for their brand of Christianity, just because you're a missionary or a Christian worker doesn't mean you're the good guy on the white horse And then verse 8 tells us that these false teachers can actually cost us salvation. Now, does that mean we lose our salvation if we've actually been saved? No. It does mean that a primary mark of a Christian is that they endure to the end Holding on to this truth, repenting of sin and holding on to trust in Christ. That's what a Christian does. If you're here this morning and you're a non-Christian, That's what makes a Christian a Christian. We hold on to the truth of who we are, sinful before God, and we hold on to the truth that God became man And Jesus Christ lived a perfect life, died on the cross for sinners like us, paying the penalty we deserve, and then rising again from the dead, defeating sin and death so that Trust in him, follow in him. We are made righteous. We are made new. We are forgiven as we walk together with him If you're a Christian here this morning, that is the truth you will hold on to until the end. You won't give it up. Abandon that message. And what does the text tell us? We abandon God. We hold on to that message. We have both the Father and the Son. Okay, well who are these deceivers today? Well, it's it's anyone who would deny that God became man in Christ. As well as anyone who denies, I would say, any aspect of the gospel. You might think of the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses is not fully God. You might think of the prosperity gospel preacher who Luke mentioned earlier, who loads up false commands and binds consciences of Christians with false commands as the way of salvation. I think it's the Roman Catholic priest who insists on baptism or confession or the Mass as the necessary means of absolution from sin. I think it's the slow, steady drumbeat of Christian writers and teachers who will denounce penal substitutionary atonement as some kind of divine child abuse. The father abusing the son. How can we believe that? I think it's the liberal Christian who, as in an article I just happened to read yesterday, says the essence of Christianity is Loving your neighbor. It's not, by implication, trusting in the completed work of Christ on the cross. I think it's the false churches that would teach that what the Bible calls wrong in our sexual practices is actually right. After all, what did Paul say? Those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. So now you have a church teaching, you can do that and inherit the kingdom of God. And what are they doing? Well they're leading people astray to damnation. I understand it from the text. Now, friends, part of my job at Nine Marks is paying attention to the world of Christian voices. And what's striking to me in our tolerant age is that polite Christian conversation, there is a tremendous pressure never to call someone that's a deceiver. That person is speaking on behalf of the Antichrist. That's overly strident and ill-mannered to speak that way in our culture today, even in our Christian culture. But I think 2 John Would say there's a place for this. As a matter of love. If you would love, there is a time and a place to say, deceiver I love you, I love them. That's deception. How can it be loving to downplay that which will lead people to damnation? That is not love. That is hate. John in this letter is primarily talking about these kinds of doctrines, those doctrines that will lead people astray to damnation. I'm gonna take a brief tangent here Just to talk about how do we navigate this world of theological disputes where we disagree with one another. After all, not every disagreement will lead to damnation. And so a tool. People often use these days is something called theological triage. Think about going into the emergency room of a hospital and they need to triage how serious this is. Is this critical? Do we need to treat it right away or can we just have you sit in the waiting room for five hours before we treat it. Okay? So triage, theological triage, you talk about first, second, and third order doctrines. First order doctrines are the most important doctrines. These are the doctrines on which our salvation depends. Things like the Trinity, things like the Incarnation, things that I addressed in this last last set of examples. I think Mormonism and what it teaches, and Jehovah's Witnesses, and the teaching of the of the Roman Catholic Church. on justification and the ordinances and liberal Christianity. These things touch on first order doctrines. And I think that's what John is addressing. But we also have second order and third order doctrines. What are second order doctrines? Well those are the doctrines that are necessary for organizing as a church. So what do we believe about baptism? What do we believe about Church government, what do we believe about complementarianism, or say women preaching? Well, no, these are the things that Christians are going to disagree on, but nobody would say, or most people wouldn't say, our salvation hangs on it Okay, but they're just necessary. Either we're going to baptize babies here or we're not. We have to make a decision, right? And then third-order doctrines would be those things where Christians can might have convictions, but they can disagree. So You can be a member of this church and have a different opinion than the rest of us on the millennium or on speaking in tongues, for instance These would be third order doctrines. Now, part of Christian maturity is learning how to simultaneously have convictions on second and third order issues yet keep them in their right place. So I will argue for what I believe the Bible teaches, say on baptism or say on women preaching in churches. and and things of this nature. I might have a conviction on speaking in tongues. But that doesn't mean I can't share fellowship with you in the gospel Okay? Part of Christian maturity is saying, okay, that's a first order, but that's a second or a third order. We might not be able to Gathered together as a church, because you believe one thing on baptism, I believe on another thing. Nonetheless, we can affirm that we have the truth. Think of the first couple of verses. in John's epistle here. Not only I, but all who know the truth, all who know Christ. We love one another. Okay? So part of Christian maturity is recognizing, okay, there are some things that are crucial for salvation. There are other things that aren't crucial for salvation, but the Bible speaks to them, and I'm going to have an opinion on them And I'm not going to just pretend they don't matter, pretend they don't exist, because I want to hold on to the truth of Scripture. It's not even because I necessarily think these things are unclear, though they might be. The point is, maturity is, okay, first things first, second things second, third things third. First things first. We trust Christ. Okay? And all of this brings us to command three. Actually, any questions on that second point? I know that can be kind of confusing. I seriously want to stop and see if there's any questions on that, because that can be a contentious topic. Anyone at all. Yes. Okay, great question. First order, things on which salvation depends, and of the gospel. And things that are necessary for believing the gospel and being saved. So if you deny a first order thing, I can't affirm you as a Christian. I mean you might be, but you're on thin ice. Second order, things that are necessary for organizing as a church You might say things that are necessary for protecting first order things, protecting the gospel, but formally things that are necessary for organizing in the church, and then third order. things that are matters of conscience. We think the Bible teaches to them, but we don't need to agree on them to be members of the same church. Is that clear? Anything else on this, Mike? In some ways, I'll come to that in a second. That's a great question. What's our posture? Don't bring them to your house or well, we evangelize. We seek to correct them because we think the air that they're making is a damning air. If first order is things on which salvation depends, that means errors people make are potentially damning heirs. And so we're going to evangelize, we're going to seek to correct. We're not going to give them a platform. One more, a couple more, John? Well The first one non-negotiable. I think we can have convictions on one, two, and three, but we keep them in their place. So I believe believers' baptism is right. I believe infant baptism is wrong. Okay, as I understand it from scripture, that's a strong conviction that I have. Nonetheless, I can affirm my Presbyterian Pato-Baptist brother or sister in Christ and say, hey, we're fellow Christians, let's share the gospel together. We just can't organize as churches. Like keep it in its place. Does that help? Give you one more. Almost. It tends to work in that direction, but a Roman Catholic who I think has a wrong view of justification and a wrong view of the ordinances would affirm that the Bible is fully God's word. So not necessarily. Often, yes, but not necessarily. Does that help? Okay. You mean afterwards? Okay. Great. All right. Command three. Command three, hold on to right teaching. Those who hold on to right teaching don't have God. Those who hold on have both the Father and Sons. And friends, let me just say, I think this is getting harder. In our pluralistic age. I think increasingly both we and our children will possess a kind of set of culturally endowed intuitions that simply have a hard time making sense of this kind of Christian exclusivism. In other words, I think it will actually be harder Tomorrow to believe that Jesus is the only way to God than it was to believe it yesterday Now, in one sense, belief is always a supernatural act. God must change our hearts so that we believe, okay? We can't make ourselves alive. So in one sense, it's always a supernatural act. In another sense, I think we can say different times and places have different things in their culture that make belief harder or easier. And what I'm here to do is point you to the Bible and to prepare you for the fact that we will externally and internally feel greater pressure against believing the things that this book is saying. The idea that Jesus is the only way to God, apart and that apart from conscious repentance and faith is damnation, will be increasingly challenged out there, and friends, you will increasingly feel those challenges in churches and even in here. Again, isn't that what John is saying? He's saying many deceivers have gone out. Watch yourselves. It's gonna be inside of you. So what I'm saying is we don't just follow our hearts, we don't just follow our noses, we don't just trust our guts. Or our instincts. Rather, we trust God's word. Listen to verse 9 again Whoever goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching Has both the Father and the Son. And that's why we use a statement of faith in this church. That's why we refer to the apostles. Creed this morning. That's why we recite the church covenant every time we gather in one of our meetings. Again, that's why we center our gatherings together and preaching the word and and praying ideas from the word and singing paraphrases of the word and reading the words. We're trying to hold on to something so that we don't lose our reward And we're weak in the flesh, we're weak in the mind, and we need to fight to hold on to that doctrine And friends, notice who John is talking to. He's talking to the lady and her children, that he's talking to a church. In other words, he's talking to you, brothers and sisters. It is your job as a member of this church to make sure that this church or any future church that you are part of abides, holds on to, right teaching. So that if John or the elders ever begin to swerve from right teaching, it is your job, friends, to fire him, remove us That should be really clear in your minds. Our job in the meantime is to equip you with right teaching. Again, so that should you ever encounter false teaching from one of your leaders, you say no. You're out. And you will be held accountable to God if you don't. It's finally your responsibility. If you have more questions, look at Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4 talks about that as well. Okay, command 3, hold on to right teaching. And then command 4, finally, don't welcome false teachers into your fellowship. Don't welcome false teachers. into your fellowship. It's as if John is establishing a truth test here for anyone who comes to teach in their church. And if teachers don't pass this truth test, don't let him in the door. So just last week I interviewed a couple who are hoping to join this church. And I said to them, what is the gospel? I wanted to make sure, we want to make sure everybody joining this church knows The gospel. You need to be able to answer that question, what is the gospel to join this church? You're all responsible to guard that gospel So we want to make sure you know that gospel so that any false teachers coming in, you would recognize. Again, so we ask, what is the gospel? More directly, I think this passage is talking about false teachers. And sadly, many churches accept false teachers. I was in a Baptist church not far from here, not long ago. And during the sermon, the interim pastor began to raise questions about penal substitutionary atonement, about the fact that Christ paid a penalty as our substitute. as an atonement for sin. So we started to ask questions and I began to lean forward in my seat thinking, okay, if he if he denies penal substitution, I'm gonna stand up and loudly walk out as an act of protest. But he was very careful. He just asked questions and I so I kept waiting for that decisive moment It didn't come. It changed the subject. And I thought, ah, I missed my chance. The Stanley walk up, stand loudly stand up and walk out in protest because he had done devil's work that morning. He'd lain a few seeds of doubt That I trust later he would come back and water and lead them away from the knowledge of the gospel That church should have read and applied verses 10 and 11. Sadly, they did not Sadly, they went on to hire that interim pastor as their full-time pastor. And I promise you, friends, that church will soon shrivel up and die, tragically leading many people to damnation on the way. Now, is this passage, as Mike was asking, teach us that we're never to inv invite a Mormon or Jehovah's Witness or any false teachers into our homes, have dinner with them? Well I don't think that's the explicit meaning. When we lived in Chevrolet, for instance, we once had a liberal Christian minister over dinner for dinner and over dinner, he said a number of things that made me think, yeah, you're you're not holding on to the gospel. You're not holding on to a right understanding of the gospel. I don't think we were sinning by having that man into our house for dinner. I will say, however, an implication of this text is that you will never want to use your home In any way that gives a platform to a false teacher who teaches a false gospel, making his or her false teaching possible. That is, you don't want to do anything in life. That would participate in and encourage, sponsor false teaching. Why? Well you don't want to look at verse 11. You don't want to take part in their wicked works. So, for instance, here's an illustration very personal to me, but I think we can take from. I wrote an article on faith in politics in which I addressed my readers as Christians And I wrote it for a particular Christian website. That Christian website rejected it. I sent it to a friend. That friend sent it to a Roman Catholic website. And I thought to myself, okay, if that if I'm referring to my readers as Christians, and that's a Roman Catholic website, well, do I believe that Roman Catholics can be Christians? Yes, I do. But I believe they are only Christians in spite of what their church formally teaches about justification and the ordinances. And therefore for me to put my article on a website referring just to Christians. Would, at least by my conscience, implicitly affirm false teaching Okay, there's a very nitty gritty example in my own life about how I want to be careful not to do anything to sponsor false teaching. Right now you guys are going to have different situations And you're going to have to work through difficult questions. Okay, is this sponsoring or not sponsoring, advocating, helping along false teaching? If you have questions about this and a specific thing that you're in, come to An elder, we can work through it together. Obviously, it's not always clear, but we want to stay on the side of not leading people astray. Okay, before concluding, one final observation from John's letter. He concludes, verse 13, the children of the lect sister greet you. In other words, my church greets Your church, well, as as congregationalists, we believe that each church is formally autonomous. Each should make its own decisions. That said, notice the kind of connections that we see between churches throughout this letter. So there's a sharing of love and fellowship. They enjoy seeing each other, right? There's a joy in the same things so that our joy may be complete, he talks about And there's even one church warning another, exhorting another church. Watch out for those teachers. Don't receive him. In short, churches may be autonomous in their structures and their making of decisions, but they should never be independent. Instead, we should work with other churches in life and growth and vitality. And so Chevroly Baptist, though autonomous, should not be independent. We pray for other churches. We fellowship with other churches. We support other churches. We might seek counsel from other churches or offer counsel. Because clearly, what is love? It's centered around truth. The truth of what? The truth of the gospel. And so we can share a love and a fellowship with every church and every person who has that gospel, that truth. What is love and truth finally? Finally, it is a person. The person of Jesus Christ. He is the truth. And he is the one who is love. Let's pray. Lord God, we give you thanks for truth and love. We pray that you would help us as a church in love. To hold on to truth. And not be embarrassed by it. And as we hold on to that truth. And see that that truth is love, God is love, that we would then love our neighbor as ourselves. And love one another by keeping Christ's commandments. We pray all of these things in Christ's name, Amen.