Our scripture lesson this morning is from the Gospel of John twenty-one, verses one to fourteen. After this Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberius, and he revealed himself in this way Simon Peter, Thomas, called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana and Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of the disciples were together Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? And they answered him, No. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore, said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for the work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place with fish laid out on it and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, one hundred and fifty-three of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared asked him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so were the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. This is God's word. Thank you, God. Pray with me to look at God's word. Father God, we are grateful to gather together and to look at your word this morning. Teach us from this passage. Help us to see you and be changed by the Word of God. Lord, we don't gather to walk away the same way we came in. We gather so that we are changed, walk with you, and to spread your word. So help us this morning as we look at the word. My uh 11-year-old son has introduced me to a series of fantasy novels Uh called the Keepers. Is anyone familiar with that series? Keepers. Oh, see a small hand over there. Okay. Um It's uh the keepers are a group of individuals, mostly young people in the book, but a group of individuals who have a special connection with some sort of object It's either a pendant or a staff or a book uh a book with a writing quill These objects have some sort of magical power that only those who have the connection can use. One of the characters is a blind boy named Gabriel And his object is the staff. So when he uses the staff, there's a sort of gray haze. The book calls it a humor. It's kind of a cloud that sort of envelops the whole space where everyone is at. And those who are trapped inside the cloud lose all their senses. Some characters get angry. They hate being inside the cloud. They hate losing control. Some characters get fearful. They can't see the hand in front of their face. They can't see the tip of their nose. They want to topple over, so they just kind of cling to the ground. Next week I turned 40 and I have made peace with the fact that I oftentimes feel like I'm stuck in Gabriel's cloud. That life is always throwing circumstances at me and decisions that just kind of throw me off. And I either want to get angry about what I'm facing or I want to just cling to the ground and not face those circumstances. This happens even in the best of times. I don't mean to be dramatic about this. I just mean to say that Over the last 20 years of my life and 17 years of marriage, Angela and I are constantly facing decisions that seem the f affect our whole scope of life. Our careers, our finances. The decision is going to affect our parents. It's going to affect our friends. It's going to affect our church. It's going to affect our kids. This morning we're going to look at seven disciples who seem to be stuck, overwhelmed, and confused. by the circumstances that they're facing. So as we get in today's text, I want us to give some context as to where we're at. In John chapter 20, if you'll just look back a few verses from where we start this morning, at verses 30 and 31, we see why John is telling us this story this morning. In fact, we see why he's written the whole Gospel of John. So in verse 30, if you look with me, it says, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. John wrote his gospel for the to his readers for two reasons. One, that they would believe That Jesus Christ is the Son of God and to that by leap by that by believing they will have life in his name So as we look at these 14 verses this morning, we should understand them in the context of John's purpose for writing. We're also going to look at trying to understand them in the context of the gospel itself. Always in the back of our minds we should know that John is writing this so that we might believe that Jesus is the Son of God, and that by believing we may have life in his name. So now turning to our pastor today in chapter 21, we see this is the third time that Jesus has appeared to his disciples, and it's the fourth time if you count when he showed up and conversed with Mary Magdalene at the tomb. And I want us to look as we look look at chapter 21, I want to look at these events leading up to this architect this morning. So in chapter 20, if you go back to the beginning there, you'll see that Mary Magdalene, a follower of Jesus, has come to the tomb early in the morning. After the crucifixion, after Jesus was buried, and notices that the stone is rolled away. And the tomb is open. So she immediately runs back to her friends and the other disciples and tells them what she's seen. They run to the tomb, and they indeed see that the tomb is open and empty They go back to Jerusalem, but Mary stays around and she is weeping when she is met by angels And then Jesus appears to her and tells her to go tell her disciples that he is ascending to the Father. Look at look at chapter 20 verse 19. Next we see that on that same day in the evening, the first day of the week, all the disciples are huddled behind a locked door. Now remember, just three days earlier, the crowds in Jerusalem were shouting for his crucifi for Jesus' crucifixion. They were clamoring for his death. And so these guys not knowing exactly what's going on. Snow there's an empty tomb are huddling behind a locked door because they're scared. And just as they're huddling behind the door on that same day, Jesus comes in. He comes in, he shows them the nail, uh the scars on his hands and his sides, and he says to them, peace. Be with you. As the Father sent me, even so I am sending you. He breathes on them and says, receive the Holy Spirit Next we are immediately told that Thomas one of the twelve and verse twenty four Will not believe that Jesus is risen. He won't believe the testimony of his brothers unless he has the same experience that they have. So eight days later, again, terrified behind locked doors. Jesus shows up and he gives Thomas exactly what he needs, what he wants. He gets to see the scars. He gets to see the side. And Thomas declares in verse 26. Well, actually, Thomas declares that he is the Lord. That's not in verse 26. Verse 28, thank you. And then next we see in chapter 20, again, the purpose of why he's writing. That we might believe that Jesus is the Son of God and that we may have life in his name. And this sort of seems like John is wrapping up his story about Jesus, right, in the gospel. But he's not done. He gives us an epilogue, one final comment on the life and ministry of Jesus, and that's what we're looking at this morning. And so the point of our passage this morning is Jesus is the risen Son of God who communes with his followers. So I have two points this morning. One, Jesus is the risen Son of God. And two, Jesus communes with his followers. So point one, Jesus is the risen Son of God Jesus reveals himself in this story this morning, as he does throughout the whole Gospel of John by the display of the miraculous. So look at verse 1. After these things, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. So we're taken from Jerusalem, where Jesus revealed himself twice behind those locked doors. And immediately to Galilee, to the Sea of Tiberias, which is another name for the Sea of Galilee, where we find seven disciples. You see in verse 2, five of them are named, two of them are not unnamed. John does not tell us why the disciples went to Galilee. Most likely that reason is found in Mark Chapter 16, verse 7, where the angel tells the women who have come to the tomb to go back and tell the disciples that he's going before them to Galilee. But it's striking that John leaves this fact out in his disciple, I mean in his gospel. He gives no context for these events that transpire in chapter 21. We go from the tomb to the first open room upper room event to the second upper room event to the Sea of Galilee out of nowhere. And though John is looking back on these events and he's writing with a purpose, as we mentioned earlier, disciples themselves seem to have no discernible purpose, no mission. No motivation for these their actions here. So I just want us to pause again to think about their predicament. Just a few short weeks before this, they saw the man that they have devoted their lives to for years. And followed and have placed their hope in, who believe they believed was the Christ. They saw him brutally murdered. Then three days later, his tomb is empty. And then he shows himself twice in the flesh. And then he's gone and they don't know where he is. And so they have walked to Galilee, which means that it's been several days at least since they last saw him in the upper room where he showed up to Thomas. But we know looking back on this what's to come. We know that in the rest of the chapter that uh Jesus is going to have that famous dialogue with Peter when he says, do you love me three times? And then he's going to restore him as the leader of the disciples. We also know that these men are gonna set the world on fire for the gospel. We know that the gospel is gonna spread from there throughout the known world, and then 2,000 years later, Chevrolet Baptist Church are gonna be studying Peter's writings in small groups. But these guys have no idea what's going on. Peter, John, and James, they don't know what the future holds. How about living in a cloud of uncertainty? I wonder if you can relate to that. Don't we all sort of live with to some extent with some sense of anticipation? A sense of uncertainty about life, a sense that uh things should be better or moving into a certain direction, but not knowing what that direction really is? I have to think that even though the disciples have seen the Lord twice after his resurrection, that they are still marred by the events of the previous month. Remember, Peter's not the only one who denied Jesus. And they are just quite uncertain about what the future holds, but each day going forward has for them. So what do we find the disciples doing? Are they praying? Are they seeking the Lord in the temple? No, not at all. John does not present these disciples as astute men who are purposely driven and ready to set the world on fire. In fact, we see them twice huddled behind locked doors, fearful, when Jesus appears to them, and now we see them fishing, just going back to work in Galilee. Three of them have returned to their pre-Jesus professions, and Bible commentators have different uh varying ideas of what this means or why they did this. Some think that they're an utter sin for returning to their pre-Jesus profession. profession. Some of them think that they are just desperate men and they're aimless and they're just trying to find something to do. Some just think they're hungry. Whatever their motivations are, they must have been asking themselves in this time, what are we supposed to do with ourselves? What are we supposed to do with our lives? So maybe Peter just wants to do something, just to be doing, to be doing, to fill up his time, because the burden of the circumstances is too much for him to bear. So with nothing else to do, Peter announces he's going to go fishing. In verse 3, we see that they fished, they went and got out into the boat. They fished all night and they caught nothing. But then Jesus arrives on the scene. Standing on the shore, he just calls out to his disciples, children, do you have any fish? No, is the reply. And Jesus says to them, cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you'll find some. And that's exactly what they did. Verse 6. And now they were not able to haul the net in because of the quantity of fish. Verse 7, John says to Peter, it is the Lord. And let's just stop right here and see what John is up to, really what Jesus is up to. Throughout the whole Gospel of John We're always being taught something explicitly about Jesus, either by John the writer, or from Jesus' own words himself, as John retells them. In John chapter 1, we learn that Jesus is God from the beginning. And all things are made through him, and he is the true light, the Son of God who reveals God in the flesh. In chapter two, we're first told about his resurrection, or that he will rise again. And chapter three Jesus is the exalted Savior that everyone must look to for salvation. And chapter 4, when he's speaking to the woman at the well, We learn that he's the Messiah, the one who reveals everything. In chapter 5, when he heals the invalid on the Sabbath, Jesus says, my father is working until now, and I am working. And Jesus does nothing on his own, only what he sees the Father doing. In chapter 6, Jesus feeds the 5,000, walks on the water, and has the words of eternal life. Now we could go on and on throughout the whole book of John, but we don't have time to do that survey right now. So what is revealed in this text this morning? Jesus is the risen Son of God, and it's proved by this miracle. So let's first consider the event. Disciples are experienced fishermen. And they've twiled all night and they've caught nothing. But as soon as Jesus shows up and says, cast your net on the right side of the boat, fish flood into the nets. So I'm not a fisherman. I don't like fishing. I've been snorkeling though and I have seen fish under the water. And the fish that I've seen are always moving. They're never still. And I've been on boats. And the boat is always moving with the water. So I say with no particular authority here, but there are no fish that hang out on the right sides of boats. And if I was wrong, these experienced fishermen would know about these starboard fish and they would have caught them already. They've been fishing all night though, and there is no catch. So there it is in verse 7. John declares, it is the Lord. It is an immediate revelation of Jesus. These disciples had been following Jesus throughout his public ministry, and they had seen over and over and over again him do his miracles, each one of them testifying to about who Jesus really is. So there's Jesus. For these disciples, they see him. Here he is again, again in the flesh, doing what he's always done, demanding creation's obedience. Darkness be light. Nothing be something. Water be wine. Body. Broken body be healed. One meal be a feast. Death come to life. One simple command to these disciples, cast your nets on the right side of the boat, carried with it the thunderous command of the Lord of creation, the one who overcome the curse of death Curse of creation itself. Second, let's consider the disciples' response to such a miracle. This miracle no longer terrified them. You may uh hear this story about casting the nets into the sea and the fish flooding, and you may recall another story very similar to it from Luke chapter 5. Verses 1 through 11. And Luke, at the beginning of Jesus' ministry, he's on Peter's boat. Jesus is on Peter's boat, and he's teaching. And when he's finished, he tells the disciples to cast their nets into the deep. Now, Peter, an experienced fisherman, has his doubts about this. And he says to the Lord, hey, we've been fishing all night, but we haven't got anything. But because you say this, Peter must recognize some sense of authority. I'll go ahead and do this. And that's what they do. And as soon as they cast the f cast the nets into the deep, fish flood into the nets So much so that as they start to haul it in, the nets begin to break. They have to call some other guys over to haul in the amount of fish. And what's Peter's reaction? When he sees that, he knows immediately That he is seeing something he's never seen before, a person with authority and power that he could not imagine. And so he falls at Jesus' feet and he says, Depart from me, I am a sinful man, O Lord. So both these fishing events, Jesus' authority and his identity are revealed. As the co And he is revealed as the commander of creation, and now, in the first event in Luke, and now he is revealed as the risen Son of God. But what is different about this story today, and it's of massive significance, is that now the disciples are no longer terrified. Because the disciples know this person revealed in this man uh miracle is their friend. No longer do I call you servants, for servant or servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends. For all that I have heard from the Father, I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you. John 15, verses 15 and 16 These men followed Jesus throughout his ministry. They've sat at his feet. They've seen him give sight to the blind. They've seen him raise the dead They've seen him twice reveal himself in a resurrected body, both times meeting them behind closed doors, both times declaring peace be with you. The first time he commanded the fish, the miracle terrified them. This time it comforted them because it confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jesus, the man they had followed and devoted their life to, had indeed risen, and he was the risen Son of God, the commander, the commander of all creation, and even death itself. The first time he commands the fish, these would-be disciples are terrified because they are vulnerable subjects to this authority. But this time, the full nets confirm that their friend, the Son of God, was alive and present with them. That leads to my next point. Jesus communes with his followers. So let's look back at verse 5. Jesus said to them, children, do you have any fish? Another way we could translate this is, guys, haven't you caught anything? I like the way the Amplified version translates this. It's boys, you don't have any fish, do you You see, Jesus didn't stumble onto these disciples, into these disciples' lives again. It wasn't like, oh, hey, what a coincidence that you might happen to be on this side of the Sea of Galilee and I might just happen to be here. Did you catch anything No, he knew they hadn't caught anything. That's how the Amplified Bible gets it right with, haven't you caught any fish? Or excuse me, you don't have any fish, do you? Right? He knows they don't have fish. He's just bringing that point to their recognition. This question is not a question that carries a rebuke, though. On the contrary, it's an intimate question, and you see that in the language. In the SV, it's children. In the NIV, it's friends. An American parlance, you could translate it as guys. Jesus approaches his friends, knowing that they have labored and toiled all night and they are not satisfied. But his purpose is to satisfy them and is to fill them. So look at verse 9. When you go, when they got out on When they got out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid on it, and bread. Verse 10, Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish. That you have caught just caught. Verse 12, come have breakfast. Verse 13, Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. The last time John tells us about a charcoal fire, it's Peter warming himself around a fire inside the courtyard of the Pharisees while Jesus is on trial. He's around that charcoal fire when he three times denies knowing Jesus. But this passage today, we see a charcoal fire in a stark contrast. Jesus is bringing his disciples to himself. There's no rebuke. There's only an offer of bread and fish and warmth. It seems Jesus' primary agenda this morning is just fellowship. The comfort of his presence. Jesus will deal with Peter later in this chapter. As we mentioned before, he will restore him. He will ask Peter three times, Do you love me? But we can't really skip over this breakfast invitation. Because it's an actual picture of the gospel in action. This breakfast is what we believe the Christian life is. Sinners called by Jesus to feast with God himself on food that only he supplies. Peter, John, the five other disciples, it had nothing to do with that meal. They toiled all night and had nothing to offer. Jesus met them on the shore that morning. Jesus put the fish in the nets. Jesus brought the bread. Jesus offered the invitation. But the disciples are no longer pushing him away. They are running to his side. They are compelled to be with him because they know after all they've seen that they can trust, as he has said twice or three times to them, peace be with you. Now they've seen him as the risen Son of God, so they can trust that they have peace with God This is the gospel. Sinful man who rejects Jesus Here's the call of Jesus, is compelled to turn from his sin and come to Jesus and enjoy fellowship with him, the very Son of God. Brothers and sisters, I don't know what you're dealing with this morning. I don't know what's going on in your lives. But what we find here is disciples at a profound crossroad. They are toiling unsuccessfully to meet physical needs and to detract themselves from an empty spirit. And Jesus shows up and meets their needs. What about us? Remember why John is preaching this gospel? To know that Jesus is the Son of God, and that by knowing that we may have life in his name. So all our daily challenges that we focus all our human efforts on, our work, career building, satisfying our colleagues, satisfying our boss. seeking the approval of others, disciplining our kids, educating our kids, managing our finances, on and on and on. They're not these things are not beyond the notice of Jesus. Neither are the things that come into our lives that just make us long for the mundane struggles Aging parents who we have are hard pressed to help. Or like these disciples, a loss of a loved one. And the cloud of grief that comes with trying to imagine your life without that person. Or broken relationship because of an offense either you caused or they caused against you that is so deep you can't imagine that it could ever be healed. My father-in-law is fond of saying that there is nothing that the nearness of Christ cannot overcome. And if I'm honest with you this morning, I I struggle to say that to you. I lack the faith to say that because I don't know what you're struggling with We all want God to change something in our lives. We want him to change our bodies. We want him to change our spouse. We want him to change our work circumstances. We want him to change our kids. We want him to change our friends. There's all, we're all struggling. So it's hard for me to say to you that there's nothing that the nearness of Christ can't overcome. But then I look at this scripture and I know that to be true. sinners drawing near to God and walking in the presence of Christ in a world full of struggles and griefs, that is The Christian life. And that is what we see this morning. So I encourage you this morning to walk through this week with the faith, knowing that Jesus is present. He's present with you in the little thing that's annoying you and tempting you to anger. And he is present with you in the deepest of grief. and the hardest struggles that you can imagine, when your life just seems to hang in the balance. So I will conclude this morning with one last observation about the Gospel of John. There's no ascension in the Gospel of John. Which is odd because in chapter 20, verse 17, when Mary's at the tomb, Jesus says to her, do not cling to me. For I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. John quotes Jesus giving attention to his eventual departure from his disciples. But John doesn't want to leave his readers with a picture of a departed Jesus. Instead, he leaves us with a Jesus that's always present. And this would remind his readers and should remind us of what Jesus taught in chapter 14, just in the days leading up to. His crucifixion. Chapter 14, verse 16, I will ask the Father and he will give you another helper to be with you forever. even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be with you Verse 26, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things. And bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Kids, do you remember? Started this Talking about Gabriel's cloud. The great cloud it kind of overcomes everyone's senses in there and that some uh get angry and some are are frightened they they cling to the ground So I'm going to give a little bit of a spoiler alert if you're planning to read these novels. I I'm sorry about that, but not really. One thing we learn about Gabriel is when he uses that cloud and it fills the room and everyone else is losing their senses, his senses, remember he's blind, come alive. And he sees with a sharpness that no human really can see with. I told you some of the characters get angry. They don't want to be there. Some are terrified because they've lost all sense of themselves. But what they have to learn in order to make it through the cloud or circumstances they're facing is they have to learn to stay near to Gabriel. And it is so with us, what we have to learn to make it through the life's challenging circumstances, no matter what you're dealing with, is to stay near to Jesus. Jesus is the risen Son of God who communes with his followers. What greater thing do we have in this world than to commune with him? But unlike the disciples in this story, who don't know where Jesus is, And don't know where he's going to show up, and don't know what their lives are going to look like. We have the Holy Spirit. He's dwelling in you. He's showing you Jesus. He's giving you Jesus every day. His presence, his voice is all we need. So as we conclude, I want to encourage you this week. Cling to Jesus. Walk with him. When you're washing the dishes and the child is screaming their head off in the background. Just think about Jesus. Pray. Pray for patience. Pray for his nearness. Pray that the Holy Spirit would bring to your remembrance who Jesus is, what his life looks like, and what he's done for you. When you're driving to work, dreading the next eight hours, turn off the radio, turn it down, stop the audiobook. Just pray. Reflect. Talk to him. He is their dwelling. His presence is there. I don't know what you're going through. I really don't. But I do believe, as these disciples experience, that there's nothing that the nearness of Christ cannot help you overcome. Let's pray. Jesus, thank you for this word. Thank you for this time to reflect on it. And I pray, Father God, that we would be changed. We want to cling to you. And we know this is not our work. It is your work. It is the gospel. You compel sinners to your side and you offer your fellowship That's what we need. We may think we need to change our bodies. We may think we need to change our circumstances. We may think may think we need more money. New friends. We may even think we need a new church. Truly, Jesus, we need you. And when we come to you, will you please wash over us and change us? Make us new in your presence with the confidence that we are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And that you never leave us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen