Well, go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 3, verses 7 to 19. If you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles around you, you'll find our passage today on page 838. And I want to encourage you to have your Bible open in front of you. Because we're going to be spending a great deal of time looking at the passage to see what we can learn from it. And one of the things that having the Bible open in front of you will do is that one, it'll keep you from being bored, I think, as you'll be able to see what I'm saying is true. You want to know that if what I'm teaching you is true, you want to be able to compare what I'm saying to what is in front of you in the word. So please do have that open. I also want you to know that if you don't have a Bible of your own, you can take one of the Pew Bibles. It's a gift from us to you. There is nothing in the world that we think is more important for you than for you to have a copy of God's Word, because we believe that in the Holy Bible The true God that exists, the only God that exists, has spoken and has revealed himself, both in his word and in his son, Jesus Christ. And we believe that you can come into a saving relationship with the God of all the earth. By knowing him in his word and by responding to what his word teaches. And as I've said this morning, we're currently working our way through the gospel of Mark. And as we've said in weeks past, the gospel of Mark was written to prove that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Now to say that Jesus is the Son of God is to say that Jesus is in fact God in the flesh. And already in Mark, though we're only in chapter three, we've seen Jesus identified as the Son of God at his baptism as the Father spoke. from heaven. Then we've seen his astounding authority as a teacher. He's one teaches as one greater than the scribes. We've seen him as a healer. As an exorcist, we've also seen him as one who has authority to forgive sins and who claims to be Lord of the Sabbath, who is indeed Lord of the Sabbath, both of which are claims to be God Himself. And this morning in Mark's gospel, we come to a passage that is a bridge. Now it's not a literal bridge that we cross over, right? But it's a passage that acts as a transition. From one clear section of Mark's gospel to the next. And I think what we're going to see this morning, so if you look at verses 7 to 12, just go ahead and look down there with me real quick, verses 7 to 12. basically says the same thing that the first three chapters have already said. Lots of crowds are gathered around Jesus. He's healing them and he's casting out demons. So it's like we're hearing a lot of what we've already heard already in Mark's gospel. But why he's why Mark is summarizing what's going on is he but he's about to transition to a new section, and we'll get to what that new section. But what uh we're going to continue to see in the Gospel of Mark, even though this is a transition to a new section in Mark's Gospel, we are going to continue to see demonstrations of Jesus' authority. That he is the son of God. And so let me go ahead and read the passage for us. This is God's word. Verses 7 to 19 of chapter 3. Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed From Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem and Ideomeah and from beyond the Jordan and from around Tyre and Sidon. When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crushed him, for he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch it And whenever the unclean spirit saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God. And he strictly ordered them not to make him known. And he went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him. And he appointed twelve, whom he also named apostles. so that they might be with him, and he might send them out to preach and have authority to cast out demons. He appointed the twelve, Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter. James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, to whom he gave the name Boanerges, that is, sons of thunder. Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew, and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alpheus, and Thaddeus and Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. Friends, let's pray one more time as we dive into God's Word. Heavenly Father, we come to a passage that seems so straightforward. It seems to say things that are plain on the face of them. It seems to say things that we've already heard in Mark's gospel, but let our hearts not be dull to what you teach us today. And to the glorious and even massive truths that are present in this very passage. Oh Lord God, open our eyes to the truth that is in Jesus Christ. And help us to see him today in his glory. To see it in your word, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, the first thing that we learn about Jesus in verses 7 to 12 is that Jesus was famous Jesus was famous. This is something that we've said in weeks past, but I want you to look with me at verses 7 to 12. And there's some things that that change just a little bit in Mark's account that we see how famous he is. First in verse 7, you see that Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea. That's the Sea of Galilee. And I think you see him withdrawing as it's connected to the last account that we just saw, right? So Last week we saw that the Pharisees and Herodians were plotting to kill Jesus, so I think his withdrawing to the sea is in some way in response to that. But we also quickly learn that his withdrawal, if he's trying to get away from people, is unsuccessful, right? Look at verse 7. Mark says a great crowd follows him. Already in Mark's gospel we have seen that crowds are flocking to Jesus because the things that he is doing are simply amazing, right? The teaching. the healings, the exorcisms. He was the total package, and people from his hometown wanted to see him work, so they were flocking to him. But we also need to see in our passage that his flank his fame had clearly reached a new level. Notice that Mark says a great crowd is following Jesus. That's the first time that Mark has described the crowds in that way. Right? So what we're supposed to see is that the crowds have grown in size as his fame in the area is increasing. But now, for all intents and purposes, Jesus' fame has gone global. Look at where the people are coming from now, right? They come from Galilee, which is the area that Jesus lived and ministered in. And Judea and Jerusalem, these are the areas to the south and southwest of him. And to Adiumea, and that is to the southeast of where he is. And from beyond the Jordan to the east and northeast, and from Tyre and Sidon, along the coast to the northwest of where he is. So Mark is like Literally drawing a geographical circle and he's saying, people are coming from all over the world to see this Jesus of Nazareth. And now it has gone beyond The areas of Judea and Jerusalem, and it has gone to the Gentiles. The Gentiles want to come see the work that this amazing man is doing. And why are they coming to him? Because of all the healings he was doing. Look at verse 9. Right? He has to tell his disciples to get a boat so that he can get space from the crowd. Otherwise, they would crush him. Right, so what we should be thinking, right, is like Beatles level fame. Remember those videos when the Beatles would get off the plane and people like people just fall out, slain in the spirit. Oh my God, it's the Beatles! Right? Like people are just crowding around him to touch him. They just, I'm going to touch him. I'm never going to wash my hand again. Right? Like this is what people were doing to Jesus, Mark says. Look, they were pressing in on him, and he was afraid that he would get crushed by them. So he had to get a boat to get away from them, to get some space from them. Otherwise he would be just crushed by the crowds that were coming near him. And Luke even says in his gospel, all the crowds sought to touch him because Power was going out from him and he healed them all. The crowds are pressing in for a very real thing. They're not just trying to get a bead of sweat on their hands so that they never wash their hand again. They are trying to get healed from all their diseases. Jesus' power was such that people could draw near to him and touch his garment and touch his skin and be healed completely. Power was going out from him. So kids, here's like a rough analogy. You should be thinking of Jesus as like a some sort of superhero who has this controllable but awesome and uncontrollable power that just goes out from him. Everywhere he goes, everything he touches becomes clean. Anyone who touches him becomes clean and is healed. That's what Jesus was like. People were flocking to him. Jesus was famous. And this isn't a one-off story, right? We see this throughout Mark's gospel. We see this in the other gospels. People wanted to be around him. He was famous because he offered something that nobody else offered. He offered healing. People were blocking to him. Yeah, in reading this account, one of the things I couldn't help but think is that this scene Seems so unlikely today. Right? I can't imagine people flocking to Jesus like this. People don't seem to be flocking to Jesus. So what gives? What gives? Why did so many people seek him in his day, while so many people today seem to either be unconcerned about him or even hostile towards him I think that what we see in our passage, and that what we need to learn from this, is that people flocked to him because they knew they were sick. And when they heard that Jesus could heal, they would flock to him. They knew that they had a problem, and they knew that he had the solution to that problem. They only flocked to him, though Because they knew they were sick. What does that mean for us? Well, in the Gospels, physical disease and sickness is often associated with and used to symbolize. The spiritual disease of sin that exists in all people. Sin is the true disease that Jesus came to heal. Right? And so one reason that people don't flock to Jesus today is because they don't believe that they have actually sinned against God. Or they've never heard that they've actually sinned against God. And one of the reasons that's happening in our culture is because people are doing everything they can. To erase the category of sin and even the language of sin from our cultural vocabulary, right? Right. In our PC culture today, to say that someone has sinned is seen as bigoted or hateful, right? Even this past week, we have very clear evidence of that, right? So Russell Berger, one of the top uh employees for the fitness company of CrossFit. Decided to say on his personal Twitter account that he believes certain uh sexual uh uh acts were immoral And immediately there was a firestorm. People were calling for his job and for his head on a platter. And what did CrossFit do? They're a private company. They can do whatever they want. They fired him. And they did everything they possibly could to distance themselves from him and from his beliefs. The CEO of that company said Russell Berger needs to go in hiding. That is what Christian beliefs, good the Christian category of sin. If you tell people about sin, people are going to tell you you need to go in hiding. Right? That's what's happening in our culture today. And we should assume that those types of things will become the norm. And realize for us today what what the trickle-down effect of that is. What is the trickle-down effect that it will have on people in our community and on us? Well, first, people in our community will not want to hear about sin. And second, we'll be afraid of talking about Sin. Those are the trickle-down effects. When you see people persecuted for talking about sin, your neighbors aren't going to want to hear about it, and you're not going to want to talk about it. But friends, as difficult as a topic as sin is, we cannot forget the plain truth that a right understanding of human sinfulness is at the root of all saving Christianity. We should not expect anyone in our lives to come to a saving faith in Jesus Christ until they come to know their desperate state before Him. Right? They will not flee to the doctor until they know that they are sick. Right? So as we talk with our neighbors, our family members, our friends, Our co-workers, whoever it may be, let us not conceal from them the plain teaching of Scripture. What is the plain teaching of Scripture? That all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God All people in all places have offended his holiness. We have rebelled against his rule. All have turned away from him, each to his own way. What is sin? Sin is missing the mark. It is not living in perfect alignment with the moral commands of God, and all of us has fallen short of his perfect standard and come under his right wrath. And irregardless, irregardless of how much persecution it brings upon us, how unpopular it makes us, we must persist. In making known to all the great chasm that exists between them and God. And we must tell them as lovingly and kindly as possible that their soul is sick. And they need a doctor. And when you tell them that, in the same conversation, you hold out to them in the same breath the glorious gospel of the grace of our God in the Lord Jesus Christ. Right, J. C. Ryles said this about the gospel. He said, there is a remedy revealed for man's need. As wide and broad and deep as man's disease is. We need not be afraid to look at sin if we only look at the same time at the Almighty medicine provided for us in the salvation that is in Jesus Christ. Though sin has abounded, grace has abounded much more. So friend, if you are here today, And you are not a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me just, I just want to press this on you as lovingly and kindly as possible. All of us have sinned. All of us in this room have sinned against God. What is sin? It is anger, it is jealousy, it is bitterness, it is wrath, it is clamor, it is slander, it is gossip, it is fits of rage, it's selfish ambition, it's adultery, it's hateful speech, it's w- it's it's so many different things. It manifests itself in so many different ways. But the root cause of all of it is that all of us in our hearts have rebelled against God and have turned from him. And because of that, we are sitting under his just We are guilty before him. We have no hope apart from him. Yet God in his mercy sent his son Jesus Christ into the world to live a perfect life that none of us have lived, but all of us should to die the death that we deserve to bear in himself, the punishment for our sins, so that if you would turn to Christ in faith and repentance, You would be saved from sin. That is the gospel. And you can know that Jesus Christ is a worthy Savior because after he died and was buried in the ground three days later, he got up from the dead. He did that to prove that he is God and that God accepted his sacrifice, and so that you could have confidence today that if you put your faith in him, that faith is not in vain. Jesus Christ saves. He does it, and not only does he have the power to conquer sin, but he has the power to conquer the entire spiritual realm that is opposed to him. Look at verse 11. Look at verse 11. Mark says that whenever the unclean spirit saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God. Right, Mark is Mark is not pointing to one specific instance of it. He's saying, anytime this happened, wherever Jesus went. Whenever he came in contact with possessed people, they fell out. They were slain in the spirit, and they proclaimed, you are the Son of God. Right? This is just happening everywhere. Just like let that compute for a second. Wherever this guy went, people were doing that. I mean, he's just summing this all up. This is what's happening all the time. We notice again in the passage in verse 12, he says, Mark says that Jesus strictly ordered them not to make him known And this is essentially what happened back in chapter one when he commanded the demon to be silent in the synagogue. And so the question for us is why why would Jesus want the demon to be silent about who he is? Didn't he come to teach people that he's the son of God? So isn't this demon just Helping him? Well, yes, in one sense, but we also need to remember that Mark's gospel is written years after Jesus' life. He's reflecting back on it, so he wants people to know that Jesus is the Son of God. In Jesus' life and culture, the Jews believed that the Messiah was coming to free them from Roman oppression. And so if Jesus became known as the Messiah and he gathered a crowd around him of people who were proclaiming that he was the Messiah, Rome would set its crosshairs on him. Right? Because to claim to be the Messiah, they would think this is the guy who's coming to throw off our yoke, to keep us from ruling over the Jews. So he would have put himself in their crosshairs. So he commands silence in order to allow him to continue ministering and teaching while avoiding the pressure of the Roman government. And it's clear to us, even in this gospel, that in time he will make himself known, not only to the Roman government, but to all that he is the Son of God. So he's only doing this for a time. Yeah, but we don't even want to miss Mark's point in this. His main point is that Jesus' absolute authority over the demonic realm. Notice they fall down before him. This is a sign of utter humiliation and submission. They are falling at his feet. He is the king. They are his subjects And their cry reveals that whether or not Jesus' identity is clear to the people around him, in the spiritual realm, it is absolutely clear who Jesus Christ is. He is the reigning, ruling, and victorious king who has come to destroy the powers of darkness aligned against him. But if Jesus is the victorious king who defeated the power of sin and death and hell on the cross, Well then why does so much evil still exist in the world today? I think the answer to that question is because God has chosen in his wisdom and in his kindness They give mankind a period of grace, to repent of their sins, and to turn from their sins, and to turn to Jesus Christ for salvation. And in this intervening time, God in his wisdom has allowed forces of evil to continue to wreak havoc in the world, to accrue the wrath that will be due to them on that day. So in this intervening time, evil is allowed in some sense to have a say in the way that things go And so I don't know if any of you saw this past week the frightening and amazing story of the guy in Texas who was cleaning his backyard, right, and he came across a rattlesnake, and he Hack the head off the rattlesnake. It's a good thing to do if you want to be safe. But then he reached down to the cut-off head of the rattlesnake, and what happened? It bit him And it bit him terribly, and he's still in the hospital today. He had to be put into an induced coma. Right? So what is the point of that picture? That's that's what that's what evil is like in this world. Jesus on the cross cut the head off Satan He delivered the mortal blow. But in this intervening time, Satan is still able to bite and to do great harm. But as Christians, we can take confidence in the fact That Jesus Christ is coming back and God has set a day on which Jesus Christ will judge the earth on principles of righteousness. And when that happens, Jesus will fully, finally, and in the open, so that not only the spiritual realm sees it, but the human realm sees it. He will destroy all who are aligned against him, and evil will finally and fully be done away with. And so we should pray for that day to come soon, because we do not want evil to continue in this world. But you can take confidence in the fact that Jesus will finally one day put evil to rest and throw it into the pit One day, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus is famous. And what we see next in our passage is his plan to spread his fame. Right? So look with me at verses 13 to 19. We learn that Jesus' plan to spread his fame, his plan to spread his fame involves gathering a small team who will then be responsible for taking his message of salvation throughout the world. So look at me at verses 13 and 19. The first thing that we notice in verse 13 is that Jesus goes up on a mountain. Right? So if you're sensitive. to the broader storyline of scripture, then alarm bells should be going off in your mind. And why is that? Because mountaintops. In Scripture are almost always associated with significant revelations from God. So think of Moses from Exodus. He went up on the mountain to be with God and to receive the law from him. Jesus in the Gospels goes up on the mountain to deliver the law 2. 0 on the Sermon on the Mount. Or Jesus goes up on the mountain with Peter, James, and John. And transfigures himself before them. So mountain, mountaintops are places of divine revelation, great revelations from God about the way that he's going to work with mankind and work in mankind. So the symbolic significance of his climbing the mountain is meant to grab our attention. Hey, pay attention to what's about to happen. And the symbolism of the mountain is then followed by another symbolically significant event. Notice first in verse 14 the number of apostles that he calls. How many apostles does he call? He calls 12. But where else in Scripture do we see the number 12? Well, 12 tribes of Israel. This matches a number of the tribes of Israel. Right? And you'll recall that Israel's role was to make God's glory known throughout the earth. So by calling the 12 apostles, Jesus is signaling that he's creating a new nation. A new people. These apostles will be the foundation of a new nation of people who will be responsible for making his glory known throughout the earth. And then he gives them their mission in the second half of verse 14. Look there. The second half of verse 14. Notice the very first thing that they're to do. They're to be with him. Right? The very first thing that the apostles are set apart to do is to spend time with Jesus. Right now, while the apostles absolutely had a unique experience of being personally tutored by Jesus in a way that none of us has had, the truth is all of us who follow Christ have been saved first and foremost into a relationship with Christ. About this relationship, one pastor said The highest gift that God has given you as a believer is not forgiveness. The highest gift he has given you is himself. The highest gift that God has given you as a believer is not forgiveness. The highest gift he has given you is himself. Before we're ever called to do anything, We're first called to simply be. Be with Jesus. Right, you see, I think as Christians, we can often get caught up in a mentality. Of always needing to do more, needing to do more, I need to do more, we need to disciple more, need to do more hospitality, I need to share the gospel more. But more is not always better in the Christian life. More is not always better in the Christian life. We are first and foremost children of God, and like children come to know their parents through time with them. So we come to know God by spending time with Him. And kids, I really want to impress upon you how important this is. Right? So if you guys are thinking about what it means to follow Jesus. I think it's going to be very easy for you to struggle in the same way that your parents struggle and that I struggle and that all Christians struggle, which is to think that God approves of us based on what we do, based on how much we do for him. But the truth is that God does not approve of you based on what you can do for him. He can do everything. He doesn't need any of us to do anything for him. He chooses us because he loves us. And he loves us. Because he loves us. Because he desires to be with us. And so the first thing that you need to think about if you intend to follow Jesus is that to follow Jesus is to first and foremost be with him. It's to first and foremost be with him. And I think you can understand this, kids, even if you think about a relationship with God as you think about your relationships with your friends. So God is in many ways different from your friends, but just think about this, right? Relationships take time. Think about your closest friends. I'm guessing if you could picture your closest friend right now, that person did not become your closest friend overnight. It took you time with them. It took you spending time with them and getting to know them And not only that, but relationships are strengthened by spending time together. Think of your closest friends again. I'm willing to bet that your closest friends are the ones that you spend the most time with. Some of you may be even looking around at each other now, right? They're the ones that you spend the most time with. And if you're going to have a close relationship with Jesus, You're going to need to spend time with him. It functions in the same way, and that primarily happens through spending time in God's Word and spending time in prayer. Right? And it can be just like your relationships with your friends. It can be awkward at first. Maybe you don't understand what to read, or you don't know what God is saying in his word, or you don't know what to pray to him. Just prayer might feel awkward But you should trust that as you spend time in God's Word, and as you're disciple by others who understand God's Word, you'll come to understand Him more, to know Him more, you'll know how to speak to Him more fluently, we could say And then you'll also come to know how awesome he is. And in coming to know how awesome he is, you'll want to tell your friends about him, to tell them that they should follow him too. In fact, that's the reason why Jesus wants the apostles to spend time with him. Right? Look at verses 14 and 15 again. He appointed the twelve so that they might be with him and he might send them out to preach and have authority to cast out demons. Right, so first are to be with them, and then they're to be sent out to preach and to cast out demons. And what Jesus is doing is he's authorizing them to do the work that he's been doing. Right? So up until this point, Jesus has been preaching, healing, and casting out demons. And so they are going to do the same work that he's been doing. And though Mark doesn't mention that heal healing is part of that mission, it's clear that it becomes part of their mission later in the book. And we also see in Luke's gospel that when he appoints the twelve Healing is part of the work that they're going to do. And then we see them carry out this missionary, this mission on their first journey in Mark chapter 6. Right? But the ultimate fulfillment of this mission that he gives to the apostles comes in the Great Commission, when Jesus gives his authority to the apostles to make disciples by going Preaching and baptizing. And then we see in the book of Acts how foundational the apostles were to the spread of the gospel and the establishment of the early church. Right, so some of you might read this passage, you might wonder, well, does is casting out demons and healing the sick that mission that Jesus gave the apostles, is that the mission that he gives to all Christians? And I think the answer to that question is No. I want to qualify that. I do believe that demon possession is real. And I do think that Christians can play a role in casting out demons as well as in healings. I think there are ways in which God still works in those ways in the world. But I don't believe the concentrated authority that Jesus gave to the 12 apostles is shared by any one individual today. So when you look at the book of Acts, these men were just like Jesus. They were not perfect like him. But when they walked around, people were were healed by being in their shadow. People reached out and touched their garments and were healed. They had the ability to cast out demons. Jesus gave a particular authority to them for a particular purpose, and that purpose was to establish the foundation of the church. It was meant to confirm the message that they preached about Jesus. But we all share in the responsibility that's been given to all Christians to make disciples by going, preaching, and baptizing. Right, so if you're a Christian and if you've ever wondered what your purpose in life is, this is your purpose. Your purpose in life as a Christian is to make disciples. That's your first and foremost purpose in life, to make disciples. The purpose of Chevrolet Baptist Church is to make disciples. And we do that the same way today, that the apostles did it, and that Jesus did it. We do it by preaching the gospel, by calling people to repent and believe the good news. And so a question for you. How are you doing with that? Well, another question. When was the last time you shared the gospel? And I don't ask you that question to shame you, but to remind you to keep your eyes focused on your purpose, your purpose as a Christian in this life is to make disciples. That's what God has set you apart to do. Think of our reading from 1 Peter. You are a chosen race, a holy nation To proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. That's what he has set us apart to do. And I want you to see the awesome encouragement provided in this passage. That I think will spur us on to share that message more freely and boldly. Look at me at verse 13. Three massive truths packed into one verse that give us all the encouragement we need to be zealous evangelists. First, People won't come to Jesus unless they hear about Jesus. Notice the first thing he does when he goes up on the mountain is to call his disciples. He invites them to join him. And the call of the gospel is Christ's call for all to join him. It's his invitation to a reconciled relationship with God. Right? And the only way that people can ever join them is by accepting the invitation. And the only way they can accept the invitation is by receiving the invitation. The only way to receive the invitation is if someone who has that message will share that with them To share the good news of Jesus Christ with them. And then God uses our sharing the good news to save those he's chosen. Notice who Jesus calls. He calls those whom he desired. This call goes out to all the world, but the New Testament makes clear that before the universe was ever formed, God set his saving and electing love on particular people. He chose those particular people so that they would receive mercy and forgiveness. And he chose them so that when they heard the call of the gospel, What would they do? Verse 13. They would come to him. You notice the irresistible grace of God that when Jesus calls a particular person, they cannot help but come to him. When he sets his love on a particular person, they will not turn from him. And so you may look at your neighbors and your coworkers, your family and your friends, and think there is no way that that person will come to Jesus. But the reality is, none of us can know that. None of us can see what's in the heart. None of us knows who God chose before the foundation of the world to save, right? Would you have thought the Apostle Paul was a good candidate for salvation? He was murdering Christians. Of course not. We look at him and think we need to run from him. But God says, you need to run to him. Tell him about the gospel. He might repent and believe. Right? He calls those whom he desires, and they came to him. Think of Jesus' words in the Gospel of John. All that the Father has given to me will come to me. My sheep hear my voice. There is no heart that is so hard to resist The sweet fragrance of God's irresistible grace when He sprays it upon them. Think about the encouragement this provides. Think about this neighborhood. It's not your job to figure out who the best candidates are. It's your job to proclaim the message widely, freely, graciously, kindly, in love. And let God do the rest of the work. Think of his words to Paul in the book of Acts. I have many people in this city. Paul has no idea who they are, so what does he have to do? He just has to go and share the gospel. Look at your friends. Think about your relationship. Think about the burden that this relieves from you. You don't have to go into conversations think I've just got to say the right thing. I've got to put it the right way. No, just share the gospel. Watch how God does the work. How did you come to faith in Jesus Christ? How did I come to faith in Jesus Christ? It's because somebody shared the gospel with us, and God used it as He's always used it throughout history to bring saving faith. Oh, friends, think about this. All you have to do is share the gospel. You don't have to be responsible for saving them. You don't have to be responsible for convincing them, though you can give reasons why you think they should believe. God does the work and all that He has chosen will come Oh, what a great encouragement to us to share the gospel freely, to share it boldly. The harvest is plentiful here and now, friends, and we have the message of salvation. Let us go out and share it and let God gather the crops. It was knowing that God had chosen a people to save that spurred on these men to face persecution And to face it boldly and to continue sharing the gospel. And so before we close, we should look. Who are these men? Look down with me at the text. Who are these men? First we see Peter, James, and John. It's likely their order in this list was signified the special place that they held. in or their relationship with Jesus, they formed Jesus' inner circle. And it's also likely that their change of name signifies this status, this role in his inner circle, not because of anything in them, but because of Jesus chose them. You notice that he gives Simon the name Peter. Peter means rock. Some people think it means that Peter was being set apart to be the rock upon which the church was built. You could also read the Gospels and think, no, it's because Peter's head is harder than a rock, and he just doesn't get it. He is the rocky soil that the gospel had to fall on over and over and over again. Right? So think about Peter. The guy put his foot in his mouth all the time. And then who are the next two apostles? James and John Who are called sons of thunder, which I think likely points to the fact that they were hotheads. Right? So later in the gospels we're going to see James and John go to a village of Samaritans, non-Jewish people, who don't welcome them. And James and John are like, yo, Jesus, let's call down fire on them. Destroy it. And Jesus is like, what are you talking about? Like, no, that's not what we're doing. Right? These guys are hotheads. They are ones who want to call down fire on people. And then you have Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Alpheus and Thaddeus and Simon the Zealot And Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. But you have doubting Thomas as one of the apostles. You have Levi, the tax collector. We looked at him a few weeks ago, right? The guy was hated by people He was seen as a traitor to the Israelites because he extorted them and he helped the Romans oppress them by gathering taxes on behalf of Rome. Then you have Simon the Zealot. In the Greek, it says Simon the Canaanean, but it's not because he's from the land of Canaan. The word zealot there is a interpretation or a translation of Canaan. Pointing to the fact that he was probably super zealous for the holiness of Israel. So you have this zealot Simon and this tax collector Levi and doubting Thomas and hard-headed Peter and James and John who want to call down fire on everybody. This is a motley crew of people. These are the people who are going to change the world? Give me a break. Right? But this is what God does through unlikely people. And that's one of the things I want us to take away from this list of apostles. I want you to be encouraged this morning as Christians that you do not need to be well known. You do not need to be known at all to make a difference in God's kingdom. You do not need to be known at all. Look at the list again. Who do you know anything about? Three of them. Four. Because he traded. You know a little bit about Thomas. He doubted You know, religious history, religious tradition holds that he may have gone into India and established a church there. That's the best we can do with him. We can't put any confidence in that story because we just don't know. And then look at the other ones. Who are they? Who are these people? Right? You have James, you have or Andrew and Philip. We hear a little bit about them in the Gospels. Bartholomew, nobody names their child Bartholomew Because what did he do? He was just named here. That's all we know about him. Matthew wrote a gospel. Thomas doubted. James, the son of Alpheus. Thaddeus, Thaddeus, I think his name is also Judas, and it's very kind of Mark to call him Thaddeus here, because that guy had the worst lot of them all, being named Judas also. He had to go around the rest of his life just telling people, my name's Judas, I'm the apostle. No, not that one. Right? Not the one who betrayed. And then Simon the Zealot. We know nothing about him. We know nothing about him at all. And yet God used a bunch of unknowns whose life's work was to establish a church, and their life's work was lost to history. to lay the foundation of his everlasting kingdom. See the sweet encouragement that is for us today. That kingdom is continuing to grow today. And often it is the work of those who labor in utter obscurity who God uses to bring the greatest blessing. Don't believe me? Name the preacher who Charles Spurgeon was saved by. Can anyone name him? And yet, what did Spurgeon go on to do? Greatest preacher in the world next to Jesus Thousands and thousands and thousands of people heard him preach, and nobody knows the name of the guy who bumbled his way through a sermon through which Charles Spurgeon was convicted of sin and saved. How did Hudson Taylor come to faith? The man who brought Christianity to China and to Asia, how did he come to faith Maybe you haven't heard that his mom spent hours and hours and hours praying for his soul. And it was through her prayers that the Lord convicted him of sin and brought him to faith. Do they get the props they deserve? No. Is their work felt throughout all the earth? Absolutely yes. If you feel like you are laboring in obscurity, what am I doing sharing my gospel with my kids again? What am I doing correcting them and teaching them again? What am I doing sharing my gospel with my friend again who just seems like they just don't get it? Your friend may be the next Spurgeon. Your child may be the next Hudson Taylor. Look at what God did through these men. The kingdom that they were the foundation of continues to grow 2,000 years later, and we know almost nothing about them. But God knows. And their work is not lost to those in heaven. So if you feel like you're laboring in obscurity and nobody notices, take heart that God notices. Take heart that God uses the labors of those who toil in obscurity to make the fame of Jesus known throughout the world. In fact, that's been his plan from the very beginning. You don't need to be known to make a difference for God You don't need to be known to make a difference for God. It's not about being known. It is about making him known. It's about making the fame of Jesus Christ known. It is for his fame that we exist to proclaim. So let us give our lives this week to making that fame known and trusting that those he desires will come to him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning, thankful for your grace and your kindness We know that none of us would have come had you not called us, so thank you for allowing us to hear the gospel. And yet we know that none of us would have come had you not chosen us and lavished your grace. upon us. Thank you for the grace that you have shown us in the Lord Jesus Christ and drawing us to yourself. We who were once far off, who were without hope in this world, now have hope in Jesus Christ, having been brought near by his blood Thank you for tearing down the enmity that existed between us and you by his blood and making us one with him and one with one another. And we pray, Father, that we would give our lives this week to making the fame of Jesus Christ known. And we ask that you would be pleased, Father to call those through our proclamation of the gospel whom you desire and that they would come. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.