Well it is a a joy and an honor to be here. I uh just not not but a couple of minutes ago, uh was stung by one of those yellow jackets. So I come to you not only in weakness and trembling, but a literal thorn in my flesh, a stinger. Uh if I pass out, I don't think I'm allergic, but just run me down to the fire department, and I think they can help If you have your Bibles, open up to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. 1 Corinthians chapter 2, and we're going to read verses 6 through 16. While you turn there, I I I do want to just say how um how much of a pleasure it is to be here with you all this morning. Greenboat Baptist Church has been praying for you really since you all have started meeting as a church. And um and especially now with more joy as you all are meeting here. It's an honor for us to be able to host you and it's easy and a joy, so it's it's really just great to kind of bridge the gap a little bit more. It's been fun getting to know your pastor, John, as well, over the last year and a half. He's a gifted, gifted man. I don't know if you know this, but I I've never seen a guy be able to throw down in one go 36 wild buffalo wings. uh and walk away unscathed and he's he's still so fit. I don't know I don't know how this guy does it, but you have a a talented pastor All right, First Corinthians chapter two, verses six through sixteen Paul says, yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or the rulers of this age who are doomed to pass away But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory. And none of the rulers of this age understood this, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, what no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him, these things God has revealed to us Through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the Spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God. And we impart this in words, not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he's not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one. For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. This is God's living and active and inspired word. Let's pray now and ask him to bless not only the reading of it, but our understanding of it. Our Father, we do thank you. Your word is a two-edged sword, sharp and living and active, and able to pierce down into the depths of our hearts In between bone and marrow, in between soul and spirit. And Father, we pray that you would, by your spirit, take your word and use it to not only convict us of sin. But, Father, we pray that you would build us up and instill within us faithfulness, enable us to respond in joyful worship and cling evermore to our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, a bit of background since I'm inviting you to jump right into the middle of a lengthy argument Paul has been making. Greenbelt has been slowly working through First Corinthians, and here we are now in the middle of chapter two. It's a letter written to a church situated in a city and culture that frankly has a lot of similarities with our culture today. Paul is writing to address the congregation in Corinth on some of the serious problems that both arose within the church. And the church's relationship to that of the outside world, encouraging them to remain holy and to not allow the thinking and the mores of the Corinthian culture To infiltrate and influence the church. You are a people called out by God, separated unto Christ and separated from the world. Be that people. One of Paul's primary concerns right from the start is this issue of divisiveness. There's a cliquishness that has infused itself within the congregation. There was a tangible disharmony within the Corinthian church. Paul in verse 10 Back in chapter 1, verse 10, says that there's divisions. He uses the words divisions. They were divided against each other. And then in chapter 1, verse 11, you can see he uses the word quarreling. They were fighting and and having arguments with each other. There was a general lack of charity between brothers and sisters. So the first problem which Paul begins to address is the problem of splits and quarrels and cliques. Within the church. Churches know this problem. This isn't a first-century thing. And what's so unfortunate about this problem is that it undercuts the church's witness to the outside world. True unity within the church, and Paul develops this throughout his letter, true unity within the church is really an eschatological foretaste of a fuller, future cosmic unity. The church is to serve as a microcosm for what God will one day accomplish throughout the entire cosmos. And so the church is to be salt and light to a disunified world now, but only in so far as we in our unity act as living witnesses to the coming shalom, the coming peace and unity which Christ will usher in at his inevitable return. So, what Paul starts to unpack is that it's not that the division is in and of itself the big problem. No. He says your division is really only a symptom. The deeper problem that underlies your division and cliquishness, your tribalism and partisan divisions, comes out of the deeper problem of not understanding the cross. For the Apostle Paul, it is the cross of Christ, the gospel, which shows us the true wisdom of God. And insofar as we get that right and make the gospel central, Then we will be unified in our worship and our living together. All this quarreling, all of this divisiveness only shows that we've taken our eyes, if even ever so slightly, off of the gospel. So Paul says up in chapter 2 and verse 2, as a kind of culmination to everything he argued in chapter 1, he says, When I was with you, I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. As we come to our passage this morning, the Apostle Paul is wanting to focus the church's attention on the nature of that message. That message of the gospel, Christ and him crucified, that message is true wisdom It's true wisdom which always stands in contrast, says Paul, to the worldly wisdom The ways and thought patterns of this world. And so true wisdom, says Paul, is nothing less than the revelation of the gospel itself, the revelation of Jesus Christ and what he has accomplished in his life. Death, resurrection, and ascension. And that revelation has come from God. It is the wisdom of God. Look back at chapter 1 and verse 21 really quickly. For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. That's God's surprising wisdom to this world. And so what we see Paul doing is he's making a connection between the wisdom of God, a wisdom displayed in the message of the gospel. And that that wisdom, that message actually has the ability to bring people to faith in Jesus Christ. That's what Paul is going to argue. What I think we'll see this morning is three things. The source of this wisdom, verses six through ten, the source of this wisdom, and verses six through ten. Secondly, how we get this wisdom, verses 10 through 14, how we get this wisdom, and thirdly, the effects of this wisdom, verses 15 and 16. So, one, what is the source of this wisdom? In a word, is a wisdom which finds its source in heaven, in the very being of God. Look at what Paul says in verses six and seven. Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age who are doomed to pass away, but we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God. Which God decreed before the ages for our glory. Paul understands that the revelation of the gospel Is first of all, notice this, a wisdom not of this age. Do you see that? It's a from another age, from another dimension. It's from an alien world. It doesn't belong here. And then verse 7, it has to be revealed to us, imparted to us. In other words, the gospel and the wisdom of the gospel is it's like this inbreaking of divine wisdom piercing itself into this world. And it's a wisdom which alone can penetrate through the thick fog of spiritual death and unbelief, which shows itself throughout this entire world everywhere in a denial of Christ. Or as Paul puts it in verse 8, the actual crucifying of Christ. But what I want us to see here especially is that this was planned by God. Do you see that in verse 7? Paul says, we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory. And Paul is pointing out that God predestined that this was the way fallen, spiritually dead people would come to believe in Christ. In other words, it wasn't just that God had predetermined to save people through his son, Jesus Christ. But even more so, God predetermined to bring people to believe in his son through the Holy Spirit. He says that in verse 10. See? These things God has revealed to us through the Holy Spirit. Now just pause for a moment and consider. At the very least, the robust Trinitarianism of the Apostle Paul. That Paul is elucidating for us that our salvation is through and through a Trinitarian salvation. That all of God in his triune glory would be wholly involved in the salvation of those whom he loves. God, the Father, has planned The Son of glory has died, and the Spirit has revealed. Which incidentally is a mysterious truth, is it not? It's something no one could come up with on their own. Like this isn't a religion cooked up in the mind of a few bright individuals This thing called the gospel is entirely foreign to this world. Again, it's alien. It's heavenly in its origin. Whereas Paul puts it in verse 7, it's a secret and hidden wisdom. Now Paul doesn't mean here. That the gospel in and of itself is like some kind of enigma, a puzzle, which only really bright and knowledgeable people can understand. Now in chapter 1, he's already made it clear that many of the Corinthians who came to believe in the gospel, many of them were not wise. They were not well educated. They weren't the movers and shakers of Corinthian society. What Paul means by secret and hidden is what is translated in other places with the word mystery. A mystery in the New Testament is something that was once hidden and once misunderstood, but is now revealed and made clear. And that's the gospel. Before the coming of Jesus Christ, God's means of saving a people for himself was not entirely clear. It was hinted at in shadows and in types But by and large, it was hidden within the Old Testament. But now, in the coming of Christ, in his taking God's wrath for us, in his atoning death upon the cross. What was once a mystery in the Old Testament is now made abundantly clear. The lamp is no longer hidden underneath the basket. Who Jesus Christ is and what he was and what he did is a glorious revealing of God's full saving purposes. Incidentally, this is why Paul in verse 8 says that none of the rulers of this age understood this, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. On their own, they could have never understood who Jesus was and what he came to do. If they had, if they could have done it, if they could have figured it out, well then they wouldn't have crucified him. Recall in your reading of the Gospels that time Christ being crucified, and he prays out in the midst of his crucifixion, Father. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Luke twenty-three verse thirty-four In other words, even society's wisest people, the rulers and authorities who were tasked with leading the people, even they were oblivious to who Jesus was. He was divine wisdom incarnate. And yet to these rulers, who he was was hidden He was the image of the invisible God, the brightness and glory of God incarnate. As Paul says, he is the Lord of glory. And nonetheless, they put him to death. What Paul is emphasizing here is that even though divine wisdom himself could be seen, could be touched Could be heard and interacted with, it took something more. It took something supernatural to realize and comprehend who Jesus actually is and why he came. This is why in verse 9, Paul quotes from Isaiah 64 and says, well, what does he say there? What no eye has seen, nor ear heard. Nor the heart of man imagined what God has prepared for those who love him. In other words, again, no one could have cooked any of this up Human wisdom would never have come up with this thing called the gospel. That is being right with God by believing in a crucified Messiah. In fact, in the original Old Testament context, the prophet Isaiah is prophesying of a time when God will have to supernaturally intervene in the hearts of uh in the hearts and minds of men and women in order to help them, in order to enable them to follow God. Paul takes this Isaiah verse and he says, now first God is doing that. Now with the coming of Christ, this is what God is doing. But notice also, he's doing this for those who love him That's a fascinating turn of phrase. That's actually not there in the original Isaiah passage. Paul kind of adds that in I think Paul is saying here, it's not those who are really intelligent. It's not those people who are wise in the ways of the world. No, we relate to God and find entrance into the heavenly wisdom of God primarily through love Our hearts have been so moved and melted by what we see in Christ and Him crucified, that by believing in Him, we then begin to have our minds conformed more and more to Christ, and so our hearts grow in wisdom. The gospel takes what the world expects and turns it on its head. It's backwards according to the world It's what St. Augustine encapsulated so well in his famous refrain that we do not understand in order to believe, but that we first believe in order to understand. But the question still remains, and it's the question to which Paul kind of turns to next, our second point, how? How do we believe? How do we come by this wisdom, and how do we get this wisdom? His answer is that it is only by the Spirit of God that a man or woman ever comes to partake in the wisdom of the gospel. So there is this heavenly divine wisdom, and now only by the Spirit can we make sense of it. So we see Paul's answer in verse 10: These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. And this is Paul's great insight that he wants the Corinthians, and I think inspired by the Spirit, he wants us to know that left to ourselves There is absolutely nothing we could do to come to a clear understanding of God's saving ways. We are without the spirit, unspiritual. There's a lot of talk these days about being spiritual. Right? Lots of people are quote unquote spiritual, by which I think they mean a a vague kind of reliance upon intuition and these these things called vibes. I've never come to an accurate definition of what an actual vibe is. But you know what I mean. Lots of people are into being spiritual. Even some Christians have sadly cashed in on this vagueness where we hear things like, well, I'm spiritual, but not religious A phrase I think used to downplay any importance on being a part of a local church. But for Paul, there's only one thing that places you within the category of being spiritual. And that is the person of the Holy Spirit drawing you to and revealing to you the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's his basic argument in verses 10 through 12. The only way we can understand the wisdom of God, God who is spirit, is through the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit of God. Look at what he says. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the Spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God Now, we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God, so that we might understand the things freely given us by God. Do you see? Paul's point here is that because the Spirit, who is God, knows intimately the mind of God, it is therefore the Spirit alone who can reveal to us Unspiritual blockheads that we are, he can reveal to us who God is and the mystery of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In other words, he's explaining to us that we don't seek and search and come to a discovery of God, but rather God comes after us and discloses himself to us. It's God by his spirit who draws and brings us, verse 12, to understand the things freely given us by God It's through and through a supernatural work of God. And the only way to respond to a truth like this is thanksgiving Utter gratitude at the undeserved mercy and grace of God doing for us what we in and of ourselves could never accomplish What I find absolutely fascinating and beautiful is what Paul says in verse 13. Essentially, that the way in which the Holy Spirit works to draw us, And to reveal to us the deep mysteries of God and his saving purposes is through the simple preaching of the gospel. Look what he says. We impart this in words not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual And Paul is saying, look, do you want to know how you came to become a believer? How you came to be a partaker of the heavenly wisdom of God and to know the wisdom of God? Paul's saying, it was through my preaching. And if you recall, he describes his preaching back up in verses 3 and 4 as weak, trembling, unimpressive, and not at all very eloquent. Simple, unimpressive, no lights, no smoke machines, just the foolishness of one man preaching the gospel And insofar as Paul rightly interpreted, that's what he says, interpreted spiritual truths, interpreted God's words and revelation, and through the Spirit disclosed them to the church in Corinth. Well then it was used by the Spirit to bring heretofore spiritually dead men and women into new life John Owen, the English Puritan, has a fantastic and startling phrase where he says: if it were not for the Holy Spirit of God, we might as well burn our Bibles. For evangelicals, we say what? But his point is clear. This makes no sense to us until the Spirit of God applies its truth to our hearts and illuminates our minds. The Corinthians' eyes were opened when Paul preached. Their hearts were made alive, and for the first time in their lives, they now believed in Jesus Christ and came to know God. J. I. Packer, one of God's greatest vessels, I think, used during the last 100 years J. I. Packer just passed away this Friday. Perhaps his most well-known and most used book is his book, Knowing God. You've not read it. This is a great summer to read that book And in that book, Knowing God, there's this now famous line where Packer says, What matters supremely is not, in the last analysis, the fact that I know God. But the larger fact which underlies it, the fact that God knows me. His point is that it is God's special and gracious knowing of me, which has first enabled me to know Him. That's Paul's point here. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the spirit of God We cannot, on our own wisdom, which is really no wisdom at all, come to know God. Oh, but the goodness And the grace and the love of God, and that he has come to know me. Know me? In his gracious wisdom, he knew me before the ages? Verse 7. He sent his son, the Lord of glory, to die for me, verse 8. And by his spirit and through the preaching of the gospel, he disclosed himself and his saving grace to me. Verse 10 and verse 13. Dear friends, look here and see a God who, in his triune glory, has so moved and given himself to making sure, absolutely sure, that he will have you to be his own. How ought we to respond to this? Well, if you are here this morning and you are indeed a believer in Jesus Christ, That is, God the Father has drawn you by God the Spirit to come and put your faith in God the Son. If that's you this morning, then rejoice. Worship. In the wider context of what Paul is arguing, that also means that you are now enabled to love others as more important than yourself Insofar as we understand that our salvation, our being in Christ and being in the body of Christ, insofar as we understand that that reality is actually of God by his grace, That it was his grace that made me to partake of the wisdom of the gospel of Christ. Insofar as I get that, then I will have no room to look down on any other people within that same body of Christ. Do you see the cliquishness and the tribalism that began to divide the Corinthian church? Paul is saying here, stop Don't you see that none of you were wiser than anyone else when becoming a Christian? Every single one of you came into this thing called the Christian faith from the same position, spiritually dead. You were all ignorant, at least when it came to spiritual truths. No one had true wisdom. But now, because of God's grace to you, now you do. And so remember, it was God who granted you that wisdom. Put your boasting away, put your pride away, and remember you are all in one Christ Jesus. Jesus is your wisdom. The Corinthians, like many of us still do today, the Corinthians are going to try and categorize themselves into special judgmental cliques later based on their spiritual gifts. How vain we are, but Paul will deal with that later, and so we won't address it now. If you're here this morning and you're not a believer, maybe maybe you're visiting Chevrolet Baptist Church for the first time. And you just don't buy all of this. How should you respond to what the Apostle Paul is saying here I think the answer is to believe in Jesus Christ. Simply, to believe in Him now, to realize that God in His grace Has you here in order to hear about Jesus Christ and to listen to a sermon about Jesus Christ and what it means to believe in Jesus Christ? The answer is go to Jesus. Go to him who is the Lord of glory, a title which Paul uses to signify that this man who hung upon the cross and died as a man was at the same time the divine Son of God Himself. Believe in that crucified Lord of glory who in becoming a man gave himself over to a sacrificial death which he did not deserve, but which he freely undertook on your behalf? As the Lord of glory, Christ was sinless. He was without guilt and had no shame. And yet, in love, the Father sent him to take the death and to bear our guilt and shame for us and experience the wrath. That we all deserve. On the cross, God the Father poured out his full hatred on his only beloved Son And so the man Jesus Christ died. But he also got back up. And in his resurrection, as he overcame death, he declared, as it were, that all of our sins were finally dealt with. Jesus got back up out of the grave, but our sins didn't. They stayed buried, and so they can no longer be used against us as evidence of guilt. Only insofar as we come to believe in and put our trust in Jesus Christ And so, dear friend, I pray that you would come to believe in the risen Savior of your soul, the Lord of glory who stands now alive on your behalf, if only you would cling to him by faith Perhaps you're thinking, I don't want to believe in Jesus. If I could be honest with you, Pastor, I'm not even sure I'm compelled to believe in Jesus This just all seems like some quaint and awfully behind the times religious stuff that, I don't know, I'm just not ready to buy into. Friend, I get that. In fact, I think Paul gets that. Look at what he says in verse 14. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him. And he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. In other words, yes. You don't want to accept the things of the spirit. Indeed. Paul says you cannot. Why? Because the verse says you are not a spiritual person. You are natural. You are still of this world. I get it. You could be offended here by being referred to as unspiritual. But look, I think at least when it comes to someone who is not a believer in Christ, I think this ought to, at the very least, frighten you. That is, I think you ought to read this and say. Why don't I want to believe in Jesus Christ? I'm reminded of an account I heard from a pastor who preaches in London. Who after his sermon one morning, a young man came up to him, an avowed unbeliever, and said to the pastor that he didn't want to believe in Jesus now, but he's sure that he would later in life before it was all too late. The pastor looked at him and said, No, I don't believe you. I don't think you will. He says, Yes, I will. I will be able to. I don't want to now, but I'm sure later, after I've lived life a little bit, I will want to, and I will then. And the pastor says, okay, prove it to me. Do it now. He says, well, I don't want to now. Well, if you're sure you can do it now, just try. Just try and show me that you can believe in Jesus Christ. Do it. And getting a bit frustrated, says, I don't want to do it. To which the pastor said, and you should have no expectation that you will want to do it later in the future. Friend, if that's you, I hope you see that the grace being described here by Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 is the grace to have your will and desires freed. The chains and bonds of your own wants and desires broken. Outside of the Spirit of God, you are enslaved to your own sinful wants. Our culture and world today says that that's free will and we have choice. But friend, all you do is what you want. That's not free. And as it stands, you show that in not wanting to believe in Jesus, you are instead wanting to rebel. The desires of your heart rule your decision making. And friend, if that's you this morning, I plead with you to pray to God and ask him to give you a new heart. Go to God and ask Him to give you new desires, new wants for spiritual things, and preeminently the spiritual truth of Jesus Christ as your Savior. Insofar as you don't want to believe in Jesus, there's no evidence that you'll ever want to believe in Jesus. And outside of Christ, my dear friend, all you can expect, like the rulers of verse 6 who are doomed to pass away. All you can expect is the eternal doom of God's judgment. Does this at all concern you I pray it does. And if it does, I pray that God give to you his spirit and illuminate your heart to see and want Jesus Christ. If there is even the slightest degree of uneasiness in what I'm saying, just the littlest prick within your conscience, friend, that may indeed be the grace of God's Spirit. Don't harden your heart, but follow and go to Jesus. Which leads us now, as we come to a close, our last point. What are the effects of God's wisdom The effects of believing the wisdom of the gospel. Paul's answer, verse 15 and 16. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself To be judged by no one, for who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. His point is simple, though admittedly as far-reaching applications that we cannot explore this morning. But his point is that now By believing in Jesus Christ and becoming one with Jesus Christ, we become partakers in all that Christ is for us, including the mind of Christ. We have, says Paul, the mind of Christ. And with this, the spiritual person judges all things He's saying here, not that we become judgmental, that's not his point. He's saying that we have discernment. We can judge between the truth and a lie. We can judge between spiritual truths and spiritual realities and everything else that is of this world. He says, believers, having the mind of Christ, believers come to know the gospel of Christ. We get it. And we keep on knowing it. We can read and make sense of God's word. We can grow in our spiritual appetites and in our spiritual comprehension Who has understood the mind of the Lord? Paul uses here another Old Testament reference, which was originally meant as a rhetorical question. The answer is: no one can understand the mind of the Lord. He's God. Well, unless that is, unless that is, we have the mind of Christ. Here's the ground and foundation of the church's unity The ground of our existence as new creatures in Christ, as believers, the ground of our being. We are the recipients of God's grace. Grace given to us to partake in the wisdom of the Spirit and to have the mind of Christ. Let's pray Our gracious Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. Oh Lord, we thank you for your grace in giving us the ability to understand To believe and to submit to your word. And so, Father, we pray that you would take your word now. And Lord, use it as a means by which we might behold the glory and beauty of our Savior Jesus Christ, so that we might know, believe, and submit our lives to Him. Forevermore in His name we pray. Amen