I'd encourage you to go ahead and open in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 2. We're going to be looking today at verses 1 to 5. A process that seems to be common to biological organisms is the process of maturing. Right? In its simplest terms, maturing refers to the process of aging, developing, or growing that biological organisms undergo. So if you think about the world around us. Uh whales mature. Blue whale calves are around 25 feet long and mature into 90-foot-long behemoths. Horses mature, right? Newborn foals struggle to walk, but then quickly mature into galloping stallions or mares. As our cheeses mature, as the bacteria grows, multiplies, and matures, so does the flavor of the cheese. The physical world around us matures. Thunderstorms begin in the cumulus stage, enter the mature stage, and then reach the dissipating stage. Trees mature Fruit matures, even hairlines mature. Some of the men in the congregation are obviously very mature in that sense. Maturing and maturity are built into creation. God created humans to mature physically as we grow from infancy to early childhood to adolescence and on into adulthood. But he didn't create us to only mature physically. He also created us to mature spiritually. As with physical maturity, different stages of spiritual maturity are accompanied by different characteristics. What characteristics should we expect to encounter in a mature Christian? What characteristics should we expect to encounter in a mature congregation? To answer those questions, we're going to look today at Colossians 2, verses 1 to 5. So if you're not already there, please turn. I want to provide some context for our passage this morning. Throughout chapter 1 of Colossians, Paul has emphasized the power of the gospel. The gospel has spread around the world. And at the heart of the gospel is the preeminent Jesus, the creator and sustainer of the world, who died to reconcile us to God. Then at the end of chapter 1, Paul is informing the Colossians of the goal of his entire ministry. All of his laboring and toiling and struggling in preaching Christ is Their maturity in the faith. I want you to look with me at chapter 1, verse 28, real quick. It reads there, Him we proclaim, that is, Christ we proclaim. warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this, your maturity, I toil. Struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Now in chapter two, what Paul is going to do is he's going to continue talking about his struggle to present the Colossians and us mature in Christ. But rather than talking about his own ministry, which he was just talking about, he's now going to move on to describe the marks of maturity they should expect to see in their lives individually and as a church. So follow along as I read Colossians chapter 2, verses 1 to 5 for us. This is God's word. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you, and for those at Laodicea, and for all who have not seen me face to face. that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ. As I said, we're in week two of a three-week study in these verses. And last week we looked at how we should strive to be encouraged in the faith as part of our maturity in Christ. And this week. We're going to look at the second thing Paul mentions. So what characteristics should you expect to find in a mature Christian and a mature congregation? Look again with me at verses 1 and 2. In verse one there, Paul Paul describes his struggle for their growth in maturity, and he says he's struggling not only for the Colossians But also for the church in Laodicea, which was near Colasse, kind of in the same region, and for all who had not seen him face to face. Basically, he wants all Christians to display the marks of maturity he's about to name And the first one he mentions is that they would be encouraged in their hearts, encouraged in the faith, which we looked at last week. Now look at the second mark of maturity he mentions. Being knit together in love. Paul wants the Colossians and us to strive to pursue being united in love. How will you know if you are maturing as a Christian? You will have a greater and greater desire to pursue unity in love with other members of this church. How will we know if we are maturing as a congregation? Well, when disagreements arise and sins occur, as they most definitely will, we will move toward one another in love. Right? There will be an aroma not of suspicion, nor of eye rolling, nor of speaking poorly behind people's backs, but of genuine love, trust, and enjoyment of one another. In short, there will be an aroma of loving unity. But before we begin to explore the various aspects and applications of being united in love, We have to put our pursuit of unity in proper relation to the gospel, and in proper relationship to the gospel, and the unity that Christ has already accomplished on our behalf. Right? When we talk about Christian unity, we have to recognize that there is an already but not yet dimension to it. What do I mean by that? Well, I mean that in the act of saving us, when God the Holy Spirit regenerates our hearts and we repent and put our faith in Jesus, we are completely completely united to him, we become one with him, and we become one united with all of his people who are also one with him Through faith in him. We see this clearly taught elsewhere in the New Testament, don't we, right? You think about Paul's teaching in Ephesians that Jesus' death on the cross Tore down the dividing wall of hostility that existed between Jews and Gentiles. And he says this, for he that is Jesus, for he himself is our peace. who has made us both one. Past tense. And has broken down in his flesh. The dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two. Right? So all of us who have repented and believed are already completely united to one another through our faith in Him. But we're also simultaneously not yet completely united to one another Though Christians have been saved from sin by the blood of Christ, declared completely innocent from sin by the righteousness of Christ and freed from the dominion of sin by the victory of Christ, we remain afflicted by Indwelling sin, right? The old self still clings to us. If you're here and you are not a Christian and you're wondering what Christianity is, we want you to know we are not a perfect people. We do not claim to be a perfect people. Christians often are self-righteous, judgmental. That's wrong. We know it is. We shouldn't do it. We understand that even though we've repented of sin and put our trust in Jesus and been saved We're saved because of him and not our own righteousness. And that that continues even after we've repented of sin. We remain afflicted by indwelling sin. We continue to desire, think, say, and do things we should not. And often those sinful choices damage our relationships with one another and result in Disunity. So though we're already fully united to one another through faith in Christ because of indwelling sin, we're not yet fully united to one another. as we one day will be. One of the best illustrations that's been used by others to show this tension is from World War II. Think about World War II, although the victory wasn't formally declared until May 8th of 1945. That would have been VE Day. In a very real sense, the war was over on D-Day Nearly a year earlier, when some 200,000 troops stormed the beaches at Normandy. When that beach storming happened, it was only a matter of time before certain victory was declared. And so many historians Have said that the war was really over on D-Day a year before it formally ended with the V-Day Declaration. But do you know what happened between D-Day and V-Day? There continued to be battles. Skirmishes, injuries, and casualties. The war was won, just wasn't over yet. Right? Jesus has already won. On the cross, he already secured our union with him and with one another. But between the cross and his second coming, when that union will be perfected, there will be battles, skirmishes, injuries. We need to continue fighting. Fighting for the unity that He's already won for us. Which is why we encounter commands to pursue unity throughout the New Testament. Ephesians 4. Therefore, I urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called, bearing with one another, eager to maintain the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace Or Philippians 2. Paul tells them to have the same mind and be of one accord. Then at the end of Philippians, when he's writing his closing remarks, he names uh two of the women in the congregation who are currently in a disagreement. He's like, hey. Tell them to work it out for their unity in Christ. Pursue unity. Right? Or even here in Colossians, we're called to strive. Pursue unity, being knit together in love, being united in love. If we're gonna fight about anything, Let it be a fight about displaying the unity that already exists between us by virtue of the fact that we are all one in Christ Jesus. Right? And the reason that there are so many commands to pursue unity in the New Testament is because between the cross and the second coming, there will be those battles, those skirmishes, and those injuries. There will be times that disunity occurs, whether because of misunderstanding or because of disagreement over matters of conscience Or because of genuine sin. In that sense, we shouldn't be surprised by conflict and the resulting disunity that can occur Yet while we shouldn't be surprised by disunity, neither should Christians settle for it. Maturing in Christ entails consists of includes a moving away from settling for disunity and a moving towards a desire to be knit together in love A maturing Christian and a maturing congregation will not settle for disunity, but will by the power of the Holy Spirit And the humility he brings strive to be knit together in love. Being united in love is a mark of Christian maturity. One theologian said, there are two ways of being united. One is by being frozen together, and the other is by being melted together. What Christians need is to be united in brotherly love. And then they may expect to have power. Right? We want to be a congregation of people who are melted together in the warm fires of love and affection in Christ. But before we talk about how we should go about doing that, I want to point out something that being united in love assumes about the Christian life. It assumes that the Christian life is lived in committed local community with other Christians. Think about that. It assumes community because you can't be knit together in love to yourself. Unless you're a narcissist, then you can because you love yourself and you desire yourself, right? But we're we're talking we're just talking about general being knit together in love. General unity. You can't be united together in love if you're all alone You need other Christians around you to be knit too, right? Robust individualism is an American trait, not a Christian one God intends for us to live in community with other Christians. Yet if you're truly going to be knit together with them, united in love to them, then that community needs to be in some sense. local. You can't be knit together in any real sense to Christians in other geographical locations around the world. I thank God that there today have been Christians and churches gathered in Africa, Europe. Asia, Australia, every land on earth where the gospel has reached and churches have been planted, Christians have gathered together today to worship God. But I'm just, I love them, I pray for them. I just can't be knit together in love in the way that Paul assumes because I'm just not in local community with them Paul is writing to a community of believers who know one another, walk with one another, experience conflict with one another and respond by pursuing being united in love. Which is why being knit together in love also assumes Commitment to that local community. Why is it assume that? Well, because if you up and leave a church after the first experience of conflict with another member of that church, you can't be knit together in love with them. The type of knitting together Paul envisions assumes a level of commitment that is able to endure misunderstandings Disagreements and sins which regularly occur in the body of Christ. It assumes that you'll consciously commit to a body of local believers who have also committed to you So if you're not a member of CBC and you've been visiting for some time, I would love to talk to you about what it means to be a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church. Come find me after the service. We can chat about what it means to be a committed member of this church. But if you don't want to join here, that is totally fine. My only encouragement to you is that you find a congregation to commit to Because your maturing in the faith is inextricably tied to your being a committed member of a local church But I also don't want to make it seem like striving to be united in love is easy. Like, oh, all I have to do is join a church and poof, unity happens, right? Unity is easy if if that's all we have to do But joining a church and just thinking that unity will happen is silly, right? Because it won't. Striving for unity, striving to be knit together in love, is hard. Didn't notice, look, look again at verse one. Paul says, I labor, toil, and struggle for you to be united together in love. Right? He's struggling for their maturity, which includes being united together in love. Being united together in love in the midst of a congregation is hard work. This is why Paul has to labor and toil and struggle for it. Right? Most people love the sound of unity But don't want the work it takes to actually experience unity, right? I love the warmth of a crackling fire. What I don't like is constantly having to tend to it, right? I put a new log in and I've got maybe ten minutes of uner uninterrupted joy. Before I've got to like shift the log around, move the coals around, put a new log in, right? If we want the warmth of being united together in love, we have to be committed to the work of regularly tending our relationships that unity won't just happen it takes constant attention and regular work in each of our lives it's not easy I want you to think about the reasons that being united together in love is hard. Just think about these three broad categories. It's hard because often we don't understand one another. We have diverse upbringings, experiences, temperaments, and personalities, which often cause us to just Yes. I don't get you. What? I I just don't understand your personality. What what did you mean by that when you said that? Because when When I say that type of thing with that type of inflection and with that facial expression, I mean this, but it doesn't seem like you mean that. We just miss one another What one person finds funny, another does not. True story. I was reading this sermon last night to my wife Leah, and I got to a part of the sermon that I was really serious about. I'm like, this part of this this is strong, right? I feel really good about this She burst out laughing because she thought I was telling a joke. I'm just sitting there like I don't I don't even know how to respond to you right now because you're just laughing at me and like no I'm very serious But if I if I act really hurt by this, this is gonna be this is gonna be awkward. And she's like, she just kept laughing. It wasn't just like a little chuckle. She was dying in laughter for a few minutes. And I'm like Okay, note to self, I've got to remove that part because like I don't want to be serious here and y'all are just out there laughing, right? We miss one another. What one person finds funny, another does not. What one person enjoys, another does not. What's important to one person isn't to another. What one person means when they say a particular thing, another person interprets in a completely different way. And these diverse upbringings, personalities, temperaments, experiences present near constant opportunities to misunderstand one another and for conflict and disunity to arise. But being united in love is also hard because we disagree over matters of conscience Right? God has given to us a wide pasture of Christian freedom to roam around within. And while that freedom is good, Faithful and mature Christians may disagree with one another about where the boundary line of that freedom is on any number of issues. And those disagreements can cause disunity. I mean, think about the types of conscience issues that can create disunity in a congregation. How we spend our money. What one person views as spending money to enjoy the good gifts God has given, another person views as sinful materialism. What movies we watch, right? What doesn't cause one person to stumble another person couldn't fathom watching? What political candidate we vote for? whether we drink alcohol, where we send our ski kids to school, and on and on and on, apart from a concerted striving to be united in love. These issues can explode like landmines in a congregation and leave disunity and division in their wake. But those aren't the only two reasons, things that can cause disunity. Being united in love is also hard because we sin against one another. Whether by gossip, rudeness, lying, not keeping our word, or any other possible way that we might sin against each other, being knit together in love, being united in love hurts at times. It's costly. And when you consider all the possible ways that disunity can arise, all the various ways that we can misunderstand one another Or disagree over matters of conscience, or all the ways we might sin against one another, we begin to realize how precious a thing like unity within a congregation is. And how much of a work of God it is. But God has also called us into that work He's called us into that work. He's called us to strive to be knit together in love So how can you individually and we as a congregation pursue being united in love? I want us to think about this in two ways. Proactively pursuing unity and love, and reactively. Pursuing unity and love. Proactively. I don't know who said it. Somebody did, but many of you will be familiar with the quote that the best defense is a good offense. We don't have to wait for conflict to arise to pursue being united together in love. We can offensively, proactively pursue it. And the first way we can proactively pursue unity is through prayer. What does John say in 1 John? This is the confidence we have before him. If we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests. That we asked of him. It is God's will that we be one, right? John 17. Katie read for us from John 17. So we should be praying for the unity of this church regularly. Friends, don't sleep on prayer. Unity is a work of God, a blessing from God, so we should be praying regularly. for the unity of this congregation as a whole. And if you are aware of divisions in the church, different people in the congregation who are struggling together, pray for their unity as well. We should be praying for unity. Pray down the unity we will have in heaven so that we can have a foretaste of it here. And after you pray, pursue. I'm going full Baptist on y'all today. Like there's all sorts of just P's and Q's and things like that throughout this sermon. I don't know if you're paying attention. After you pray, pursue one another in relationship. One of the best ways we can build unity in our congregation is by building Christ-centered relationships with one another. Get together with other members of the church. Encourage them in their faith, like we talked about last week. Meditate on the riches of Christ, as we'll talk about next week. Share about Christ's work in your life and ask them about his work in their lives. A. W. Tozer was a theologian from early in the 20th century, and he had this image of a tuning fork that I think shows how Christ-centered relationships can build powerful unity. He said this Has it ever occurred to you that 100 pianos, all tuned to the same fork, are automatically tuned to each other? They are of one accord by being tuned not to each other, but to another standard to which each one must individually bow So in the same way, 100 worshipers meeting together, each one looking away to Christ, are in heart nearer to each other than they could possibly be, were they to become unity conscious. and turn their ways away from God to strive for closer fellowship. Christ is that tuning fork that we can all be tuned to and draw closer together in love with one another. And just think about the other thing, relationships, just basic stuff. Relationships also help you understand people better, which helps to limit misunderstanding. You learn about their life experiences. Which can shed light on why they may have a particular conscience issue, all of which helps to build unity. Right? And after you proactively pray and pursue relationship, Practice putting others first. Now there are obvious ways to do this individually, but we can also do it corporately. Herm Edwards was a former NFL coach, and his motto was that the players on his team played for the name on the side of the helmet and not for the name on the back of their jersey. In the church, that amounts to not fighting to make this church about all of the issues you want it to be about, but putting the mission Christ has given this church first. Uniting around making disciples through preaching the gospel, praying for God to save, and planting churches locally and abroad. Right, there's a funny story, a funny fictional story about a family from New York uh that bought a cattle ranch out west They had some friends visit who were curious about the name of the ranch when they arrived. And the husband said, Well, I wanted to name the ranch the Bar J. My wife wanted to name it the Susie Q. One of our sons wanted to name it the Flying W, and the other one liked the Lazy Y. So we're calling it the Bar J, Susie Q, Flying W, Lazy Y. And then the friend said, but where are all your cattle? And the husband said, they didn't survive the branding. If we fight to make the mission of the church what each of us wants it to be, the church won't survive. Right? But if we pursue putting the mission Christ has given us first, There's no telling what God might do. And to the kids and teens in the congregation, you can be prepared for harder conflict to come in your life by practicing these things now in your home. The home is a training ground in that sense, especially if God has given you siblings. One of the primary ways God prepares you to be a conduit of unity and love. in your future family, your future church, and your future friendships are the people that he has sovereignly placed in your home now. If your home is anything like ours, then you are constantly faced with the opportunity to demand your own way or put others first. Because of how often conflict arises in our home between our seven-year-old boy and our five-year-old boy and their three-year-old sister, uh, I have had to come up with uh uh the phrase. Uh and the motto that we are a you first family. So when they're fighting, I stop them and I say to them, what would it look like to be a you first family right now? For the kids and teens, y'all can practice pursuing unity and love by practicing it with the members of your household now. I wonder if you have a you first mentality. Are you a peacemaker or a peace taker? Right? You can practice now pursuing unity and love. Those are the proactive ways We also need to think about reactively pursuing unity and love. When conflict happens, how should we react? How should we respond? Well the first way that you should react is by praying. Right? Don't sleep on prayer. At all times, friend, by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known to the Lord. One of those requests should be unity, especially when conflict arises. Don't sleep on prayer. We should be praying for unity in season and out. But in the midst of conflict, as you pursue unity, there are some specific things that you should be praying for in yourself and in the other person, or if you are in the midst of conflict, you should be praying for understanding. Lord, help me to understand this person. Help me to understand them so I might be able to step into their shoes and see the world from their perspective. Right? Keep me from thinking that I know everything there is to know about the world and that I have every base covered and I understand all things. Give me understanding. You should also pray for humility. Lord, help me to see and admit where I may have been wrong or was wrong and help me to do that without caveats. And wrap that in a humility, in a humility that has a spirit of forgiveness. Right? Lord, help me to forgive, knowing that my sins are far worse against you than this person's sins have been against me. Understanding, humility, and forgiveness should be regularly things that we pray for in the midst of conflict. And the second way we react is by pursuing one another in love. The same things, right? Prayer and pursuit Think about how the prepositional phrase in love modifies how Paul wants us to be knit together. He wants us to be knit together, united, in love. What does Paul mean by that? Well, it probably means what he writes in 1 Corinthians 13. Love is patient. Love is kind. Love is not rude. Doesn't envy or boast. Love bears all things, endures all things, hopes all things. To be knit together in love means pursuing one another in the midst of potential disunity. and bringing to bear all the fruits of the Spirit in the midst of that pursuit. So when you misunderstand one another, you pursue and say, hey, hey, you said this thing, and I I'm just not quite sure. what you meant by it. And I I don't want to assume the worst because love assumes all things, assumes the best of a person. I don't want to assume the worst because that's not pursuing in love. Can you help me to understand? Or when you disagree over a matter of conscience, you pursue and say, hey, I would love to talk with you about your views on X issue and understand how you arrived at your position. There may be things that I'm not seeing. Or when you sin against someone, you pursue and say, I need to ask for your forgiveness. I've sinned against you and that's not right. It doesn't honor God and it doesn't honor you. Help me understand how I can make this right. In every situation, being united together in love means you're choosing humility, kindness. Gentleness, patience, forbearance, assuming the best of others. In short, you're choosing love But also recognize as we seek to pursue being united together in love, that love may have to endure through disagreement. Unity does not always equal agreement on the side of the cross. There will be forbearing difficult personalities There will be disagreement on matters of conscience. And at times, if you're sinned against, you may have to decide whether it's the most loving thing to confront or to overlook. And sometimes it may be different. You think about Proverbs, right? It's to a man's glory to overlook an offense. And then in other places it's to a man's glory. A gentle word is like a kiss on the lips. That a person spoke up in that case. They spoke gently and humbly, but they spoke. Sometimes you have to decide whether you're just going to overlook or speak. And in all of it, we pray. We pray for God to bring unity. Pursuing unity takes hard work It's costly, but ultimately it's worth it. It's worth it because it teaches us about the gospel. The goodness of God Himself. That God sought to be united to a people who had sinned against him and who he knew would sin against him again. But he pursued them in sacrificial love in order to make them his own and to usher them into the loving unity of the God who is three in one. And so as we seek to be knit together in love, we're displaying in some small measure God's love for us. And as we do that, we are growing up into him who is the head, growing more and more in the likeness of Christ We are growing in maturity in Christ. A Christian and a church that are displaying the marks of maturity will display Being united together, love. Let's pray. Father, we do pray. We pray for the unity of this church, Chevroly Baptist Church. We pray that you would knit us together in love. We ask that you would put in us through the Holy Spirit a spirit of prayer calling out for unity. A spirit of pursuit where we pursue getting to know one another in relationship, a spirit of pursuit that that pursues others in the midst of conflict and brings to bear all the fruits of the Holy Spirit that would be patience and kindness. Gentleness and humility help us to think the best of one another that we might be an aroma of Christ for the world around us. We pray also for the unity of your church around the world. United around truth. Think about next week. And united in love for one another That our churches might be outposts of heaven, that those watching might say, God must be among them. Help that to be true of us, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.