Well, we're saying, who is like the Lord our God? Christians can confidently answer. No one There is no God like our God. There are no so-called gods who are like our God. And one of the things that sets our God apart from all other so-called gods. Is that our God speaks. He speaks life-giving words. And those are words that we're going to consider today and how his Word gives life to the church. In fact, his word creates the church and sustains the church. I want to pray for us briefly, and then we are going to consider this together. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you alone spoke. And the earth and the heavens and all that is in them came into existence. And you alone can speak and give new life in our hearts. Speak to us today, we pray Sanctify us in the truth. Your word is truth. In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. According to an article in the Atlantic, uh the United States is experiencing an epidemic. In the age of coronavirus, that might seem obvious to you, but the emid epidemic has nothing to do with viruses or with physical health. No, according to this article, America is facing an epidemic of Empty church buildings. The author Jonathan Merritt describes how the city landscape outside of his Brooklyn apartment is dominated by the towering St. Vincent de Paul Church. Or what was the St. Vincent dePaul Church? Because the church as a people are no longer there. That building is now empty. Well, empty in a spiritual sense, it's now filled with condos. Merritt notes in his article that St. Vincent dePaul is just one of many empty church buildings. He reports that between some somewhere between six and ten thousand churches die each year in America. That's hard to believe. That's a huge number of churches. And these churches dying and going out of existence each year leaves America's landscape covered with empty church buildings. I think an obvious question that arises is why are all of these churches dying? Merritt's answer in his article focuses on sociological factors and changing demographics and the communities. surrounding many of these churches, and I'm sure that those factors were part of the reason that some of these churches closed, but surely not all of them. I think I'd propose that the socio that sociological factors and shifting demographics aren't the main reason that most of these church buildings are empty. I think the main reason these churches are empty is found in a 2007 study out of Ontario, Canada, where the researchers did a study between theologically liberal churches And theologically conservative churches. That is, churches that don't believe in the Word of God, and churches that do believe the Bible is God's Word And what the study found is that theologically liberal churches are shrinking by nearly one million members annually. While theologically conservative churches are growing as much as ever. And as they concluded their research, and in the article that they wrote on their research, The one glaring difference that stood out between these two types of churches was believing, preaching, and honoring God's word as God's word. The vast majority of dying churches had abandoned belief in God's word. They did not treat Scripture as breathed out by God. They did not regard it as a perfect treasure. Of heavenly instruction, as our statement of faith says about the scriptures. Before the pews were emptied, the pulpit was abandoned Before the people stopped appearing for worship, the pastor stopped appearing to open up to them God's word. And when that happens, there's nothing left for a church to do But die. Because as we'll see this afternoon, the word, working by the Spirit, is what creates and sustains the church. Cutting the church off from the word and expecting it to live is like removing a person's heart and expecting them to go on living. It simply can't happen. If you're visiting with us today, we are thankful that you're here. Our normal practice is to open up a book of the Bible and to preach systematically through it, going in order. We're currently in a study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. We're somewhere, I think we're right around the middle of chapter three, but we're taking a brief break from that study to do what we call a topical series. And the topical series that we're doing is a series on the church. The church is at the center of God's plan to glorify himself in the world. Paul says in Ephesians. that God is making his manifold wisdom known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places through the church. I think sometimes Christians treat the church as tangential to the Christian life, but the church is central to God's plan to bring glory to himself on earth and in heaven. And so we Want to take time to consider what Scripture says about the church. Last week we saw that the church is the fulfillment of God's plan to gather a people together to serve Him as kings. Priests and prophets in his holy temple. But what caused the church to come into existence? What caused the people of God to become the people of God? What gave life and continues giving life to the church Well, the answer that we find in God's Word is that God's word creates and sustains the church If you're taking notes this morning as we approach our study today on how God's word creates and sustains the church, the main kind of thesis, the main point for our sermon today is this: God's Word Working by his spirit creates and sustains the church. That's the main point of our message today. God's word, working by his spirit, Creates and sustains the church. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna break that up into three points. Point one, God's word creates the church. Point two, God's word sustains the church, and point three. God's word in the life of the church. And that's going to be mostly reflections on how we apply this idea that God's word creates and sustains the church to our life together as a church. So first, God's word creates the church. The creative power of God's word is unmistakably and unequivocally declared in Scripture Right, the fact that God creates by His Word is one of the very first things that we learn in Scripture. No sooner does the Bible begin than we learn that God's word creates. And what does God's word create? Everything. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God said, Let the skies exist, and the skies came into existence. And God said, Let the waters exist and let the land exist and let the sun, moon, and stars exist, and let the animals and birds exist and let the sea creatures exist and let man and woman exist and all of it. Came into existence. God sang the sweet song of creation. If you ever remember that image that scene from Narnia where Aslan is singing and just Everything is coming into existence or like these molehills, these uh these piles of dirt that come up out of the water, and then what pops out, a new animal. Right from Nornia, God sang the sweet song of creation, and all that He sang came to be. He said it, and it was, He spoke, and it came to pass. There are so many ways that you and I are not like God, that we are different from God Here is one undeniable way. Our words do not have the power to create. Now don't mistake me, our words do have power, and they can create in a sense, but not in the sense that God's word creates. I can say, I will build a house. My words express my intentions to build a house. But what do I need to do now Well, I have to go buy the lumber and the concrete and all the other materials, all the materials needed to build a home, and then I have to do all the work to build the home. My words don't create the house in the same way that God's word immediately brings into existence what he's spoken. It both expresses his intention and causes to exist at the same time. Hey, for the younger kids. We can test this out right now. Can one of y'all tell me your favorite animal? Just one of you shout out your favorite animal. Tiger. Where was that? Right here? Tiger So what we're going to do now, kids, is on the count of three, I want all of you to yell. And I'm giving you permission to yell in church. Tiger exists. Are you all ready? Right, we're gonna practice it once. So this isn't the real deal. I'm calling this a practice, so if it doesn't work It's because it was a practice run, right? On the count of three, I want y'all to yell, tiger exists. You ready? One, two, three. Good, that was practice. We may need to yell it louder to actually make it come into existence. Are y'all ready? Can you do it a little bit louder? All right, here we go. One, two, three. Where is he? Y'all see him? He didn't come into existence. But do you want to know why your favorite animal does exist? Because when God said tiger exist, he came into existence. When God spoke, he brought everything into existence. Everything God said to be was. Tiger included. Right? Because God told it to exist. Psalm 33, verse 6. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the starry host by the breath of his mouth. But God's word doesn't just create the physical world. God also creates spiritual life by his word No passage in the Bible better illustrates this than Ezekiel's vision of the valley of dry bones that Chloe read for us already, right? God brings Ezekiel out into a valley that is covered in human skeletons. Oh, what a difficult image. Even in the Bible, you've got to think about what this image means. In the Bible, to have a proper burial was to be honored. To not have a proper burial was to die in shame. So all these people in this vision, they had died in shame and under God's judgment, skeletons just laying on the top of the earth. He brings Ezekiel out into the valley that's covered in human skeletons. Ezekiel says it was full of bones. Right? And as if to press home the obvious. God led him around among the bones, and Ezekiel says, behold, they were very dry. Thanks for that detail, Ezekiel. What is he trying to tell us? Not even close to living, nothing left in them. Dead as dead can be. And God asked Ezekiel, Ezekiel, can these bones live? You have to assume that Ezekiel is thinking what we'd all be thinking. No, they can't live, God. Thank you. They're bones. But because he's speaking to God, I think Ezekiel chooses pious avoidance. Oh Lord God, you know. Right? What does God tell him to do? The unthinkable. Does he tell him to create great church programs to bring them to life? Does he tell Ezekiel, Ezekiel, build a huge, awesome building that that will bring them to life, put a coffee shop in it? Does he tell them to make sure he has the best musicians and the best audio video? No, what does he tell them to do? Preach the word, Ezekiel. Preach the word. Prophesy my words over these bones. Say to them Oh, dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. They don't even have ears. Well, I mean they have like the holes that would be in their skeletons, but they don't have ears. Hear the word of the Lord. And Ezekiel speaks God's word to the bones, and what happens? They all start rattling. And then ligaments appear, and muscle appears, and flesh appears, but they're still not alive. And God says to Ezekiel, Prophesy to the breath. Say to the breath, Come, breath, and breathe on them, O breath, that these bones might live. And here we just have to remember that the word for breath in Hebrew is the same word for spirit or the spirit, the same breath that God breathed into Adam in Genesis. So Ezekiel calls the spirit to come through the preaching of God's word. And what happens to the bones? They lived and stood a very great army. The dry bones are now a living, breathing army. All because of God's word, working by God's Spirit, gave them life. The Spirit Working through God's word gives spiritual life to God's people. And we know that Ezekiel's vision is about spiritual life because God tells him, these bones are the bones of the people of Israel. They're living right now. They are alive. You're living among them. They are spiritually dead. Right? And I will give them spiritual life. Through my word, and I will put my spirit inside of them through my preached word, and I will give them new life. God's word, working by God's Spirit, creates God's people. This is what Peter meant when he said, You, speaking to Christians, have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through The living and abiding word of God. God's word creates spiritual life. The best illustrations I've ever heard or come across to this point is about Charles Spurgeon. And of course it would be Spurgeon. Right? The great English preacher. He was once asked by the owners and builders, the architects of the Crystal Palace in London, England, to test out the acoustic properties of the large auditorium. So he went there one morning with a group of friends, and he stationed the friends in different places in the auditorium. And Spurgeon walked up front and said, Behold the Lamb of God! Who takes away the sins of the world? Years later, Spurgeon's brother went to see a dying man who told him. I'm a painter by trade. I used to be a very irreligious man, and then one day I went to work inside the Crystal Palace I was painting up in the roof area. It was early, and so I assumed the building was empty. And I was startled when I heard a voice ring out. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Spurgeon. Speaking down on the stage. Speaking John the Baptist's word, recorded in Scripture. God breathes words. And he said, the words came home to me with such power of conviction that they led me to seek and find in Jesus Christ, the Savior in whom I believed I was told later it was your brother's voice I heard. Please tell him this from me. One sentence. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Lights come on. New spiritual life. A man w rises up, goes forward, and follows Jesus for the rest of his days. It was Spurgeon's voice that he heard, but make no mistake, it was God's word that gave him life. God's word is powerful. So powerful that it comes to dead and dry bones and they come to life. I was saved listening to John Piper read and then briefly explain John 3, verse 16. He was still in his introduction to the sermon, and God gave me life through his word. I'm confident we could go around this room and find story after story of God's word giving life. In fact, I'm certain we could. Because you and I wouldn't have faith if it weren't for God's word working by his spirit. Because faith comes by hearing And hearing of the word Christ. This is why throughout the book of Acts, Luke describes the growth of the church as. The word of God multiplying. Acts chapter 6, verse 7. The word of God continued to increase, and the number of disciples multiplied greatly. Word of God increases, disciples increase. Acts 12, 24. The word of God increased and multiplied. Acts 19, 20. The word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily. The book of Acts is all about God growing the church by the preaching of his word in the power of the Spirit. And for the last 2,000 years The word has been increasing and multiplying throughout all the earth. This is why Paul could write to the Colossians in chapter 1. The gospel is bearing fruit not only among you, but in all the earth. God's word brings spiritual life to his people. And we have to recognize this when it comes to the church and church life. God determined, according to the counsel of his own will. To bring his people spiritual life by his word. God determined to create the church through the word So if you're a member of this church, why does this church exist? Because God gave us life through his word by his spirit Word and Spirit together bring new life and a community of people appears. The word of God increased and multiplied. But God not only determined to create the church by the word. He also sustains the church by the word. And that brings us to point two. God's word sustains the church. Just like God created the physical world by his word He sustains the physical world by his word. The author of Hebrews, speaking of Jesus, says this He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe. He upholds the universe by the word of his power. Goodness gracious, what powerful word must he have to uphold the universe You see, what we call the laws of nature, I think a better Christian way to understand them, a more Christian way to understand them, is as the expression Of God's active sustaining of the world by the power of his word. See, we often talk about the laws of nature as though God created all things, then he put these laws in place, and now he has to step back and he can't violate these laws. That's not the God of Scripture. And those laws of nature, I think, are best understood as the active expression of him upholding all things by the power of his word. As soon as he stops speaking, creation falls apart. Right, so how many of you kids out there like Legos? Right, raise your hand if you like Legos, like to build Legos, right? I want you to think of your favorite Lego set. Maybe it's a Ninjago Or a Star Wars ship of some kinds, right? I want you to imagine you're holding that Lego set above the ground with your hands. What happens if you take your hands out from underneath of the Lego set? Falls to the ground, smashes to pieces. When we say that Jesus sustains creation with his word, his word is like your hands holding that Lego set. As soon as he stops, creation falls apart. So even right now, our lives, our bodies, our breath, all that is in us is being held together, sustained by his word. But his word not only sustains physical life, it also sustains our spiritual life. I mean just think about all of the awesome images. The Bible uses to describe the sustaining power of God's word, right? Who here likes honey? I love honey, right? Honey on my Cheerios? Honey on my bread, honey on everything. I'll put honey on everything. It's so good, right? If you like honey, take up God's word. Psalm 119, 103, your words are sweeter than honey. Oh, take up the word, pick up the honeycomb and eat. Or Jeremiah 23 verse 29, is not my word like fire and like a hammer that shatters the rock in pieces? His word is like fire that burns the dross of our sinfulness off. And like a hammer that breaks up the stony, hard concrete of our hearts. You know, God as a Christian, He has given you a new heart, He's removed your heart of stone. But you know from your Christian experience that that concrete keeps growing in there. You need to take up the word, pick up the hammer, and let God swing it at your heart To break up the stony recesses of your heart. Psalm 119, 105. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Friend, if you feel like you're wandering in darkness, take up the word of God to light your way. Or his word is like dew that nourishes the grass. His word is like bread for the hungry, water for the thirsty. The author of Hebrews describes it as both milk and and solid food, meaning it can sustain both baby Christians and adult Christians. Hebrews 4. 12. The word of God is living and active. Living and active, sharper than any double-edged sword, penetrating to the division of soul and spirit, joints and marrow, and judging the thoughts and intentions of the heart. This book This book is not dead and lifeless. It is bursting with life If you could see the word as God sees it, you would see a book that is glowing with supernatural life When you put it on the shelf next to other books, it might look like any other book, but if you could see it as God see it, you would see a book that is just jittery. Vibrant, right, ready to come to the life, like bubbling to the surface, bursting with life, begging to be taken up and read, right? Augustine was saved hearing a person say tola legate Take up and read. Take up and read. The Bible is screaming out to you. Take up and read. It's like when you walk by the Bible. You ever seen those cartoons where there's like some muffled voice inside of like a box? It's just trying to come out, right? Whenever you walk by the Bible, it's like you hear this muffled voice. It's trying to get out. And when you open the Bible, it shouts, Faith! Salvation, salvation for all who will turn. Come and drink. Come and drink for free. God is speaking to us through His Word. Friend, if you are here and you don't follow Jesus. I want to tell you about the Word. Not only the Word of Scripture, but the Word made flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ. What does the Bible teach us about God and about ourselves? It teaches us there is a holy God who made mankind in his image to reflect his glory in all the earth. To live this. noble and dignified creatures under his rule, carrying out his will on earth until his whole glory would fill the earth. But man foolishly, unbelievably, turned and rebelled against this God. And in sinning against him came under his judgment rightly and lives under his judgment. All people come into the world condemned, Jesus says already. Right? We are under the judgment of God because we've all sinned against him. And God has promised that he is going to send his son a second time. To judge the earth. And that will not go well for anyone who has not repented of their sins and put their trust in him. But God, who is just, is also merciful and gracious. And he graciously sent his son, the eternal word of God, to take on flesh, born of a virgin. Born of the woman, at the right time, the Son came into the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. He lived the perfect life. The life that you and I should have lived, but have it He died the death that we deserved in our place on the cross for our sins, bearing the full weight of God's wrath. If you imagine it like a cup full of wine, which the Bible uses as an image, he drank all of it to the last drop. There's no wrath left for anyone who would turn from their sins and trust in him. And after he was die after he died on the cross and was buried in the tomb, he stayed there three days and then he got up from the dead because he has life in himself. He wasn't like the people of Israel who needed the word of God to speak over him to come back. He had life in himself. He took up his life. He laid it down and took it up again. And after he rose from the dead, he said, anyone who will turn from their sins Put their trust in me who will take up their cross and follow me fully forgiven now and forever. The good news of the gospel. This book is holding out to you eternal life. This book is holding out to you reconciliation with the Father and the hope of eternal life with him in his presence forever. That is the good news of the gospel. I want to encourage you if you don't know that good news, if you don't have a relationship with Christ, to turn today and put your trust in Him. I want you to think about this also. This is a quick sidebar here. I'm sure some of the teens saw this past week that Demi Lovato recently announced that she's no longer identifying as a woman. She said she's not identifying as a man or a woman. There's a lot that can be said about this, but I want to relate her recent announcement to what we're talking about today. Right? Notice what she's doing or attempting to do. She's using words to try and create a new reality. She's using words to try and create a new identity. I'm no longer a woman. I'm neither male nor female. But the reality is, her words, your words, my words, don't have the power to create a new reality or to create a new identity Only God's words have the power to create a new reality. And only God's words have the power to both rightly identify us and create a new identity for us. And how does his word identify us? Fundamentally, as rebels, we have rebelled against him and as a result are under his judgment But in his grace and mercy, he sent the eternal word into the world, the Lord Jesus Christ, to take the punishment for our sins and rise again to new life So that whoever believes in him would be saved by the word of the gospel. And not only saved by it, but sustained by it through the course of our lives. We're sustained by hearing about God's sovereign power over life storms. We're sustained by his promise of new morning mercies. When are his mercies new? Every single day. We're sustained by hearing of his steadfast love for his people. We're sustained by hearing of his faithfulness. We're sustained by hearing of his provisions and promises. Are you taking up God's word and reading of these things? Right, we we check the Twitter feeds of people whose words we prize. We follow on Instagram to see what they're doing and saying. We subscribe to YouTube channels because we want to hear what certain people have to say. We follow people on TikTok for the same reason. Let's be sure We're also following God in His Word, right? Hit subscribe to God's word in Scripture, right? Hear His hot takes for your life Because his hot takes will actually give life. If there's anyone whose word can sustain you, it's his word The church comes into existence by the word, and it is sustained in existence by the word, and so the word should be at the center of all we do, which brings us to point three God's word in the life of the church. Since God's word creates and sustains the church, the word should be at the center of all that we do as a church Right, what happens to a crop field when the irrigation sprinklers are turned off? What happens to Iron Man's suit when the arc reactor is removed? What happens to a body when the heart is removed? The crops wither, the soup becomes worthless, and the body dies. The word is the irrigation sprinklers It's the arc reactor of the church. It's the heart of the body. And so we want the word to be at the heart of all that we do, and for it to penetrate to every level of our life together as a church. Right? We want the word to be central to our Sunday service, our gathering. When we gather, we are gathering around the word. I want you to take your bulletin and just open up to the inside cover to that order of service. Just look at it real quick with me so that you can see this lived out in real life in front of us. Right? We are literally gathering around the word. You have the welcome where there's some announcements made after the announcements. We also spend a few moments in silence to prepare our hearts to hear God speak. And then the very first words we hear coming out of the moment of silence are God's spoken word to us in the call to worship. Today we heard about God's assurance that his word will not return void. And then after we hear God speak, we respond in song. You have the three songs listed there. And we want the songs that we choose on a weekly basis to be filled with truths from God's word, right? We want to sing God's words back to him. And since God has words for every season of life, seasons of joy and sorrow, we sing joyful songs and we sing sorrowful songs. But regardless of the type of song that we sing, we want it to be filled with truths from Scripture that unite the heart and mind together. in the worship of God. Then after we sing, we hear God speak in the scripture reading. Right? Today God spoke to us about the power of his word to create spiritual life, and then obviously dead people from Ezekiel 37. I think one of the things I want to encourage you to do is when you hear the scripture reading on Sundays, don't just sit back and kind of hear it passively. Listen to it actively and think about what God might be saying to you. Here's two questions you can ask yourself when you're listening to the scripture reading. What is this teaching me about God? And what is this teaching me about the life that pleases him or displeases him? Right? As God's people, we want to think about God's word actively. Right? Think about what God is saying you to the scripture readings. The scripture readings are almost always chosen to be paired with the sermon to further explain, complement, or point forward what's going to be preached in the sermon. And I want to encourage you to listen to them actively. Right? So important is the reading of Scripture to the life of the church that God laid it down as a command for all time that when the church gathers, The scriptures should be read. Then after the scripture reading, we respond in prayer by praying God's word back to him. We pray and praise God for who he is as he's revealed himself in the word. We pray and confess our sins, the sins that we've committed against commands that we've broken that are laid down in his word. We pray and ask God for all the things that he's promised in his word. We're going to consider prayer more fully in the life of the church next week Then after we pray, we have the sermon, right? The preacher takes a passage of scripture, explains its meaning, and seeks to apply it to the congregation in a way consistent with the point of the passage And you see that happening in Scripture if you turn to Nehemiah 8. What does Ezra do? He walks up in front of the people of Israel with the book of the law, he opens it, he reads it, he explains it, and then he applies it to them. We see this going on elsewhere in Scripture as well. This is why Paul commands Timothy to preach the word. In season and out of season. There's no off-season for preaching the word. The church always needs the word of God. And then after the sermon, we see the word made visible in the Lord's Supper. Right? The Lord's Supper is a visible proclamation of the gospel. Paul says that in the Lord's Supper, we proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. In children's ministry, which Lord willing will be returning before too long. We want the kids to encounter God in his word. And so we have age-appropriate lessons. From scripture for the kids. But then after we gather on Sunday, we scatter out into the world. But we don't scatter from the Word. We then carry the Word to every area of our individual lives. In our small groups, we gather around the Word to study a book of the Bible so we can continue to be shaped by the Word during the week. In our events like VBS and Iwana, we're looking for ways to expose the kids. in the church and in our surrounding communities to God's word. In other events like Fall Festival, what we're doing is not just putting on events to have fun, but we're looking for ways to build relationships in order to share the gospel with the people that we meet. All of the things that we do in the gathering and outside of the gathering are meant to provide a platform for the Word So our own Jonathan Lehman has an outstanding section on this in his book, Word Centered Church. There's a copy of that available on that back table. It is an excellent book. He talks in the book about the current emphasis on liturgy in the service as a means of spiritual growth. You gotta have good liturgy. It's gotta be like a high church Liturgy, right? But he rightly describes liturgy as merely a funnel or a pipe for God's word to flow through. The only thing that makes liturgy powerful is the word that passes through it If you're not getting the word, that the liturgy is like it's no help to you, right? He also says that all of the ministries of a church that a church might participate in, whether it be mercy ministry, children's ministry, VBS, whatever it might be, that these are all Platforms for the word. They're never meant to be the main attraction or the mission of the church. To make any ministry the mission or the attraction of the church is to literally cut the power lines from the church. All of those things are a platform for the word. If I've misrepresented him in any way, you can see him after the service. He can, I'm sure, feel free to explain to you more about that, but it's an excellent book And I want you to notice also what this means for our evangelism, both individually and corporately. What God says about his word brings immense freedom to our evangelism. It doesn't ultimately depend on you and I having all the answers. It doesn't depend on you or I being able to give the best explanation or presentation or anything else. God's sheep hear his voice. We need to be faithful to share and leave the results up to God to bring about his purposes for his word. And I think you should also think about evangelism if if you think about evangelism as just this single event, like I need to go, I feel really stressed out because I've committed today to share this message with this person. I'm gonna speak this gospel message and then I'm like just gonna like Figure out what to do later. If that's how you think about evangelism, yes, sometimes you do just share the message of the gospel in one opportunity with a person. You call them to repent. You talk to them as much as you can about the questions they might have But you should also think about evangelism as, hey, who's a neighbor or a coworker or a family member? Then I might just ask to read a book of the Bible with me. God works through his word. Just sit down. Open up the Gospel of John with somebody that you know who might sit down and read the word with you. And let God work through his word He will fulfill his promises that he has appointed for it. Right? We want to bring the word to bear on every aspect of our lives. Right? We want to open up the word to learn about how God calls us to live as single people, spouses, husbands and fathers, wives and mothers, children and siblings, employees, artists, authors, lawyers, students. The list goes on and on. But in order to do that, we need to be in the Word. Don Whitney says this: God's plan for sanctifying us. That is, for making us holy and godly, is accomplished by means of the truth. His word If we settle for a poor quality intake of hearing, reading, and studying God's Word, we severely restrict the main flow of God's sanctifying grace toward us. For those who use their Bibles little are really not much better off than those who have no Bible at all. If you want to grow You need to be in God's word. Now that quote is commending the spiritual discipline of reading God's word, which is good, right? We should grow in the spiritual discipline of God's word. But often quotes about spiritual discipline can sound like, oh. Another thing to do that I that I haven't done enough of uh already. I want you to hear it put another way by another author. Maybe this might be helpful to you. I want you to listen to the way Michael Horton describes the power of the Word. He says this: the Word binds and frees Hardens and softens, wounds and heals. Not even faith makes this word effective. You might be like, what? But I thought, not even faith makes this word effective. Faith itself is created by the Spirit through the word. Yeah, that that is actually life-changing if you grasp what he is saying here. Here's what he means. In the Word, God has turned on a spigot of ice, cold, refreshing water on a brutally hot day when you are parched of thirst He doesn't tell you to dig your own well. He says, come and drink. Faith itself is created through the Word by the Spirit. Are you lacking in faith? Come to the word. Do you need more faith? Come to the Word. Do you want to grow in faith? Come to the Word. Jesus said, it is the Spirit who gives life The flesh is no help at all. The words I have spoken to you are spirit and life. The word of Christ is spirit and life Come to the Word for spirit and life. God's word, working by His Spirit, creates and sustains the church. So God's word should be at the center of all we do. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the eternal word made flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for his perfect life, his death, his resurrection, and the new life that we have in him. And we thank you also for the perfect treasure of heavenly instruction that you have given us in your written word Help us to trust in it. Help us to come to it. And to keep it at the center of all that we do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.