The sermon passage this morning will be from John chapter three, verses one through eighteen. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. This is God's word. Good morning. It's great to be with you on this New Year's Eve, Eve Eve. As we get to look at God's word one more time in 2019. And as Jonathan said, there's been so many changes. And developments and not only this year and but in the decade. And yet as many changes as there are, God's Word remains the same and stands forever. And so it's a joy to get to look at God's word one more time. with you in 2019 as we look at John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish would have eternal life. This is maybe probably the most famous verse in the Bible. It is often written on signs, as you've probably seen people holding them up at sporting events and Uh different shows and things like that to do evangelism. Maybe many of you, this was the first verse you ever read or memorized. And to be honest, it feels a little weird preaching on John 3. 16. I mean, it's so well known. And sometimes you come to passages that are that are so simple. And so well known and so rich, it's kind of like, well, like just read it. I don't know. What else is there to say? You know, I mean it's like someone saying, write a song about Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Just go listen to that. I don't know like and so in some ways it feels silly, but at the same time, you know, it's been said that God's word is amazing and that It's like a pool, that it's simple and shallow enough that a child can splash and stand and play in it, but it's also so deep at the same time that the greatest minds and the greatest theologians will never plumb the depths of its riches And I think this verse just demonstrates that so well. John 3. 16, it's so simple, right? A child can grasp it. And yet there's so much here. Even in the time that we'll have together, there's not enough time to exhaust all of its riches. And so We're going to look at John 3. 16 and 17 especially today. And so what is this passage about? What is John 3. 16 and the surrounding context, what is it really trying to tell us? Well This past week was Christmas, and some of you maybe watched the famous Christmas movie, A Christmas Carol, based on the novel by Charles Dickens. And that movie is about a bunch of ghosts trying to save Ebenezer Scrooge. They're trying to save him from being greedy and hard-hearted. And they're also trying to save the people around him from him, you know, making their life miserable during Christmas. Well, this passage and these verses also talk about someone being saved. It talks about us being saved. And so the main point of this passage, what I think God is trying to tell us in John 3. 16, the surrounding verses, is how God saves us. Specifically, he's telling us how we are saved. How does God save us? So that's what we're going to focus on this morning. How does God save us? But before we dive into that, we have to set the context. Context is key. Anytime we're reading scripture, we should read the context because the Bible isn't a systematic theology It's not making theological statements in an in an abstract in a vacuum. Every verse is in a context. It's a part of a narrative or a larger argument. So it's important for us to look, what is the surrounding context? Because that gives meaning to and helps us understand each individual verse. And so the context of John 3, 16 and 17 is 1 through 18. And so Katie thought she was going to have it easy and just have to read John 3. 16 and 17. And I was like, not so fast. And I asked her to read 1 through 18 because context is important. And the context for these glorious verses in John 3. 16 is actually a conversation. It's a conversation that Jesus is having with a man named Nicodemus. And Nicodemus is a Jewish ruler. He's a Pharisee, so he is a leader among Jews. But here's what's interesting. He's compelled by Jesus. Notice that he he comes to him because he has questions, right? And in verses two it says, this man came to Jesus by night. And said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Right, Nicodemus is sort of showing his cards here to Jesus. He's a Jewish ruler. He's a big deal in the Jewish community, and let and yet he he has questions. And he comes to Jesus, he's seeking Jesus at night, in secret, right? I mean doesn't doesn't do this during the day. He doesn't want People to see him. He doesn't get on Twitter and hey Nicodemus, Jewish ruler here, um, interested in trusting in Jesus. Anybody have any resources like no, he comes at night. He wants to come in secret. And notice Jesus' response He doesn't scold him. He doesn't say, hey, look, Nicodemus, when you come back in the day, you have more, when you're ready to commit, when you have faith, then we'll talk. No, he engages him. He answers his questions. And here's where we fit in. This is why we need this passage. Some of us are seeking Jesus for the first time, like Nicodemus. Maybe we don't believe in any religion or faith, or maybe we have another religion. But we're unsatisfied with the answers that we have for the world. Or maybe we feel empty from the promises we've been given by the world. And maybe you're seeking Jesus. Maybe you're not even to the point where you're thinking about Jesus, but you're unsatisfied, and so maybe you're a bit compelled by Jesus, like Nicodemus Well, this passage is for you because it tells us how God saves us and how there is life in Christ alone and how Christianity answers life's greatest questions. But many of us are probably thinking, well, Mike, I've trusted in Jesus for years, in fact, decades maybe. But we also need this passage. Because even as Christians Oftentimes our heart strays from the hope we have in Christ, doesn't it? Maybe some of us are feeling, I'm a Christian. But does my life really look that much different than someone who's not? Maybe others feel that I am a Christian, but I don't feel like I have the hope and joy that I should have as a Christian. And so we need this passage to be reminded of how we've been saved We need to be reminded of the life and the joy that we have in Christ. And so whether we're seeking Jesus for the first time like Nicodemus, or we just need a refreshing drink of the hope that we have in Christ, we all need this passage. And so let's look at this verse, especially John 3:16 and 17, and how God saves us. And God saves us in three ways. I think that are coming from this verse. God saves us with a love. Saves us with a faith and a life. A love, a faith, a life. So God saves us with a love Jesus says in John 3. 16, For God so loved the world. And this statement is the end of this conversation. Jesus explains to Nicodemus that he must be born again and believe in Christ to have eternal life. And then he makes this astounding statement in verse 16, for God so loved the world. And this statement is amazing on multiple levels. So first, it's amazing that he says, for God so loved the world. This would have been shocking to Nicodemus Right, Jews were used to hearing God say that he loved the Israelites or the Jews or His chosen people But for him to say that God so loved the world would have been a major paradigm shift. And yet this is hitting on the head a major motif in the entire New Testament. Right, I mean Jesus said in Matthew 28 in the Great Commission, go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Just a bit later in Acts 2 at Pentecost. The beginning of the Christian church, the Holy Spirit enables the believers to preach the gospel in many languages, covering a vast geographical area, like in loud Red blinking letters, the entire New Testament is saying the gospel is for everyone. The gospel is for the world. Not just God's chosen people. I want you to proclaim the gospel to the world. And that would have blown Nicodemus's mind. But the second reason this statement is astounding is because of what the world stood for in John's gospel. Okay, so the word world, cosmos, in John's Gospel almost exclusively refers to the corruption and evil of the world And so D. A. Carson writes, God's love here is not so much amazing because the world is so big, it's amazing because the world is so bad. Right, and we think about this first, for God so loved the world, and we think of like we're picturing a stadium full of people, and we think, for God so loved the world. And there's a sense and that's true. The world is vast, there's many people that God came to save. But I think the emphasis here for God so loved the world is actually a little bit more like looking at inmates on death row and saying, for God so loved the world. It's not as so much as it's that it's so vast, it's that the world is so evil and it's amazing that God loves it with a longing to see it redeemed. He wants to see people and this world, his creation, redeemed and saved. And this has major implications for us. Right, I mean one, no one is beyond the gospel. No one is beyond saving. I mean, the Apostle Paul wrote the majority of the New Testament. And the dude was on his way to murder Christians when he was blinded and drawn to Christ. I mean, I don't know. I can't think of a better poster child for like someone who's beyond saving. was Paul. I mean people, Kanye West is a professing Christian. I mean I don't know if you're familiar with much of his music in the past and if you aren't then that you know good for you. But it is not good. Not only is it very crude, the man explicitly compared himself to God. And yet in his most recent album, it ends with a track called Jesus is Lord. Kanye West singing with his own lips, every knee should bow, every tongue confess, Jesus is Lord. Time will tell with Kanye. And in the meantime, we can pray for him. We can enjoy wonderful, excellent, entertaining, and edifying music. But the truth is that the God so loved the world, no one is beyond saving, and certainly no one is beyond an invitation to the gospel. But this also has implications for us As Christians who maybe were raised wonderfully in Christian homes. Right? I mean, maybe maybe you were raised in a home uh much like I was, where you were taught the Bible and you were taught the gospel to believe in Christ and you were taught to memorize scripture and singing hymns and your first words were scripture in Greek and you know like you were a Christian raised in a Christian home But even to us in that situation, isn't it kind of humbling that no matter who you are, Jesus refers to you and all of us as the world that he came to save? Like think about the two prayers, the Pharisee's prayer and the tax collector. Right? The Pharisee gets up and prays, Lord, thank you that you did not make me like this tax collector. And what does the tax collector get up and say? I mean he can barely lift his eyes. He says, Lord Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me, a sinner saved by grace. Friends, when's the last time you prayed that prayer? When's the last time you felt the need to pray that prayer? Lord Jesus, have mercy on me. No matter if you were raised in a Christian home, which is a wonderful gift, or if you didn't hear the gospel until you were 40 and you spent your entire life in wild living, we have to realize that we are all that prodigal son. Coming home to the Father covered in shame and sin and in desperate need of grace. And here's the thing. God the Father looks at us and he loves us. Longs for us to be redeemed. God so loved the world. So this statement is amazing because of the object of his love, the world, but it's also amazing the nature of his love, right? What does it mean that God loved the world? I mean, it certainly doesn't mean that God loved the wickedness and evil and sin in the world, right? So what does it mean? Well, John Calvin says this. In proportion to God's love for his only son, so much the more precious did our salvation appear to him, since our ransom was the giving of his son. I mean, think about how much the Father loved the Son. And then consider that your salvation was so lovely to him that he was willing to give the Son. I mean think about this. The the more you value something, the more it takes for you to give it up, right? So when I'm when Kelly and I are hanging out in our house and we're We get on the couch and it's cold out and we're sitting on the couch, we put on a show or something, and we're we got blankets and I'm cozy and I'm warm and all that. And then Kelly asks me, hey, would you get up and get me a glass of water? I mean it takes a second, right? I mean I value the warmth and I'm cozy, but I love my wife. And that's what I tell her when she gets up to get herself a glass of water. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I g I get up. I do it, right? I do it because I value Kelly more than I value the warmth and how cozy I am on the couch. Well friends. Came and compare. Think of how much God the Father loved the Son with a purer, deeper love than we could possibly imagine. And consider that he gave his son. Because your salvation was so lovely in his eyes. I mean this has enormous implications for us when we're underperforming at work. God gave his son for you. When we fail as parents, God considered your salvation so lovely that He gave His Son. When our friends mistreat us or exclude us You have value because God gave his son for you. But it also has major implications for how we view the world Right? I mean, as Christians, if if our Heavenly Father loves the world in a way that He longs to see it redeemed and saved, then we as Christians should reflect that love. Right? I mean we should have a love and a desire and a zeal to see this world redeemed. When I was in high school, I remember going out to a late dinner at like 1 a. m. with a friend at a diner because I'm in high school and you go to diners at 1 a. m. And we were talking about some friends that we had that were not Christians And we were talking about uh just how much we enjoyed being with these friends and how fun they were and how funny they were. And then we just started talking about how much we wanted them to know Christ. And my friend Suddenly his his eyes got filled with tears, which is not really characteristic for him. And in the middle of this diner, he starts weeping. Because our friends didn't know Christ. And I just remember him saying over and over again, I just, I just wish they knew Christ And at the same time he was expressing, he marveled that he was like, why me? Why do I know Christ? And not them. And that made such an impression on me, even to this day, because I think it's such a great picture of how our hearts should break for this broken world. We should long, we should love the world in the sense that we should long to see it redeemed. We should want to see our friends become Christians. When's the last time that you wept? For people you know? For Tom Keating. For other friends, coworkers, family members. Do you remember what it was like before you had the hope of Christ? You remember how hopeless it was? How dark, how aimless And does that break your heart? We should pray. We should all pray. We all need to pray. That God would stir up in us a burden for the lost There's a page in our directory. It just has blank uh places that you can write in names of people, friends, neighbors, coworkers, family members to pray for. Use that. Write in names there. Kids, write in your friends' names and pray for them. You long to see the world redeemed. One last note is that God so loved the world, but it's worth noting that it wasn't anything in us that made us lovable. But it wasn't that we were so good or so obedient or so kind. God loves us because simply God is love. His love for us and his love for the world and to see it redeemed flows from the fact that his character, his nature is love. And one commentator said that we can't prod any further back than that. God God is love. That's the source of it. And could there be a better, could there be a more secure source for our redemption? Right? I mean if it was based on our works and us being lovable, we would constantly be doubting. Does God love me? Is he gonna love me tomorrow? But the fact that God's love for us and based on who he is and God cannot change, that means his love for us will never change. God saves us with a love. He also saves us with a faith. So God saves us with a love, and secondly, God saves us with a faith. Right in verse 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him. Should not perish, but have eternal life. Belief in Christ is faith. And faith is no small detail in the Christian life. It's vital. We must have faith if we're going to have eternal life. And it doesn't, you don't have to have strong faith or unbelievable faith. Jesus said you can have faith as small as a mustard seed and you can move mountains. So it's not the strength of your faith that matters. It's what your faith is in that matters. If your faith is in Christ, then you're golden. But some people, many people, have struggled with this idea of faith. And I just I want to take a little bit of time to look at this because many people have looked at Christianity or Christians and said, you know, faith like That's just silly, right? I mean it's just so it's blind. I was talking with my friend recently who uh grew up agnostic, was agnostic until recently. His parents were agnostic, his friends were agnostic, and yet on his own, similar to Nicodemus, he started asking deeper questions about life and the world, and on his own he began being compelled by Christ and Christianity. But what was he what he was amazed by is when he would bring this up to his friends who otherwise were very open to things like, oh, you want to believe that? That's cool. When he brought up Christianity and that he was becoming more interested in it, they mocked him for it. And he told this one story of talking with a friend, and he said, uh I was telling my friend about, you know, I'm becoming more interested in Christianity. And his friend said, Ugh, Christianity. Those people are just sheep. Like they just follow where they're told. They just believe what they're told. They don't think for themselves. It's just faith, you know? But then he said that same friend right a right away turned around and said, hey, check this out. I want to show you this $300 crystal ball I just bought. And my friend's like, what? You're gonna mock Christianity and then sell me on a crystal ball you just bought for $300? But here's the thing. There are no better answers in this world than Christ. There is only autonomy under the guise of better answers. There is no better answers in this world than Christ. There is only autonomy under the guise of better answers. What do I mean by that? Well Every worldview, except for Christianity, gives us autonomy. We're in control. So if you're if you don't follow any religion, well, it's up to you what's good and right. What's good and bad, what's right or wrong. But if you follow another religion, you may have the rules given to you, you have to obey, but you're still in control because it's up to you to obey and to earn your salvation. You earn your way to God by obeying these things And so ultimately you don't give up control. Christianity is utterly unique because we're given the way we are to live in God's Word. We're given the rules to obey, and we're responsible to obey God. But in the end, we're saved by grace and through faith in Christ. And so ultimately we have to give up autonomy. We have to give up control because we don't save ourselves And so while Christians have faith in God and trust him that he ultimately knows what's best, non-Christians, whether religious or irreligious, ultimately trust in themselves. And an example of this is how Christians submit to God's Word, even when it's hard. So there's all sorts of things in the Bible that are really challenging for us to believe and submit to as Christians. I mean, let's just be honest. There's certain things that cause us to bristle and that we think, how do I reconcile this with our culture or my life or But Christians submit to God's word because we ultimately give up autonomy and control and we say, I just have to trust that God's word is right. And one pastor makes this comment, he says that that's actually a really good sign that you wrestle with scripture at times. And here's why. We're sinful and God is perfect. So there must be tension, right? There has to be tension. And so if you are just down with everything in the Bible and that doesn't bother you at all. That's actually a sign that you might be worshiping a God of your own creation because you agree with everything. And that that doesn't add up It's actually a much better sign if there are things in the Bible that you wrestle with and you think, this is really tough, but I'm going to defer to God and I'm going to submit to him, that's actually a sign that you are worshiping the true God. Because you're being conformed to his truth and you're submitting to it, even when it's hard, even when it's difficult Another reason people have trouble with faith or belief is because it seems so intangible. How many times have you heard someone say, look, I'll believe in God when he appears to me or he speaks to me audibly? Then I'll believe in God. But let's just think about that for a second. Imagine if God did appear to someone or spoke to them audibly, right? In that moment, maybe someone would be like, whoa, yeah, there's a God. But then the next day or the next week, when things got harder Wouldn't they question and say, did I did I really hear that? Did I really see God? I mean they would constantly be questioning, how much better? If God somehow were to be able to write down who he was and explain to us who we are and what this world is that he made and put us in And and if he were able to to write that down and then preserve it miraculously throughout the ages, so that not only we could read it, but You know, Christians throughout the centuries and millennia could read it and we could compare it. And how much better would that be? Because then we could verify it was verifiable. We could say, oh, I read this. Is that really what that says? Does God really love the world? Yeah, that's what it says. That's exactly what God has done in His Word. Oftentimes when we drive places in our van as a family, Right, you put in the uh location and the GPS. Use GPS for everything in a few years people like aren't even gonna know what maps are and you know it says the time, right? The ETA 20 minutes or whatever. And without fail, our kids are like, dad, how, you know, how long is it going to be? Like, 20 minutes. Hey, hey, dad, how long is it going to be? Uh 18 minutes. Hey, dad, how long? 15 minutes. Right, I mean and even though I keep telling them, they keep wanting to know, right? They keep wanting to have it verified. What would be best is if I actually took the GPS. And I handed it to them so that they could look at it and say, oh, 20 minutes, 19 minutes, 18 minutes, 17 minutes. And they could look at it with their own eyes. They could see it. They could hold it in their hands. And friends, that is what God has done with his word. He's handed us the GPS. He said, look, this is who I am. This is who you are. This is how you're saved. He's given us a GPS. I'm sure many of us have seen Frozen 2 in the last month since it came out. And one of the scenes, you know, Elsa, one of the main characters. is singing and she's trying to find the the spirits, you know, that created the world. And she's trying to Find them and communicate with them because they you know, she hears them calling and she sings her famous song, Into the Unknown, right? That I've heard approximately forty-five times this past week. And she's singing a song, and one of the lines in that song is, are you out there? Do you know me? Can you feel me? Can you show me? Well how incredible is it, kids, who've seen that movie, how incredible is it that God has revealed Himself to us. God, the creator of the world. We don't have to go looking for him. We don't have to shout or sing songs into the unknown because he made himself known. In his word, and we can read it, we can know who he is. And he's revealed himself through his son, the image of the invisible God. He's revealed himself to us. So we have faith. And faith is vital, but it is far from a blind faith Last thing is is this verse in verse 17, sometimes people think, well, faith is so divisive. You know, some people believe, other people don't. Like, isn't that That's not what Christ came for, right? I mean, verse 17 says, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. So how like faith seems divisive. How are we to understand that? And this verse does seem somewhat troubling at first until we start to examine it compared with other scriptures. And so, for example, later in this gospel in John 9. 39, Jesus actually says, for judgment I have come into the world. And so we think, okay, it's not that Christ isn't doesn't have authority to judge. Right? I mean when he comes again, he will come to judge. But the first time he came, his mission was to save He came to die in our place to save. But the truth is, is because we're saved through faith, when people reject Christ, they condemn themselves And so I realize that this is a hard teaching, but faith is vital. Christ didn't come to condemn, he came to save. And the offer of the gospel is for the world, for anybody But faith ultimately is vital. We need faith to be saved. We must believe in the Son of God So we're saved by a love, we're saved by a faith, and lastly, we're saved by a life. Verse uh 16 it says, Whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. That phrase eternal life, really kind of more wooden translation, would be life in the age to come. So eternal life means literally that we will live, because our sins are forgiven through Christ, we will live forever in heaven with God. But it also means something more present. Because notice it says, um, should not perish, but have eternal life. It's not that they will have eventually, but have. And that word have is present active. In other words, it's as if the future has invaded the present. We have eternal life. We have full life. John 10:10, Jesus said, the thief comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I have come that they may have life And have it abundantly. Christians have life and full life and joy and hope as a result of the gospel. One of my seminary professors told us the story of how he became a Christian, and it was when he was in college. He went off to college. He wasn't a Christian, but he prayed that God would not give him a Christian roommate. And when he got to college, he moved into his dorm room, and lo and behold, he looked and on his bed was a Bible, or on his roommate's bed was a Bible, and his roommate was a Christian. And this Christian roommate tried the best to answer his questions and witness to him about the faith. But my seminary professor said actually the most powerful thing was when his Christian roommate invited him around him and his other Christian friends. And when this professor, my seminary professor, started to see the life that they had. the the hope and joy that they had, how much fun they had, how differently they treated each other. He used this phrase, I've never forgotten it. He said, they loved me to life. As Christians, people should look at our life and think, man, I don't know if I believe what you believe, but I want to. I want what you have. Peter says we should always be prepared to give a defense for the hope that is in us. What does that imply? That there's a hope in us and it's visible. To other people. I mean, we should be, we should, we should wear the hope that we have as Christians in our demeanor, in our attitude. We should be friendly. We should be fun. We should laugh. We should share the joy that we have in Christ with our friends. One friend of mine used to say humorously, hey, if you're a Christian, Make sure you notify your face. And I think there's some truth in that. As Christians, we should. We should be joyous people. We should be people that other people want to be around and that make Christ compelling We've been given life now and in the age to come. But how does this happen? Right in closing, how do we get this life? We get this life because Christ was lifted up. Right? Look back at verse 14, right? Context is key. Verse 16 happens at the end of a conversation that Jesus is having with Nicodemus. And in verse 14, he explains what it means that God sent his son. And in verse 14 it says, And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, So must so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Jesus is alluding to a story in Numbers 21. Where the Israelites grumble against God. And as a result of their grumbling, God sends poisonous serpents among them, and their bite is lethal. And then the Israelites repent and they say we're sorry and they and they pray and God forgives them. And then God asked Moses to do something sort of peculiar. He says, Moses, okay, make a bronze serpent and put it up on a pole so that when the Israelites who have been bitten by this snake look at it, they'll be healed. And this is odd for a few reasons, right? One, the Israelites were forbidden from worshiping images. So why make an image? Second, the serpent was considered an unclean and an evil creature. So if you're gonna make a an image, why a serpent? And then third, usually in animal sacrifices, they would place their hand on an animal and thus transferring the sins of the person to the animal, and then they would let that animal go or kill the animal. But this, the serpent is just up and people just look at it. There's no like ceremony. And this is all really confusing until you start to connect the dots. And you realize what God in Numbers 21 was foreshadowing and what he would do in his son Right, he gave Moses a serpent. It wasn't a fiery or poisonous serpent, but it was in the image of a serpent. He lifted up the serpent so that people who looked to it in faith in God would be healed. Well, years later, Jesus came. He wasn't a sinful human, but he came in the image of human flesh, the image of the invisible God, in the form of human flesh. He too was lifted up on the cross in our place. And just as people looked at the serpent and were healed, as we looked to Jesus in faith In faithful reliance and dependence on his death and resurrection in our place, we are healed from our sin. When we trust in Jesus, We take, we get his righteous robes. He takes our sin and he dies in our place. He died and three days later he rose again. Hallelujah, what a savior. Right? We sang that earlier. Man of sorrows. Man of sorrows, what a name. For the Son of God who came, ruined sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah, what a savior. Lifted up was he to die. It is finished was his cry. Now in heaven, exalted high. Hallelujah. What a savior. Jesus was lifted up for us. And because he was lifted up, we know that in faith in him, one day we will be lifted up in glory in heaven with him forever and eternal life. Hallelujah, what a savior. Earlier I mentioned Charles Dickens and his novel, A Christmas Carol. But there's another famous Dickens novel that also has to do with someone being saved, and that is a tale of two cities. And in a tale of two cities, there's a character named Sidney Carton. And Sidney is uh kind of a rough life, has a rough life, kind of a drunk, doesn't have much going for him. But there's a woman who's very kind and sweet to him. Her name is Lucy Manette. And Lucy marries another man named Charles, but this is in the middle of the French Revolution, and so Charles is wrongfully accused and is sentenced to the guillotine. And he's waiting in his cell, hours from death, from being carted off to the guillotine, when all of a sudden someone comes to his cell. And this person comes in and he and he tells Charles to start signing papers and he tells them to change clothes with him. He says, Hey, take my boots and put them on. Let me wear your boots. And Charles doesn't really understand what's happening until he looks up and he realizes it's Sydney. And then he realized that Sidney is doing the unthinkable. He's taking his place. Sidney takes his place. At one point, Charles struggles so much that Sidney has to give him a uh smelling vapor to rendering him as uh unconscious. And he takes his place, he removes him from the cell, and Sidney stands in Charles's place in the cell. And then he's carted off to the guillotine. On the way to the guillotine, there's a young girl who's also going to the guillotine who sees and understands what's happening and she's like, you're taking his place And she's terrified, but she looks to Sidney and the courage that he has to face death and she asks if she can hold his hand Because she's so scared that maybe being close to someone who's so brave will give her courage. Friends, Jesus took our place. He took our clothes, right? Our rags and sin. And he put his righteous robe on us He took us out of the cell. We were waiting. We were all dead in our sins, waiting for death. And he rescued us. Being close to him is not only encouraging because he was willing to face death, he conquered death. He took our place But here's the question. In this novel, I think the best line of the book in A Tale of Two Cities, once Charles realizes what Sydney's doing, he says this, Dickens writes this. For a few seconds, he faintly struggled with the man who had come to lay down his life for him. Here's my question. If you're here this morning and you don't trust in Christ. Are you still struggling against the man who has come to lay down his life for you? Have you trusted in him? Have you put your faith in him? You should. You have to. But if you're a Christian, has your heart strayed from the hope you have in Christ? Seek him. Look to him, the author and perfecter of your faith, who is lifted up in your place And be filled with the life that is in Christ and the love that the Father has for you. Let's pray. Oh God, you took our place. Father, help us not to struggle against you who came to lay down your life for us. Help us to look to you, the one who was lifted up. You are the only one who can take away our sin. You're the only one that can heal us. You're the only one that can give us life and life abundantly. And we praise you, Lord, that that's exactly what you came to do. We love you. Help us to trust in you. Give us that faith, that life-saving faith in your Son. And fix our hearts and our eyes on you, the hope of our salvation. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.