Today's scripture reading is Genesis chapter 3. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves loincloths And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock, and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain and childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life, thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken. You are dust, and to dust you shall return. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man And at the east of the Garden of Eden, he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. This is God's word. Good morning. It is a pleasure to be here with you today and to have this opportunity to open up God's Word. And uh not to open up just any old passage, but but such a an important passage for us to consider this morning, such a formative chapter in human history. That we want to consider this morning and its effects into our day today. But before we get into God's word, we should go more one more time briefly to God and ask him for help in blessing this time. So would you pray with me briefly? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, who is sufficient for these things, we can do nothing apart from you. We know that your Holy Spirit is the Spirit who gives wisdom and insight. And we pray that you would grant him now to give us wisdom and insight into your word. And as we consider man's fall into sin, we know also that the ministry of the Holy Spirit is to bring conviction of sin. Knowledge of salvation, repentance, and faith, and we pray that you would grant him to do all three of those things this morning. And we ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends, I do want to invite you to go ahead and open in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 3, which you'll find on pages 2 and 3 of the Bible that we've provided. We are going to be looking carefully at the entire chapter this morning, considering pretty much every verse that's in the chapter. And so I want to encourage you to have your Bible open this morning, uh not only so that you you can uh look carefully at what's being said, but so that you can compare what I'm saying to what's in the words that We want to make sure that I'm not drawing things out of the word that are not there. And we're continuing this morning in our study of the book of Genesis. So last the last three weeks we spent in chapter two, first considering the beginning of mankind as a whole, and then we spent the last two weeks Considering what chapter two has to say to us about gender. And from here on out, we're gonna move much more quickly through the book of Genesis as a whole, covering the book through probably a chapter or two at a time. There is one sermon that's going to cover five chapters, I believe, but for the most part we're going to be moving forward in in a chapter or two at a time If you're not familiar with the book of Genesis as a whole, I can give you one brief outline that you take down for your notes. You can write this in your Bible if you have a Bible of your own. The book of Genesis can really be broken up into four great events, four significant events, and four significant people. The four significant events are creation Fall, flood, and then Babel. That's chapters 1 to 11. And then the four people, the four significant people are Abraham. Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. And that covers chapters 12 to 50. We move through those four events and then those four people. And this morning we're can we're covering the second significant event. the fall of mankind into sin. So though we've known many dark days as a country, and though our world has known many dark days, not only in our generation, but also throughout human history This morning we are covering the darkest of days, the darkest day in human history, out of which all other dark days proceed As we'll see, the events of this day are what caused our world to fall from its holy and perfect state into the darkness and corruption that we now experience And yet we'll also see in this chapter rays of hope emanating from God's perfect light breaking through the darkness. So that we might know today that judgment and sin don't have to be the final word for mankind. They don't have to be the final word for you or for me this morning. This account really is so rich that I was tempted to just preach through it without any main points. Usually I break the passage up into points, but there is so much awesomeness going on here for us to consider that I thought about just preaching through it all the way from beginning to end and just drawing out applications and insights as we go. But I'm a creature of habit and I like structure. Perhaps you do too, so I am going to give us three points this morning. The classic three point sermon. First, we are going to look at the cause of sin. That'll be point one. Next second, we're going to look at the consequences of sin. That'll be point two. And third, we're going to look at the remedy for sin. So those will be our three points: the the cause of sin, the effects of sin, or the consequences of sin, and the remedy for sin. So first Let's look at the causes of sin. And the first cause of sin that we see and learn about in our passage is failing to know and heed God's word. I want you to look down with me at verse 1. The chapter begins ominously with the introduction of the serpent. And I want to pause briefly before we continue looking at the verses. Just give a bit of context. The reason I say it begins ominously is it is because up until this point everything has been good Chapter 1, God created everything, and God saw that it was good. He created mankind as the pinnacle crown jewel of his creation. Then in chapter 2, we go into the more a more specific accounting of the creation. of the first man and the first woman, and we know that at the end of chapter 2, everything was good between them. They were naked and they were not ashamed is what the Bible tells us. But then, verse 1 of chapter 3, the serpent appears. And I want to hit pause again to deal with one other question that may be on some of your minds. Is this passage, is this chapter accounting for us literal history? Is this just symbolic? It's got to be symbolic, mythology, is that what's going on here? They're just symbols, and we're meant to draw out of this vague symbolism these spiritual truths for ourselves. That's how some would consider this passage today. I want to propose to you that this passage is best understood as literal history. That what happened here is a literal accounting of the facts. One reason I would point to the fact that the serpent is a literal serpent, if you look down at verse 1, chapter 3, verse 1. You notice that the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. In chapter 1, when he created all the beasts of the field, Then in chapter 2, all those beasts come to Adam, and Adam names all of them. One of those beasts was the serpent. And the serpent, that literal serpent, comes into the garden. And the serpent becomes the instrument through which Satan then tempts Adam and Eve. And we see even in the New Testament that Jesus and Paul and Peter regard the earliest chapters of Genesis as historical fact. Adam and Eve were real people. This really happened. I'm going to unhit pause now. We're going to continue. The first cause of sin that we see, and if you want to ask questions about that, come find me after the sermon. I would love to talk about that with you. But what we see is that the first cause of sin is failing to know and heed God's word. You see, the serpent comes, the ominous presence of the serpent, and he immediately comes to the woman in verse 1 and says to her. Did God actually say you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And now we need to we need to pause here briefly to appreciate the significance of the fact. That mankind's fall into sin and all of the terror that has followed their dreadful choice began with an attack Not on God's existence, not on God's character, but on God's word. On God's word. So central is the word to the holiness and happiness of God's people that Satan carries out an all-out assault on the Word. But where do we see that failing to know God's word is a cause of sin? Well, notice that Eve fails to recall God's word correctly. Look at verse 2. And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden. That's not exactly what God said though, is it? God didn't say, hey, you may eat of the trees in the fruit, the fruit of the trees in the garden. No, God said, you may surely eat of every tree in the garden. You see, she's already minimizing God's provision in her own mind. But that's not the only mistake that she makes. Look again at verse 3. She continues. But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden. Neither shall you touch it lest you die. But that's not quite accurate either, is it? First off, there were two trees in the midst of the garden. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden. and the tree of the knowledge of the good and evil, and they could eat from the tree of life and not from the other. And she fails to distinguish between the two trees that are in the midst of the garden. Not only that, but then Eve goes on and adds to God's word. God never forbid them from touching the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. He only forbid them from eating it. Right? Then on top of that, she dampens the threat of punishment. Where God promised that in the day they ate of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they would surely die She makes it seem like death is less a certainty and more just a potential possibility, lest you die. Right? These are such small missteps with God's word that have such terrible ramifications. Just take one principle out of that. Friend, you do not need to make large mistakes and oversights of God's word to then participate in great evil. You need to pay careful attention to what God has said. That you might heed and know God's word. careful attention to God's word. And really this this is the complete opposite of how many in the church today think about God's word, right? What's all the fuss about? Right? Yes, God's word is important, but all you need is a general just have a general sense of it All you need is a rough approximation of God's word. Don't get don't spend your time getting bogged down in the details of it. Does it really they mac make that big of a deal whether we use this word or that word? As long as we have a rough sense of God's word, we'll be fine. But is that true? I mean, is that what we see here? Is that what we see elsewhere in God's word? Does God commend and encourage just a general sense of his word? Consider his words to Joshua in Joshua chapter 1. When Joshua was on the verge of bringing the Israelites back into the promised land, consider what God said to Joshua. He said, only be strong and very courageous. Being careful to do according to all the law that Moses, my servant, commanded you Why do you think God tells Joshua to be strong and courageous before he tells him to pay careful attention to all of the law? Because you're going to need to be strong and courageous if you're going to hold fast to all that God says. But it's not just Joshua chapter 1, right? Consider that God then commanded every king in the book of Deuteronomy, every king who came to the throne in Israel to handwrite for himself a copy of the law of Moses. And why did he command that? That the king may learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of his law. Fast forward to the New Testament. Consider Jesus' response to Satan while he was in the wilderness, right? When Satan challenges Jesus by perfectly quoting Scripture out of context, perfectly quoting Scripture out of context. Satan speaks to Jesus and Jesus responds to him. Kids, how does he respond? Man does not live by bread alone, but by But by every word, not some of the words, man does not live by bread alone, but by some of the words of the Lord his God. No, by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Friends, we need to pay. Careful attention to every word that comes from the mouth of God. Because knowing every word that comes from the mouth of God can help you know the difference between right and almost right. Right, Charles Spurgeon once said, discernment is not knowing the difference between right and wrong. Right and wrong is so obviously clear so often. It's knowing the difference between right and almost right. Our friends, do you know the difference between right and almost right when it comes to God's word? Does God call his people to aim to avoid evil when possible? No, he doesn't. He calls them to abhor evil, Romans 12, 9, flee from it with every ounce of strength. Does God say that those who are sexually immoral or impure or those who covet may not inherit the kingdom of God? No, he says they will have no inheritance in the kingdom of God. Right, verses almost Right, and this is not a simple Bible memory game. Knowing the difference between right and almost right could have preserved mankind from their fall into sin. And we could go on for hours reminding ourselves of all that God's word says. What does this mean for you and me? It means we cannot underestimate the centrality of knowing all of the Word of God and preserving and protecting us from the attacks of the evil one. Not only that, but the centrality of the Word of the God of Word of God in steering our course away from sin. And into holiness, right? If sin is going to occur in your life or mine, which it does because we still struggle with sin, it will be caused in some form or fashion by us failing to know And or heed God's word. And the main reason I want to impress upon you it's important this morning is because Eve's failure to know the difference between right and almost right provided the perfect spiritual conditions for Satan to flatly contradict God's word without any objection from Eve, which would then led to her eventual choice to sin. So what do we see as the first cause of sin? Not knowing God's word, not heeding God's word. But there's another cause of sin that we see here also. The second cause of sin we see in this passage is failing to believe that God is good. Where do we see that? Well we don't see it explicitly stated in the text. But getting Eve to doubt God's goodness is clearly at the heart of Satan's motivations and questions. Notice even the question he asks in verse 2. He asks, did God really say, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? In fact, God did not say that. God said, You may surely eat of every tree in the garden. But what is Satan doing He's inverting the command. He's getting Eve to focus on what God has provid uh prohibited rather than what he has abundantly provided. And for her part, Eve's response reveals what we might call a pre-fall inclination to doubt God's goodness. Why do I say that? Notice in her response in verse 3. She also fails to mention the abundance that God has allowed. She's already minimizing God's abundant provision for her in her life And then she adds to the commandment, making it sound stricter, thus heightening the prohibition. What is the net effect of what the words that have come out of Eve's mouth? God sounds less gracious and more strict than he actually is. While God is actually far more gracious and good than he is. Strict, right? You can eat everything in the garden except this one tree. And how does Eve understand it? You can eat, but you absolutely cannot touch that tree. And if you touch it, you'll die. You notice the difference in how she's representing what God said to them. Right? Dampening. You're already seeing a doubting of God's goodness. And Satan sees that she doesn't know God's word, and now he sees that there's space to attack her belief that God is good. And so he goes for the jugular. Look at verses four and five. You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Don't miss the subtext. Eve, don't you see Taking what God has forbidden won't kill you. God just doesn't want you to become like him. God is withholding good from you, Eve. He doesn't want you to become wise. He doesn't want you to enjoy the pleasures of tasting the fruit What a petty, petty, and selfish God. He is not good. If he was good, he would let you have it. You are fit to rule yourself, Eve. You don't need God to tell you what is good for you. And Eve agrees with him. Look at verse 6. So when the woman saw that the tree was good You need to stop right there, right? That's kind of interesting. The woman saw that the tree was good. Up to this point in Genesis, only one being has the authority to see and declare that something is good. Who's that? God. Chapter 1. God saw that it was good. God saw that it was good. God saw that it was good. God is the only one who has the authority to see and declare good not good Good, not good. Man then puts himself in the position of God and sees and says, good. And in fact, it is not good. Right? Eve is think she's capable of assuming God's authority, of deciding for herself what is good and what is evil, which is what it means to know, to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. It's to decide for yourself. I will be my own judge. I know what is good for me. Eve decided she no longer needed God to tell her what is good. He isn't a good God anyway. He's simply keeping me from fulfilling my potential. He's simply keeping me from from enjoying the sensual pleasures of the world. Why would he do that? He must not be for me. He must not be a good God. Well friends, I hope you see how dangerous of a place it is to be in where you're questioning God's goodness Now listen, I don't say that, and what I don't mean is that we can't wrestle, really genuinely wrestle. with how God can be good when there is so much bad in this world and and may even be happening in our own lives. I don't mean we can't ask those types of questions. I'm talking about the type of questioning that is fueled by skepticism Angry doubt and animosity. Right? That type of questioning uniquely exposes you to being attacked by Satan Right, you see the scripture tells us that Satan prowls around like a roaring lion, right? And if you've ever watched like on YouTube or National Geographic or any of those channels, if you've ever watched a Pride of Lions hunt. The lions never attack the center of the herd. What do they do? They run, they corral until they isolate those who are vulnerable and weak, and then they attack those animals, right? Satan as a prowling lion is looking for those who are are skeptical of God's goodness. Who are seriously angrily with some animosity doubting God's goodness to them. And when he sees that type of person, he knows I have just who I am looking for. This person is ripe to sin. All I have to do is point them to the thing that they really want and encourage them to reach out and grab it. Right, we need to be careful when we're in a place where we're seriously doubting God's goodness. Right? Think of what those things might sound like from Satan in your life. If God was good, he would heal you. If he was really good. If God was good, he would let you act out on that desire. It's just a strict God. What does it matter if you act on that desire anyway? You won't surely die. If God was good, he would sanctify your spouse or your child. If God was good, he would give you that promotion. You should take matters into your own hands. You should curse God and live for yourself That's what the satanic temptation sounds like to those who are struggling with really believing and are even doubting that God is good. But do you see how knowing God's word carefully helps us to defend ourselves against the attack of Satan when he comes to question God's goodness and to get us Think about passages in scripture that we can even turn to. For you who are suffering various kinds of trials, James says, consider it pure joy when you suffer trials. Of various kinds. Why? Because he is using that trial to produce steadfastness and character and courage, and he is purifying your faith to your eternal good. Not your immediate temporal good. Or you consider the Psalm, Psalm 84, 11. God does not withhold good from his children Right? If you don't have it, it is not good for you to have it. If it was good for you to have the thing that you desired, God would give it to you. Now I recognize, I I I recognize that this can sound trite And insensitive given the great amount of suffering that some of you are experiencing. And I don't mean that at all. I mean that if it was good, God would give it to you. We must trust in the fact that the God who created all things has all wisdom and on all knowledge and can see the beginning from the end. And while what you are going through may be very difficult, extremely difficult. It may feel like you are in the middle of a furnace. Trust me when I say to you that it will be good for you in eternity. Because God does not withhold good from his children. You think even of the illustration of an oriental rug, right? You flip an oriental rug upside down, and the thing looks like a hot mess. Right? It just strings everywhere. There's just no design, no nothing. And that can be what it feels like to be in the midst of suffering. You see, like I'm a hot mess. Like it none of this makes sense to me, God. And God is saying, listen You are looking at the underside of the rug. I see the entire thing. And it is beautiful from my sight. And when we get to heaven. We will look down on our sufferings and we will recognize that they were not worthy to compare with the glory that God has for those who love Him and those who are called according to His name. So I want to encourage you today. If you are suffering, do not doubt God's goodness to you God is good and it will not make sense at times in this life. And that is where you, as a follower of Christ, just need to go to God's word and you need to sink your hands into those promises. I don't know if you guys have ever seen there's a guy named Alex Honald. He's like the craziest human being on earth, at least in my mind. Alex Honnold is a free climber Which means he climbs massive rock structures without any ropes, no gear, no nothing. He cried he climbed El Capitan Uh in Yosemite Park recently, I think. Does anyone know how big El Capitan is? It's like 5,000 feet, something like that. 5,000 feet. The dude was climbing with no gear He had a strong grip, right? White knuckle grip on the rocks. Christian, that is you When you are doubting God's goodness, white knuckle grip on the word of God. Do not doubt God's goodness to you. He does not withhold good from his children. And though you may not understand it now. You will one day understand it. But it's not just the causes of sin that we see in the passage. We also see sin's devastating consequences, which brings us to point two, the consequences of sin. What we see in the passage is that the consequences of sin are immediate and catastrophic. Look at verse 7. As soon as they ate, the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. Among the Israelite people who were the first recipients of the book of Genesis, to be found naked was a terrible and shameful experience. It symbolized humiliation, it symbolized shame, it symbolized guilt, right? And so what's going on here is that as as when they sinned, their eyes were opened and they were unmasked and exposed in their sin. It was like kind of like their fallen nature was now apparent to them both. Which is why we see even here why we can at times feel so much shame when we've been caught sinning or when we've sinned. Not only because sin is shameful, because in a sense it shows what's actually inside of us, right? It comes out. Right, if you've ever seen the first Lord of the Rings, then you know what the a good picture of this, this type of shame that I'm talking about that Adam and Eve would have felt. So Lord of the Rings, uh first one, the fellowship of the ring. Frodo is injured. He's reunited with his uncle Bilbo Baggins, and there's this scene where Bilbo gives to him a sword. It's gonna start Then he gives them some armor that is from the uh the not the Vikings, the uh Somebody tell help me out here. The elves, the dwarves, yes, there you go. Some armor that's from them. But as he gives them the armor, Frodo starts to take his shirt off so that he can put the armor on, and Bilbo sees the ring. Right? And when he catches a glimpse of the ring, all of a sudden his face changes into the face of a monster. He screams and lunges for the r for the ring. It's one of those scenes that in a movie theater like Everybody jumps because you're just not expecting it at all. The ring revealed, if only for a split second, what was really inside of Bilbo. Right? It brought it out of him. And what did Bilbo do? After he came to his senses, covers his face, moves back into the shadows, he was ashamed at what was really inside of him. Right. Who he was had been exposed and he wanted to hide. And Adam and Eve do exactly the same thing here. Their treachery has been exposed, and seeing themselves as they now truly are, fallen human beings, they retreat into the shadows and hide. Look at verse 8. The man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord. What a terrible, terrible thing to consider. The man and woman who'd been created by God to live in perfect relationship with him hide themselves from the presence of the Lord. Right? They retreat into the shadows and hide. Now, look at verse 10. After being questioned by God, the man says, I heard you. And I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. See the shame, the humiliation, the guilt, the nakedness Kids, I want to talk to you all real quick about this. I'm not sure if any of you have experienced this in your life. Something that I experienced when I was a kid. It's something that I still experience today when I sin. And it is the fact that when I did something wrong that I knew was wrong and I knew I would get in trouble with my parents, I would get struck with panic. And fear. And that was actually a good thing. It's it's God's kindness to us that He gives us a conscience by which we know Right from wrong, not perfectly. And I would get struck by panic and fear. It's like my conscience was telling me, what you just did was wrong. And so what I would do is I would often go into my room and hide I wouldn't want to come out. I knew that when my parents came home, I was going to have to face them. I didn't want to face them. I didn't want to be in their presence. Just like Adam and Eve didn't want to be in the presence of the Lord. I didn't want to be ex Bos for the thing that I had done Right? If you've ever experienced that, if you're experiencing that not like this moment, but if you've experienced that recently, I want to encourage you Don't retreat and hide. If you're doing things right now or you do things in the future that you shouldn't do, do not keep them in the dark. Bring them out into the light. Confess them to your friends, to your parents, to other church members, right? Satan wants you to keep what you've done wrong in the dark. He wants you to hide from God's presence because he knows that God's presence is the only place you'll find forgiveness. Think of Proverbs 28-13. We talked about holding on to the Word of God and believing everything that it says. Proverbs 28-13. Whoever conceals his sin will not prosper. But whoever confesses their sins will find mercy. Kids, don't let shame, guilt, or fear keep you from bringing your sin out into the light. And you're going to be tempted to think that God doesn't want you or won't love you. That's what we're all going to be tempted to think, but nothing could be further from the truth. Jesus himself said. Those who are healthy have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, right? He knows that we're sick already. He doesn't call us To clean ourselves up in the dark and then come out into the light, right? He tells us to come to him sickness and all, because he is the only one who can heal us. So whether it's kids here or adults here, if you are hiding sin in the dark, let me encourage you, bring it out into the light. Let the light of Christ shine upon it, right? Christ calls us, awake, O sleeper, and rise from the dead. But we see that sin doesn't just produce shame, fear, and guilt. Sin also brings about God's judgment. Look at verses 14 and 15. God pronounces judgment on the serpent, which we'll come back to. But then in verses 16 to 19, he pronounces judgment on the woman and the man. And the judgment he pronounces on them can be summed up in one word. And that word is pain. Pain. Life will now be filled with pain. Physical pain and spiritual pain. Notice the physical pain. Look at verse 16. The woman will now experience pain in bearing and birthing children. We're left to conclude that bringing children into the world Would have been a pain-free and joyous experience, but now because of her choice, that joyous experience will be marked by intense physical pain. And the man for his part will also endure pain. Look at the end of verse 17. Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. In pain you shall eat the plants of the field. So Adam will know the physical pain of laboring in the field to eke out a living. And that physical pain that they both experience will be coupled with spiritual pain. The woman will acutely experience the spiritual pain of a tumultuous relationship with her husband as they each seek each seek to master or rule over one another, and the man will know the unique spiritual pain of vain toil. He will labor and labor and labor and the ground will produce thorns. Think of the opening of the book of Ecclesiastes. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. That's what Adam is saying here. Vanity. God is saying, vanity of vanities, you will experience. Adam is saying, what have I gained from all my toil under the sun? I know the horrible experience of feeling like everything in life is conspiring against me to prevent me from getting the one thing done that I was meant to get done. Have you ever felt that in your own life? Not just men, everyone here. Just try I'm just trying to go to work and get done the thing that you've called me to do, and I can't even get one thing done. I open up my email, my inbox is filled up. There's people calling me from every direction. I'm just trying to get this one task done Thorns and thistles, you will experience digital thorns and thistles, right? You will experience it in this life. It is an experience of spiritual pain that is a result of the fall. And this physical and spiritual pain is then followed by death. Look at verse 19 You will toil and then you will die. You were made from dust and to dust you will return. You might be thinking about gosh, it can't get any worse than this, these consequences of sin, shame, fear, guilt, nakedness, judgment, spiritual pain, physical pain, death. It can't get any worse, but then it does Look at verses 22 to 24. When God says in verse 22 that the man and woman have become like one of us in knowing good and evil, it means that they decided to be their own gods. Thought they were fit to rule their own kingdom, and so God gives them their own kingdom, the kingdom of thorns, not the garden paradise. He casts them out of the garden, away from his glorious presence Eternally exiling them from His good presence. And He casts them away from the Tree of Life, where if they ate from the fruit from the Tree of Life, they would have experienced eternal life in God's presence in his perfect home for them And then God places angels and a flaming sword at the edge of the garden to keep the man and the woman from ever coming back. You think about what was Adam's task? To work and keep the garden, to work and keep the garden boundaries. They failed. Angels have been put in their place, and they will not fail at their task. They will not let sinful Adam and Eve back into the presence of God. And so there is a flaming sword turning every direction. Whoever approaches the presence of the Lord in their sin will suffer the penalty of death. That's what that sword is meant to tell us. You see the disastrous effects of sin. The consequences of it Where Adam and Eve thought they had life or they had life, they will now have death. Though they had pleasure, they will now have pain. Though they had an abundance, now they will eke out a living. Though they had perfect harmony with God and each other, Now alienation from God and conflict with one another. And all of this All of this, because they believed the lie that if they ate the fruit, their eyes would be opened and they would become like God. You see the terrible bait and switch that sin and Satan calls us to? Their eyes were opened, but they didn't become like God. Their eyes were opened, and they saw themselves as they really were. Sinners in the presence of a holy God. Sin never, ever, ever, ever delivers on its promises Sin never, ever, ever delivers on its promises. What are you tempted to give into today? What sin is Satan calling you to participate in today? Promising you that if you just eat of it, it will actually turn out good. For the first time in human history, someone will sin and not suffer consequences of it. It is a lie. And it is a lie from hell, friends. Sin never, ever delivers on its consequences. Shame, nakedness, guilt. Pain, death, exile. That is what sin produces. And this sad and wretched state is the state in which every human being comes into this world. Imprisoned in the kingdom of thorns. Imprisoned in this world of grief and sorrow and shame, not only because of Adam's sin, but because all have made the same choice that he did. All of us have chosen to live our own lives. All of us have chosen to be our own gods. And so, like Adam and Eve, we too have been banished from God's presence, consigned to experience toil. frustration, physical and spiritual pain, and ultimately destined for God's judgment. Unless, unless God provides a remedy. Brings us to point three, the remedy for sin. I want us to look first at the fact that there are two remedies for sin proposed in this chapter Let's look first at the wrong remedy for sin. At the remedy that doesn't actually work and is utterly insufficient to remedy the curse that Adam and Eve brought on all mankind by their choice to sin against God. What is that wrong remedy? Look back at verse 7. After Adam and Eve sinned, then the eyes of both were open, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed big leaves together and made themselves loincloths We see that they cover their nakedness with fig leaves. Fig leaves were the largest and are the largest of any kind. Fig leaves are the largest of any kind found in the region of Palestine. It seems that fig trees were present in the garden, and so the couple takes leaves from the tree, puts them together, fashions some sort of garment out of them. So the word loincloth there doesn't mean loin like loins from an animal. It's used elsewhere just to refer to like a garment that a person puts on. So they made some garment out of fig leaves. Ultimately, what Adam and Eve are trying to are trying to do here is in response to the experience of feeling shame, guilt, and fear for their sin, they try and cover their own nakedness. Rather than running to God for help, asking him, cleanse us, clothe us, forgive us, they make their own clothes. They try and atone for their own sins. They try and cover their own guilt, shame, and fear. And this is something that is common to all mankind. Right? This is basically the structure of every world religion except Christianity. If you're here today and you you are a follower of another world religion, I say this in complete respect, but Christianity alone says that God can cover our sins. Every other major world religion essentially says that the solution to the problems in the world that we have is to work ourselves out of it. Right? In Hinduism, we offer sacrifices to appease the pantheon of gods. In Buddhism, we f we we follow the eightfold path and achieve enlightenment. In Islam, we practice the five pillars In secular America, we do good acts and get lots of degrees and get good jobs so that we have a great reputation so that nobody sees who we really are. All of these are variations on dealing with the problem of human sin, human shame, guilt, and fear. They are modern manifestations of trying to cover over our own nakedness, but the problem is They don't work. They are insufficient to remedy the problem of sin. Only in Christianity do we find a remedy that is sufficient because only in Christianity Do we find that the remedy comes not from us covering our own nakedness, but from God who comes to us. pursues us in our sin and provides the covering that we so desperately need. And I want you to see that in the passage. We see first that God provides this remedy by pursuing Adam and Eve in their sin. Right? What Adam and Eve need to do in the wake of their sin is run to God, but they choose to instead hide in fear. So what does God do? Does he wait for them to come to him? No, he seeks him out. Look at verse 9. The Lord God called to the man. Where are you? Just behold the love of God. Where are you Come come out. You don't have to hide from me. I'm a good God. You know that. Where are you? He pursues them. He isn't playing hide and seek. We know from scripture that he knows all things. He's asking Adam the question to give him the opportunity to come out into the light. Friend, if you're hiding your sin today, just come into the light. God says to you, where are you? Look, I see you. I'm asking you so that you might come out and receive the goodness and mercy that I have for you. He pursues and seeks out sinners and calls them to come into the light. But not only does he pursue them, he then promises to crush their enemy. Look at verse 15. God begins his pronouncement of judgment on the serpent for his role in tempting them to sin. And he promises there to send a seed or an offspring of the woman. This is a child, a descendant of yours will come And you will bru he will bruise the head of the serpent, and the serpent will bruise his heel. That word is elsewhere translated crush, and that's sure surely the sense here. This coming child, this coming descendant will deliver a mortal blow to the head of the serpent while he will effect a lesser blow to the heel of this offspring. But that isn't the end of the remedy. The remedy continues when God then provides his own covering for their sin. Their garments wouldn't do Sinful man can never cover over his sin enough to come back into my presence. The remedy continues when God provides the garments for their sin. Right? If their sin and ours would be covered, God would have to provide those garments. And those garments would require a sacrifice. Look at verse 21. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife. garments of skins and clothe them. The skins here almost certainly refer to animal skins, revealing powerfully right at the beginning of the Bible, that sin brings death. A sacrifice would be required to deal with their sin. But it's clear also that the sacrifice wasn't powerful enough to bring them back into God's presence, right? Because they were still banished from God's presence, sent into exile, a greater sacrifice would be needed. A greater covering would be needed. One that could not only cover their sins, but that could also bring them back into the presence of God. And that's because the covering that God provided in the garden to Adam and Eve was not the final remedy, but instead foreshadowed the true remedy. The future sacrifice and future covering that would fully cover their sin and would bring them back into God's presence. And you gotta think, this account from Genesis would have been particularly powerful and important to the people of Israel, right? This letter was written to them primarily. They are the first audience. Though they were brought back into the promised land of Canaan, and God lived among them in the tabernacle and later the temple, it was clear that all was still not well between the people of God Why do I say that? Well, for one, they could not approach him in the tabernacle without having offered sacrifices, continuing to reveal the need for their sins to be covered. But not only that, they were never actually allowed into God's immediate presence, guarding his presence in the Holy of Holies. in the tabernacle and later the temple was a massive curtain, and on the outside of that curtain was two giant angels, just like we see here guarding the way back into the presence of God. Right? Just like Adam and Eve needed a greater sacrifice who could cover their sin and bring them back into God's presence, so did Israel, and so do we. But we can praise God that unlike Adam and unlike Israel, we are no longer waiting for the appearing of that sacrifice and that remedy for sin, because in Jesus Christ God has offered the perfect remedy for sin. Just like God in the garden, Jesus provided the perfect remedy by pursuing his people while they were hiding in their sin. What did Jesus say in the New Testament? I came to seek I came to seek and to save that which was lost. He is the pursuing God, the embodiment and manifestation. God in the flesh pursuing his people in their sins, and Jesus is also the one who came to crush the serpent's head. On the cross, Jesus struck a mortal blow to the serpent's head. Paul says in the book of Colossians that while he was on the cross, he disarmed the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places and put them to open shame. You think about that. Think about the irony, the wonderful irony now as believers, that God is taking the being and beings who brought shame on his people, and now he is putting shame on them. Through his Son, Jesus Christ. Jesus is the sacrifice, Jesus offers the sacrifice, in whose death provides a covering for all who trust in him. And shedding his blood on the cross for our sins, Jesus provided the perfect covering. His blood cleanses us from all of our sins. And when we put our trust in him, We are clothed with his perfect righteousness. We receive robes of righteousness that will finally allow us back into the presence of God. And if you have any doubt that Jesus' death on the cross provides the perfect payment and the perfect covering, then just look to the gospel of Mark and the Gospel of Matthew, and you see that at his death when he breathes his last The curtain in the temple that guarded the way to the presence of God was torn in two from top to bottom. God reached down from heaven and rent the curtain in two, tore it in two from heaven to earth, top to bottom, opening the way for sinners like you and me to come back in. to God's presence. Do you see how Genesis 3, right away, the first gospel, right? A seed is coming who will crush the serpent. Right after sin comes into the world, God says, sin is not the end. I will have the final word. I will provide the remedy. I will pursue my people. I will provide the sacrifice. I will cover them and I will bring them back into my presence. That is what God has done for you and me today if you are in Christ. What a good God that we serve. Amen. Three days after he died, Jesus rose from the dead, showing that God had accepted his sacrifice and that his death will surely cover all of our sins and bring us back into the presence of God. Friend, if you haven't trusted in Jesus, please repent today. Come out into the light. Follow him. Follow the Lord. He is a good God. So when you when we think about struggling with doubting God's goodness, I'm right there with you. I get it. This world is hard and suffering is intense. But God says to you, Look to the cross. Look to the cross. I am a good God. You can trust me. I will lay down my life for you. I will cover you. And I will bring you back into my presence once and for all. He is good. Friends, let's continue following him today and in the days to come until we see him face to face. Charles Spurgeon once said, when you cannot trace his hand, trust his heart. Trust his heart. A heart that was revealed in his love on the cross. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for being good. We struggle to understand. We doubt at times. We seriously doubt at times. Your goodness. Help us to believe. We believe. Help our unbelief. Help us to look to the cross and see on the cross the perfect manifestation of your goodness and love, your justice also. It's where your love and mercy meet for your people. Help us to trust in that goodness today and help all of us to continue turning from sin, to not believe the lie That Satan holds out to us, that if we sin, we will reap benefits from it. What a terrible lie it is. Help us to believe the truth, your truth. You're trustworthy. Grant us your spirit to help us follow you, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.