Well it is the Christmas season, which means that it is the season for giving and receiving gifts, right? This is what everybody looks forward to about the Christmas season. And given that it's only December 14th, I'm going to go out on a limb and guess that most of you haven't finished your shopping yet. Heck, I I I think I'm actually gonna go out a little bit further on that limb and guess that some of you haven't even started your shopping yet. There you go. Surely I'm not the only one here, right? Uh I inherited the trait of procrastinating from my mom, Claire, who's not here, so don't worry. Which means it's an admirable trait because let's be honest, anything inherited from a mother is a thing to be admired, right? Claire Joseph was your classic Christmas procrastinator. You'd never find her involved in any of those terrible Black Friday fights over some toy because she hadn't even started thinking about shopping yet. As far as she was concerned, she had another month before she needed to get started And that meant that every Christmas Eve, after we got home from midnight mass, my mom would start her procrastinating work of finally getting around to starting to wrap the gifts That's after midnight mass, by the way, so it's about 1 a. m. at this point. So she would work through the night wrapping the gifts and then getting them set out in their pre-appointed places because My parents had a tradition of putting each of the kids, I had two sisters, each of us had a special spot in the living room where the gifts went. And so she would work through the night Right up until the moment when it was time for us to come down and open our gifts. She was working all night long, all night strong. That is Claire Joseph to a T Now for the kids here, I want to stop real quick. For all of the kids here, I want to ask a question. How many of you, you can just raise your hand, have some sort of Christmas morning tradition that you do before opening gifts Raise your hand if you have some it don't even have to be before you open gifts it'll just be some sort of Christmas morning tradition associated with raising gifts. I see some hands raised. Does anyone want to share one? You guys want to share what you guys do? Just shout it out There you go. So Layla says that she goes downstairs. Their tradition is that they open their stockings first, and then after they unload the stockings and work their way through those, then they can get around to opening the rest of the gifts. Does anyone else share that tradition Stockings first. Just be proud. Just go and raise them. There we go. Some people in there. So our family had a tradition where my sisters and I had to sit at the top of the steps And wait for my dad to say, it's okay, you can come down now. And then we would bum rush it down the stairs, break out into the living room, and start tearing through the gifts. But now that I'm older As I look back on that tradition, I think what my dad was doing was covering for my mom's procrastination. She was down there saying, no, Paul, wait, wait, wait. They can't come yet. They can't come yet. I gotta do some more gift wrapping first But even though Claire Joseph was the queen of procrastination, she was also the queen of giving, perfect. Gifts. She had a knack just for paying attention to each of the kids throughout the year, noticing what it was that we wanted and needed needed, and then finding the perfect gift. To fit that need. Her gifts just always seem to surpass our expectations. And when you think about it, just think about gift giving and gift receiving, the best gifts. The gifts that we are most stunned by and receive most joyfully are gifts that show that the person giving the gift has paid careful attention to what we need. And they're the gifts that show that the person giving the gift has gone out of their way to find what most perfectly fits that need. And as I think about the money many wonderful gifts that my mom gave me that showed how she paid careful attention to my needs. the perfect gift to meet those needs, I'm reminded of another gift. It's a gift that God has extended to each of us. All of us who are here tonight, God has extended this gift to us. And it's a gift that shows how carefully He's paid attention to our needs. And it's also a gift that shows just How far he's willing to go to meet those needs. What is that gift? Well, we just actually heard about it. Maya read it for us. I'd actually I'd ask you to look at me again at that reading on page 11 from Romans chapter 3. I'm just gonna read it for us one more time, and I think you'll see what I'm talking about. This is Romans 3, 21-24. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came Jesus. This is that gift. We are justified freely by this gift of grace that came through Jesus Christ Now, I just want to take a moment to briefly say to anyone who's come this evening who doesn't understand themselves to be a follower of Jesus Christ, I think the first thing that I want to say to you is thank you. Thank you for being willing to join us tonight, for taking time out of your schedule and being here with us. I'm thankful that you're here. And I do also recognize that talk about sin. Might seem distasteful, possibly even offensive to you. And uh I there's a sense in which I I actually get that, even as a pastor of a church, I I understand that But if that's you, I wonder if you would agree with me that there's something wrong with our world. You just ask yourself that question right now. Is there something wrong with our world? I think the answer that all of us are going to land on is yes. Every day when we open up the headlines, we get proof on our front pages that something is wrong with the world. And not only do we just not only need our our front pages of our newspapers, but all of recorded human history testifies to the fact that there is something wrong. And different religions provide different answers to the question, what is wrong with the world? And the answer that Christianity gives is sin. Sin is what's wrong with the world. Sin basically means missing the mark, falling short of the standard. That's what sin is. Now we were talking about how the best gifts are the ones that show that a person has paid attention to our needs, right? And I want you to notice how carefully God has paid attention to those needs. He's paid attention to the fact that All have sinned. All have sinned. As he looks out at all of mankind, he doesn't find anyone who passes the test. He finds that everyone has missed the mark. And that means that all of us have missed the mark. We've all fallen short of God's standard. Now I trust if you're anything like me, because I am just basically inherently self-righteous, I trust that you wouldn't have any trouble spotting what's wrong with other people. That person's really rude or that person's really proud or that person's really greedy, but not me. I'm I'm okay. I I I meet the standard, right? But the troublesome the troublesome thing about sin, according to the Bible, is it's something that all of us share in. In the early 1900s, an illustration that I think uh teaches this point really well and uh humorously even though it's not a humorous subject. Uh in the early 1900s there was a British newspaper uh that posed a question uh to all of its readers and they allowed the readers to then write in responses to that question And the question was this. It's a question I've already posed this morning. The question was, what is wrong with the world? And it's doubtless that this paper received numerous thoughtful replies. Sure, there were a number of replies that talked about politics or the use of finances and how we can build a better society for everyone. But perhaps the most thoughtful And the most brief came from a man named G. K. Chesterton, who in response to the question, What's wrong with the world, answered this way. Dear sirs, I am. I am. That's what he wrote in. Dear sirs, what's wrong with the world? I am. Chesterton recognized that if he was going to begin assessing what's wrong with the world, that he would need to start with himself. And that is at the heart of the Christian understanding of what's wrong with the world We are. We've all sinned and brought pain and death into the world. And we've done this in all sorts of ways that I think you guys would would probably understand and agree with. Think of this, whether it's through not telling the truth I'm not sure if you've done that. Or being filled with anger or hatred towards another person. I know that has described me in the past. Or taking things that don't belong to us. I've definitely done that. Did that a ton when I was younger for sure. There are countless ways that all of us miss the mark. There are countless ways that all of us fall short of the standard. And those sins have really put us in a bad place. Because God is good, he won't let sin go unpunished, which means he won't let us go unpunished. And I recognize that this may sound foreign to you, just like the topic of sin. God, punishment, those things don't seem like they should go together. But just hear me out on this. Hear me out on this. Imagine that you and I are in court together. You are the plaintiff and I am the defendant and I have robbed your home. Now imagine that I stand before the judge and I say to the judge, Your Honor, I did it I did do it. I did rob their home. I have the things, their belongings in my house. But you'll understand, won't you? You'll overlook what I've done, right? Now just imagine you're the plaintiff and I'm the defendant. I've robbed your home. And then the judge says to me, oh, that settles it I'll overlook it. You're free to go. And I get away scot-free with robbing your home because the judge just simply chose to overlook What I did, how many of you would want to hear that as the judgment rendered? I trust nobody would. All of you would say, no, no, no, judge, that is not fair That is not fair. They robbed my home. They need to be punished somehow, in some way, for what they've done. Well, if you think that God will just overlook the ways which we've all missed the mark, the ways in which we've all sinned, you're actually thinking about God like that judge who let me go just because I admitted it. And you just, oh, free to go. That's the way that we treat God when we expect that he will just overlook our sins if God is just, which we believe as Christians that he is. then he will punish sin. And that means that you and I are in need. We are in need of someone to take our place. Now remember the best gifts are the ones that show that the person has paid careful attention to what we need. We need someone to take our place, and then gone out of their way to provide the perfect gift. for us and God has done just that. How did he do it? He sent his son to be born into the world. Jesus of Nazareth, the eternal Son of God. came to provide the perfect gift to meet our needs. He did that by coming and living the perfect life, the life that none of us lived but should have lived. He never missed a mark. He never fell short of God's standard. And even though he never sinned, he was opposed and hated by many. And eventually a plot was hatched to take his life. He was unjustly imprisoned, unjustly sentenced, and unjustly condemned to die on a cross. But Jesus knew that all of this would happen In fact, he taught that he came to die on that cross to take the punishment for us, to meet our need. So that we could receive the greatest gift that has ever been given to mankind. And that gift is forgiveness from God Jesus takes our punishment. And if we turn, follow him, we receive the gift of complete Forgiveness from God. It's what this passage describes as the gift of God's grace. It is unmerited because none of us did anything to deserve it. But he freely gives it because God is love. Not only is he just, but he's love. He's also merciful, and his grace abounds to those who recognize that they need him. So if you turn to him and ask him to forgive you, God has promised that he will do it. And three days after Jesus died on the cross and was buried, he rose from the dead. This showed that God accepted his sacrifice. It also proved that everything that Jesus taught about God, about us, and about what's wrong with the world is true. Think about it. Think about how God has paid careful attention to our needs. Think about how he's gone out of his way. Sending his son to leave heaven itself to come to earth and live among us to meet those needs. And he offers that gift to all of us tonight. If you're interested in learning more about what it means to receive that gift of forgiveness and to follow Jesus, come find me after the service. I'd love to talk with you about that. It is the greatest gift that could be given. It is the greatest gift that could ever be received. And that gift began with the birth of a baby. In Bethlehem, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's at birth that members of our youth choir are going to come up now. to sing to us about uh to sing to us about. And they're gonna do that by singing uh their final piece. You all can come on up. They're gonna sing to us a choral piece called Noel Noel.