I want to invite you to open with me to Colossians chapter 3. In one peanuts cartoon. Lucy says to Charlie Brown, I hate everything. I hate everybody. I hate the whole wide world. And Charlie responds to her, but I thought you had inner peace, Lucy. And Lucy replies, I do have inner peace. I just have outer obnoxiousness. Well what Lucy seems to misunderstand though is that the state of our hearts, inner peace. In her case, will always eventually appear in our outward actions. A person who is inwardly peaceful will also be outwardly peaceful. in some observable sense. But the cartoon also raises other important questions. What is inner peace Where does inner peace come from? And how does it shape our relationships with other people? Is it possible to be peaceful on the inside but obnoxious on the outside? Now these are important questions because so many people in a world full of turmoil, sorrow, and suffering. Are in search of that elusive thing that we call peace. And in our passage today, we find answers to those important questions So if you haven't already, go ahead and turn with me to Colossians chapter 3. We're looking at verses 12 to 17, just for a bit of context to kind of frame the verses, the verse that we'll be looking at today. At the beginning of chapter 3. Paul had told the Colossians to seek the things that are above where Christ is. And he's telling them that because of all that God had already done for them in Christ. God had fully qualified them to share in Christ. God had reconciled them to himself, even though they were formerly enemies of his He had redeemed them through Christ. He had forgiven all of their sins and paid the entirety of their debt in Christ. And now to those who have laid hold of Christ by faith, he tells them. Well, now you need to seek the things that are above, where where Christ is. And he does that at the beginning of chapter 3. And then following that command, he tells them how to do that. In verses 5 to 11, he tells them that we seek the things that are above by putting off the old self. And then in verses 12 to 17, we see that we seek the things above by putting on the new self. Put off the old, put on the new. Well, how do we put on the new? What does the new look like? Let me go ahead and read the passage for us now. Put on then as God's chosen ones. Holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility Meekness and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has complaint against another, forgiving each other As the Lord has forgiven you, so you must also forgive. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do. In word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him Well we're we're pausing on these verses uh uh over the course of three weeks just to slow down and give us give ourselves time to meditate on what it is. that we're being called to put on. Last week we looked closely at verses 12 to 14. So if you're looking there and you're like, oh, I wonder what he's going to say about these verses. You can actually go on to our website and you can find the sermon that I preached last week on verses 12 to 14 and what it looks like to clothe ourselves with Christ's character. Next week, we're going to look at verses 16 to 17, focusing in on thankfulness and doing everything in the name of the Lord and letting the Word of Christ dwell in us richly. This week, with the limited amount of time that we have today, we're going to meditate on verse 15. And specifically, Paul's command for Christians to be ruled by the peace of Christ. And I want us to unpack this verse by considering what it looks like to be ruled by the peace of Christ in three separate spheres. So if you're taking notes, these will be our points this morning. First, we want to look at being ruled by the peace of Christ. First That means having peace with God. Being ruled by the peace of Christ means first having peace with God. Second, it means having peace within And third, it means having peace with others. So first, having peace with God. Being ruled by the peace of Christ means first having peace with God. I want you to go ahead and look again with me at verse 15. Paul says there, and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. So we just got to see this in context. Paul says in verse 12, put on then the following things. And after talking about kindness and humility and compassion, he gets to peace. One of the things that we're to put on as members of Christ as we put on the new self is we are to put on peace. Those who've been united to Jesus by faith, Should be ruled by the peace of Christ. We should be controlled, directed, governed by the peace of Christ. But what we have to recognize first is that we can't be ruled by the peace of Christ unless we pursue peace with God through Christ. The peace of Christ that Paul is telling the Colossians to be ruled by is first and foremost the peace of Christ offered to all people in the gospel. Right at numerous places in Scripture, the gospel message is described as a message of peace. Hey, Jesus, how would you describe the totality of your gospel message? One word, peace. There are other words that he could use, but it's one of the main words in Scripture used to describe the gospel message. So if you go back to the Old Testament A prediction of this coming gospel message in Isaiah 57. The Lord predicts the day when he will turn and heal his people, saying, peace, peace. To the far and the near, and I will heal him. You fast forward to the New Testament in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 17, Paul Clearly leaning on Isaiah 57 says about Jesus, and he came and preached what? And he came and preached peace to you who were far off And peace to those who were near. The message of peace that Jesus came to preach was the gospel. The good news that peace with God was now available to all mankind through Jesus' death and resurrection. If you're here and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I wonder if you've ever thought about why so many people lack peace today. From the more serious and obvious cases of lacking peace, like mental illness or people taking their own lives, or depression to anxiety. To all manner of other disorders, both biological and spiritual, to sorrow and sadness To the underlying unrest that just seems to affect all of us. I don't know about you, but even when I'm like completely at rest, which I don't even know what that means, but like the times where I feel most rested It's just still churning. The heart is still churning. I just can't get to that place of like, oh, I am fully at rest. Mankind is a people who are not at rest. Just churning constantly. We are not a peace-filled people. Why do you think that is? What would you say is the reason for that kind of ubiquitous lack of peace in mankind? I wonder if you have considered what the Bible says about why that is. The Bible teaches that all of the unrest in our world, inner and outer, and they're both connected. Unrest outside of us and unrest inside of us is a result of our sins against God. Our sins, our Choosing to rule ourselves rather than submit to his good and perfect rule because he's the creator of the universe, our sins have separated us from God And from the peace that only He can bring. Not only that, but our sins have wreaked so much havoc on our souls that we became enemies of God. Paul says in Colossians 1 that mankind is alienated from God and hostile towards him. We don't want to submit to his rule and so have become his enemies. And because we're God's enemies, we're We don't have peace with God, who is the source of all peace. And we can't have peace with God unless God does something to provide it. The amazing news of the Bible. Story that the whole Bible is telling. Have you ever had questions like What's the point of the whole Bible? I don't get it. The point of the whole Bible is God's plan of redemption for all mankind in his Son Jesus Christ The good news of the Bible to you and I today, and to all people in all places, is that peace with God is available to his enemies. Through faith in Jesus Christ, who unbelievably came to earth, lived the perfect life that we should have lived, but none of us have. Died the death on the cross that we deserved in our place, taking the punishment that we deserved. Died, was buried, three days later, rose from the dead, showing that God accepted his sacrifice, and he says to all mankind everywhere. Believe in me. Put your faith in me if you want peace with God. And that peace with God is available to you today You can have that peace if you would turn from your sins and trust in Jesus Christ. Put your faith in him today, and God will grant you peace with Christ. And for all who've already done that, what you need to be reminded of today is that you already have peace with God. Is that like really encouraging to you today? If you're a Christian, do you just stop and think about that? God is no longer my enemy. Why? Not because of anything I did, but because of his unmerited grace and mercy. If you believe in Jesus Christ, the faith that you have in Christ is a gift from God. So that you would be changed from being his enemy into his friend. And not only his friend, but a beloved child The same thing that Jesus we talked about last week, the same thing that the Father says about the Son, this is my beloved Son, he now says about you. Look again at chapter 3, verse 12. Put on then as God's chosen ones who are holy and beloved. Beloved by who? The Father in heaven. If you've put your trust in Christ, you already have peace with God But John, I don't feel like it because I've been struggling with sin the past week. You have peace with God. Objectively, it's outside of you because you are in Christ, and Christ has perfect peace with God. His peace is now your peace, and the Father says to you, peace. That's why every letter that Paul writes in the New Testament opens with grace and peace. From who? God the Father. Not just a throwaway line. He really means that. You have peace with God through faith in Jesus Christ. Now just take a step back. We're going to think about this again more in a few minutes, but just take a step back. You probably have some serious troubles in your life. Not trying to downplay the suffering and trials that we experience in this life. But look at those sufferings and trials that you are facing. Now look at the fact that you have peace with God. That peace with God is now meant to shape everything else in your life. It's meant to shape how you how you approach your sufferings and trials. Friend, if you if you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ You have peace with God. Praise God, right? That's so encouraging. And because you now have peace with God through faith in Christ, You can be ruled by the peace of Christ within. Which brings us to point two. Being ruled by the peace of Christ looks like having peace within. The peace of Christ that we read about here, the peace that Christ brings, is meant to be experienced within. Look again at verse 15. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. In the first century, the heart was understood as the seat of emotion and desire and will. It was the core of a person. It was what made a person who they were. And that heart, that kingdom within. Was to be ruled, governed, directed by the peace of Christ. You see, the Colossians, Paul was telling them, were to be ruled by the knowledge that regardless of their circumstances in life, They had been transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. They had been redeemed and forgiven by the blood of Christ and been reconciled to God and then had been given the hope of eternal life to come. And those glorious realities were now to rule in their hearts. Right? So when the circumstances of this life were coming upon them. And they were experiencing all of the emotions that are common to mankind: fear, anxiety, worry, doubt, uncertainty, all of those things. They weren't to be gripped by them, but to submit them to the glorious realities that were to come in their life already. What had already been done and what was to come. And that was to produce peace in their hearts. God intends for his people, as we put on the new self in Christ, to be ruled by peace that Christ brings. Think about it today. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ in the midst of moral chaos because. Though the earth gives way and the mountains fall into the sea, we will not fear, because God is our very present help in trouble. Psalm 42 We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ. While living at a time and in a country that seems to be tearing apart at the seams and where Christians are increasingly singled out more and more as enemies of progress. But we could be ruled by the peace of Christ in the midst of it because though we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, we will fear no evil. For the Lord is with us. Psalm 23. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ when we stumble again into sin, and that peace with God is derupt disrupted. Why can be we be ruled by the peace of Christ? when we stumble into sin again because there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, Romans 8:1. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ in the midst of sickness and chronic pain because, as Psalm 119 tells us, our comfort in suffering is God's promise to preserve our lives. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ in times of sadness and sorrow because his anger only lasts for a moment, but his Favor lasts for a lifetime. Weeping may stay for the night, but rejoicing comes in the morning. Psalm 30. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ in times of anxiety and uncertainty because we know God does not withhold good from his children, Psalm 84. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ even in the face of death itself because we know that Christ himself has defeated death. 1 Corinthians 15. Friend, if you are in Christ today, then there is nothing you are facing today that has the power to change your eternal standing before God. Neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate you. From the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. You serve the God who says to the storms, peace be still. And they listen. They listen to him because he's the king of all creation. And he speaks that same word of peace Over your heart and mind today and into your circumstances and mind today. That peace is yours in Christ Jesus. And again, I don't say this tritely or without awareness of the depth of suffering or the types of trials some of you are experiencing. We will have trouble in the world. But take heart. Christ has overcome the world. So how are you doing being ruled by the peace of Christ? You're honest with yourself. Are you being controlled by fear, anxiety, frustration Uncertainty, doubt, emotional turbulence, whatever else disrupts peace. Are you being controlled by those things? Or when you experience those things, which we all do in this life, when all is said and done, are you returning to the peace that Christ brings? The peace of Christ that is yours in the gospel. If you are being controlled by fear, anxiety, and uncertainty, I wonder how often you think about God Nothing seems less practical to modern Americans. Stop and you won't you want me to stop and think about God? But I've got so much on my to-do list and all these calls coming in and emails I need to answer. You want me to stop and think about God? I just want you to think about how scripture talks about thinking about God and how it's related to our peace. The reason I asked the question is because considering God, thinking about God, is a source of great peace to the believer. Let me think about what Isaiah says. You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you. The one who keeps their mind fixed on God meditates on him in all of his glorious perfections will know peace. Okay, John, this sounds super abstract. Make it a little bit more tangible for me. Think about this. Here's one glorious perfection of God. Have you considered that God knows all things? Nothing can be hidden from God. Not just the particulars of your circumstances But get this. Every particular fact and possible outcome in the entire universe is known to him. So when you're in the midst of difficult circumstances and you're thinking, God, you're not doing a good job being a shepherd. You said you're gonna lead me to green pastures, but you're taking me through the valley of the shadow of death. I know what's best. God says, Hey You want to turn that way, there's a whole set of circumstances that you just don't know about that are not going to turn out for your good. God leads us on the path that He has us because God knows all things And he has promised to lead us to green pastures. Or another way, have you considered his power? There is nothing that God can't do How does that help me have peace? Just think about your circumstances. What can God do in the midst of them? Can He change them? God can do all things Can he not change him and still give grant you peace in the midst of them? God can do all things. I think sometimes for me the latter seems more unlikely than the former. I'm like, I just don't know how I'm gonna get peace in the midst of this Lord. Well, just ask me. I'm the God of peace. Jerry Bridges put it well. No circumstance is so big that God cannot control it. Simple truth, eminently practical. There's no circumstance so big that God cannot control it. Have you considered his goodness, his wisdom, his devotion to his people, his victory over all the powers of evil, and on and on? Have you considered those things? You keep him in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on you. Spurgeon said this: To enjoy peace, our unbelieving thoughts must be stilled, and we must learn that the Lord reigns. All of it. All of creation. All of our hearts He reigns. Friends, the command to be ruled by the peace of Christ is an invitation to encounter God and learn afresh that He reigns. Peace flows from God. And so if we want to drink of the purest peace, we must seek to drink directly from His well. By meditating on him. But it's not just those who keep their mind fixed on God who are ruled by the peace of Christ. Those who lift up their voice in prayer will also know the peace of Christ. Think about what Paul says in Philippians chapter 4. The Lord is at hand. Therefore, do not be anxious about anything. The Lord reigns. Don't be anxious about anything. But in everything. By prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And as a result, the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding. will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. What should you do in times of turmoil Pray. What should you do in times of suffering? Pray. What should you do in times of uncertainty? Pray What about doubt? Pray. What about anxiety? Pray. What about depression? Pray. If you want peace, you must pray. Don Carson said it well, either worry will drive out prayer or prayer will drive out worry. Worry and prayer can't Can't live long together. Worry can't live long in a house of prayer. Why? Because God has chosen prayer as a means by which he shares his perfect peace with his people. If all you can get out is a single word, pray a single word. Help. Mercy. Grace It's not the power and eloquence of your prayers that secures your peace, but the eagerness of our peace-giving God to grant us his peace. And he grants peace to those who turn to him in prayer and guards them with a secret and hidden power in Christ Jesus. So, what I want you to do in the days to come is to take the anxiety-inducing feedback loop that might be playing in some of your heads and turn your fears, cares, and worries into prayer to God. What does Jesus say in the Gospel of Matthew? Come to me. Not come to me, all who have it together and don't have any fears or cares or anything, who are perfectly peaceful. Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden. Who lack rest, who lack peace, come to me. I am the prince of peace, and I give peace. God has granted peace to his people in the gospel, and he intends for us now to be ruled by that peace within. But the peace that we experience within as a result of the gospel is also meant to be experienced in our relationships with each other. Which brings us to point three. Being ruled by the peace of Christ looks like having peace with others. So just think back about Lucy. I have inner peace, but outer obnoxiousness. We see that if we have the peace of God through faith in Jesus Christ in the gospel, and we now are in a right standing with God in Christ, that peace starts to work itself out in our own hearts And it also starts to work itself out in our relationships with one another. Those who've come to share in the peace that Christ brings through the gospel should also live at peace with one another. I want you to look again at verse 15. Paul says, and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And that final phrase there to which indeed you were called in one body, Paul turns our focus to having peace with others And specifically those in the church. That's the one body that Paul is thinking of. He says there, we were called. To experience this peace in the body of Christ. We were called, as in God chose us, to be united together by our common faith in Christ. And to experience together the peace that Christ brings to all of his people. One of God's grand purposes in the gospel is to create a people from every tribe and tongue and nation, from every class, every political party, every social profile, and creating Christ one new man in place of the two who were previously enemies, who were previously at odds with one another, who were previously had lots of differences and just didn't get along, but through Faith in Christ have now been made friends and even one. One new man in place of the two. I want you to listen to how he puts it in Ephesians chapter 2. Paul says, for he that is Jesus, he himself is our peace, who has made us both one. And has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. The dividing wall of hostility that separated us and God And us and one another, Jew and Gentile, millennia-old enemies who were at war with one another forever, it seemed like That's why there would have been hostility that Paul is worried about here in the Colossian church, which is why he tells them to be ruled by the peace of Christ. If you have your Bible open in front of you. I want to point out something to you about why this church and why this church, why Colossians and CBC needs to be ruled by the peace of Christ. Look at chapter 3, verse 11. Paul says about the Colossian Church. Here, there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free, but Christ is all and in all. When he says there is not these things, he's saying, There are these things. This church is full of Greeks and Jews. It's full of circumcised and uncircumcised. It's full of barbarians, the people group. Scythians, the people group, it's full of slaves and free people. And what's going to happen in a church that's that's that diverse? Lots of conflict to them and to us. Let the peace of Christ Rule in your hearts. There would have been hostility, likely, in the Colossian church, because of this diversity, lots of differing cultures. Customs and attitudes, a sure recipe for conflict. More than that, some of these groups in Colossians were lifelong enemies of one another, like literally went to war against each other. But to them, Paul says, be ruled by the peace of Christ with one another, because now Christ is all in all. Their ethnic and cultural distinctions did not disappear, which we talked about when we preached on those verses, but they were now subsumed by and into their identity in Christ. And the same goes for us today. Our ethnicities, our upbringings, our experiences that have shaped who we are don't disappear, but they are enveloped into Christ. We are all in him. one new man in place of the two. So being ruled by the peace of Christ, having peace with others in the church, begins with Understanding God's purposes and the gospel. Getting along isn't in Christ isn't just some like tack-on that God says, like, hey, it'd be nice if y'all were kind to each other. This is a grand purpose of the gospel, so that God would show his power in the gospel to unite people from all sorts of backgrounds into one person, Christ. That they would be ruled by the peace of Christ. And if we're going to display the peace-producing power of the gospel in this church. And one thing that we can do of many, but the one thing we're going to close with today is we're going to have to get to know one another So basic, right? Being ruled with the by the peace of Christ looks like, hey, getting to know one another. Jonathan, go introduce yourself to Sabrina. I'm sure you already have, but like you get the point. Brent, go talk to John Malone after the service Ryan Payne, go talk to Akhil. Akhil, talk to Greg. Just on and on. Greg, go introduce yourself to Nicole. On and on. If you want to be ruled by the peace of Christ, one of the things that we need to do is get to know one another. It is amazing. How easily, how much, simply getting to know someone helps you to live at peace with them. I don't know if you've ever Experience that. I've had people in my life where I've encountered them, Christians where I'm like, man, difficult person always seems kind of you know like they're having a bad day. What is going on with them? I just don't get it. And then I meet with them and I hear, oh I didn't realize that that had happened to you when you were a kid. Oh, I didn't realize that you experienced this in your your parents' marriage that it that it fell apart and oh I didn't realize that you just lost your job and oh I didn't realize that you were suffering from some sort of chronic debilitating pain. Wow. Do I feel rebuked? Because I'm judging in my heart what this person must be like and then I get to know them and I realize So much more there than I ever would have imagined. And that shouldn't be surprising to me. There's so much more in me than people probably think about me. This is life. I think what John Piper said, like you never meet an uninteresting, boring person. Everybody has so much going on that has happened in their life that if you get to know them, it helps you to live at peace with them. I think I saw someone say recently, and if I didn't say it, then I'm I'm about to say it and it's awesome. So you guys can quote me if you're right. I think I saw someone say recently that it's easy to throw stones at people who are far away from you. The distance makes it easier. Close the distance down and throwing stones gets harder. CBC. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts in one body to which you were called. By getting to know one another. And as you get to know one another and have conversations and you experience differences of opinion or you realize that you lacked awareness about certain things and the the peace of Christ in your relationship with that person seems to be in jeopardy. What do you do? You do everything that we talked about last week Put on kindness. Put on humility. You know what I was wrong? Thought this about you, but now I've been corrected. Put on meekness, patience, bear with others, and if needed, forgive others. As God has forgiven you. Peace comes through knowing. Knowing Christ brings peace with God. Knowing God brings peace within, and knowing each other in light of all that God has done for us and called us to brings peace with others. Others. We are prone to wander. We are prone to leave the God we love, which means we are prone to Be rude to each other. Think the worst of each other. Be short-tempered, impatient, unkind. Basically all the things That you tell us to put on, we struggle to do, but we trust that you're at work in us, accomplishing your purposes for us in Jesus Christ. And so we pray That you would help us to be at peace with one another. Help all those who don't know you, to come to know you through your Son Jesus Christ and to know that peace with God. And we pray that you'd also grant us peace within. In the midst of, I'm sure, very difficult circumstances that some of us are facing. Do this, we ask, for our good and for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.