The sermon passage this morning is John 413. I will be reading verses one through fifteen. Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John. Although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples, he left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sakar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her. If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir Give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. This is God's word. Good morning. It's a pleasure to be with you here and to have this opportunity. To open up God's word. And as we open up God's word, what we're actually doing is we're opening up a vast container, a bottomless container. of spiritual water for our souls. And so I'm excited to open up God's word and to taste together of God's living water. But before we do that, we need to pray for God's blessing on our time, that He might help us to drink from His fountain of life-giving water. So let's pray briefly now. Heavenly Father, we do pray to you now that you are the fountain of the water of life. That life-giving water that we so desperately yearn for is found in you alone. Help us to drink from your fountain this morning. and to be nourished and satisfied in Christ. And we pray this in the power of the Holy Spirit. And in Jesus' name, amen. Well I am uh I'm a huge fan of harrowing tales of survival. Now whether it's someone surviving after being lost in uh remote mountains or surviving while being stranded in the desert or on a deserted island, right? Th those stories just seem to pull me in like tractor beams. They just kind of like Draw me right to them. Whenever I see these books, I'm like I I've just I have to I have to read this. I have to I have to know what what would I have done in that situation? How how would I have fared But perhaps the survival story that I prefer most are stories of survival at sea. Now there's just something about being stranded on the open ocean that I find equally terrifying and equally drawn to at the same time. Right? I'm terrified of what it was like to know that there were massive creatures lurking beneath whatever it is that the person was floating on. Terrified by the vast expanse of open water from which it is nearly impossible to be rescued. Terrified by the potent storms that inevitably come on the ocean. Yet at the same time, I'm drawn to the experience. I want to know what that was like. And as I've read stories of survival on the open ocean There is one aspect of that experience that I rarely ever consider, and which is almost always the demise of people stranded on the open ocean. What is that aspect? Well it's not sharks. It's not storms. It's thirst. Thirst. It's estimated that people can survive between one to two weeks without consuming water, depending on Age, level of fitness, different factors, one to two weeks. And with within a few days of not consuming water, the effects are obvious. You have falling blood pressure, you have rising body temperature. fainting and you eventually get to a point where you just you go crazy. You lose your mind. People lose their minds from dehydration. And it really strikes me as possibly the most painful irony of dying at sea Dying of thirst at sea is that a person is dying for lack of water while they are literally surrounded by trillions and trillions of gallons of water. Just not water that they can drink. In fact, if they drank seawater, it would hasten their death by causing even greater dehydration because of the sodium content in the water. What's my point? Even though they are surrounded by water, the water that's surrounding them will not quench their thirst. It will only cause greater and greater thirst. What that person needs is a specific kind of water. What they need is fresh water to quench their thirst. And in much the same way, we meet a woman in our passage this morning who is unknowingly like a person stranded at sea She is surrounded by water, but that water cannot quench her thirst. In fact, that water will only cause her to thirst more and more. So we want to look at this water that this woman is surrounded by and how it's only going to cause her to thirst more and more. And so I want to invite you to open in your Bible, if you haven't already, to John Chapter 4. We're going to be looking carefully at verses 13 and 14 this morning, but we'll inevitably also look at the verses surrounding verses 13 and 14. If you're using the Bible that we've provided in the seats there, you'll find the passage on page 889. And if you don't have a Bible of your own, we want to encourage you to take the copy that we've provided there in our seat as a gift from us to you. We're in week three of a four-week Advent series, and over the last three weeks, or last two weeks so far, we've been looking at reasons why Jesus came into the world. In week one, we looked at the fact that Jesus came into the world to bear witness to the truth, the truth about God, about us, and about how we can be saved. Then in week two, we looked at the fact that Jesus came into the world to be our light. He came to provide an accurate understanding of ourselves and the world around us, and an accurate understanding of the true life that God has called us to And this week in John chapter 4, verses 13 and 14, we'll see that Jesus has come to quench our thirst. What we're going to find out this morning is that we are a people who are surrounded by spiritual water that will leave us in a constant state of dehydration. spiritual dehydration, but that Jesus has come with spiritual water that can fully nourish and satisfy our souls. If you're taking notes this morning, the first thing that we're going to look at is water that cannot quench your thirst in our passage. That's point one. Water that cannot quench your thirst. Before second, looking at water that can quench your thirst. So first, let's look at water that cannot Quench your thirst. I want you to go ahead and look down with me at John chapter 4, verse 1. I'm just going to walk us quickly through the verses leading up to our verses this morning. Just wanted to have a better feel for the context. What you find there in verses one and following is that Jesus is traveling north from the region of Judea to Galilee, and on his way from Judea to Galilee, he passes through the region of Samaria. It's the middle of the day. We find out in verse 6. John tells us it's the sixth hour of the day, which in Jewish time reckoning that meant noon. So it's right about noon. It's hot. Jesus is tired, so he stops and he sits beside a well, hoping for a drink, obviously. Then in verse 7, we meet a Samaritan woman who has come to the well to draw water. This was a common practice in Jesus' day, and obviously it's still a common practice in some parts of our world today. Water was stored in wells or cisterns, which were underground tanks of water, and it was used for, these wells were used to retrieve water for daily drinking. Cooking and cleaning, and because it was used daily, it had to be retrieved daily. So in verse 7, the woman comes to retrieve the water that she would need for the day. You can go ahead and look down there. When she comes, Jesus asks her for a drink. Give me a drink. The woman expresses some surprise that Jesus would talk to her because it was uncommon for Jews and Samaritans to interact during Jesus' And in verse 10, Jesus responds by telling her that if she actually recognized who he was, she would be the one asking him for a drink, because he says that he has living water to give her. And so then he says to her in verses 13 and 14, go ahead and look down there with me. Everyone who drinks of this water, meaning this well water, everyone who drinks of this water. will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. You see quite clearly in our passage that there are two types of water in view here. There is water that cannot quench our thirst, and one that can completely quench our thirst. And the one that cannot quench thirst is the well water that the woman is retrieving, and all that that well water symbolizes or represents, right? So on a purely physical level, according to Jesus, hey that well water will not ultimately quench your thirst. And and he's right, right? For for a person's thirst to be quenched completely, they would need a continuous supply of water to nourish and sustain the body. And so the woman is gonna she's gonna need to keep returning day after day to the well to fill up the buckets of So she can have water to drink at her home. I think a good illustration of how obvious of a point that this is came from Jim Boyce. He was a longtime pastor of a church in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. And he talks about driving along a beautiful road that follows along the Schuyl River right outside of Philadelphia. And he says that if you if you drive along this road, you eventually come to a place called Boathouse row. And and from the road, you can see in Boathouse Row there's a statue of a pilgrim holding a Bible. But what's not immediately obvious is that right next to the the statue of that pilgrim is there's a stream. running by it that then empties out into the Schuyl River. And what you also don't see from the road is if you walked up to that stream, there's a path beside the stream that leads up the hill to the source of the stream. And he talks about walking up the hill, and you get to the top of the hill, and you find there that there's a spring bubbling up from underneath the ground that's feeding this stream. And the you know the the city of Philadelphia, what they did was they they uh constructed a a stone viaduct to transport the the spring water into the stream to to shuttle it down the hill to eventually dump out in the stream And somebody, some brilliant and funny person inscripted in the stone above the spring, they put the beginning of this verse. So you walk to the top of that hill and you find inscripted in the stone, Whosoever shall drink of this water will thirst again. It's kind of kind of a cruel inscription to put over a spring at the top of a hill. Hey, congrats for walking up the hill. Have a drink. By the way, you're gonna be thirsty again, right? But that's the point, isn't it? If you drink from the spring at the top of the hill. You'll thirst again. What you need to do is follow the stream down to the bottom of the hill where you find the statue of the pilgrim holding an open copy of the word. The Word of God. If you drink from the fountain of God's word, you'll never thirst again. That's the spiritual reality that's at work in that stream and statue. And here we have Jesus, the Word of God, telling the woman that if she drinks of his living water, she will never thirst again Right? When Jesus tells her that he has living water that will permanently quench her thirst, it's clear that he's not talking about quenching physical thirst, but spiritual thirst. The woman's repeated trips to the well to secure water that will nourish and satisfy her physical thirst are symbolic of mankind's search for something that will ultimately quench our spiritual thirst. You see, thirsting is the state of our souls apart from God Mankind lives in a state of perpetual spiritual dehydration, and we are constantly looking for something to quench that thirst. To make us feel whole, to make us feel complete, to fill that hole that seems to be ever present in our souls. I think speaking to this reality, C. S. Lewis said this. He said, our lifelong nostalgia Our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off. To be on the inside of some door which we have always seen from the outside is no mere neurotic fancy but the truest index of our real situation. Let me paraphrase what C. S. Lewis is saying. He's saying this. Your soul feels thirsty because it is thirsty. Your soul feels thirsty. Because it is thirsty. And like a person stranded at sea, we are surrounded by things that appear like water, by things that appear like they will quench our soul's thirst, but they never do. What types of things might these be? Well, we see in our passage even an example of one such well that people are tempted to draw nourishment from, and that's the well of relationships. Look down at verses 16 to 18 in chapter 4, just after our verses. You look there, you see that Jesus gently confronts the woman for her numerous adulterous relationships. What's he saying to her? He's saying, my daughter, you've been looking for water for your soul in your relationships with men. Those relationships will never satisfy. If you continue down this path, you will move from one man to the next looking for this water for your soul, but you'll never find it. You know, I think what Jesus is asking us to consider this morning, what are the wells that we go to to find life for our soul? What are the wells that we go to to draw nourishment, to feel whole, to feel complete, to find joy or comfort or peace in this life? What are the wells that you go to in your life? Is it in your professional reputation or your social networks? Has carefully tending to your social networks and carefully tending to what people think of you brought true satisfaction in your life? And maybe you go to the well of money to draw nourishment for your soul. Has more money ever brought the happiness that your soul is looking for? One rapper, notorious B. I. G. said it best, Mo money, mo problems. Money does not cure all life's ills. Oftentimes money Brings more problems. Money brings greater thirst. It's like drinking salt water when you're stranded at sea. Maybe you're drawing what uh maybe you're drawing water from the well of fitness and and beauty, right? We all know that that well is drying up in all of our lives. Its water cannot ultimately satisfy. Maybe you're drawing from the well of marriage, children, family. But I think we all know that our spouses, children, and friends cannot provide the nourishment that our souls need. Now I recognize that some of you might be thinking, John, listen, I I honestly I don't know if I'm looking for water for my soul in these things. How can I know? I think there are two, at least two ways that you can kind of discern this in your own life. I think one way is to fill in the blank to the following question. If I only had blank. Then I would be truly happy. What did you fill in the blank with? If I only had this, then I would be truly happy. My guess is that whatever you put in that blank is one of the wells that you're trying to draw nourishment for your soul from But the reality is, if that blank isn't filled in with more of the spirit than we are drawing from a well, that ultimately will not nourish and satisfy our souls. Well we should say if we're following Jesus, if I only had more of the Spirit, then I would be happy. And that would be an answer. That would be a well that we can draw from that that actually would nourish our souls. That's one way. Answer the question, if I only had blank, then I would be truly happy. Another way to tell if you're looking for spiritual water and things that can't provide it. is to look for anger and frustration or despair and anxiety in your life. Those things usually come out of our hearts when the source of our life or where we're drawing life from is threatened. Right? So if I get angry because I feel slighted by other people, it's clear that my true nourishment comes from being accepted and approved by others rather than from Christ. Mike Emlett, a counselor with uh the Christian Counseling for Education Foundation, made the observation uh uh about parenting, and he said this. He said, when kids are little Parents often struggle with anger because they think they should be able to control their kids. And when kids are older, parents often struggle with anxiety because they know they can't control their kids. But what do you see here? In either case, anger and despair are produced by a heart that is seeking nourishment in control. Right? For the kids here, this is a question that you should ask yourselves. Where are you drawing water for your soul from? I think one well that you may eventually be tempted to find nourishment from your soul for uh in is social media. And I say this because it's a well that adults often look to for nourishment from. Especially those social media platforms where you can like or heart or thumbs up what the person has posted. Right? And these social media platforms are not sinful or evil in and of themselves. But they inevitably become a place where affer where the affirmation found in getting likes or finding approval becomes a source of spiritual nourishment for us. And when that happens, we have started drinking salt water. Those likes, that approval will only leave us thirstier and thirstier for more. And kids, you may even be finding this in your own life now. What wells are you drawing water for your soul from? And have you found refreshment, true refreshment for them Have the things that you thought would finally and fully nourish your soul delivered on their promises. Now listen, we got to be honest, right? That of all the things that we just mentioned and of all the other possible places we look for nourishment to quench our spiritual thirst, we can actually find it for a time. They can actually provide temporary quenching, temporary satisfaction. It can feel really good to be in awesome shape and to look great. It can be really satisfying to have a sense of control over your life, your children. It can be very comforting to have money in the bank. But these will never provide the ultimate nourishment that our souls are seeking. They provide a temporary nourishment at best. And I think it's important for us to recognize the way that the Bible talks about man's thirsting for spiritual nourishment. You see, I think today when we talk about man's search for something to satisfy his soul, man's quest to find something that that will bring him true joy and true happiness. We talk about it as though it's an unfortunate and even sad state of mankind. And it is an unfortunate and sad state of our human nature. But we need to recognize the way that the Bible Describes our seeking for nourishment in these empty wells. The Bible describes it in a very sobering way. In Jeremiah chapter 2, God says this to the nation of Israel. Be appalled, O heavens. Be shocked. Be utterly desolate, declares the Lord. For my people have committed two evils. Two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and they have made cisterns for themselves Broken cisterns that can hold no water. God regards this quest, this seeking for spiritual nourishment from things that cannot provide it as evil. As a sign of the fact that we have forsaken and rejected Him. And the reason that we're all thirsting in our souls for meaning and purpose and fulfillment is because we have all rejected God. We have forsaken the fountain of living waters and gone in search of water on our own. And this This rejection of God that all of us have participated in has brought us under God's judgment And our only hope is if God, the fountain of living water, would come to us himself to make a way for us to return to drink from his fountain of life-giving water again. You see, the water that we need is a water that only God can provide. And in verse 14, what we see is that Jesus offers that water to us, which brings us to point two. In verse 14, we see water that can quench our thirst. I want you to look at verses 13 and 14 again. Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life You gotta notice it the clear contrast there. The water of the world, the countless things that we seek nourishment and satisfaction in will not ultimately quench our thirst. We will be Thirsty again. But the water that Jesus gives will completely nourish, completely satisfy, and completely quench our thirst. Jesus says, whoever drinks Of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. Why is that? What is it about the water that Jesus gives that makes it so powerful that it can quench our thirst forever? Well, I think the answer comes later in John's Gospel in John chapter 7. We find out what makes this water so powerful. In John chapter 7, verses 37 to 39, we read this. On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now he said this about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given because Jesus was not yet glorified. The reason Jesus' water can quench our thirst forever is because the water he gives is the very presence of God in and through the Holy Spirit. The fountain of living water that we rejected, that we've all forsaken, this fountain of living water God offers to come and dwell inside of us. to provide us with a constant supply of life-giving water. So if you are tired of looking for water for your soul because you've been dipping your bucket in well after well after well but the water that you're pulling out and drinking just never satisfies you need look no longer because Jesus offers to all of us today living spiritual water that will forever nourish our souls. And all you have to do to receive this life-giving water that will keep you from ever thirsting again is Come to him. Jesus says in John 7, if anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. Jesus freely opens the fountain of his life-giving water to anyone who recognizes that they're thirsty. So my question for you today is, are you thirsty? Is there something that you're thirsting for in your soul? Where are you trying to find thirst to the where are you trying to find water to quench the thirst in your soul today? Come to the Lord Jesus and drink from his fountain. Are you tired of dipping your bucket into wells that never satisfy, wells that never end up quenching your thirst? Come to the Lord Jesus and taste His life-giving water. But it to come to him, if you will come to him, to receive the life-giving water of the Holy Spirit, we must be willing to give up looking for water in empty wells. That's what the Bible calls repentance. And that's what Jesus is calling you to do. He's telling you to come to me, the fountain of life-giving water, and stop looking for water in wells that cannot satisfy. That's what repentance looks like. It looks like us saying to God, God, I have rejected you. I have forsaken you, the fountain of life-giving waters And I have chosen to drink from wells that cannot satisfy. I know that those wells don't have water for my soul. I know that you alone are the well that provides water. For my soul and water that truly satisfies. And I want only the water that you have. That's what repentance sounds like to seek the water that God is giving us. And we need to see that this water that Jesus offers is for whoever wants it. It's for whoever wants it. It doesn't matter what color you are, it doesn't matter what gender you are, it doesn't matter what your political affiliation is, it doesn't matter how good or bad your past is. God is no respecter of persons. If you recognize that you are thirsty this morning, he will freely and abundantly give to you his life-giving water. And if you need any proof of the fact that God will freely give it to all who turn to Him, no matter where you've been in your life or what you've done in your life, all you need to do is look no further than the woman in our passage. We need to recognize the picture that John is painting of this woman. First off, she's a woman. In Jesus' culture, it was out of the question for a man to speak publicly with a woman. who wasn't his wife. But here, God in the flesh is willing to cross these cultural boundaries to interact with people who may have been beyond the pale. Second, she's a Samaritan. The Samaritans and the Jews were thousand-year-old enemies. The Samaritans were so hated by the Jews and thought to be so unclean. by the Jews that to simply walk through the land of Samaria and to get that their dirt on your feet was to make you ceremonially unclean and you had to wash yourself when you came back into the land of Israel. That's what they thought of the Samaritans. This is a picture that John is painting of this woman. But that picture doesn't end there. We need to recognize that in this culture, women were the ones who would go to retrieve water from the well, and they would generally travel in groups for fellowship and for protection. And they would go generally in the early morning or in the evening to retrieve water to avoid the heat of the day. They would never go in the middle of the day. But here you find this Samaritan woman traveling alone John tells us in verse 6 that she comes to the well at noon. Why is she coming alone and in the middle of the day? Because nobody among her own people even wants to be around her. She's an outcast among her own people. Her life and her choices have brought such shame upon her that she has no one to go to the well with. If she was going to go to the well in the morning when all the other women would be there, she knows that she would walk up and the whispers would begin and people would move to the other side of the well because they wanted nothing to do with her. But Jesus comes to this woman and says, I don't, I don't care what you've done in your life, daughter. I will open up my fountain of life-giving water to you. You may feel ashamed around your people, but you do not need to feel ashamed around me because I. will take your shame and I will give you my life-giving water. There is no one too shameful for God. A friend, if you recognize your thirst, his fountain is always open to you. It is always open to you if you would but come. Come to him and drink from his fountain. But if you do come to him, you also have to realize that his water is not like other water. You see, even the woman misunderstands the type of water Jesus is offering. But you look down at verse 15. After Jesus tells her that whoever drinks of his water will never thirst again, the woman says, Sir Give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. She basically doesn't want to come. She's like she's like saying, hey, I'll take that water if it means I don't have to come back to this well anymore Right? She's misunderstanding the type of water that Jesus is offering her. She's mainly concerned with having her circumstances change. Oh, I'll definitely take your water if it means I don't have to come back here in the middle of the day anymore. She thinks he's offering her the type of water that will immediately change her circumstances, that will that will keep her from experiencing the drudgery of having to go to the well one more time. But that's not the type of water that Jesus is offering to those who are thirsty. He didn't come to alleviate or change our physical circumstances. He didn't come to make us healthy or wealthy. He didn't come so that we wouldn't have to experience difficult jobs or hard relationships or pain and sorrow. He came to provide us with the water of the Spirit, living water that will nourish and sustain us. Through life's ups and life's downs, through life's joys and through life's sorrows. Living water that will sustain us even in the driest and most difficult seasons of life And God can do that miraculously by his spirit because he is the source of all living water. He is in his very essence living water. It never runs out. So if you have your spirit, the spirit of God dwelling within you You always have this fountain available to you. Look at the woman doesn't even get it. She says to Jesus, Sir, where will you get this water? You don't even have anything to draw from the well from. That's like, I'm not bound by human circumstances. I'm not bound by the difficulties of your life. You may be experiencing hardship. Your soul may feel dry and cracked. You may be going through a prolonged period in your life where it feels like you are in the wilderness, but I am the God who can make Rivers appear in the desert. I am the God who can make streams appear in the wilderness. I am the God who has a fountain of eternal water for those who will turn and drink. So, friend If you are in the midst of a difficult season in your life now, you feel weary and you just think to yourself, how will he provide it? Friend, he is in himself living water. His living water will be given to you in the most difficult and dry seasons of life. When Jesus says, whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never thirst again, listen, he's not saying. He's not saying you won't experience pain. He's not saying, hey, you won't experience heartache if you follow me. You won't experience sorrow, sadness, and longing. He's saying that when you experience those things You will have access to the only water that can keep you from dying of thirst in the desert seasons of life. And that water is the water of God's Spirit. He is a spring that never runs dry. The Spirit will sustain you in the dry seasons of life He will sustain you in your suffering. He will sustain you in your sorrow and your sadness. Friend, you will never thirst again. We have to recognize that if we follow him, there is also a way in which we can draw water from the Spirit, right? I think it's kind of a crude illustration to kind of to draw this out, but but I'll tell it nonetheless, kind of kind of plays on this humorously. There's a gentleman who wants to win the lottery And he prays day after day, and I'm not sport. I think the lottery is a terrible evil, right? But there's a man who wants to win the lottery. He prays day after day, Lord, let me win the lottery. Lord, let me win the lottery. Lord, let me win the lotter Keeps going day after day to God. Lord let me win the lottery Finally, after praying and praying and praying, he hears a voice from heaven. And the voice from heaven says, Go buy a ticket. Right? There's there's means involved here. Go buy the ticket. You go buy the ticket, I'll let you win the lottery, right? And I'm not saying that God will do that. There's means involved here We don't just pray, Lord, quench my thirst, quench my thirst, quench my thirst. We pray, Lord, quench our thirst during the difficult and dry seasons of life, and then we turn to the well of living water. We turn to God's word. We pray, we ask him to stir up the spirit within us. You think even about what Paul says in Romans 8 about the work of the Spirit, that when we pray and we are we're praying and we're just groaning, we have groanings that are too deep for words, the Spirit intercedes for us. On our behalf, He produces and provides the living water that we need. And the reason that you can know that God will nourish and sustain your soul in even the most difficult and dry seasons And the reason that you can know that you will never be cut off from the fountain of God's life-giving waters is because Jesus was cut off from the fountain of life-giving, God's life-giving waters in your place. Though you and I had forsaken God and rejected him as the fountain of living waters. And though we went in search of man-made water that can never satisfy, God in his mercy sent his son Jesus into the world to bring ultimate refreshment to our souls by opening the way for you and me to come back into the presence of God. Who is the fountain of living water? And Jesus opened that way first by living the perfect life in our place He never turned away from God. He never rejected God. He never fell for the temptation of thinking that stuff could supply what he most needed, that stuff could satisfy his soul more than God. He never went in search of water to quench his thirst because he lived in perfect relationship with the fountain of living water. He always tasted and saw that the Lord was good. Jesus always drank from God's fountain. But he not only lived the perfect life in our place, he came to bear the punishment for our sins. Our sins of rejecting God, forsaking God, and seeking nourishment for our souls and things that can never satisfy. This is what theologians call the sweet exchange. Jesus, who is himself a fountain of living waters, was cut off. from the living waters so that we who were cut off could come and drink and be satisfied. Jesus takes upon himself our thirst So that we could receive his life-giving waters. No gospel captures this aspect of Jesus' death better than the gospel of John. I want you to turn with me briefly to John chapter 19 in your Bibles. Chapter 19 of John is an account of Jesus' crucifixion, this crucifixion that he suffered in our place for our sins. I want you to bring your eyes down to verse 25. I'm going to read from verse 25 and on. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold, your mother. And from that hour, the disciple took her to his own home After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture, I thirst. Thirst Jesus Thirst on the cross He who knew no thirst, took our thirst, so that in him our soul's thirst could be quenched And as if to show that in and through Jesus' death on the cross, God's fountain of living water was being opened to all who would drink from it, John tells us. That a soldier pierced Jesus with a spear to ensure that he was dead. And what came out of Jesus? Blood. And water. He is the rock who is struck with the rod of God's judgment so that a sinful and thirsty people could drink again from his fountain. And the water that he gives in and through his Holy Spirit is life-giving water. And that Holy Spirit will never be taken from those to whom it's been given. And the Spirit will be for you a fountain, a spring of water to sustain you even in the driest seasons of life Yet the Spirit will not only quench your thirst in this life, but he will become for you a spring of water welling up to eternal life Friend, you may even die of physical thirst in this life. But if God has given you his spirit, he will cause that dead body to one day bubble up again. He will cause you to be resurrected from the dead in the same way that Jesus was, who became the fountain of living waters, and says to all who would believe in him, come. Drink from me, if you are thirsty, come and receive my life-giving waters. And it's only for a season in this life. That we will continue to face that spiritual thirst, even if we have the Holy Spirit. And that day will one day come to an end when Jesus, the fountain of life-giving water, appears again to bring us into his kingdom. A kingdom in which will be his throne, and from his throne will flow a river of life-giving water So that all who dwell along the banks of that river would know eternal life. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we come to you now and ask that you would open our eyes. Help us by your spirit to drink from the fountain of life, to turn to you the fountain of living water, and to taste and see that you are good. Oh Lord, empower us by your Spirit to do this, that we might serve you and rejoice in you and know the joy and peace and understanding that comes through being filled with your Holy Spirit. And we pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.