Well, friends, we're going to turn now to God's Word, and I want to encourage you then to open up to your Bible, in your Bible, to Colossians chapter 1 We're continuing in our study of Colossians this morning by looking at verses 3 through 8 Paul wrote his letter to the Colossians while he was imprisoned in Rome. And it's clear from the letter that though he had never met the Colossians in person, He was pleased with the reports that he was hearing about their faith and their love. But it's also clear as you read the letter that he was concerned for them. Though they had believed the gospel and were growing in their faith and in their evident love for all the saints, they were also being challenged by other competing world views. Now living as they did in the Greco-Roman world, there was no shortage of competing religious beliefs, and there was no shortage of competing philosophies about what constituted the good life There were religious teachers apparently teaching or telling the Colossians that the gospel, as they had come to believe it, as they had heard it from Epaphras, who had heard it from Paul, that the gospel was in fact not enough. They needed to observe certain religious rituals to be saved. Others were coming along and and teaching them that they needed to have certain spiritual experiences to truly be saved. They need they needed to have visions and they needed to worship angels. And still others were peddling what Paul calls man-made philosophies, whether these were like Roman philosophies of Stoicism or Gnosticism, we're not we're not quite sure, but he calls them man-made philosophies. And you could certainly think about man-made philosophies that that compete to tell us about what constitutes the truly good life in our world today and all of this was causing some of the Colossians to question whether they had actually believed the truth Maybe maybe the gospel isn't enough. Maybe we need to do more. Maybe we need to believe differently. You know, this sounds a lot like our day, doesn't it? Human philosophies attacking the truth claims of Christianities and various religions challenging the exclusivity of Christ and offering different paths. to God from the one offered in the Bible. You think of Jesus. He says that God has graciously offered one path. We need to praise God that He's offered a path at all to people who sinned against him. But Jesus says, God has offered one path. I, Jesus says, in the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. But there are other religions in our world who say, no, no, no, no, no. That Jesus might be one way among many ways. These are competing religious views. So, how would Paul begin his letter to the Colossians in the face of the challenges to their faith that were tempting them to walk away from the faith that they had already believed? What would he remind them of? What would he remind us of? Well, let's take a look I want you to follow along with me as I read Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 through 8. This is God's word. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world, it is bearing fruit and increasing, as it also does among you Since a day you heard it, and understood the grace of God in truth, just as you learned it from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit I think it's very easy to miss the main point of these verses. I think it's easy to think that this passage is about the importance of giving thanks to God in prayer, because Paul says we always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Well, I think it's easy to think that this passage is about how we should what we should always pray for when we pray, because he says we we always pray for you. When we thank God. Or it's about the importance of faith and love because Paul then thanks God for their faith and love in the Christian life Or it's about the necessity of finding faithful pastors like Epaphoros, because Paul reminds them that they heard the gospel from Epaphoros, who was a faithful minister in Christ. And while all of those things Are good things to think about. They are not the main point of these verses. These verses are all about The power of the gospel. To help you see how central the gospel is to these verses. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage again, and I'm going to make explicit every implicit reference to the gospel, just to see you how gospel-saturated these few verses are. So read along again with me. Verses 3 through 8, Paul says, We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this, this hope that is laid up for you in heaven, you have heard before in the word of the truth. What is the word of the truth? It is the gospel. This gospel which has come to you As indeed in the whole world, the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing, as the gospel also does among you, since the day you heard the gospel and understood the grace of God in truth. Just as you learned the gospel from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant, he is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf. And has made known to us your love in the Spirit. I hope that helps you to see when Paul brings up all these other things, prayer. Thanks, faith, love, faithful ministers, epaphorists, bringing the word. This passage is all about the power of the gospel. How does Paul begin his letter? To a people whom he's concerned about because these people are being attacked by competing religious claims, competing philosophical claims that are causing them to question whether they have actually believed the truth. How does he begin his letter? by reminding them of the surprising power of the gospel. And there's Two things in particular about the power of the gospel that this passage holds out. And so what we're going to do over the next two weeks is look at those two things. First, this week, we're gonna see that the gospel provides real hope The gospel provides real hope. And next week we're going to consider the reality that the gospel, and only the gospel, produces true spiritual change. So first, this week, we see that this passage teaches us that only the gospel provides true and real hope. Where do we see that? I want you to look down with me at verses 3 through 5. I want you to follow Paul's logic here. He says. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Why, Paul? Why do you always thank God for the Colossians? Look at the very next word: since or because. Here's the reason. His reason is that their faith in Jesus Christ is evident and they are displaying love for all the saints. But you'll notice. He doesn't stop there. He drills down another level. And he wants us to know where their faith in Christ Jesus and their love for all the saints comes from. He wants us to know what has produced the faith and love in their lives. And what reason does he give? Why are they now filled with faith and displaying love to all the saints? Look at what he says. Because Because here is the reason the faith and love are being produced in your life. Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven Of this, when he says this there, following up there, when he says of this, he's referring to the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this hope that is laid up for you in heaven, you have heard before in the word of the truth. The gospel which has come to you. The word of the truth is the gospel, and the word of the truth. The gospel is the message that is held out to him, the true and real hope that is laid up for them in heaven. The gospel, friends, is a message of hope. Real hope. And the reason the gospel is a message of real, true, objective Hope is because the gospel guarantees us that there are specific, glorious Awesome and immense experiences awaiting us in heaven that would cause our minds to explode if we were offered a glimpse of it today. Kids, if you've ever you you you're planning for uh your parents are planning for a trip to an amusement park, uh maybe you're making maybe you're taking a trip to Disney World and you're just getting so excited because you know that when you get there, it's going to be amazing. When I get there, I can't even think of any rides at Disney World. I haven't been since I was like eight. Where are like the best rides at Disney World? Can anyone like shout them out Who's but Space Mountain? You're thinking about I can't wait to ride Space Mountain over and over. You have that feeling of excitement that's bubbling up in you. That is the true and real hope. Much realer than Disney World exists There is a real existence in the presence of God that is filled with glorious and immense experiences that are true and real and provide hope for us in this dark world. And we need to make a careful distinction here. When we use the word hope, we almost always use it to describe the subjective experience. of hope. Hope as an emotion. And when we use hope that way, it is by definition uncertain. I hope that this thing comes true. My hope is in things getting better at some point, hopefully. I hope I get the job that I've been applying for, but I may not. I hope I get into the college that I've applied for, but I may not. I hope this period of sorrow comes to an end soon But it may not. The strength of our subjective sense of hope is limited by the uncertainty surrounding the thing that we're hoping for That is not. That is not how Paul is using hope here Here, it refers to the objective, actual, real, true realities in heaven that await all believers. If you are in Christ, then regardless of whether you feel hope today, you have hope today. And because that hope is laid up for you in heaven. It cannot be taken from you. It cannot be lost. It cannot be damaged. How does Peter put it? It will not perish, spoil, or fade. The History Channel has a show called Alone. It's a survival show in which contestants are left alone in the wilderness. And went before they're left alone there, they're they're given ten items of their choosing to bring with them. Now the people on the show have shown some expertise in their life with survival. They're not just like casting out every everyday uh you know Joes and Johns into the wilderness saying, hey, make it on your own. So these are are are trained survival people, but this is a true test of their expertise And so they're allowed to take ten items with them of their choosing and whoever lasts the longest wins. And when we're talking about wilderness, we're talking about uh kind of the northern reaches of Canada. There's no towns around. They're out in the forest, out in the woods, out in the wilderness. One of the contestants uh on season six of Alone was a guy named Jordan Jonas As you would expect, Jonas experienced extreme hunger. And as his hunger grew, his hope for a hearty meal grew Now, for a time, he was able to sustain himself on berries and nuts and a few small animals here and there. But as time wore on, his hunger worsened. Uh the the small animals and nuts and the berries, they weren't enough to fuel him because he was having to be active all day hunting, looking for food, making sure his shelter was uh was tightened and and ready to roll for any storms that came along And at the beginning of each day, he described the renewed hope that he had that day that he'd be able to take down a larger animal That would provide him with enough food to outlast the other contestants. And on one of those days, he was out hunting with the bow and arrow that he was able to bring with him, and he came across a moose. A gigantic animal that would be able to feed him for months. So Jonas drew back the arrow, let it fly, and lo and behold. It was a direct hit. He took down a gigantic bull moose. As you can imagine, he was ecstatic. Right? Everything he had been hoping for and more came true. He didn't just get one hearty meal. He got an animal that could potentially feed him for months. Day after day his hope had been building and finally it came true. But you know what happened next to his hope? Almost as soon as Jonas felt the elation of having his hope fulfilled, his hope And his excitement were replaced with fear and anxiety. Why? The reason why is because the thing that he had been hoping for and now possessed He had to protect from other wild animals. His mind raced as he tried to plan the best way to skin, carve, pack, and transport. all of his food back to his campsite. And then when he got the food back to his campsite, he worked tirelessly to store it in places where it couldn't be taken by bears. By wolves, by wolverines, by other wild animals. Friends, that is a great picture of the problem of hoping for things in this world. As soon as you have them, the joy of hope fulfilled is replaced by fear, worry, and concern about how to protect the thing that you were hoping for in the first place because we all know the painful reality that in a fallen world nothing is So when even we receive the things that we hope for, those hopes immediately fall under attack. But that is not the hope that the gospel offers offers or provides. The hope laid up for you in heaven cannot be taken. It is not under threat of being lost. It is unassailable and indestructible. It is invincible and everlasting real true hope. And it is yours today if you belong to Jesus Christ. Now what is that objective real true hope that is laid up for you in heaven The hope that is laid up for you in heaven, that Peter elsewhere describes as the inheritance that awaits all who have trusted in Jesus Christ, includes the promise of the presence of the triune God. But friends, you understand that the hope that is laid up for you in heaven is God Himself, central to everything that we are hoping for in this life. is reconciliation with full and complete reconciliation and relationship with the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in all of his glory. In all of his power, in all of his majesty, will be ours forever. I'm always struck by stories of adopted children who who often at some point in their lives they start wanting to know. who their real parents are, who their biological parents are. Want to replace real with biological to be careful there. There is an innate human longing to know where we came from and who we came from. Friends, the gospel promises that all who trust in Christ will experience the joy of being reunited with the God who made us. We will see his face. That joy is ours today, and it cannot be taken from us. One theologian said this, theologian said this. He said, there in heaven, this fountain of love, this eternal three-in-one is set open without any obstacle to hinder access to it. There, this glorious God is manifested and shines forth in full glory, in beams of love. There the fountain overflows in streams and rivers of love and delight. enough for all to drink at, and to swim in, yea, so as to overflow the world, as it were, with a deluge of love. The enjoyment of God is the only happiness with which our souls can be satisfied. To go to heaven fully to enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here. Fathers and mothers, husbands, wives, or children, or the company of earthly friends are but shadows. God is the substance. These are but scattered beams. God is the sun. These are but streams. But God is the ocean. Friends, the hope laid up for you in heaven is that you and I will bask in the presence of his glory forever Think of Psalm 16. In your presence there is fullness of joy and pleasures forevermore. Ever increasing joy and ever increasing pleasure flowing out of and ever increasing growing in knowing and experiencing God forever. And that hope is yours today in Christ. But that's not the only hope that awaits us. That's not the only hope that is laid up for us in heaven. The hope laid up for us in heaven also includes the presence of all the redeemed. Eternal union with all God's people from every tribe and tongue and nation from the beginning of time until now From the very beginning of creation until its end, God has been gathering and will continue to gather those he chose from before the foundation of the world. And in heaven, all the redeemed from throughout all the ages and from every continent live and dwell with God forever. From Enoch to Noah, from Abraham to Joseph. From Rahab to Ruth, from David to Josiah, from Isaiah to Ezekiel, and on and on. Friend, think of a Christian that you have wanted to get to know from Some place in the world, from some past history in the world, from some past age, whoever it might be, they are there, and you will be with them, and we will be together worshiping the Lord our God forever. Just think about the infinite joy that we will experience in perfect unity together as God's people worshiping him in his presence. All of God's people will finally be gathered together in perfect unity, bringing to fulfillment the vision of Psalm 133. Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell together in unity. It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountain of Zion For there, at Zion, there the Lord has commanded the blessing. Life forevermore. And the fact that all of God's people will dwell together in perfect unity points to another aspect of the hope laid up for us in heaven, and that is the absence of sin. No longer will you struggle against temptations. No longer will you have to say with Paul, why do I keep doing the things that I do not want to do? Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Friend, God will deliver you from this body of death. The hope laid up for you in heaven is that this body of death will be left behind and sin with it. Sin and its disastrous effects will be no more. There will be no more sin, no more sorrow. And the hope laid up for you in heaven also includes the fact that there will also be an absence of sorrow and sickness, disease, and death. God has prepared a place for us in which those things will no longer exist. Heaven is a place free from those devastating phone calls from the radiologist. A place free from immunocompromised bodies, a place free from aches and pains, a place free from scars. No longer will our bodies be subject to decay and death because God has promised. To glorify our bodies, such that we're free from the rain of sin and death, and we will drink from the river of life and eat from the trees on its banks, whose leaves are for the healing of the nations. But the hope laid up for you in heaven doesn't end there. It also includes the redemption of creation, the creation that is presently groaning will be free from its bondage to corruption and will be completely renewed to be enjoyed by the children of God forever How often do you think about the fact that you will live on a physical earth that will be completely set free from the curse of sin? The beauty and glory of this earth that is also marred by the evident realities of the curse of sin, that curse will be removed and it will be only majesty, beauty, and glory remaining. On a physical earth to enjoy forever. This is our hope that is laid up for us in heaven. And that is just a taste. Of the hope that is laid up for us in heaven. Now we could spend hours meditating on each of those things, and those things really exist and await you and I in heaven right now. The experience of the joy of having our ultimate hopes fulfilled is certain and is compounded by the double joy of knowing for certain that those hopes will never and can never be lost The gospel and the gospel alone provides true and real hope for a people desperately in need of it. For the Christian, hope really does spring eternal. It never ends You will only grow in hopefulness and hope throughout the remainder of your days, and when you enter into everlasting life, that hope will explode And will not be bounded by any limit or boundary. That hope will never end because it will be fulfilled and renewed day by day as you experience the glory of God and get to know Him forever. And an infinite God who is infinite in glory and matchless in perfections cannot be fully known, which means we will get to know him forever, and that get to knowing will never end. The hope will never end. The joy will never end. The glory will never end. That is the hope laid up for you in heaven this morning. Hope truly does spring eternal for the Christian. Now, how often are you thinking about the hope that is laid up in heaven for you? How much does it occupy your thoughts? To be sure, there are some who think that focusing on heaven is pointless and even counterproductive, right? You know the saying: to be so heavenly-minded that they're of no earthly good. But according to Scripture One of the main ways we become truly useful in this life is by setting our minds on the next. The consistent testimony of Scripture is that heaven and its beauties and glories Should regularly be the object of our thoughts and our desires. We're going to even see next week as we look at this passage again that the hope of heaven fuels true spiritual growth in this life. There are innumerable ways that meditating on the hope of heaven equips us for life in this world. Let me name three. Regularly meditating on the hope laid up for you in heaven equips you to walk through seasons of sorrow. darkness and even death with a certain hope that is absolutely alien to the rest of our world. Regularly meditating on the hope laid up for you in heaven equips you to walk through seasons of sorrow and darkness with a certain hope that is absolutely alien to the rest of the world. Our secular culture Is utterly unable to process sorrow, grief, disaster, and death because they have been trained to believe that life is all material. This is all that there is. There is nothing to come. Right, you think about Chris Cuomo and CNN this past week. Said better better lift yourself up by the bootstraps, right? Because there is no hope coming from above. That that's our secular world. But what do you do when disaster strikes? What do you do when the the platitudes that we regularly say to one another are clearly shown to be false and empty and unable to bear the weight of them All that they have is this life here and now. And when disaster strikes or grief arises or death comes, there is an obvious inability to engage with it in a meaningful way. Put simply, they have no idea what to do with sorrow, grief, disaster, and death because this life is all that there is. And if something bad happens, sorry about your luck, and I'm glad that's not me But the Christian knows both to expect darkness, grief, disaster, and even death, because we know that we live in the valley of the shadow of death, but we also know not to fear any of those things. Why? Because God is with us, with God as our shepherd. We can face the darkest of circumstances with resolute hope and confidence because we know that God will not abandon us to death, but has promised. along with our Lord Jesus Christ to resurrect us and bring us into his eternal kingdom. As as Julie Lowe put it, we're able to say to others, our hope is in God, not in our circumstances. And that is a hope that cannot be quenched. Second, regularly meditating on the hope laid up for us in heaven radically reorients us to the value of stuff. Whoever dies with the most toys wins, right? Wrong, according to Scripture. The hope of heaven and the immeasurable riches that await us free us from a life of toiling to accumulate as much wealth as possible in the here and now. That's not to say that we don't need to work or or earn an income to live, but it is to say that not only should we not be consumed with gathering as much wealth as possible, the hope of heaven frees us to give our wealth away now to see others come to receive the imperishable inheritance that away all who've put their hope in Christ And finally, regularly meditating on the hope laid up for us in heaven equips us to face the injustices of this world with hope instead of despair. I don't know about you, but just living in our country over the last two months is enough to make even the most hopeful of people just feel an utter sense of despair. As you see, such disunity, horrible injustices occurring. Thinking again of what happened to George Floyd and to other men like him. This these injustices, and it's not only those injustices, racial injustices, there's injustice Everywhere. This world is a world of injustice because of the curse of sin. But we must recognize that one of the glories of heaven will be witnessing God's judgment against all evil and injustice. Witnessing the day when God rights every single wrong, when he brings perfect justice to every injustice ever committed Right? If it were not for the hope of heaven and God's judgment against evil, it would be impossible to have hope in this dark world. Yet the hope of the gospel is that darkness will not always reign. Darkness will not always cover the land. Injustice will not always exist. The wicked will not always prosper. Evil people will not always get away with what they've done. Every evil thought and every evil deed will be brought out into the light. And then, finally, then evil will be completely undone. Because we know that one day those injustices will be brought before God, the perfect judge, and there will be no mistrial. We can face the injustices of this world with hope instead of despair. But we must remember that only the word of truth, only the gospel gives us this hope To abandon the gospel or to not believe the gospel cuts us off from this hope. The self-help gospel will not save you. It will not give you hope because you will eventually fail. You will eventually not be able to help yourself. The therapeutic gospel that says that Jesus saved you so you can feel good about yourself will not give you hope because you will always have reasons to feel bad about yourself in this life. The prosperity gospel will not give you hope because Jesus didn't die to make you wealthy in this life, but to make you rich in spiritual blessings in the life to come. The moralism gospel that says that God will accept you if you're a good person will not give you hope because there is no one good, not even one. What does Jesus say in the Gospels? Why do you call me good? There is no one good but God. Only the word of truth, the true gospel, will save you because only the gospel contains the good news that God has done everything necessary to save us and bring us into his kingdom. And what is that gospel? That there is a glorious, holy God who created the world perfectly. He created mankind to bear his image and to rule and have dominion over the world. But our first parents, Adam and Eve. sinned and rejected and rebelled against God and chose to be their own rulers, instead of allowing God to be their rightful ruler. And as they sinned, sin spread throughout the world, throughout all people, in all ages, on all continents, at all times. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. But the free gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ. God, the good news of the gospel is that God has done everything necessary to save us. God has done everything necessary to help you. God has done everything necessary to make you good. He has given you the righteousness of his son. Jesus fulfilled the law perfectly. Bore our death, our crucifixion in our place on the cross. He bore the punishment that we deserved. He was buried in the ground And then three days after he died, he was raised by the power of God to vindicate everything he taught. And he promised that to everyone everywhere. That if you repent of your sin and put your trust in Him for salvation, you will be forgiven of all your sin. You will be clothed in righteousness, and you will be given a hope that is laid up for you in heaven. A hope that cannot perish. And it is Jesus' resurrection from the dead that proves that the hope laid up for you and I in heaven is a real hope. But to have this real hope, we must believe and continue. Continue, friends, believing the gospel. Continue in the faith. It is literally the only real hope that we have. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have done everything necessary. To save, redeem, resurrect, bring us into your kingdom. And you have given us a sure and certain hope today. Help us to fix our minds on that hope that we might grow in faith and grow in love for you and for all of our neighbors Help us to walk in the good works that you have prepared for us. Help us to get our eyes off of ourselves and upwards upon you and the glorious realities that await us. Oh God, we pray that you would do this for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen