Sermon passage this morning is Mark fourteen, one through eleven. It was now two days before the Passover, in the feast of unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him. For they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people. And while he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the Leper, As he was reclining at table, a woman came with an alabascar flask of ointment of Pierre Nard, very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his head There were some who said to themselves indignantly, Why was the ointment wasted like that? For this ointment could have been sold for more than thir than three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they scolded her. But Jesus said, Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me. For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them, but you will not always have me. She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for burial. And truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, where she has done will be told in memory of her Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them, and when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money, and he sought an opportunity To betray him. This is God's word. Friends, would you join me in praying one more time for God to bless his preaching, uh this preaching of his word? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word tells us that your word itself is like the purest of gold purified seven times over. Father, we know this to be true, but often our hearts wander from your word and don't hunger for your word as as we ought. We pray that you would grant the Spirit now to cause us to hunger and to feed upon your word, that you would nourish us by it, that you would open your eyes by, open our eyes by your spirit, that we might behold wondrous things in your law. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. John Robert Fox was born in Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, in May of 1915. And by all accounts, uh John was a smart and diligent young man who went on to attend Wilberforce University in Wilberforce, Ohio. While there, uh John signed up for the Reserve Officer Training Corps, meaning he not only finished uh school or college with a graduate degree, but he also finished with the rank of second lieutenant. And then when the Second World War broke out, Fox took his commission and joined the 92nd Infantry Division. It was a segregated division for African American soldiers that fought with distinction throughout the war. And with his unit, Fox was sent to the European Theater of War. And in 1944, he found himself fighting against the Nazis. in Italy. It was there in Italy where in the December of that year he was tasked to stay behind in the small in a small village called Sommo Colonia in Tuscany Uh the village had been overrun by Nazis and the Americans were in retreat and and Fox had been tasked to stay behind uh to hold back the Nazis as much as he was able along with those who were with him to allow the American soldiers who were in retreat to retreat safely. Because the town was outman uh overrun with Nazis, he was outmanned and outgunned. And so Fox found a house to hide in. Uh from the second floor of that house, he used his radio to contact uh the artillery officer uh and rather than asking for troops uh to risk their lives to come into the town of Summa Colonia to save Fox and to save who else who was with them, to risk their lives in extracting him, Fox made a surprising choice. He called instead for artillery fire to be directed at the village in order to give the retreating U. S. soldiers a better chance to survive. As he was relaying the specific coordinates of where he wanted the artillery to be fired, the artillery officer realized: wait a second, wait a second. In this list of coordinates that you've given me, you've provided the specific coordinates to the house. the building that you are in. This must be some sort of mistake. This this can't be right. You don't seriously want me to fire upon the house that you're in. But Fox replied to him simply to the point. He said, fire the shells. There's more of them than there are of us. It's a surprising sacrifice, isn't it? For a man to know that he was giving the orders to his own death. In order to save the lives of so many others. And yet this was the surprising sacrifice that John Robert Fox made, giving his own life So that others might be saved. It's a surprising sacrifice. And to give up so much without even knowing whether the sacrifice will be worth it in the end. He has no idea whether the Nazis would actually win the war or not. Without knowing whether he was sacrificing and what he was sacrificing would be accomplished. It's a fitting illustration of our passage this morning. It's a passage that is marked by surprising sacrifice. And so I want to invite you to turn with me to Mark chapter 14, verses 1 to 11. Rochelle read the passage for us already. If you haven't turned there, the passage is on page 850 of the Bibles that we've provided. If you don't own a Bible of your own, I want to encourage you to take a copy for yourself as a gift from us to you. And as she was reading, as Rochelle was reading, I'm sure what you notice is that this is a story about a surprising sacrifice. Or I should say it's a story about surprising sacrifices. In fact, in our passage this morning, there are three surprising sacrifices that I want us to look at so that we might better understand how we should think about our own lives And these three surprising sacrifices will form the outline for our message this morning. So if you're taking notes, I want us to look first at surprising sacrifice number one The woman sacrifices her wealth for Jesus. And the first surprising sacrifice is we see that a woman, an unnamed woman, sacrifices her wealth for Jesus. Look at verse. Three, Mark tells us that Jesus was in Bethany whenever Jesus came to Jerusalem, which he did on a number of occasions throughout his life. He would often stay in the town of Bethany. It was about two miles outside of Jerusalem. We already noticed in verse 1 of the passage that it's a Passover festival. And because the Passover festival had to be celebrated in Jerusalem, Israelites who were living in surrounding areas would flock to Jerusalem, the population would swell. There would be no place to stay, and so uh the Israelites would stay in these outlying towns, and Jesus was staying in Bethany. It was his sort of uh base camp during this final week of his life. And we also see in the passage, if we're looking at verse 3, that Jesus is in the house of a man named Simon the Leper. It's likely that Simon was no longer infected with leprosy. It's possible that he was even healed by Jesus. Uh people would have stayed away from lepers at all costs to avoid a to avoid infection. But we see that Simon is surrounded by people. There is a a table fellowship, there's a meal going on, and there's people uh around. But really we also have to recognize that Simon the leper isn't the main point of this passage. The main point of this passage is this unnamed woman. Look at verse three with me again. As he was reclining at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard, very costly And she broke the flask and poured it over his head. This is a a surprising sacrifice that may not, the surprise of it may not appear to us or or stand out to us at first and I think there's just some stuff that we need to understand that will make it more obvious. First it's a surprising scene because this woman just appears out of nowhere and and intrudes on this meal that Jesus is having with Simon and with his disciples, but it's what she does that's truly surprising. And so she comes to him with an alabaster flask. This was a alabaster was a soft stone that would be used to uh hold stuff whether liquids or ointments or other things we see here that this flask uh is holding an ointment of pure nard Nard or spike nard was an expensive perfume made from two plants that were native to the region of the Himalayas. It was an Indian plant that would have been imported. And the perfume had then been mixed with an ointment that was then stored in this alabaster flask. What would this ointment have been used for in common purposes? Not really sure. Maybe to apply to an affected area to put on for some fragrant aroma or something like that. It's a more of an ointment that was being used. But we know from this parallel account in John's Gospel that it was about twelve ounces of ointment. So just to give you a picture of what you probably were looking at in this scene is that the if you were to go to the store and uh you were to buy one of those smallish jars of coconut oil for cooking, those glass jars. You're looking at about a a 12 ounce jar. So she comes in with a flask that's about the size of one of these Coconut oil jars. And we also see that Mark tells us it was very costly. We'll learn in a moment that that is actually a massive understatement about its worth. But we see that she takes this alabaster flask with this very costly fragrant ointment in it. She breaks the flask, which odd in of itself rather than removing the lid, she breaks the flask and then pours or applies the ointment on Jesus' head. This is a surprising sacrifice and it's surprising because of just how costly this ointment was. What you look down with me at verses four and five. Notice that the disciples were saying to themselves, we don't know if they were whispering it among themselves or just kind of grumbling it again, like when you're surprised by something that you're annoyed by. That kind of noise going on. They are indignant at what she's doing. And they say this ointment was wasted. This woman has broken this flask and applied all this pure gnarred ointment to Jesus. This is a waste. And then in verse 5, it says, or they say, this ointment could have been sold for 300 denarii. They're indignant because of how much it costs. You might be thinking, John, that means absolutely nothing to me. I have no idea what a denarii is worth. Well, a denarii in Jesus' culture, one single one, was a single day's wage. One denarii. This is 300 denarii. Right? So you you subtract 52 Sabbaths out of the year that she would have rested as a faithful Israelite, and you get a year's worth of wages. This ointment, this alabaster flask of pure nard ointment was the equivalent of a year's Worth of wages. Just to kind of put this in perspective, the average median income for a home in America, I know it's not what all of us experience, but an average median income of a home in America is $56,000 Now, there is a well-known perfume that's popular these days. Some of you may be aware of it and know of it. It's called Joe Malone. If you don't know it, you don't need to know it But Joe Malone, a single bottle of Joe Malone, costs $140. If you were to take a year's worth of Joe Malone, $56,000 worth, It's equivalent to this woman wheelbarrowing in 350 bottles of Joe Malone and dumping them on Jesus. This is extra like you look if I'm looking at this, I'm gonna say, hey, give them one or two pumps, right? Just like 350 bottles. This is a waste. And I look, I read this passage, and I see so much of myself in the response of the disciples. What are you doing? This is a waste of money. Just a little dab, just a little bloop, just rub a little bit on his head, you broke. the flask and you poured it all out on him. And you look at the Gospel of John, you see it wasn't just to his head, but she also applies it to his feet, possibly to his arms and to his hands. She anoints his entire body. And the disciples think this is a waste. That's why they scold her at the end of verse 5. If you've been tracking with the disciples throughout the Gospel of Mark, then you're like, I've seen this before. They've done this before. They they they are indignant at the children or the people who are bringing their children to Jesus and they rebuke the parents and the children get away from it Jesus doesn't want anything to do with you and what does Jesus do? He steps in and says hey You clearly don't understand my mission and my purpose. You clearly don't understand who I am and what I'm here to do. This is the same thing going on here because look at Jesus, look at how he responds to them in verse 6. He defends him. He said, leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? He sees what she's doing as a good thing He doesn't see her act of anointing him with a year's worth of ointment as a waste. And why doesn't he see it as a waste? Well, look down at verse 8. Look down at verse 8. She has done what she could. She has done what she could. Do you remember if you've been following along in the Gospel of Mark, the last woman we saw in Mark's Gospel? Who is the last woman? that appeared in Mark's gospel. Shout it out if you know it. Happens at the end of chapter 12. The poor widow. And the poor widow did what? She gave all that she could. In her case, it was two pennies. In this woman's case, it's a year's worth of wages. They both did all that they could, and that is why Jesus tells them to leave her alone. You clearly don't understand that what is motivating this woman is a deep faith in me, just the same type of faith that motivated the poor widow to give all that she had, the two pennies she gave all that she had to God This woman, we gotta recognize that women didn't typically work in Jesus' day. She is taking an ointment, a year's worth of wages in this ointment, and anointing Jesus' body with all of it And it is almost certain she would have never, ever had the opportunity to earn it back. She's giving it all to Jesus. Right, whether all we have is two pennies or ointment worth a year's wages, this is an act of faith that recognizes that Jesus is of supreme worth. That Jesus is so valuable that he is worth giving all that we have for. And that is the type of faith that Jesus is commending and encouraging, by the woman's example, his disciples to emulate. You all have been with me for three years and she's the one doing this. You all have been with me surrounding. This is the insiders. You have been with me on the inside, and you think this is a waste. You don't recognize who I am yet, yet this woman has come in and done a beautiful thing to me. That's the type of faith This faith that recognizes that Jesus of supreme value is the one that will lead people to make surprising sacrifices for him. Right? I think I also want us to consider what her surprising sacrifice and that faith that motivated that surprising sacrifice, what that means for us today. But first, I just want to call out the dynamic that it is so easy for us to come to this passage and to come to it with well, like good intentions, well-meaning, to read this passage. And to come away thinking, I need to do more. I need to give more. I need to sacrifice more I just I gotta do, I gotta work it up inside of myself. And it may be the case that in some of our situations that that we do need to do more, but if we come to this passage, and if I preach to you and say to you, saints, you need to do more You gotta sacrifice more. You need to give more. I would be doing you a disservice. That would be to motivate you with legalism and with law But legalism and law is not what is motivating this woman to give a year's worth of wages. What is motivating her to give a year's worth of wages is love and not Law, love for Jesus, who she recognizes is worthy of offering this surprising sacrifice for. She recognizes that she is in the presence of the eternal Son of God, the Messiah, who is far more valuable than anything this life has to offer. And since he is far more valuable than anything this life has to offer, then he is worthy of even the most extravagant, surprising sacrifices. It's only when we come to recognize how valuable Jesus is that we will be then motivated out of love to freely and joyfully make such extravagant and surprising. Sacrifices for him. Which is why the disciples view what she did as a waste in verse 4. They think it's a waste because they don't see Jesus as valuable enough to give such a surprising sacrifice to. It has to do with how we view Jesus Christ that motivates our willingness to give or not give. She gets who he is. They don't get who he is. She sees his true value. They don't see his value at all. I want us to recognize then what this contrast between the woman and the disciples is teaching us She was willing to give this surprising sacrifice because she recognized how valuable Jesus is. They thought what she was doing was a waste because they didn't recognize how valuable Jesus is. The contrast between the two groups is teaching us that what you're willing to sacrifice and what you're not willing to sacrifice for Jesus will tell you how valuable you think He is. Both what you're willing to give up and what you're not willing to give up will tell you how valuable you think he is. And because Jesus is. supremely valuable in and of himself, no sacrifice or act of devotion could ever be too extravagant or wasteful. Jesus is more valuable than anything we could ever sacrifice in this life in the first place. Even our lives themselves. And since that is true, because he is of supreme value, then we can look at our material and spiritual resources with new eyes, right? If Jesus is far more valuable than anything that this life has to offer, then what shouldn't we be willingly, willing to joyfully and freely give up or give away so that we and other people might have more of him. I think about this in my own life of the people that I've come in contact with in my in my life. I've watched people, a number of pastors, sacrifice lucrative careers to go into ministry. They sacrifice lucrative careers to go into ministry. And you know what their coworkers, their friends and their family almost always tell them What are you doing? What are you thinking? You're wasting such a great you can have the riches of this world and you're gonna go into ministry? Like you're gonna make way less money. You're not gonna have all the things that you want. You're not gonna have all the toys that you want. You're not gonna have the life that every other American in this world desires. You're sacrificing that to go into ministry, to preach The Bible? What a waste. I've seen other friends, missionaries I've gotten to know who've left their relationships and their comforts to move to a foreign country to spend their lives telling people about Jesus. And when they told their Christian parents what they wanted to do, their Christian parents said to them, why on earth would you do that? Why on earth would you do that? Why would you go to another country to teach these people about Jesus? Like you you have so much promise in this life. You can be a good Christian here and just stay. And it's true, you can be a good Christian and be faithful and stay in America. It doesn't mean you have to go abroad. But the fact that their parents would question the choice and see it as wasteful and foolish tells you what the parents think about Jesus and what they think about the reality of eternal life to come. If Jesus is of supreme worth and value, then we can look at our material and spiritual resources with new eyes. What does that mean for you today? What does that mean for you? Maybe, hey, maybe it just looks like you sacrificing, having nicer things so that you can either support the church or or bless other people. Maybe some of you would sacrifice your relational comfort to get to know people that you don't know who maybe you don't feel all that comfortable around. Maybe you sacrifice your home to open it up for hospitality. We sacrifice in these ways, and these are not small ways. Listen, friends, this woman along with the woman who only gave two pennies were both motivated by the type of faith that Jesus applauds and looks to and desires his disciples to emulate. All of these sacrifices, whether large or small, when motivated by love for Christ and motivated by recognition of his supreme value, he loves and applauds and rejoices in. That is a good thing that this woman did to me. That is a good sacrifice that you are making, sacrificing having nicer things so that you can give to the work of the church. or bless a missionary. It is a good thing that you're doing to sacrifice your own home, to open it up to others. It is a good thing that you're doing to secretly bless other members of this congregation with your own material resources and seek no glory for it. It is worth it because Christ is worth it. Jesus is worthy of all worship, as John already said. All glory and honor and power. Think about the book of Revelation and what is said about him in the book of Revelation. Worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb. He is worthy of all worship and honor and praise, and it will be a glorious picture when we gather together in heaven and finally see him Whoa, he is worthy. He is the one who can take the scroll. He is the one who can open the seals. He is the only one who could redeem a lost and sinful people. He is the worthy Son of God. And it is worth it in our lives to make sacrifices for him, both large and small. Because these sacrifices, look, think about it with me this way, friends. We we think of sacrifices as painful, right? It's hard to give this up. I don't want to give this up. But a sacrifice is painful if you if if you think the thing that you're giving away may not ru may not result in the outcome that you're looking for. It may not be used for the I'm not sure if this sacrifice is going to be worth it in the end. When you sacrifice for Jesus Christ, you have the sure promise that all of your sacrifices will be far worth it in the end. Sacrifices can be seen in a new light. And that's the other thing we need to look at. These sacrifices, when we look at them, we give up these things in this life. We tend to look at this life temporally. I'm alive now, I'm gonna die one day. It's gonna be hard to give this up Because I don't won't have this. But the reality is our faith in Christ assures us of an eternity in Christ's presence. And Christ says that nothing that is done for him and motivated by faith Will not result in rewards or blessings that last for an eternity. So Christ says that all of our works, all of the things that we do in this life, will be exposed by the fires of judgment. That which was not done by faith will be burned up in the judgment, but that which was done in faith will result in eternal glory. So that which you're sacrificing now, you're only sacrificing now temporarily for the sake of being rewarded in the presence of God forever. We give these things up temporarily, but the thing that we are returned on in the end will be far more glorious than what we gave up in the first place. And listen, I recognize that when we talk about sacrificing things, that that may sound scary to some of us, but here's an encouragement for you. Right? Not only the fact that Jesus Christ is worthy, but these things will last forever. We will bring these works into heaven, these these sacrifices for Christ. Notice what even what Jesus says about the woman. Look at verse 9. Truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her. Do you think she had any idea that when she was going with that flask of ointment, when she was going to break it, that Jesus would then go on to say, this woman will be remembered forever? And what are we doing here today? We are remembering her. Two thousand years later, a woman from ancient Israel who gave up some ointment. For a rabbi is being remembered in Bladensburg, Maryland. Your works, the sacrifices that you make for Christ, will be remembered for eternity in the presence of Christ. Now I was talking about this passage with Leah and she told me about a small sacrifice that she made once that I think illustrates this really, really well. Uh so a while back she went with some friends uh to a restaurant in Annapolis called the Chart House. Uh if you've ever been to the Chart House, then you know there are some amazing views of where the Severn River uh meets the the bay. Uh and it just so happened that on this night, uh Leah and her friends were seated at one of the best tables in the house, one of the the best views, right? It's like, man, we don't get this that often. Uh there are so many tables in this restaurant. How rare it is to have the best table in the house. Obviously they were excited, but but not long after they sat down, one of the managers came up And he just asked them if they would be willing to move to another not-so great table because there was a reservation mix-up. The choice was theirs, they could move or not move, uh, and they had no kind of rewards held out to them, like this is what will happen if you do one or the other And they made the decision, difficult it may have been, to leave that great view and move to a lesser table. So they sat down. They're obviously disappointed a little bit like, oh, we gave up the best table. You know, maybe some other time we'll we'll get the best view in the house. Probably not, but maybe. But not long after they sat down at the table, a manager walked over. He apologized to them and he let them know, hey, because of that sacrifice, you can order whatever you want on the menu. As much as you want, whatever you want, we're gonna comp it all. They didn't know that ahead of time, right? Well they didn't know how it was gonna g gonna r gonna result in, you know, what would happen if they gave up this table, but they made the sacrifice, they sat down, The manager comes over and says, hey, I want to bless you abundantly for making that choice. Well friends, that is a small, small picture of the blessings that will result to you for the sacrifices that you make in this life, motivated by faith, whether large or small for the Lord Jesus Christ. When you come into his kingdom, he's going to say, hey, whatever you want on the menu, sit down at my table. It is all yours. Those are the sacrifices that we make in this life are a lot like them choosing to move that from that table. We may feel the sting of sacrifice for a little while, but the resulting glory that will come from them in the presence of Christ will make every sacrifice we make in this life worth it because Jesus is worth it. Just as a woman in our passage is even now. Even now as we're remembering her, experiencing the joy of knowing that her surprising sacrifice was not wasted. But hers isn't the only surprising sacrifice we see in the passage, which brings us to the second surprising sacrifice I want us to look at. The second surprising sacrifice we see in the passage is that Judas sacrifices his relationship with God for money. Notice in verses 1 and 2, Mark introduces the account of the woman uh anointing Jesus by telling us about the continued plotting. of the uh religious authorities of looking for a stealthy way to kill him. Then in verses three to nine he tells us about the woman, and then in verses 10 and 11 he returns to tell us about the devastating treachery of G of Judas. who hands uh or helps them in their plot uh to hand Jesus over. What Mark is doing is he's sandwiching the surprising sacrifice of the woman inside of the bread of this treachery and betrayal, this surprising sacrifice of Judas, who would give up a relationship with God for money. One of his very own disciples sacrifices his relationship with God for 30 silver coins. My friends, the main thing that we need to take away from this today is that if it can happen to Judas, it can happen to you and to me. This is a sobering passage that we need to stare at. You may say, John, that can't happen to me. I made a real commitment to follow Jesus Hey, that may be true, but we have no reason to believe that Judas' commitment didn't seem genuine. In every account that we know of in which disciples were called and the accounts were recorded, they left all that they had and followed Jesus. We have no reason to believe that Judas and his commitment didn't seem genuine. Yet, in spite of that seeming commitment, Judas walked away from Jesus You may say, John, that can't happen to me. I've been in healthy churches where the gospel is preached week in and week out. Peep this. Judas's pastor was Jesus. His preacher was Jesus, the creator of the universe, the one who spoke and brought the universe into existence And yet, in spite of hearing him preach and being pastored and discipled by him personally, individually, over the course of three years, Judas still walked away. Not only did he hear Jesus teach, but he saw miracles. Miracles. Right? He saw Jesus miraculously feed thousands of people. He saw Jesus calm storms. He saw Jesus walk on water. He saw him cast out demons. He saw him cause paralyzed people to raise from the dead. He saw him heal blind people. and deaf people. He saw Jesus raise people from the dead and yet he still walked away. You say, John, that's a that's a that's all good, but I in my own life I've led people to the Lord I've done great things for God. Other people have recognized my accomplishments for the kingdom. Well, that may be true, but so did Judas So did Judas, Jesus gave his disciples, including Judas Judas, authority to go out and preach the gospel I mean, he was the foundation of the church, the first preaching of the gospel. Judas had this authority of Christ put on him. And we have no reason to believe that Judas wasn't among those casting out demons and then returning to Jesus to brag about all the great things that he did. And yet he still walked away. Friends, if it can happen to Judas, it can happen to you, and it can happen to me. As if this passage wasn't enough proof that this can happen. Just this past week, an unbelievably, unbelievably gifted pastor. Who was used by God to lead countless people to faith in Jesus Christ, who pastored an extremely well-known church for over 10 years, chose to publicly walk away from Jesus. If it can happen to that pastor, it can happen to you and to me. Which is why, when we come to this passage about Judas's betrayal or the falling away of other Christians, we need to come not with self-righteous judgment, but with sober self-examination. If anyone thinks he stands, take heed lest he fall. Does that include me? If anyone, yes, that includes you and me. If all of us, any of us think that we stand in the faith, I got this. I got you. There's no way I'm gonna fall away. Yes, then you are the first person who will likely fall away. If anyone thinks he stands, take heed lest he fall. We need to come to this passage with sober Self-examination. There's a reason that Paul told Christians in Corinth to examine themselves to see if they're in the faith. Why do I need to examine myself to see if I'm in the faith? Well, because of how easy it is to be deceived when we're surrounded by other Christians. Going to church, hanging out with Christians, listening to sermons, being in discipling relationships are all good things. But those things don't save you. Only Jesus saves you. And when you come to Jesus and He saves you, a change happens in your lives. He gives you a new heart, new desires. He enables you by his spirit to walk in obedience to him. Not perfectly, not by any means. But he gives you those desires. And you might be saying, John, I I've struggled with sin this past week. Yeah, but do you do you hate your sin? Do you do you actually want to fight against it? If you want to fight against it though you're falling and struggling with it, the sign that you want to fight against it is a sign that He has given you a new heart But I don't bring this up to cause us to panic or fear. Not at all. Whenever we panic or we wonder if we're one of Jesus' children, we can know that if we see these evidences in our lives that his spirit is at work in it in us and if his spirit Spirit is at work in us and he set his seal upon us and his love is with us and he will preserve us to the end. Kids, I want to speak to y'all uh briefly. When you when you follow Jesus When you choose to follow Christ, you say, hey, I I want to follow Jesus with my life. I recognize that He's forgiven me for my sins and I want to repent and follow Him. When you do that You should start to see slowly, but you should start to see a break from an old way of living and an earnest desire to walk in a new way of living that Jesus calls us to. So for the kids who are here, if you call yourself a Christian, I'm so thankful for that. I want to ask you, as I would ask the adults, what do you think your life says about you? Again, not saying that you can't sin. We all still struggle with sin. Jesus is the only perfect one. But do you see these desires to follow him in your heart? Right? To the adults who are here. What do you see when you look at your life? Are you actively putting sin to death? Or are you allowing patterns of sin to remain and even grow in your life? We need to let Judas be a warning to us. We know from the other gospels that he was in charge of the money bag among the disciples, and his love of money was too great a temptation for him. What he should have done, if we pay attention to Jesus, is teaching in the gospels is he should have cut off his hand and gouged out his eye. He should have given the money back to another Christian, to one of the other disciples, but he held on to it. And in spite of the temptation that he had, he held on to that bag. And what happens when you let temptation grow in your life? Sin gave birth to death, and Judas stole from the bag He fell in love with money. It was too great of a temptation for him. And because that sin was never brought out into the light, it grew to a point where he was willing to hand Jesus over for 30 pieces of silver. 30 pieces of silver. I mean, I think in our in our day it'd be a couple thousand dollars is not like nothing, but he sacrificed his relationship with God for Some money. That would be spent in no time. In fact, he would, we know, eventually give it back. And that's another reason his sacrifice was so surprising. He sacrificed his relationship with God in exchange for sin. What a terrible trade. What a terrible trade. Up until 1919, the Boston Red Sox were one of the most successful teams in Major League Baseball. So from the time that the World Series was instituted in the early 1900s, the first 15 World Series, the Red Sox won six of them and appeared in seven of them. But in 1919, the Red Sox decided to sell the rights to an up-and-coming young player by the name of Babe Ruth Babe Ruth, after being traded to the New York Yankees, would go on to become the greatest baseball player of all time. The most legendary baseball player of all time, and then would lead the Yankees to dominate baseball for the next 20 years and then even beyond if you follow baseball. And in exchange for Ruth The Red Sox received $100,000 and a small loan to finance a musical. Oh my gosh. I mean, oh my god, what were you thinking? Not only that, but the terrible trade that they made led to what Red Sox fans uh don't like to recognize is what we call the curse of the Bambino. They didn't make it to another World Series until 1946, and they didn't win another World Series until 2004. Nearly a hundred years later, that terrible trade led to their cursing. Oh, friends, that trade? pales, pales in comparison to when you and I choose to exchange our relationship and love for God for sin. It's a terrible trade that leads to a far more devastating curse. To choose sin over God is to choose the one who gives life for the thing that brings death. To choose sin over God is to choose to trade. The one who gives blessings for the thing that brings cursing, and the trade that Judas made is a trade that all of us have made. Now, friend, if you're here and you're not a Christian, I am so thankful that you're here. I just want you to look at this passage with me and recognize that as Christians, we understand Judas to be a microcosm of humanity. The Bible says that all of us, all of us, have exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And instead of worshiping God, we've chosen to worship created things. For most of us, that means today worshiping ourselves. We're the rulers of our own lives. I'm the Lord of my life. I'm not going to hand my life over to anybody else. We rule our own lives and nobody can tell us what to do. The Bible calls that sin. And when we sin, we're exchanging a relationship with God for a thing that brings cursing and death. We're exchanging the relationship that would bring True peace, true joy, and true contentment for things that can never ever fulfill. Things that will ultimately cause our souls to die. This is a terrible trade. Thinking about this trade, C. S. Lewis once said this. He said, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. How are you today? Are you far too easily pleased? Do you see yourself at all in Judas today? Not that you personally betrayed Jesus, but maybe you see how like Judas you you're willing to exchange a relationship with God for for pursuit of power to see your career forwarded. Maybe you're willing to lie to your coworkers so they keep a good opinion of you. You're exchanging a relationship with God for this lie so that they would believe that you are esteemable. I mean if you're honest with yourself and a Christian, you would recognize, oh, I should actually tell you that I'm not great. I know one who is great. And I actually make mistakes and I suffer and I and I sin. Do you see these exchanges going on in your life? Whenever you see these exchanges going on in your life, it is like little mini Judases walking out of your heart, going willing to sell Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. Sacrificing a relationship with God to go on sinning is a surprising sacrifice to make. And one that will not only end in death, but also in judgment. I want to encourage you today, friends, if you're a Christian, continue repenting. Continue turning from sin. Don't exchange a relationship with God to allow sins that will not fulfill to stay and remain in your life. But if you're here and you're you're you're exploring what it means to follow Jesus, you're trying to figure out what this whole Christianity thing is, the way that you can emulate the woman and not Judas. is by offering your whole life to him, like the woman did. And you do that by repenting of your sin. It's a word that Christians use today that can kind of brings negative connotations of judgment, but repentance is merely turning the other direction. The Bible says you're going this way and you need to turn back this way. You repent, you turn from sin, and you put your faith in Jesus Christ You make that surprising sacrifice today, and as we talked about earlier, it will result in glory unspeakable. And you should do that today. But that's not the last surprising sacrifice we see in our passage. The last one is this. Jesus dies for sinners like you and me. That's sacrifice number three Ever since Peter's confession that Jesus is the Messiah in chapter 8 of this gospel, Jesus has clearly and repeatedly predicted his coming betrayal Arrest, his crucifixion, his burial, and his resurrection. Everything in Mark's gospel has been leading up to Jesus' death and resurrection. And together they form the ultimate act, displaying once for all that Jesus is in fact the Messiah and the Son of God. And now Jesus' death upon the cross and his resurrection are so close in Mark's gospel that you can feel them. And the signs of their closeness are present. Throughout this passage. Notice back in verse 1, Mark tells us that it's two days before the Passover. This is the first time in Mark's gospel that Mark has made any reference to the Passover, and it's not by chance. He wants us to make a clear connection between the Passover celebration and what it means and Jesus' death. So, if you're not familiar with the Passover, the Passover feast was celebrated for the express purpose of reminding the Israelites of God's miraculous deliverance of them out of slavery in Egypt. And we need to remember that with the Passover feast, God gave the Israelites specific instructions for how the meal was to be celebrated So four days before the Passover, he instructed them to take a spotless lamb from the flock, and to take that spotless lamb and bring it into their home for a time of preparation. The lamb would stay with them in their home, and then on the Passover day, four days later, the Israelites were to take the spotless lamb and sacrifice him. And they were to take some of the blood of the lamb and wipe it on their doorposts. And why did they do that? Why did God command that? God commanded them to do that because he was going to bring judgment on all of the firstborn children of Egypt. And he promised that those who were covered by the blood Would be passed over in the judgment because they were covered by the blood of the spotless lamb. It's this Passover feast that is in view here. And now you have in our passage. The spotless Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, brought into a home in preparation for the Passover. While he's in the home, a woman comes to him and begins anointing his body with fragrant ointment. We know from John's Gospel, as I said, that uh she anointed his feet and possibly other parts of his body, his hands. Look down at verse 8. Notice how Jesus interprets her actions. What does he say? She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for burial. Jesus knows that his death and his burial are right around the corner. In fact, if you follow in Mark's gospel, this passage begins a section of Jesus' abandonment. Judas is first to abandon him. Then come the sleeping disciples in the Garden of Gethsemane. Then come his arrest, and when he's arrested, the disciples scatter. Peter, the one who is bold, get behind you. You're not gonna die. I'm gonna follow you to the death. Peter famously denies him three times. I don't know him. I don't know that man. Mark's gospel, the spotlight is closing in on Jesus. He's standing alone in the light. And there's nobody left around him. It's possible even in Jesus' life that this was the last kind act done to him before his death. We see that Judas is gone, his disciples leave, and in the end, friends, were we his disciples, we would have abandoned him as well. Because all of us lack the devotion to God that God requires of us. Not only do we lack the devotion to God that God requires, our situation was much worse than that. We were spiritually dead. enslaved to our sins and the only hope that we have, that any of us have, of ever being welcomed back into a relationship with God is if someone would make a surprising sacrifice. to pay for our sins. And free us from our spiritual slavery. Friends, that is exactly what Jesus did on the cross. Jesus, the Passover Lamb, offered himself on the cross to bear the penalty for our sins and to rescue us from spiritual Slavery. Jesus' death upon the cross is the fulfillment of the Passover. It is the true Passover. He is the true Lamb. The true slavery that we need to be rescued from is not physical slavery, but spiritual slavery And he would be sacrificed for all those who would repent of their sins and trust in him. Those who do that would be covered by his blood so that when God comes in judgment, we would be passed over. And protected from his wrath. Our friends, the most surprising sacrifice in this passage is not the woman's sacrifice of her ointment to Jesus, but Jesus' sacrifice of himself to us. That he, the sinless Son of God, would willingly go to the cross for people like you and me to have fellowship with us. I've just been meditating on the reality that Jesus was anointed with a fragrant ointment. a fragrant paste and within 48 hours he would be beaten and whipped and hanging upon a cross. And I'm thinking about this, and it strikes me that in the Old Testament You recognize in the book of Leviticus, you can go back and read it today, when sacrifices were placed upon the altar, how often the sacrifices were mixed with fragrant aroma. Why? Well, because those sacrifices that were offered on the altar with fragrant aroma were pointing forward to the day when Jesus would be whipped And beaten and crucified. And while he was dying and his body was shedding its blood, the fragrant ointment that was applied to him would still be smelled on the cross. Christ gave himself, Paul says, to us. A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. On the cross, it wasn't the flask that was broken, but the Savior's body. On the cross, it wasn't ointment that poured out, but his blood. And on the cross, he gave himself for you and me, so that we, like Simon the Leper, people who were healed of our leprosy, spiritually speaking, could have fellowship with Christ. And he would fellowship and recline around his table with us. Now friends, is his sacrifice not surprising to you today? Is he not worth giving all that you have back to? Oh, indeed he is. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we cannot grasp the riches of your grace and mercy. And even now, as we consider Christ's surprising sacrifice, we realize that it was through his sacrifice that you lavished extravagantly, yet not in a wasteful way, your grace and mercy and love upon us We are the recipients of extravagant grace from you. Help us to live in light of that grace today. Help us to put off the old self, to cleanse out the leaven, to put off sin and to walk in newness of life by your spirit. Make us more like your son. Lord Jesus, we praise you. this morning for your willingness to give yourself on the cross for a people like us and to rise from the dead so that we can be as certain of the newness of life that we have in you now and in the age to come. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.