Good morning. Good morning, good morning, good morning. What a joy it is to be with the people of God, sing the praises of God I have the distinct honor and privilege of teaching the Word of God. And so please join me in another moment of prayer, asking for God's help. Father in heaven, we ask that you would have mercy on us this morning. Pray that you would show grace to us this morning. We don't deserve to open your word and just see stuff, to understand stuff. To be encouraged. But we pray by your grace that's exactly what would happen. That you would open our eyes to see wonderful things from out of your law That you would encourage our hearts with the hope we have in Jesus. We ask that you would sanctify us in the truth. Your word is truth. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well if you have a Bible, and I I hope you do have a copy, please open to Psalm 131. Psalm 131. The Lord bless you with a prophet's reward. Not that I'm a prophet, not saying that. Amen when you get there Okay, just so y'all know, I'm okay if you actually say amen, you know. Uh just so you know I won't be distracted. Uh I want to encourage that kind of participation Um amen, brother Lehman. Okay, Psalm 131. What do you do when you feel overwhelmed? When you struggle with life being too much for you, when you're tempted with anxiety and stress. When you've lost sleep because of your own fretting. When the problems of the world Seem completely overwhelming to you and you feel helpless to do or to change anything about it Where do you turn under trials when you're struggling and confused by his sovereign control? Or when there's a particularly perplexing providence of God that's discouraging you, what do you do then? I trust that in that list of things you can identify, perhaps some of you identify right now, this week, or even this morning. Now, there is a remedy in God's word for such feelings and such frustrations, and I'd like to recommend Psalm 131 to you. For such woes. This psalm carries truth that is guaranteed to give you both rest now and forevermore. The cross-shaped life. Is the path of a pilgrim. We just heard John testify about what God has done for us through the Lord Jesus Christ. And as a Christian church, we uphold that the cross-shaped life is the path of a pilgrim. This psalm, though, gives attention to the posture of a pilgrim, the posture we're to have on that path. We as God's people are to carry our crosses a certain kind of way as we follow our King. And so this morning, I hope for us to come to the soul chiropractor and get our posture as pilgrims realigned where needed. So that we might enjoy that blessed calm and the soul quietness that is associated with closeness with the Lord and trusting in Him. We are those as Christians who have been purchased by the blood of Christ, and we have the promise to enter into his glory and to spend forever with him where he is. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. We will get to dwell in Emmanuel's land with the King of Glory himself. We will be there free from every sin, every burden. We will be fully restored, confirmed, strengthened, and established everlastingly. And that deliverance in Christ is where we are headed. But that is not where we're currently at. Which is why the Bible calls us pilgrims, sojourners, exiles, strangers in the land Because our true citizenship is in heaven. And we are awaiting a city that is yet to come, whose designer and builder is God. And so, the Bible knows we're on a pilgrimage there, and to serve us on our pilgrimage there, we're going to look at Psalm 131. For this psalm is a psalm calling all God's people to trust in him, to hope in the Lord, and it gives us help for how that ought to look. So without further introduction, let me read Psalm 131, verse 1 through verse 3, which is its entirety. Psalm 131, a song of ascents of David. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up. My eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. But I have calmed and quieted my soul. Like a weaned child with its mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. And saints, this is God's word. Thanks be to God. Amen. Well, the inscription of the song is that it's a song of ascent, written by David. The songs of ascent are found in the psalm book from Psalm 120 to Psalm 134. While it's unknown what the exact inscription songs of ascent means, it's generally held to by commentators that these were Pilgrim songs, songs that the people of God would sing as they went up to worship the Lord in Jerusalem You would go up to Jerusalem, both literally and figuratively. Literally in that the elevation of Jerusalem was on a mountain. but also figuratively in that it was the city of the most high God. This was so understood that any time you were going to Jerusalem, even if you were headed south, it would be considered you going up. to Jerusalem to worship the Lord, thus the ascent, right, meaning to go up. In fact, this kind of pilgrimage is what we see in the life of the Lord Jesus in his youth, as the reason he was in the temple sharing his insights. In Luke chapter 2, verse 41 through 42, we're told that his parents had went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover, which is one of several times they would gather in Jerusalem corporately. And when he was twelve years old, it says they went up according to custom. And so these songs of ascent would be songs the saints would sing as they went up To Jerusalem as they were going to the city of God to worship God Himself. So these are songs that on their journey there the saints would sing to the Lord. As pilgrims, we are perpetually wearied by the journey and weighed down with sins. But in this song, we find a pilgrim's recipe for rest. This psalm provides us with a pattern for imitation So that we might experience and come to know the calm of contentment as sojourners and pilgrims in a world that is not our home, to more deeply and more meaningfully and unendingly be able to Keep singing each step of the journey, whether it's in plush pastures or the valley of the shadow of death, it is well with our soul. Dear Saints, this psalm teaches us all how to hope in the Lord as we live as pilgrims in our day. We are headed to glory, but we have not yet arrived, and we have need to be taught about our journey there, and the Lord teaches us in his word. I'm going to separate this psalm into two points. Point number one is resolve to humble yourself. Resolve to humble yourself. Point number two is resolve to trust the Lord. And we'll begin with point one: resolve to humble yourself. This is the recipe to rest. This is the commitment for contentment Humble yourself. Humble yourself. Humble yourself. The Apostle Peter wrote this to the exiles he was writing to as well, right? Humble yourselves under the mighty hand. of God, so that at the proper time he might exalt you. Saints, the key to contentment in the Lord is humility. It is not the absence of trials that brings quiet to our souls Like we usually think it does. It is not the absence of hardship that brings calm to our spirits, which we often think it does. No, a huge hindrance to our experience of God's peace is actually in our own lack of humility. This is why the psalmist begins this song, interestingly, by humbling himself. Look at verse 1. O Lord! My heart is not lifted up. My eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. Now, if we're honest, the category of things that we think are too great and too marvelous for us is a pretty small list. Right in the in the pantry of mystery for you, you probably got like a shelf that you would acknowledge is too high and too great for you, but there's probably not a lot on the shelf. Dear Saints, and this is the whole sermon in this next sentence. You can tune out after this. Please don't tune out after this. That was a joke. But this is the whole sermon in this sentence. Dear Saint. Much of your life is far above your pay grade Much, if not most, of your life is far above your pay grade or as they say in this area, you don't have clearance for that. The question though is: do you know that? Do you acknowledge? Do we own that? Do we live understanding that? Do we say that? King David not only knows that and says that, but he's singing that. The saints were on the way to Jerusalem singing, this is all the blah blah blah, great. I mean that's kind of what we just say further along, right? There's some perplexing stuff we don't get to know till later. This is when we get frustrated with God, when we act like we get what He's doing, and we start making recommendations and revisions, and then we get upset that He doesn't accept them. And we forget this is all above our pay grade. His dominion is far above ours. As high as the heavens are above the earth, so high are his thoughts above our thoughts, and his ways above our ways. Remember, this is King David, ruler of a powerful kingdom, owner of all kinds of wealth. And yet he begins with honestly professing how little he knows and controls It's interesting here that David depicts humility, and as he does so, he does that in contrast to certain expressions of pride. And pride is described here as A preoccupation with desiring great things, having great aims, exercising ourselves to great ends, but the humble perspective is concerned with great obedience. I like how one commentator put it. He says, the proud person looks, compares, competes, and is never content. Right, the proud person focuses on things too great and too marvelous for them. They're not too great and marvelous for God. They're too great and marvelous for you. They're too great and marvelous for me. They're too great and marvelous for us. But the proud insist On understanding and knowing those kinds of things, those God things, they reject the category altogether that there should be God things. Many people who reject the Lord do this precisely, at least in their own understanding, because they don't understand his ways and his thoughts, and therefore they assume they should be able to Faith is not contingent on us figuring everything out. Faith is us relying on the fact that the Lord already has. We see the psalmist King David doing something very different than the proud. He humbles himself. In fact, that is the only way to do what one commentator said was the whole point of this verse, and that's namely learning to live with unanswerable questions. You live as a believer longer than six days, you will encounter unending, unanswerable questions. And that is largely the Christian life, right? Learning to live with joy and peace while surrounded and walking through unanswerable questions. Life is filled with him. Overwhelmingly so. We could ask why, in unlimited amount of times, in any number of circumstances, we find ourselves in, right? Sorrows and sicknesses. Sudden or painful losses, hardships or hindrances. Beloved, life is filled with unanswerable questions, and the proud demand answers that they like. They demand answers that they approve of, and in doing so, they presume upon their ability to understand and fathom the mind of God. But that is not what humility does. Humility rejoices and rests that it's all in the Lord's hands, and He has excellent hands to hold it with Humility doesn't sound like give me an answer now. Humility says, Oh the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, how inscrutable are his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord? And who has been his counselor? Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. The proud, though, exalt themselves to being like God in their comprehension. Right? Their hearts are lifted up in pride, their eyes are raised too high for their position. They occupy themselves. They involve themselves in things beyond their finite comprehension and that only brings unrest to the soul as all pride does But the psalmist here takes a different posture. A posture not of pride, but of humility. And notice that this is true and sincere humility. Because he's able to say this is his posture before the Lord. Look who the psalmist is addressing in verse 1. It's one thing for us to say this to our friends, or in a small group. Another thing for us to say it and mean it when we say it before the Lord. Verse 1, he's talking to the Lord. Oh Lord. These may be things that hypocrites say is true of them before others, but only the truly humble can say it's true of them before the Lord. The question for us is, is this your posture? Is this how you go through life? Do you humble yourself before the Lord? Listen to one definition of humility, having or showing a modest or low estimate of one's own importance Right, to abase ourselves or to make ourselves low. The distinctly Christian application of this is that we do this in contrast to God, right? We humble ourselves before the Lord Right, especially when compared to the Lord, we are indeed of very little significance and of very low estimate. You compare yourself to me, you might have a lot of reasons to be encouraged about how you're doing. But when you compare yourself to the Lord, the only right takeaway is a humbling one. David understood this. You recall what David wrote in Psalm 8. Right? Psalm 8, 3 through 4, he said, When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon, and the stars which you have set in place. As we just sang, has he hang up like a chandelier? He says, what is man that you are mindful of him? And the son of man that you care for him Humbled by what he sees in God's work, how is it a being so good and powerful cares so much for us? And in this, David is confessing something that God is great. We are not Right? God is wise. We are not. God is perfect. We are not. God is mighty. We are not God is God. We are not. And reflecting on creation, it stirred David to a to humbling thoughts, then it should stir us to humbling thoughts as well. But as as as dope as it is to examine the cosmos, right? To look at the stars, we have something even more humbling to look at. More humbly than thinking on the galaxy is the saints thinking on Golgotha. Right there, where God showed his love for us. And sending his son to suffer for our sins and taste the bitter and gruesome flavor of death on our behalf, there where God offers sinners full pardon and full reception into his kingdom and his glory and any who turn from their sin, who believe in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, they get everlastingly saved and made heirs in God's kingdom. I mean how humbling is that when we look at the cross while we sing about the cross, when we preach the cross, it should have a very humbling effect. How is it that he who in the form of God Emptied himself to come and save us, to become like us, that he might save us at the cross. How is it? That someone so great would die for someone so vile. This is the hymn, right? Amazing love. How can it be That God would die for me. When you start with God, you shrink down to an appropriately small and insignificant size. And this is what the psalmist does. He starts, he says, Oh Lord, verse 1. And if you look at that verse 1, you see that Lord is all capitals. That lets us know that behind this Lord is the personal covenantal name of God Yahweh. David looks to the Lord, who has been their dwelling place in all generations, before the mountains were ever brought forth or ever He had formed the earth and the world, the one who from everlasting to everlasting is God. He says, Lord, I do not try to be like you. May we all be truly and sincerely humble before the Lord, our God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He is the God who watches over all the affairs of men without sleeping or slumbering. He is the God who governs the direction of history and determines the trajectory of all the nations. He sits in the heavens and confounds all his enemies and he cares for all his people. He controls all the elements. He upholds the entire universe by the words of his power. He is intricately involved in over. Overseeing all the minute details in each of our lives. He is commanding his army of angels. He is sustaining each of his saints. He's listening To every one of our prayers. He's answering us all when we call to him. He carries all of our burdens. He strengthens all our hearts in Christ. He's raising people out of the grave of their sin. Working salvation for a countless many. He's calling men and women and children to to come to him. He's calling men and women to judgment as well through death. He's guarding us all by his power, sustaining our faith. To never fail. He's disciplining all of his children. He's providing for all of our needs. He's receiving every saint who has died, the sleep of death, to be with him as they await the resurrection of their bodies. And he does so all while never leaving or forsaking a single sheep. He's the Lord. What about you? What happens when you think on the manifold and incalculable works of the Lord? Aren't you humbled before Him? Eager to recognize this is not a me thing, this is a him thing. Listen, without a high and exalted view of God, you will have an overly exalted view of yourself. This is where the psalmist starts, right? Posturing himself in humility. Oh Lord, my heart is not lifted up, my eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. Commentator I found helpful, he has it that these great and wonderful things are meant, and this is what he says is meant by it God's secret purposes and sovereign means for their accomplishment, in which man is not called to cooperate, but to acquiesce. The great and wonderful things meant are God's secret purposes and sovereign means for their accomplishment, in which man is not called to cooperate, but to acquiesce. To be resigned to the the to submit to The many things that God does that are beyond our comprehension are not communicated to us so that we might argue with God about it. That's not why it's there. But it's there so that in faith we might accept it all without protest, trusting the Lord That's what faith does, it rests in the will of the Lord In short, the profound and mysterious working of the will of God, we are not expected to fully understand. And yet we are expected to fully accept and to trust in. This is what Job and his friends refused to do. And by not doing it, they only added to their sorrows. If you're familiar with the book of Job, Job had some horrible things happen to his life. His friends show up to be counselors to him, and then they spend 29 chapters pontificating about matters above their pay grade. If Job would have been more humble, and if Job's friends would have been more humble, those twenty-nine chapters of vanity and fallen conjecture could have been replaced by these three short verses. Job could have been three chapters long. But in pride they sinned, and part of why we have it is we can see where it ends at They sin by refusing to humble themselves. At the end of chapter 1 of Job, and at the end of chapter 2 of Job, as he is trusting the Lord, we see this phrase about Job. It says. In all of this, Job did not sin. That phrase stops at chapter 2 His friends show up, they begin to occupy themselves with things too great and too marvelous for them, and they sin. Job and all his friends get rebuked, except for Elihu who the Lord uses to humble them all. And you remember how Allah humbles them all? He just puts on the projector of their heart. Look at God. No answers? There was no answers. It was just, do you remember who we're talking about? Were you there when? Or were you there when or and God answers from the wall when like, yo, where was you at, bro? And what ends up happening? They get humbled. Job 42. He says, it says, Job answers the Lord and says, I have uttered what I did not understand. things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. If only Job and Eliphaz and Bildad and Zophar reflected on the sentiments of this psalm And after they sat with him for a while, they said, listen, I don't know it all, and you don't know it all, but let's trust the God who does. Hope in the Lord, Brother Joe, from now and forevermore. Let's sing further along again. Listen, say there is a lot we don't know, but there is nothing God doesn't There's a lot I don't know. There's a lot you don't know. There's nothing God doesn't know. Just consider how much we would all be helped to daily remember how much we all don't know and can't control. No wonder God wanted his saints singing about it as they went to worship him. And look, failing to do this empties us of peace. Failing to do this got Job into trouble, got Job's friends into trouble, it gets us all into trouble. This got the disciples into trouble. This is what got Peter rebuked by Jesus and called Satan. Remember Jesus was like, I'm going to the cross. And Peter was like, What? No, you're not. Lord. Lord. Super serious Jesus was going to the cross, and Peter didn't understand how the plan of God would have a cross with a Messiah on it. That was mind-blowing to him. He didn't know the cross was the only way to rescue. He didn't know the cross was God's way to work redemption and deliverance and salvation and defeat the people of God's enemies forevermore. Christ would conquer sin, the devil, and death through it. All Peter knew was what he thought he saw, and he got rebuked for that. He said, Get behind me, Satan. Remember, your mind is set on the things of man, not on the things of God. Humility is the only way to contentment in crisis. We carry a cross daily and we are surrounded by perplexing providences. The way we carry our cross In peace is by humbling ourselves, recognizing we can't save us, we can't control anything, but God has and God does Those who humble themselves are happy to say, happy to rest in, listen, I don't know it all, but I trust the God who does. It's interesting that the first act of this psalmist is to say what he doesn't do and admit what he doesn't know. And we would all be helped to remember this important step. As wonderful as David is, one embodied this even better. Amen. Christ, who is the true righteous man, the most righteous man who ever lived, and he's the one who lived this out most fully. No one ever humbled himself more and more completely trusting his father's will than the Lord Jesus Christ. It was the boast of the Son of God to rely on his father. In John 12, 49 through 50, Jesus says, I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a command. What to say, what to speak, and I know his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. I'm not ad-libbing, I'm not freestyling. His word is so perfect and good. I am happy to restrict. All of my communication to the only what comes directly from him. Oh, his trust was his glory to trust Every word his father said, and to speak only what his father told him. Even the day of his return, he happily and contentedly rested in its concealment, Jesus said. But concerning that day and hour, no one knows not even the angels of heaven nor the sun but the father only Again, Jesus, the greatest expression of humility in the form of God, empty himself to become like us, to obey his father in everything, even obeying to the point of death, and even that death on the cross. He did this for our salvation. He did this for our honor. He did this for his glory and for Our example, dear saints, resolve to humble yourself. And it's only in doing that that you can do the next one, which is point two, and that is resolve to trust the Lord. Proud people can't trust the Lord because, by definition, they don't. They trust in themselves. But we resolved to trust the Lord, and the song is calling the saints to trust the Lord. And this is both individually And among his people. We trust him by ourselves. We resolve to trust him. And we resolve to trust him as his people. First, resolve to trust him by yourself as an individual. Look at verse 2. After say what he doesn't do, he says what he does do. But I have calmed and quieted my soul. Like a weaned child with its mother, like a winged child is my soul. Within me. I hope you notice that personal resolve in that verse. But I have calmed and quieted my soul. It is an active effort of worship here. It's not by happenstance. This is something done by faith. Like how the King James has it. I have behaved and quieted myself as a child that's weaned. The Nasby says it, I have certainly soothed and quieted my soul like a weaned child resting against his mother. And the illustration of the mom and the baby is clear To be a weaned child means that a child no longer was being breastfed. More accurately, at least in the Bible, it's referring to a stage in the child's life. Right, that they were of a full age, that they were ripened, as the word suggests. So when we think weaned, we probably just think of food Like they no longer need breast milk. But it's more a reference to a stage in a child's life related to their own self-control. I think the picture is pretty clear. Parenting a newborn is exhausting. Amen. In large part, though, it's because of how restless newborns are That comes with being a parent. When they want, they scream. When they're bothered, they scream. When they don't like something, they scream. One setting, scream. That season of life is largely spent soothing them Parents do all kinds of stuff to soothe them. They do the bounce, some do the slide bounce, some put the kid in a car and got to drive them around just to get them go to sleep. That season of life is focused on teaching a kid to stop screaming. Right? It's largely spent soothing them and seeking to train them off of needing immediate and constant soothing. From outside. They learn and they need to learn to quiet themselves To stay calm even when they're hungry, to keep quiet, even when they're displeased. And the psalmist says, I'm like a weaned child with its mother. And I've calmed and quieted myself with the Lord. As I hope in the Lord, as I trust in the Lord, as I look to the Lord, I do so calmed and quieted in total trust of Him. I wonder if you've ever seen a child peacefully at rest with their parent. And then contrast that with a child who is kicking and screaming and throwing a fit. One is marked by tranquility, the other is marked by a tantrum. One is calmed and quiet, the other is restless and disturbed The question for us each is, what kind of child are we? What kind of child are you? I don't mean to your parent in the flesh. I'm talking about your father in heaven. What kind of child of God are you? Are we marked by a calm trust in the Lord or by a restless worry and a distrust of Him? Do you know the peace of God that surpasses understanding, that surpasses turbulent times, or are you marked by throwing fits when you go through times of trial? We can do that. We can throw fits straight up. Hard providence come. We just start accusing God, questioning God, grumbling against God, trying to withhold obedience like it hurts him. It only hurts us. We do the equivalent of throwing our bodies on the ground where we are, kicking and screaming, saying, I'm not going nowhere else until you fix this. Friends, that's sinful. Oh, they even when I said it, you were like, ew, yes, sinful. And David is like, I don't do that. Certainly, he probably still did it, but his commitment was to not do that. His commitment was to not vocalize complaint against the Lord, but to rather trust him. To learn to calm and quiet himself in trials, to learn to calm and quiet himself in unpleasing circumstances, to learn to calm and quiet himself when he was in lack. He would go on to say, the Lord is my shepherd. I don't even lack. It's the same sentiment Paul said. Not that I'm talking about being in need. I've learned how to face it all. I've learned the secret of contentment. I know how to have a bunch, I know how to have a little. I know how to be hungry. I know how to have it supplied. I know how to base. I know how to abound. I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength I don't have needs. Paul said, even when I have needs, I don't even have needs because I have him. This is what David was saying: the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me to lie down and greed pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. He restores my soul. Even in the valley of the shadow of death, he's still with me. His rod in his half, that's a comfort to me. Even when I'm surrounded by enemies, he's still supplying an abundant spread of goods. Goodness and mercy follow me because of him. My cup overflows because of him. I'm gonna make get home because of him. The Lord Jesus again, he demonstrated this in the garden. You remember when he was going to the cross in Matthew 26, 38 through 39, he said to his people, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. You say, but how does that work when you're really in it? None of us have been as in it as Jesus was in it on this eve Now is my soul very sorrowful even to death, and he says, Come watch with me, come and pray And going a little farther, he falls on his face and he prays, saying, My Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless Not what I will, the what you will. Saints, you know what that was There was the Lord Jesus calming and quieting his sorrowful soul before the Father he fully trusted in. He trusted his father's plan. He was strengthened to the finish. He was eyeing his father's promise. There was joy set before him, we're told, and it was what was came after that cross that fueled his enduring of the cross, knowing that his father's will was good. Good, acceptable, and perfect. Calm in a quiet soul, even when headed to the cross Oh saints, we should carry our cup like our Christ. Is there a confusing providence in your life? Listen, it's not there for you to figure it out, but to trust Him with it. God doesn't command us to connect the dots. They're already connected. He commands us to trust him in it. We have a pastor friend's name's uh uh Bobby Scott. We call him Bible Bobby because you scratch him, Bible pours out. But he was talking about his ministry, and I mean he's been through everything you can envision. Pastored, which is its own war field, raised six kids in Compton One of his kids had cancer. House burned down with fire. We're talking about trial on trial on trial. And you have to hear his voice. I'm a He explains it. He was talking about all the suffering he experienced, his own trials as a believer, in his household, in his ministry. And he says, his reflection on his own lot and in the Lord's, he says, look, he's teaching you to trust him. He's teaching you to trust him. Why do you have that? Because he's teaching you to trust him. I don't understand. He's teaching you to trust him. Yeah, but I don't like that. He's teaching you to trust him. Trust him. Trust him. He's trustworthy. How do we know? Jesus got out the grave. It goes well for us family. All we do is win, win, win, no matter what. Abraham, kill your son. My promised son. The son you promised, the son I waited for, and the Bible said Abraham was so convinced of God's goodness that he was like, he must have a plan to resurrect him. Saints, if you're carrying something, you're carrying across and it hurts anything, but God said, Listen, this is preparing for you the eternal weight of glory. I promise. Trust them. You know how many glorified saints are going to be disappointed in glory? Zero! You will not be the first He is working all things together for the good of those who love him, who are called according to his purpose, all of our sufferings, all of our blessings, all of the easy parts, all of the hard parts. It is being used by God to produce a beautiful tapestry of goodness for us. If you didn't need it, he wouldn't have given it to you. Remember When Peter got sidetracked, he was following Jesus. He was like, yo, what's up with old boy? Because it says in John 21 Peter saw him. He said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Reference to the Apostle John. Because they had heard that he was not going to remain whenever Jesus came back. So they thought he was going to get taken early. So Peter was like working on his relationship with Jesus, kind of keeping his eye on somebody else. And Jesus said to him, Yo, if it's my will that he remains until I come, what's that to you? He said, What? You follow me, you trust me. If you carry cross, how come I have this? And they don't have that ain't got nothing to do with you. You follow him, you trust him. He's teaching you to trust him. Listen, we don't get to pick our cups But we would all pick little thimbles. We don't get to pick our crosses, but we're called to hold them just like our Christ. And he gives us an example of what it looks like and what it sounds like to trust God and to rest in his will. There's nothing wrong with saying, God, can you change this? Is it possible? For you to change this, not because I doubt your power, I'm just not sure about your plan. Is it possible to change this as long as you keep going and say, but nevertheless I want your will for me. I want your will for me more than my will for me. Your will is good, acceptable, and perfect. And mine is flawed and short-sighted and just on me. I want your will. I trust you enough to want your will. We resolve to trust them individually. But listen, we don't just labor for that for ourselves, but we resolve to trust the Lord with others. Look how the psalm ends. Only did he calm and quiet his soul, but he started appealing to the church, to the gathering of believers, to the congregation. He says, Oh, Israel, hope in the Lord From this time forth and forevermore. Oh look, we resolve to trust him individually and as his collective people. Trusting the Lord is what we do We encourage the whole congregation when we do it, and we encourage the whole congregation to do it. This Word hope here, it means to wait on, to wait on the Lord. It's to believe the word of the Lord. It's it's to trust him. He's saying he's talking to the people of God. The people of God need to be exhorted to trust the Lord. Yes, we do. He says, people of God, trust the Lord. Hope in the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Believe the Lord. And we do this with our encouragement and our example. This is what David is doing here: his encouragement, what he's saying, and what he's doing. Look at look, this is a song the saints are singing as they worship, encouraging each other, calling on each other, addressing one another. Let's hope in the Lord. Someone should write that song. Trusting the Lord is what we do. Right? We trust Him. We know that what He does, we can't do. And He hope does all things well. We trust Him. I mean, this is how salvation happened, right? Our most fundamental sin is not trusting the Lord, thinking he's lying in some kind of way, which is just utterly impossible to happen. But we think he's lying, we resist his command, we resist his will, we resist his appeal, we refuse to trust the Lord, and this gets damaged. This gets destruction. This gets doom. This gets death. This is why people die in their sins for a refusal to trust the Lord. But salvation comes. The Lord loves us despite us, and he sent his son to save us. Right? The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus must be believed in. And God says, if we believe him, we get saved. We got saved, whoever in here is saved, by turning from trusting ourselves to now trusting him. There's any here's like man, how do I get to be in the people of God? You turn from trusting yourself and you turn and trust in him. But beloved, trusting the Lord is the whole of what we do, it's the whole of our pilgrimage. We don't just trust the Lord with our sin debt and then figure the rest of our lives out. We trust him with every sanctifying trial, too. We don't just trust the Lord at conversion, we trust the Lord every day we take up a cross and follow him. And we're called to not just do that today, but as long as there's days today and foremore Tomorrow, if God tarries and gives life, he is going to be just as faithful as he was today. We are not going to be He is going to be. He's gonna be just as trustworthy tomorrow and the day after, and the day after the Bible says, Jesus Christ, yesterday, today, and forever, he's the same. And listen, Jesus did this both with his encouragement and his example. He did this among his people. The life he lived preached a powerful sermon and was itself a Psalm 131. It was a song of praise that says, Oh, trust the Lord. Jesus' life was a powerful sermon and was itself a song of praise, saying, Oh, trust the Lord. You know where I get that from? Hebrews. And we're winding. Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2, it says it was fitting that he. for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering So salvation, the road to salvation is a suffering road. If you want salvation, you gotta be willing to suffer, but trust the Lord, he's worth it, right? For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That's why he's not ashamed to call us brothers, family. He suffered in the same way he calls us to suffer, and he can help us in our suffering because he did it for us, right? It goes on to say, this is what he does when not being ashamed to call us brothers. This is what he did in coming to live a perfect life. Saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me I wonder if you might skip over that part when you get to Hebrews, but one of the things that's being said about the life of Christ is the sufferings are a given, beloved. But the founder of our salvation went through suffering and has given us a praiseworthy example of trusting the Lord. And he in his life wants his life in the center of the people of God, both giving them an example and making Making a an appeal through song of praise to the Lord saying, Trust in the Lord. Jesus' life could be summarized by him saying, I will trust in the Lord. And all the children God has given me. Jesus lived among us that through his life and lips he might commend the name of God and testify praisingly of his goodness and trustworthiness. There is no greater testimony any person could have than the Lord Jesus, who is Himself perfect, proclaiming to the world in the world, and especially among the people of God, I will trust in him A perfect Christ putting his perfect trust in a perfect father. And he is pictured in that Hebrews text as standing among the congregation, singing the praise of God and calling on all the children of God. To trust the Lord along with him. He sings out, I will put my trust in the Lord. Who's following me? That is what we do as a church. We call out to one another through our lips and with our lives, and like our Jesus, we call on each other. Trust him. Trust him. Keep trusting him. We appeal to each other. Keep trusting. Keep trusting. This is how the saints have joy in various trials. by trusting him. This is how the saints put to death that lure of sin, by trusting him. Though it feels like sin is sweet, the Lord said it's not, and I trust him. This is how the saints have joy and peace, even when riddled with sickness, even when facing persecution. Even when imprisoned in miserable circumstances, by trusting in the Lord. They have joy and peace in believing and as the seraphim call out to each other, holy, holy, holy, the saints cry out to each other, trust him, trust him, trust him. Oh we who believe that Christ died for our sins, who was raised for our justification, We who believe that God keeps his every word and fulfills his every promise, let the church, who Paul calls the true Israel of God, let us all resolve with this same resolve to hope in the Lord. Now And tomorrow, and if he grants more time, even then now and forevermore, let's pray. Dear Lord, I pray for these people. I pray for my brothers and sisters. I pray, Lord, that you would help them to see the beauty of trusting you, to see the freedom in trusting you, to see the need for humility, the need for resolve And would you grant them much success? I pray that as they minister out here, as they fan the aroma of Christ, oh may it be a pleasing fragrance to you May it be a testimony that these are the people who trust in the Lord, despite hardship, despite complications, even when facing death. And may they image the Lord Jesus in all of it. We pray this in his name. Amen.