If you have your Bible to open to Genesis chapter 10, we're going to be studying and looking at this morning. They will build a city and they will sin terribly against God, just like Cain and his descendants. I want you to look down with me at chapter 10. The first anomaly is Nimrod. Right, this is clearly pointing forward to the judgment coming in chapter 11 at the Tower of Babel. They're going to be able to accomplish whatever they want. If you reject his purposes to build a kingdom for yourself here in this life, you will eternally wander in the next. I think one of my favorite anecdotes, I think I've used it before here, that kind of communicates the way this comes out in the Christian life is when Hank Aaron was interviewed before he was just about to break. That's the way this desire for greatness comes out in our life, right? Just think of them. the seed of the serpent, whose descendants build a city, create culture and civilization, then after documenting Cain and his descendants, there is another genealogy. He was worshipping idols in Ur of the Chaldeans with his family. And one thing I want to encourage this morning, which I encourage most weeks, is for you to keep your Bible open throughout the sermon, because we're going to be looking at the text often and throughout. And what I want us to specifically see is the way the pattern of events that led up to the worldwide flood Well, let's think about this. without himself being defiled by seeing it. And we want to look at chapter 10 more closely. Now look at verse 4. But then he also does this, he also tells them this in a in a less obvious way, a second and less obvious way, by highlighting specific people and events. I want to encourage you in this as you read your Bible when you read in the Old Testament and you come across genealogies or lists And we learn two things about Nimrod. What it means is that by listing off the nations of the world who are also notorious enemies of Israel and their God By aligning Nimrod with Cain as the builder of cities and kingdoms, and by telling us about the judgment of the division of the earth that came upon these nations Baghdad, and we've seen Shinar already in chapter ten. Right? But we see Nimrod wasn't alone. You have no idea what I'm saying to you anymore. Just think of us a thought experiment. Let us sit at your right and your left in your glory, right? Babe Bruce's home run record and he was talking about how angry people were with him, even the death threats that he was receiving. It's kind of like the Christian life. by our own acts, seeking to bring greatness to ourselves from God's transcendent perspective, is I've got to go down to even see it. for the continued unfolding of God's plan of redemption. The genealogy of Seth, the seed of the woman. But I think we need to take a moment here to appreciate Abraham's cultural context, to appreciate how radical his response really is. So what does this tell us about Abraham? Darkness. Right? Israel would learn from the account of Abraham's life that their very existence was because of God's election of one man, Abraham, who responded by faith. Which God taught them so clearly in Genesis 10 and 11 that He will bring judgment upon people who live this way. And just as the people of Babylon experienced God's judgment of being dispersed on the earth, so the nation of Israel was dispersed through the judgment of exile out of the land. So that in Jesus Christ, those who would humble themselves, who are the many, might be made one again. I want you to consider Abraham this morning. When God curses the serpent, he says to him, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. actions and we meet Cain. Abel worships God from a pure heart. And then after we meet Cain, we meet the seed of the woman. are marked by calling on and walking with the Lord. Then, after we meet them, evil spreads on the earth. and the seed of the woman are both present. who was shown to be the seed of the serpent by his seeing and then mocking his father's nakedness, while Shem shows himself to be the seed of the woman, by carefully covering over his father's nakedness who pridefully reject his purposes to build their own kingdom and blesses those who respond in faith. All the while saving one man and his family. If you are taking notes this morning, the main point of chapters 10 to 12 is this. who respond in faith to his word. is like a hit list of Israel's enemies throughout Scripture. Do we need to know the names of the descendants of Noah's sons? Right? is by simply listing off the nations, because what you see when he lists off the nations is that he is just listing off almost all of Israel's enemies, right? Cush and put make war against Israel in Ezekiel, and Egypt enslaves Israel for 400 years. radically opposed to God are associated with Babylon, Assyria, and Nineveh throughout the Old Testament. One of Egypt's descendants produces the Philistines or the Philistines. Sidon is prophesied against in Isaiah for their rampant immorality. are the inhabitants of the land of Canaan that Israel is called to drive out when God brings them into the land by simply listing off the nations or reports, what you want to keep an eye out for are anomalies. And we also learn about Nimrod that he was the builder of cities and kingdoms. He used aggressive force in building his kingdoms. are the ones most prominently associated with opposition to God and being judged by God. Moses wants the Israelites to understand that the whole world around them, all the nations, are the seed of the serpent and under God's judgment. Purposes. Genesis chapter 1 verse 28 to Adam and Eve, God said, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. It's very difficult to work together. First, I want you to notice that God's judgment is just. Then again in verse 7, come, let us go down. People who say that the God of the Old Testament is vengeful, bloodthirsty, and capricious only reveal that they haven't read the Old Testament carefully. It isn't second hand. There are no cold cases in God's legal system. And the second thing that we see about his judgment here is that his judgment is a gift of common grace to all people. being most likely to be misread and misunderstood. Right, just go ahead and look down at the passage with me again. In verse 6, when God says, nothing will be impossible for them, he's talking about evil. is a gift of common grace that has restrained evil on the earth. perfectly connected, he would be able to carry out greater and greater amounts of evil. Build upon his acts of evil and cooperate with one another in their acts of evil. of God's judgments. Cain. And so in danger of God's judgment. Jesus has been with his disciples for years. by creating things for his glory, right? It's foolish and futile. And God will judge those who pridefully reject his purposes to build their own kingdom. the one through whom God would preserve his promise. Chapter 11, verses 10 to 26. Abram, and for the sake of all of us, I'm just going to call him Abraham throughout. Now I say God blesses those who respond in faith to his word. And he does all of this so that Abraham would be a blessing to the world. They wanted to make a name for themselves, but God will make a great name for Abraham. Notice that Abraham secures this blessing by responding in faith. which is somewhere just outside Chaldea, a pagan land full of pagan people who worship false gods. Yet this man radically changed directions and began following God. God's word comes to Abraham, and then Abraham responds in faith. Scriptures. Calling him to leave his homeland and to go to a land that God had prepared for him. the sovereign and powerful word of God. that Abraham could then follow. His word can do the same in your child's life. And they would learn from Abraham's life that just as God preserved Abraham and fulfilled his promises to him as he walked by faith. God's promise to Abraham that in him all the families of the earth will be blessed didn't fail in Israel's exile out of the land following their judgment. and whose name would be made great. like you and me. That are led by mighty men like Nimrod and that build mighty towers that reach to the heavens, like the Birj al-Khalifa There is one kingdom that will last forever, and it's a kingdom from into which every person from every nation is welcome that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. But rather than pronouncing judgment on us, Jesus took the judgment that we deserve by bearing the penalty for our sins in his death. from any nation, any tribe, or any tongue who would turn from their prideful ways and humble themselves, and respond in faith to his word would be forgiven of their sins and would enter into his kingdom. Right? People hear the gospel in all their own languages and they enter the church. Verse 9. from be able to test the things that I'm saying against God's word. Just to remind us of the context and remind us of what we've seen so far so that we can better understand the context of our verses this morning. He shall bruise your he shall bruise your head or crush your head, and you shall bruise his heel. around which the entire Bible revolves. Did he say crush the serpent's head? promises to send an offspring of the woman who would crush the serpent and his offspring. the line or the offspring or the seed of the serpent, and the line or offspring or seed of the woman. and his family. And blesses those who respond in faith to his word. All make war against God and his people in the book of Ezekiel. Now look at verse 10. Wasn't originally written to us, right? Babylon, Assyria, and Nineveh, right? Moses is saying to the people of Israel, these nations are the seed of the serpent. The authors are often trying to draw your attention to make a theological point or create some sort of association with the surrounding text. And the reason all these different nations came into existence in the first place is because they were, at one time, one people. to build their own kingdom. Genesis chapter 9, verse 1, to Noah and his sons, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. We instead want to build our kingdom with our rules and our own path to blessing. to build their own kingdom. He now calls them children of man. Because of his judgment and bringing this language barrier upon the people, the people are now dispersed across the face of the earth So, just as God responded to the worldwide sins of man by sending the flood, so also here, he responds to the worldwide sins of man by confusing their languages and dispersing them on the face of the earth. We're told that God came down to see their sins for himself. Points to the fairness, the justness of God's judgments. He is not capricious. He witnesses the sins of the people for himself, right? Not only our actions, but with perfect clarity and precision into the prideful idolatry of our hearts Restrained mankind from being able to perfectly understand one another to keep them from devising greater and greater acts of evil This judgment then of confusing the languages and keeping them from working together to commit greater and greater acts of idolatry and evil. In your opinion, has evil spread and become more apparent and more obvious all around the world since the advent of the internet into our culture and world? Yes, people from all nations and tribes and tongues can immediately connect with other evil people on the other side of the earth and start sharing their ideas with one another. They wanted unity around their idolaters' self-worship, but they received disunity and division. rejecting God's purposes and sinning against him in your life may indicate that you are the seed of the serpent, like Cain and Nimrod and the people here. What desire do you see fueling your efforts? And I want you to see how foolishly futile and silly it is to try to make a name for yourself from God's perspective. Think about this. Their collective strengths, gifts, and wisdom are being joined together, and they put their collective skills and wisdom to work. all people on earth to build a tower that reaches to the heavens so that we might be seen as gods on this earth. puny that he has to go down to even see it. What we'll see in our passage is that God is instead impressed with those who use their desires, goals, and gifts to make a name for him rather than themselves. Right? to his word. They found a land, but God gives to Abraham a land. He blesses him with the promise of personal prosperity and fame. First, I want you to notice how old Abraham is when God's word comes to him. God's word preceded and was the cause of Abraham's faith. first in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ and also perfectly, inerrantly, perfectly trustworthy in the Holy Find ways to get them to encounter God in his word. Think about what it is teaching them. He doesn't live like the nations around him. And when the word of the Lord came to Israel, tell them the great I am sent you, when he sends Moses to Israel to rescue them out of slavery in Egypt, and then comes to them on Mount Sinai and delivers to them his word. So God would preserve them and fulfill his promises to them if they walked by faith and didn't turn back to living like the nations around them. But they, as we see in the rest of the Old Testament, didn't learn that lesson from Abraham. I will bless you, bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed No, the nation of Israel pridefully rejected God's purposes for them and began living just like the nations around them. So God preserved the seed of the woman through the judgment of exile that came upon Israel through one man, the Lord Jesus Christ. The name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess on the cross, yet three days after he died, he rose from the dead, and proclaimed that anyone He was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. We long for that city that is to come, and we long for its appearing. soon and very soon. This is why in Acts chapter 2, after Pentecost, after the Spirit falls, what do Peter and the apostles do? and one that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. Heavenly Father, if we are honest, we are so often like the people of Babel and Babylon who pridefully seek to build their own kingdoms. Grant us strengthened faith in the days to come to continue walking by faith and to continue looking forward to that city. Repeat themselves, leading to another worldwide judgment, which we'll look at in chapter 11 this morning. all the surrounding nations with the seed of the serpent. Cain. one nation with one language, but rather than worship God, they pridefully rejected his purposes It's not just Nimrod who's associated with Cain and building a city. Notice in verse 5 how God is already distancing himself from mankind. Right now, there's nothing wrong with wanting to do great things. Just as God preserved the seed of the woman through the judgment of the flood through Noah, and just as God preserved the seed of the woman through the judgment at Babel through Abraham. To those who have already entered by faith, you should continue in faith. It's our normal practice to read the passage uh ahead of the sermon, but this morning we're not going to read the passage ahead of the sermon, but we will be looking at it closely throughout. There weren't many nations on earth. Not content with glorifying the name of God who created them, they instead pridefully wanted to bring glory to themselves. No, look at why they want to build a city in verse 4 again. Therefore, God's judgment of confusing the languages of people on earth is an act of common grace that has wanting to make a name for yourself. First, he blesses Abraham with a land. One that people build on their own to show their own greatness that will end in judgment, and one that God builds for his people who enter that kingdom by responding in faith to his word. Abraham is 75 years old. And what was it that produced faith in Abraham? And yet, I want you to look back at chapter 12, verse 3. In the genealogy of Shem, we learn that during the life of one of Shem's great-grandsons, the earth was divided. Of of all the accounts in the Old Testament, I think this account is close to the top of Many great things have come through the internet. If you reject his purposes and try to make a name for yourself in this life, your name will be wiped out in the life to come In the introduction to the sermon, right? Abram. So just as God preserved his promise to send a Savior through the judgment of the flood through one man Noah, so he has preserved his promise to send a savior through the judgment at Babel through one man. Friends, you will ultimately live in one of two cities. By faith he went to live in a land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. It's the Israelites. He confuses their language. Oh no! As in, if they can commit such a massive act of idolatry, no amount of evil will be impossible for them. You will get the exact opposite of what you desire. No. Jesus is the one who will ultimately become head over a great nation. Jesus is the true fulfillment of Abraham, the one who left not his earthly country, but his heavenly home, to go to a land and leaving his father's house by leaving heaven. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing where he was going. They would have no issue working together with one another to carry out massive acts of violence. If you reject his purposes to seek joy and peace apart from him, you will ultimately find sorrow and pain Goliath, right? Do you want to be great in the eyes of the world? A world shrouded in darkness. They wanted to be rooted, but instead they were scattered. Friends, if you want to see people who are in your life who seem distant from the Lord, far from the Lord, if you want to see them come to know the Lord. Literally, the whole world has just built an idolatrous tower to itself. We're going to break that sentence up into two parts, and those will be our two points this morning. Those kingdoms will ultimately end in judgment. Self-aggrandizement and pride are key character qualities of those who belong to the serpent's kingdom and are his offspring. That's our second point. Right? Jesus is the one to whom the promises made to Abraham ultimately come true. If you're using the Bible that we provided in the the seats around you, you'll find the passage beginning on page seven. They were fueled by pride, and in their pride, they were rejecting God's purposes for mankind. Look at verse 4 of chapter 11. If you reject his purposes because you want to be free from the shackles of his commandments and laws, you will become a slave to sin. Hey, I don't want people to forget about Jesus. Look at verses two and three. The only reason Abraham followed God was because God spoke to him first. Moses wants us to see Nimrod as like a new Cain. They're one people and one one man and they're so gifted that they're unstoppable In Genesis 3, we're introduced to the central promise Tarshish and Kittim are the coastland peoples who God pronounces judgment against throughout the prophets for their pride and their debauchery. His judgments are just, and they are meted out in perfect proportion to the crimes committed Here, in this passage, all mankind is together They are the original audience, the nation of Israel, after God rescued them out of slavery in Egypt. It hasn't been tampered with. Who is that person? And I don't say this to undermine your motivation to use your gifts and skills to do great things for God. Goliath is the chief archenemy of God and his people. Abraham was a 75-year-old fully pagan man living in a pagan world worshiping false gods. Friends, I hope that you are encouraged by this. You and I were all like the nations pursuing building our own kingdoms. That's exactly right, Cooper. And then after the flood, the pattern repeats itself. Look down there with me. No feat will be impossible for them. I got saved through the internet. He's nearing the end of his ministry. Terah is the ninth in the list, verse 26. And we pray this all in his name, and all God's people said, Amen Go ahead and look with me at chapter 11, verse 1. And he brings division supernaturally to keep them from building this idolatrous tower in the worship of their own greatness. He's then killed by Cain, but then God provides life from the dead in Seth, giving Seth in his place, and Seth and his descendants. First, God judges those who pridefully reject his purposes to build their own kingdom. Because they rejected God's purposes, the one people became many If his word can come and produce faith in the heart of a 75-year-old pagan idol worshiper, his word can do the same in your neighbor's life. And we're introduced first to the seed of the serpent and then to the seed of the woman. Kids, who was the original audience of the book of Genesis? I can't understand the words that are coming out of your mouth and you can't understand the words that are coming out of my mouth. After Adam and Eve were cast out of the garden, were introduced to their two sons, Cain and Abel. Cain is marked by anger, lying, and murder. We should never adopt an attitude that God is impressed with us. Right? First, he is mighty. Look at verse 6. Imagine Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin, and Paul Pott all spoke the same language and shared the same culture. This is like the trinity of Israel's enemies throughout the Old Testament, people who are There was one language and one people, and they decided to build a city in the plains of Shynar. Hey, you have the throne, but we want to photobomb you in the portrait of your glory, right? Abraham didn't seek God out. It's the land where Nimrod built his first city, Babylon, right? The starting point of Abraham's journey is God's word coming to Abraham. And what we'll see is that God blesses him, preserves him, and fulfills his promises to him. What does Paul say about Jesus in Philippians chapter 2? Look at verse 8. The preceding table of nations and the tower of Babel judgment are meant to set the stage. And lo and behold, this genealogy is a genealogy of ten names, ending with His word can do the same in your spouse's life or your coworker's life. Verse 10. And that brings us up to chapters 10 to 12, in which we will see the descendants of Noah's sons spread I praise God for the internet. In response to the worldwide wickedness that God sees, he sends a judgment on mankind through the flood for their sins, yet he graciously chooses to save one man, Noah. He supernaturally creates language barriers and so confuses their ability to work with one another. And it's a genealogy that consists of ten names. It was God's word. It's all the people. We see that the people join with them. And their prideful rejection of his purposes to build their own kingdom ends in their judgment. When most modern readers come to chapter 10 in their annual Bible reading plan, their eyes kind of glaze over like, why on earth Consider him. But then God's word came to Abram, and Abraham responded in faith, and it is only because God first spoke to Abraham The evidence upon which his judgments are based isn't incomplete. It hasn't been forgotten in a dusty old box in an evidence locker. Surely they have understood that to follow Jesus means to humble yourself and to not seek greatness and glory for yourself. Look down there with me. Is that person any more unlikely than Abraham was? They are the line through whom the promised Savior would come. A descendant of Ham named Nimrod is the founder of The promise of Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. I know it's a little bit long. Their prideful rejection of God's purposes is so thorough that they're no longer God's children. Here's how to read this verse incorrectly from God's perspective. And now after the genealogy of Noah's descendants, who are clearly aligned with the seed of the serpent, through their building a city and their prideful rejection of God, there is another genealogy. I will bless you and make your name great And what we see when we look at chapter 10 with our ancient Israelite glasses on is that Moses wants the people of Israel to associate I just want them to remember me too. You can read this account and very easily make the mistake of thinking God sounds petty and jealous. And one of the key attitudes that reveals that you are part of the seed of the serpent is pride. Look at chapter 12, verse 1, at how God blesses Abraham. We long for the appearing of our King Jesus. Look down with me at verse 2. And the thing that we need to be warned about today is that a persistent propensity to and practicing of The problem arises when the desire of our heart is to make a name for ourselves rather than to give glory to God. Abraham is the one through whom God's promised seed and blessing would come. Go to the land I will show you. So I want to just open this up to the kids real quick. They all want to build a city. 3,000 enter the church that day. People who show themselves to be genuine worshipers of God by their attitudes and actions. It's repeated three times. I want us to notice three things about God's judgment. He knows all and sees all, and he sees with his own eyes. Look at verse 4. Verse 16: The Jebuzites, Amorites, Gergishites, Hivites, Archites, and Sinites As bad as the evil is on the earth, if man was one and shared one language and one purpose and was Madai in verse 2 is the forefather of the Medes, the same nation in the book of Esser that threatens to kill all of the Jews. That is what it is like with the when we when we build up the tower of our platform in our life and we seek to build a monument to ourselves. And look at where he's living in verse 4. Who have we already seen in the book of Genesis use aggressive force and build a city? So this gift of confusing the languages is a gift of common grace. And I want you to notice this. And Abraham responds in faith. We have no reason to believe that Abraham had any character qualities that were different from the nations around him. Recall what the author of Hebrews tells us about him. But connectedness among mankind, one shared language, oneness, allows mankind to Look at verse 4 of chapter 12. First, creation and redemption begin with Moses breaks this genealogy to spend five verses telling us about one man, Nimrod. I just want you to think about this. Ask yourself this morning, are you driven by a desire to make a name for yourself? They might appear mighty and they might be mighty for a time, but they will not last forever. But before we jump into the passage, I want to take a minute because it's been a few weeks since we've been in the book of Genesis. And he does this in two different ways. Look at verse 5. I need to stop them from having this greatness. Right, and we need to realize that this attitude will appear in the church. And I want you to consider also the encouragement that this passage had for the Israelites. Now, friends, I hope you see that God will ultimately give you the opposite of what you desire when you reject his purpose. Where do we see all that in chapters 10 to 12? Notice the pride fueling their desire to build a city. I want you to see what's going on here. They want to build a city so that we aren't dispersed over the face of the earth. The word of the Lord came to Abraham, and the word of the Lord has come to us. Jesus is the head and king of God's heavenly kingdom, who made entrance into that kingdom possible for idolatrous sinners, I'll repeat it throughout. And it's no wonder then that the kingdoms Nimrod builds That God came down to see for himself the sins of the people And his kingdom, friends, is an everlasting kingdom. He wasn't pursuing God Terah was number nine from Shem, and number 10 comes right after him. And why did he change? One that like Babel is left in ruins forever But it's here that we need to remember that the book of Genesis Hey, I'm here in the background. They wanted to be a great nation, but God will make Abraham a great nation. If God's word can come into a world shrouded in spiritual God's promise to Abraham So point one, God judges those who pridefully reject his purposes to build their own kingdom, and then point two, God blesses those Kids, who is the most famous Philistine in the Old Testament? By inserting anomalies into genealogies, into lists, into reports. What does all of this mean for us I've said this in the past and I will say it again. Abraham goes, right? Right? Just shout it out if you know it. The church. And their desire to build a city flowed out of a prideful rejection of God's. Do you want to accomplish great great things so that people look at you and say, he or she is great? In Noah's sons we learn that the seed of the serpent He is a mighty man and a mighty hunter. And he said, listen, I don't want people to forget the babe. But we also see in our passage that God blesses those who respond in faith. Did you notice at two different times? The second major anomaly is the way the genealogy foreshadows the coming judgment of chapter eleven. Notice how through Abraham, God is answering the judgment of the prideful idolatry of the nations. Look at chapter 12, verse 1. This attitude should have no place in the church. And God will respond to their sin with a worldwide judgment similar to the flood. You just see enemy after enemy after enemy. In chapter 9, we met Ham. Kids, can any of you tell me what promise I'm talking about in Genesis chapter three? The first way the first and most obvious way he does it They show by their attitudes and actions that they are opposed to God. Just remove language as this kind of idea of connectedness and just input the internet Then Cain builds a city, and Cain's descendants create culture and civilization. So this entire episode is already cast in a negative light because of Nimrod's association with Cain And we pray, Lord, that you would grant us. Notice there, we learn that at one point mankind was one. The Lord came down to see the city and the tower. We've talked a little bit about the pattern already. And they began living that way. Yet in Jesus God came down to see our sins for himself. The kingdoms of this world that appear mighty God judges those Or verse 13, look down there with me. The people say to one another, Let us make bricks. Right? God judges those who pridefully reject his purposes to build their own kingdom. Look at how it's great also. Point for point, God is showing that there are two kingdoms. Chapter 4 of Genesis follows the genealogy of Cain. Right? I think what we're supposed to see here is that as a mighty man They desired permanence. Not only that, but in Joshua chapter twenty four, Joshua tells us that Abraham worshipped idols before God called him. If I asked you this morning, who is the most unlikely person that you know of to come to faith in Jesus, who comes to mind? Remember The seed of the serpent are people who show they're aligned with the serpent against God by their attitudes and their What city are you living in today? Then he blesses him with the promise of many descendants. Jesus is the one who is blessed. They go out and they preach the gospel, and what happens? And then immediately in chapter four, we're introduced to members of those two different lines. This is a people who pridefully reject God's purposes He has endowed mankind with wisdom, strength, and skill, but he's done that to bear his image on earth. He lives in Haran. The Israelites, Abram, well done. We can no longer keep building this cut this tower because when I say hey carry those bricks up the top of the tower and put them there, there and there Yet from God's perspective, the tower is so Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him And we pray, Lord, that you would send your Son Jesus God Genesis chapter 10, all the way through chapter 12. Gomer, Magog, Javan, Tubal, and Meshach. Was it was it because there was something in Abraham that made him different or better than all the other idol worshippers around him? Well, let's take a look, let's look more closely at the text. Notice what he calls them in verse 5. And friends, if you are walking by faith today, continue in that faith. So what I want us to do briefly is to go ahead and put on our ancient Israelite glasses. Massive acts of evil. At Babel, God made the one people who desired to be one many. But do they want to fill the earth? Sin never, ever ultimately produces the results it promises. What what pattern am I talking about? He believes God. I helped build this kingdom. The table of nations And the last name in the list of ten is Noah. You fast forward to the gospels. That would be the wrong way to read this verse. Now the Lord said. I just want them to remember me. Look at verse 15. We don't want to be dispersed on the face of the earth. And there are two anomalies in this long genealogy. I want us to notice this. Yes, it was Jesus, but I'm just gonna photobomb, slip in here for a little bit Yet we desire, Lord, to walk by faith. He responds in faith to God's word Abram, a perfect namesake for this morning's passage But what do James and John ask of Jesus at the end of his ministry? So Shynar is in modern day Iraq, southwest of And the gates of that kingdom are open to you today. We we don't want to fill the earth. But I also want you to notice the painful irony. Why do they want to make bricks? I'm sure you've seen this in your own life. Sidon. And so I want you to to see where I'm getting what I'm saying. Look at verse 5. I want you to think about this. No longer is mankind called sons of God. And in verse 8. So what does God do? Let's make a name for ourselves. I will make you a great nation. Or verse 6, look there. And we meet Abel. Yet they became wanderers like Verse 4: Let's build a city. Abram. Why did he do that? Look at verses 7 and 8. You come across a person who speaks a different language from you. Let's pray. So I want to go ahead and encourage you. We don't want what God wants. What promise am I talking about? Look at verse twenty-five. Because