Well, good morning. Uh greetings from Capitol Hill Baptist Church and greetings on behalf of my wife and children, uh Julie and our kids. We are so glad to be here. It's a tremendous honor. To teach God's word here at Chevly Baptist Church. First of all, I'm deeply encouraged as I was driving into Chevrolet to see the CBC signs directing me on where I need to go Beyond just looking like it's a marketing strategy from a church, it gave testimony that there is another lighthouse for the true gospel being proclaimed in this community. So I just want that to encourage you, that even just seeing the signs pointing to the reality of you guys centering your life around this word is a deep encouragement. uh to me personally. And then secondly, I just want to say on in front of everyone, I dearly love your pastor. I love John and Leah and their children. so much. Just to think a couple years ago when John and I began our friendship together, who would have thought he would be leading you guys as the pastor of this church? And I am so encouraged to see God's faithfulness in establishing this church family and then also raising up John, one of his children, to lead you. Let's go to the Lord in prayer one more time, and then we'll get started. Father, you have exalted above all things your name and your word. You are the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. You are abundant in power Your knowledge is unsearchable. And yet, Father, you stoop down to us to give weak and weary saints your wisdom. your power. And you have done that supremely through the person of your Son Jesus Christ. Father, you tell us in your word that you take no delight in the strength of the horse. You take no pleasure In the legs of a man, but you take pleasure in those who fear you and in those who hope in your steadfast love Father, we pray that you would use this sermon passage this morning to breathe life into spiritually dead hearts and encouragement to weary saints. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Perfect. From the first sip to the last drop. It's not about hot. It's about perfect. The perfect taste. Can you imagine that? Having satisfaction to your taste buds exactly like you want the perfect temperature, having total control over the warmth of your drinking experience, and the perfect time. Consuming a delicious cup whenever you want. You can have all this, this perfect experience for only. Seventy-nine dollars and ninety-five cents. Might ask, what is that? A coffee mug? But not just any coffee mug. Ember's ceramic coffee mug, which I hear is sold at Starbucks. So if you get enough gift cards, kids, you can save up to get this one day It's winner of Time magazine's best inventions of 2017 coffee mug. It is used by your smartphone device, which gives the mug the ability to warm your cup of tea or coffee or hot chocolate between the temperature range of 120 to 145 degrees, giving the consumer the ability to control one's enjoyment of a warm beverage Without the all-too common disappointment of a cold cup left sitting out. You see, perfection, we both love it. And hate it all at the same time, don't we? We can strive for perfection because we think perfection equals happiness and success. And yet, perfection is also that sober reminder that something isn't right with us, or maybe something is missing from our life. We can find ourselves looking for improvement or for something better in the things that mean the most to us. We see this in friendships amongst kids, right? Your son or daughter comes home, mom and dad. I have a new best friend, Stacy. She's amazing. You scratch your head and you realize what happened to Steve last week was your best friend. Well we see this in resumes, those applying for new jobs. Quite flawed people put their best foot forward on a few pieces of paper. And I think all of us would recognize this, whether you're new to the church or not. Christians find out quickly that when they come to any church, even the healthiest churches around That disappointment is surely to follow when you think you've walked into a perfect church Because here's the reality, whether you are new to pastoral ministry as an elder or leader of God's people, or you're new to joining any church, people will let you down. Why? Because people are imperfect. They're messy. Because they're sinful. Well, with this being true, how should Christians think about perfection? I mean, for that matter, should we even consider the idea of a perfect church? Or is it even possible for you yourself to become perfect, complete, lacking in nothing? And if it is possible, how do we get there? If you have a copy of God's word, I invite you to open it to the New Testament letter of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. If you are opening one of the pew Bibles provided, that should be on page 987. 987 And we're going to be looking at this morning, God's calling on our lives in the midst of a myriad of sinful imperfections, and what we had to look forward to because of who our God is. Follow with me as I read from 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, starting in verse 12. This is God's word. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love. Because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak. Be patient with them all. See that no one repays evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body Be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. Brothers, pray for us. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. This morning I have four main points you can fill out in your Bulletin there in the sermon section that elaborate on how we can persevere together as God's people as we together rely on God's faithfulness to perfect us. Point number one, love your church. Love your church. That's verses 12 to 15. Number two, look up in faith. Look up in faith. That's verses 16 to 18. Number three, listen with discernment. Listen with discernment. That's verses 19 to 22. And number four, look forward in hope. Look forward in hope. That's verses 23 to 24. First point, love your church will be a little longer than the next three points, just to give you a little heads up and relief from anxiety. Paul writes verses 12 to 13. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. And to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves To kind of catch you up to speed on where we are at the end of this letter, uh, the apostle Paul and his ministry team, Paul, Timothy, and Sylvanus, had landed in Thessalonica on their second missionary journey. And just like CBC in similar like ways, the gospel was preached, a local church was established, they began making disciples, seeing young Christians begin to mature. And here we have as a gospel witness, this lighthouse for the gospel there in Thessalonica. But because of persecution, they were ran out of town, and Paul and his team have been separated from them for quite some time. And then Paul writes this letter to encourage them in the Christian faith and instruct them further in Christian doctrine. But apparently by the time Paul gets wind of how they're doing, one of the concerns evidently had to do with relationship conflict or tension within the church. So here in verses 12 and 13, Paul begins by addressing what seems to be a cause for division and strife, as certain members of the congregation were possibly undervaluing the pastoral leadership by undermining the importance of their work. So Paul tells them in verse 12. Look with me in verse 12. He says, we ask you, brothers, to respect those leaders. Or this word could mean to appreciate or to take notice. In other words, to recognize them. Don't overlook them, don't ignore them, don't walk around with your hands over your eyes. In fact, it literally means to get intimately acquainted with them. In other words, he was telling the Thessalonians, Thessalonian church, give your leaders the honor that is due to them. In verse 13, he elaborates on this by telling them they are to esteem them very highly in love. Now, why does Paul do this? You know, is Paul like treating these guys like they're like ex-fraternity and college buddies? He wants to kind of boost their self-esteem up and put an arm around and show favoritism of some sort Not exactly. Notice again what verse 13 says. He says to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. You see, Paul did not exhort the members of this church to treat their leaders with such dignity and honor because they were popular. Or because of their charismatic personality. No, he says they are to do this because of their work. So that really makes us have to face the question, what is the work of a pastor? Kids, when I was your age, I remember asking my dad that question at lunch. I said, Dad, how much do we pay the pastor? My dad said, what does it matter? As I was eating my fried chicken as most South Georgia guys do. Well son will have to look at the budget and check it out. And I said, we can't pay him that much All he does is speak to us for 30 minutes so we can go home. That was an honest question, because that's all I ever saw But here, Paul, look in verse 12, he uses an interesting word. He says, we ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you. The word labor means to work to the point of exhaustion. Let me just give you a little uh news flash and kind of an insight into a pastor's life. Uh when a man has been prayed up and studied up all week. And he gets up behind the podium and he is depending on the prayers of God's people. And as he preaches in the power of the Holy Spirit, that 45-minute sermon will oftentimes feel like an eight-hour workday. Sometimes if you see Pastor John standing at the door and he's kind of like this, don't get offended. He's just one slap out. And that's for anybody Any man that's been called of God to teach God's word and to lead in any capacity, whether as a lay elder or a staff elder, this is an exhausting mental and emotional work. In verse 12, he even summarizes the ministry of pastoral leaders as admonishing the church. This is just another way of talking about the ministry of the word. Rebuking, encouraging, preaching, teaching, counseling, and equipping the saints for the work of ministry. And that's not even to include the elders' meetings, the hospital visits, the funerals. And all other urgent needs that arise, the work of a pastor, whether he is paid by the church or not, is hard work. I don't know whether you know this or not. You can do the statistics yourself, though things have gotten better in the last 20 to 30 years, according to most modern statistics. But apart from retirement The most common reasons men get out of the ministry, or at least seriously contemplate it, is because they feel deeply discouraged or even burned out. The exact causes and details of each man's situation can vary from pastor to pastor and church to church. It can be unresolved conflict among its members. It can be overworked and underpaid. Or it could simply be the reality that any pastor faces that genuinely wants to be faithful. It's hard sometimes to measure success. This is what the business world has done to the minds of Christians. We measure success simply by the size of the building, the size of the budget, and how many bottoms are in the pews or chairs. But the reality is the New Testament teaches faithfulness in a very different way. Though those things might have an element of truth to it. We do not measure the success of any church or any man's ministry because of how many baptisms have been done or how many people are showing up to church on Sunday. Listen, faithfulness to Jesus may look like dying for Jesus. A church faithful to Jesus might mean some of its members will leave and God will purify that church. So be careful of associating faithfulness with worldly success. Faithfulness is obedience to the teachings of Jesus and conformity to his likeness. We need to always remind each other what faithfulness really looks like. Two quick ways you can encourage your pastors is be eager to hear God's word preached. Come here like lions looking for the next meal in the jungle when this book is opened. And secondly, share with your pastors how God is working in your life through his ministry. Even this morning, as I was literally grabbing my stuff, Julie gave me a letter. Someone slipped under the door to encourage me off of last week's sermon. That just put a wind in my sails coming to see you this morning. There's a practical way to do that. And if you're visiting here today and you are a Christian, but you're not a member of a church and you're going, hey Blake, I'm not really sure. I like attending church, but I'm not sure about joining a church. Let me give you a winsome approach to encourage you to consider joining a gospel preaching church. Andrew, you can take this back with you home. Look in verse 12 again. Look how he uses to describe the pastor's role. He says, respect those who labor among you and are over you. In the Lord. You see, Christ has given pastors to his church as a gift. Some might say, Jesus is Lord of my life. That is true. But he's also put some babysitters in to care for you until you get home to glory. Those to care for you and watch over you. That's why this word here, over you in the Lord, means that Jesus says, you want to obey and follow me? Then submit and follow my faithful shepherds. And if those men are qualified according to 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1, they will be godly, not perfect. But mature, Bible-loving, gospel-preaching men that will set you an example to imitate as they watch over your soul for your joy and progress in the faith. You see, submitting to the authority of a healthy local church and following the lead of its elders is God's goodwill for your life. And may we all take some time this week to thank God for the gifts of leadership that the Lord has put in your life, whether that was years ago or even this year. Whether they have died and gone on to be with Christ, or you may meet them even in coming weeks. Thank God for what God has done in your life through those gifts of leaders. You might say, well, what does it matter? I mean, what is this going to do? Well, I think this will promote what we should all want in our churches, right? Humility. Love. Peace. That's why Paul says in verse 13, if you notice the second half, be at peace among yourselves. Listen, if you are in a local church and there seems to be unresolved conflict between yourself and the leadership, I would just implore you and encourage you from even just this text. To do all that you can in your power to reason and reconcile as best as possible And if you can't trust that leadership or that local church for the welfare of your soul and the welfare of your family's soul, then go and join a church that you can submit to that leadership and you can covenant with that local body to bear good fruit in your life. Whatever you decide to do, Ephesians 4. 3 needs to be implanted on your hearts. Do everything possible to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Well, loving the leaders of the church was Paul's first concern, but he also mentioned the Thessalonians that soul care, the shepherding and discipling of one another was also the members' responsibility too. Look at verse 14. And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. Encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with them all. Here, Paul basically gives us a little snapshot, a little zoom-in picture of some of the different maturity levels. and life circumstances that some of its members were facing in Thessalonica. He mentions three, the idle, the faint-hearted And the weak. Well, the idle were apparently members in the church who had strayed from the original teaching that Paul gave them about working hard to make a living for their own. We saw that in chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. In fact, by the time Paul writes, 2 Thessalonians, the same idol, the word could even be translated disorderly or disobedient members, began using their time for meddling in other people's business and gossiping behind others' backs and causing division in the body. And so what does Paul do? He tells the church to admonish them. That means to warn, possibly even rebuke them. so that they might repent of their disobedient and slothful lifestyles. The faint-hearted here were those in the church who had possibly become fearful. during persecution in chapter three we've seen that, or greatly discouraged by the death of loved ones in chapter four. So the church was to encourage them, so they might not be weary or afraid. And finally, Paul also told them not to overlook and forget the weak, but to help and support those who were in urgent need. I think this one verse alone could be the richest meditation this week for your life, CBC. It's a great text that kind of summarizes this wonderful picture of gospel ministry in a local church. I want you to notice a couple things. First, all Christians should be engaged in discipling others. All Christians should be engaged in discipling others. Of course, this will look different at different stages of life. And at different stages of maturity. But Paul seems to say that caring for one another is not the responsibility solely for the pastor or elders of that church. But it is for everyone in the congregation. In other words, indifference is not an option for Christian community. Indifference. Apathy. It's kind of like saying, hey, guess what? The weather in Australia today is so-and-so. Well only Andrew's really gonna care, possibly. You're not thinking about those things. That's not the type of attitude we should have towards Christian community Listen, if you have turned from your sins and put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you have been adopted into God's beloved family. And now you are heirs of a kingdom that will never fade with time. You are now sons and daughters of spiritual mothers and fathers, and you are brothers and sisters with other Men and women of all ages and all backgrounds. And the Bible teaches, according to the book of Ephesians, that the relationship you now have with other Christians Because of the Holy Spirit and because of the blood of Jesus Christ is deeper and richer and more enduring than any relationship with your biological family. So what does that mean? Well, to answer Cain's question from Genesis 4, am I my keep brother's keeper? The answer? Yes. You are your brother and sister's keeper. Second, not all Christians need the same care from one another Did you notice that Paul gave different categories for people's life situations? And he gives them a different playbook on how to approach them. For the idle, he said, admonish them. For the faint-hearted, encourage them. The weak, help them. If you are a parent or grandparent, you're tracking with me. If you've been paying attention, you're tracking. Even this morning you've probably been tracking. What do you mean Well, you can have, let's say, two children come from you and your spouse, and you've been saying the same instructions for not the fifth, not the tenth, but probably the hundredth time in the last six days. You sit on both down on the couch, you look at them, and it crosses your mind. You look awfully a lot like me and your mother or father. But how could you two be any different from us and one another? I mean, did someone just take a kid and drop him in our living room and drive off? I mean, where did you come from? Sometimes our children and grandchildren are a wonderful picture of even members in our local church. How can we be so different? How many sermons do we have to preach for For anyone to get it. How about us who preach the word? When are we gonna get it? And the reality is true for how we love each other. The principles of love are the same. But the application and approach to how we care for children, grandchildren, and members in the church will look different from person to person. I think this ought to teach us something about the nature of love itself. You see, love meets people where they're at and patiently leads them where they need to be. Let me say that again. Love meets people where they're at, spiritually, emotionally. Financially, but patiently leads them where they need to be. Did you catch that last phrase in verse 14? He says, be patient With them all. This past week, Titus was in my lap, our soon-to-be six-month-old, who's now resting on Julie. And I had his hand in my palm. And he's a big guy. You know, I've been pretty proud. And I got a big son, you know. But his hand was sitting there in my hand, and I go, wow, that's a tiny hand And you know, as days have gone on, I wake up and well the the hand hasn't changed much. My hand looks still much bigger. But the reality is, give it five, ten, fifteen, definitely twenty years, his hand is either gonna be my size. Or probably bigger. Well, how did that happen? Well, I don't know. I've never seen a National Geographic video that watched the growing of a hand over 20 years. But we knew it grew. You didn't wake up one day from infant hand to adult hand, from Monday to Tuesday. It happened over time. And the way we grow as Christians often looks the same way. Sometimes you can't see Christian growth with a naked eye. Sometimes you can't see Christian growth in a week, in a month, or a year. It's oftentimes years. And I think that should inform how we exercise patience with one another. I think this also tells us that love initiates and pursues the good of others while patiently and listen, carefully listening. To the needs that people have in their life. In other words, not all of us are cut from the same cloth. Not that one size fits all. Some believers need a loving rebuke to Wake up from their sinful deception. And some believers just need a gentle word of encouragement that may lift their downcast spirit Proverbs 12. 25 is a great verse to memorize, whether you're riding in the car with your children or you're at work thinking of how you can bless someone. Proverbs 12, 25. Anxiety in a man's heart weighs him down. But a good word makes them glad. I would encourage you this week, pray that God would give you sound wisdom to impart to someone who is deeply discouraged, even just this week. Well, brothers and sisters, think of how God has initiated and pursued you and your life. Kind of rewind the tape if you're going back to 80s and 90s. Let's get the VHS back out. Rewind the tape over your life. And see how God has been forbearing with you. Not when you were like hitting on all cylinders of obedience. But we're talking on the days where your mood was foul. You don't even want to relive some of those weeks or months or even years. Some of the thoughts and the words and the things we've done in private we want no one to know in public. Think of how patient God has been with you. Think about how kind Think about how gentle. Listen to this. Think about how many times he put someone in your life. And they met the exact need in your life. That warning, that encouragement that faithful brother or sister who gave you sound counsel to make a hard life decision do you think that was coincidence Do you think that was just happenstance? No, no, when you look back over your life even just this past week, if you think Hard enough and you you pray with a sober mind, you will see evidences of God's hand by dropping these gifts all over your life of men and women who have blessed you and encouraged you and challenged you so that you continue following Jesus. So do not for a moment take any of those gifts for granted. Whether it was a pastor or a member or a Christian you met for the first time, that is God's love towards you. And as you reflect on it, allow God's patience with you to motivate you to be patient with one another And if you're not sure on how to best love someone, let me just give you like just some popcorn things to think about. One, how can I pray for you? It's not offensive, it's not that aggressive. Most people will answer it. And if you pray for them, follow up. Secondly, if they're not interested in your input, they're not interested in your love and care, then this might be evidence you need to humble yourself and realize you're not Jesus. And ask them, hey, would you mind? Would you like to talk to another elder, another member that you can trust? And thirdly, if it's a sin issue. Uh Matthew 18, Matthew chapter 18 might be what's necessary where other believers need to get involved to help this person hate their sin and love Jesus. And yet, whatever you decide to do, pray for wisdom. It's better to act slowly than hasty. Paul gives us a word of caution. Look at verse 15. Not everyone's going to happily receive your acts of love, are they? See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to go to go to do good to one another and to everyone. In other words, guess what? Sheep bite. Christians don't always get along. Sometimes sparks fly and disagreements rise and it can get messy. We ought to remember the example of Jesus Christ. In 1 Peter chapter 2, he committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. Brothers and sisters, revenge is the heart posture of self-righteous sinners But confidence in God's sovereignty and loving kindness towards others is the heart posture of forgiven sinners. And beloved, verse 15 can take on countless applications, can it? Kids, this week, when your brother or sister takes something that does not belong to them. And you're tempted to take something of theirs. I want you to remember verse 15. The Bible tells me to repay no one evil for evil. Instead, I'm going to be a blessing to my brother and sister and love them even the more. This could be at work holding your tongue from gossip towards your boss who notices your colleagues' efforts And yet diminishes yours. This could be looked like giving respect to your boss even when he or she does not deserve it. It could be responding in kindness to a sharp email you got from a family member, or responding with gracious words on social media when someone posts something that absolutely annoys you. It could be writing a letter of encouragement to someone in the church that drives you bonkers. It could go on and on. The main question you and I need to ask ourselves is how do we respond to others when they sin against us. Or at the very least, when they wrong you and offend you. Well, I would pray that God would give us all a tamed tongue and a tender heart. A tame tongue and a tender heart Well, in the midst of these exhortations to heal broken relationships and to help one another towards heaven, Paul lays down these series of resolutions, if you will. That these believers should uphold as they remain dependent on God at all times, which is leads to point number two. Look up in faith Look up in faith. Paul says, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. These verses, these commands to rejoice, to pray, and to give thanks are all interconnected to one another as we show our trust in the goodness and sovereignty of God over our life. And Paul makes it clear in verse 18 that this is his will for us, listen, in every circumstance of life that we face. So if you've been like me and looked at these texts the last week or so, you've probably looked at these and go, oh wow, I've grumbled instead of rejoiced. Ah. Or my prayer life was rushed and non existent. Or I'm having a hard time giving thanks right now in this circumstance. Let me just give you a word of encouragement, how to read these texts. First, these verses should not be in isolation from the help of other believers in your life. Remember the one another verses we've been covering for the first 25 minutes. These are to be understood in the life of the Christian community, the local church And second Paul is not painting this naive picture of real life as if sin and hardship doesn't exist. Read 1st and 2 Thessalonians sometime. It is littered with examples of believers undergoing immense grief and hardship. But what Paul is doing, he's instructing them and us, is a fountain we have from God to draw strength from, especially in times of greatest need. So as we pray for one another. And rejoice with what God is doing in our life towards one another, God will use that to lift up our downcast spirit. Next time a brother and sister, a spouse, a friend, a church member tells you, man, I'm having a hard, hard day. And you listen and you figure out how you can care for them. But if you can sniff out some unbelief Or a little bit of attitude that doesn't reflect one of a Christian. Choose this comment timely, but I think it will heal their soul one day, maybe. Brother, this is bad. But it's not as bad as it could be. See, if you're a Christian, you've already been saved from the worst thing that could ever happen to you. eternal wrath from God. And if you are a Christian, you are also saved for the best thing that could ever happen to you. That is how you and I can rejoice and give thanks even when the darkness gets really dark. Because Jesus entered our darkness and taking on his own father's wrath, opening the door, the light coming into our darkness. By him rising from the dead, turned the lights on, and gave us hope beyond this temporal life. Gave us a gift that even the best temporal gifts cannot touch. That's how we can by helping each other, praying for one another, exhorting one another, give thanks in all circumstances. Maybe in verse 17 you've even got discouraged. Pray without ceasing? I mean. That's like kids, your parents saying, um uh son, you need to cut the grass. You need to take out the trash. Mom and dad, Pastor Blake told me I need to pray all day. I can't do it. I'm going to the throne of grace. Pardon me. Before you do that, well, don't, okay? This is what it means. It doesn't mean pray all day and don't have any human responsibility. No, it this is Paul saying never stop praying, like telling someone don't stop breathing. If you stop breathing, you die. Don't stop praying because it is our lifeline to God. In prayer, beloved, is one of the ways that God most sanctifies us, is it not? In prayer, we're not demanding God to do whatever our selfish desires want Him to do. It's actually us calling on God to answer us in accordance with His will while changing us in the process. As one author has said, prayer is like throwing an anchor from a boat onto an island. We don't pull the island to us, we pull ourselves to the island. If you're struggling to find reasons to rejoice in God's goodness to you and give thanks for his evidence of grace, find another believer. and go pray together. God delights when his people pray together. Well as we look up to God in prayer together, we're also called to listen with discernment. And point three, listen with discernment. Listen with discernment. Paul writes, do not quench the spirit, do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. You see, ever since the first man and first woman walked this earth and rebelled against God by disregarding his word and listening to the lie of Satan. Christians have been called upon, the people of God have been called upon to listen carefully and discern between truth and error. Jesus said in John chapter 8, whoever is of God hears the words of God. In Matthew chapter 7, Jesus warned us against false prophets. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but emerally are ravenous wolves. And in that same vein, Paul writes to the Thessalonian church to do basically two things. Thessalonian church, be eager and hungry to hear from God. When he says do not quench the spirit, that means don't douse out the flame or fire of God's work in your midst. However, be discerning and vigilant over what you hear. In other words, be teachable. But don't be gullible. Be earnest. Long for. CBC, you and I ought to be praying. Me for Capitol Hill Baptist Church. You for Chevrolet Baptist Church for the work of the Holy Spirit of God to be working powerfully in your midst. But whatever you hear talked needs to be tested, evaluated, and examined to see whether or not it is in fact of the Holy Spirit And judging from Paul's letters to this church, there may have been some type of false teaching and false prophesying saying that Jesus already came back. And that Paul and his teammates were phonies. And in reaction, they may have become lax and overly cautious about hearing prophetic words given. But Paul wants us to know just as much as the Thessalonians that God does and is speaking today. We don't serve a dead God. He is alive. And his word is living and active, Hebrews chapter 4 says. And how is God speaking? through the most sure prophetic word of the Lord, the sacred scriptures. Both the Old and New Testaments are fully inspired of God, profitable for teaching and correction and the maturity of our lives. The book of Hebrews says that Jesus himself is the true and perfect prophet, whom God has spoken to us in these last days, to whom we are commanded to listen to. Now, to be sure, prophecy is a topic you can study more about. It's a robust discussion. 1 Corinthians 12-14 makes it clear that the spiritual gift of prophecy was given for the common good of the church. And Christians have debate on exactly what this looks like today, now that the scriptures are closed, what does that look like in the church? Well, two things are crystal clear. One, God is no longer speaking to man in the same way he spoke to man through the scriptures i. e. , no one has been given authority from God to write any more scriptures. That canon, this revelation from God is closed. Secondly, there are no more apostles in the sense of authoritative messengers sent directly by Jesus who saw the resurrection and ministry of Christ The prophets, according to prophets and apostles, according to Ephesians 2, were the foundation for the church. So if we want to look at prophecy As less authoritative than Scripture, but something similar to what we might hear today in preaching. A fallible man preaching an infallible word. Or in your Bible studies when you're discussing certain things in your Bible study or women's and men's groups or In counseling one another or in exhorting one another, the test of whether or not it's from God remains the same. Number one, does it line up with the Bible? Is it from God's word? And then secondly, does it bring encouragement and build up the body of Christ? 1 Corinthians 14, 3. The one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation. In other words, here is your application from Pastor Blake. If someone comes to you this week and says, God told me, To tell you, if there is no open Bible in that room, there is no chapter and verse reference, or it does not line up with Scripture in any way. I want you to take one finger, another finger, and go la la la la la la la la. You know why? Because nobody is getting revelation from God like that today. If you want to say, I think God may be telling me to tell you, or as I've been reading scripture, I feel like this would be something you ought to consider. Sure, we feel burdened. We feel convicted to share things that God may be working in our life to bless others. But we should never think there are prophets and apostles roaming around planet Earth in the same way today. J. I. Packer said, impressions need to be suspected before they're sanctioned and tested before they're trusted. Verse 21, we're to hold fast what is good. So receive and obey what is true. Verse twenty two, abstain from every form of evil and reject what is false and do not obey it. In other words, eat the meat and spit out the bones Take what is good from what someone is offering as encouragement, teaching, but refuse to obey anything that does not line up with God's word. Well, as Paul concludes this section, he also wrote this letter to the Thessalonians, leaving them with a benediction that is wrapped in a divine promise. Which leads to our last point, point number four, look forward in hope. Look forward in hope. Paul began this letter by thanking God for his wonderful work of salvation in the lives of these believers. He described their conversion testimony as those whom God had sovereignly chosen to save out of his love and transformed them by the working of his power. And yet Paul saw it fit to write to them as his own children in the faith. to encourage them and instruct them on how to follow Jesus the rest of their days until they die or when Jesus comes back. Now we get to the end of the letter, and Paul concludes these list of do's and don'ts. There's quite a few in this passage if you've read it this week, with a hope that every Christian can look forward to. What is that hope? Listen, that God himself will sanctify. Every one he has begun a good work in. Listen, what does that mean? If God has drawn you to himself, By turning from your sin, putting your faith in Christ, he has given you his Holy Spirit within you. And he has promised, guaranteed. Predestined. He has orchestrated the entirety of your life for this one purpose to be accomplished. To make you and I like his Son, Jesus Christ. This is not a mission that might be accomplished. He does not need a plan B. He doesn't need anyone else to do this job. It says, now may God Himself Do it. He will wipe away, he will cleanse, he will remove every sinful blemish on your life The sin that you've worked so hard to overcome, so overcome, you never think you'll ever overget it. God himself is going to sanctify and cleanse you. And he says he's gonna preserve you to be without. blemish. In other words, no more perfection needed. He is making you like his perfect son, Christ. So dear Christian, what what do you do? If you are here today and you're not a Christian, what do you do when you look in the mirror of God's Word and see your failures, your frustrations, and your shortcomings? Let those failures drive you to one place, Jesus Christ. Jesus perfectly obeyed his father, and he himself never needed a shepherd. He was the good and great and is the chief shepherd of us all. Christ did not abuse his people nor neglect them but laid down his life for them. He never veered off the narrow way, nor did he revile back in return His prayer life was one of constant communion and trust. He never quenched or grieved the spirit. He fulfilled every prophecy about himself, and now he claims total allegiance over our lives, reigning over our hearts. our families, our churches, the past, present, and future. And because of his perfect obedience and his his Perfect substitutionary death on the cross, and by his victorious rising from the dead, light is now shown into darkness. True freedom has now been offered. And real hope has been offered for everyone who would turn from their wicked way, turn from trusting even in their best accomplishments for God, and look to the perfect one, Jesus. And he will give you the power. He will provide the people to get you home. So until Christ comes back, how do we strive towards holiness? Love your church. Look up in faith. Listen with discernment. Look forward in hope. You know, these last verses sometimes we overlook in our Bible study, but they're really just the outflow of what we just read. Verse 25, brothers, pray for us. Though Paul might have been a spiritual giant to us, he saw his desperate need for other people praying for him. How much more desperate should we be? Verse 26, greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. Today in our society, that mean might be a holy dap or a big bear hug Whatever is culturally appropriate for someone else to show that you are welcome here and we love you. That is Paul's exhortation to believers from all backgrounds and all cultures who come from come to faith in Christ. Verse 27, I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. The seriousness of Vault's tone should tell us that reading God's word and preaching God's word should never get old. We should want to sit under the word day and night as Psalm 1, as Pastor John will be preaching in weeks to come. And verse 28: the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. From start to finish, God's grace is what gets us home to glory. There is no such thing as a self-made man or woman. The only thing that exists are walking and talking sinners who have been miraculously and supernaturally changed by the grace of God. God. Well here it is, it's springtime, right? Sort of. The weather's kind of strange. But some of you are thinking about spring cleaning. If you haven't gone to Target or Walmart, You're looking for the best things to clean the house. Well, if you've like me in your past, you remember those those long days. You roll up the sleeves, you get the right chemicals, and you're going to work Hour one, hour two, hour three, you're feeling really good about yourself before the guests come over. And then guess what happens? The sun comes up and it begins shining through the glass. What happens? You see all the places you missed. And you go to yourself, have I made any progress at all? How did I miss that? There's so much more dirt still to clean. I think Christians oftentimes view their Christian life like that. God's light shows their sin, and we focus so much on how much we've grown or how much we haven't, and yet the tenor of the New Testament is this, dear Saint Yes, it is good when God reveals to you your sin, but focus more on this, that the light is shining in in the first place. If God continues to reveal to you your imperfections, it is not to condemn you. It is to show you the work he has begun. It is going to get brighter and brighter and brighter because one day. You will be perfectly cleansed, no more areas of your life to wash and purge, because he has promised to do it himself. So, how do we get from imperfect to perfect, sinful to without blemish, lacking to complete? Well, Paul says it's going to happen, verse 23, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And how is it going to happen? I'm not really sure. But verse 24 is a verse we can rest our life on. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. The God of peace will surely do it. Let's pray Father, we come before you and we are clinging to that promise this morning that you By your spirit, through the church we are a part of, through dependence in prayer, through discernment from truth and error We know you're going to take us home. And you will make us like your son. And so we pray that you would use this passage, use these exhortations. to do just that and do just that here at Chevly Baptist Church. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen