Well, good morning. It is a pleasure to be with you today. I bring greetings from Christchurch Westchester. I am so thankful for this congregation. Please know that we pray for you regularly at our church. I'm thankful for your pastor and the friendship that we've been able to develop over the past several years. I'm thankful for the opportunity the Lord has given you. To be able to be here in this community, to be able to preach the gospel to people who so desperately need it. And it is my prayer that the Lord would Answer your desire to have a building. We know what it's like to have a building. Um we know what it's like to be inheritors of a building that has a lot of deferred maintenance, which is probably what's before you. And so we're asking that the Lord will bless you and that he would give you wisdom and discernment there. But so good to be with you today. If you have your Bible, I invite you to turn to the Gospel of Mark. Chapter 14. Our time together today will be greatly helped by you following along in a copy of God's Word. If you're not very familiar with the Gospel of Mark, you will be helped by knowing that he has structured his gospel around three questions Who is Jesus? From chapter 1, verse 1 to chapter 8, verse 30. What does Jesus expect of those who follow him? Chapter 8, verse 31, all the way to chapter 10, verse 52. And why did Jesus have to die? Chapter 11, verse 1 to chapter 16, verse 8. Our text is in the final section. It's the last week of Jesus' life. It's Thursday. He'll die tomorrow. We're going to begin reading in chapter 14, verse 12. Mark writes, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and he speaks to us with the same authority as if Jesus Christ himself were here speaking to us today. And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, The teacher says, Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. There prepare for us And the disciples set out and went into the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover. And when it was evening he came with the twelve. And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, Is it I? He said to them, It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born And as they were eating, he took the bread, and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Let's pray. Father, we are indeed grateful for your word. Your word is truth, and we pray now that you would write these eternal truths on our hearts. We do ask, Father, that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see the truth of God as it has been decisively revealed in the Word of God. For the believers here, that you would drive us into deeper repentance and deeper faith But, Father, for those who are here today who have not yet trusted Christ, we pray that today would be the day that they hear the voice of the Galilean calling out on the Gospel of Mark, and that you would cause them to be born again. And we ask all of this in the name of our God who has revealed himself to us as Father, Son, and Spirit. Amen. Gabe and Andy have been friends for over 20 years. Two friends originally brought together by a passion for music and a love for games, who for more than six years have walked 30 minutes one way to give each other a high five. A tradition that they started merely as a fun way to see each other regularly. After moving within two miles of each other, Andy suggested that they walk toward each other once a week And high five in the middle, in just what so happens to be a local park. And so at 8. 05 a. m. on April 30th, 2014, they texted and said, all right, let's leave our houses. They met at the middle point. They gave each other a high five, and they weren't sure what to do with the rest of their time, so they stayed there and talked for three hours. The only rule at the beginning was that they had to do it one time each week, but over the years the process has evolved. Now one person sends the other person the high-five emoji. Then the other person responds with the hand. Then they both respond with a walking emoji. That's the only communication between them. Over time, friends became interested in what they were doing and started to ask, can I go on the high five walk with you? On one occasion, they each had about 15 to 20 guys in line with them, some walking with Gabe, some walking with Andy, all in two long lines, giving each other's high five down the street. They say it's not rare for their wives and for their families to come along with them as well. Even the high five has changed. At first it was pretty standard, but over time they, quote, started adding other moves to it. It eventually became a clap, snap, high five. And if they're too busy at work that day or with the demands of life, they simply give each other what they call the silent high five But as you can imagine at this point, the silent high five has some rules to it as well. They first have to pass each other without even looking at each other as if they're complete strangers. They can't even smile. They each take 20 paces. They turn around and they come back. But they don't acknowledge each other's existence. until the very last second when they simply stick up their hand, high five, and walk all the way home. The High Five is so intimately woven into the fabric of their lives that Gabe said, quote, for the last six and a half years, It has been one of the most consistent things in my life until last year, when Gabe was diagnosed with a rare, more long-term version of encephalitis and lost significant portions of his memory. At this portion of point in Jesus' life, for the last three and a half years, fellowship with the Twelve has been one of the most consistent things in his life. Until this Thursday. the Thursday night of the Lord's Last Supper, when Jesus is betrayed by his enemy and abandoned by his friends, and what has become known as Monday Thursday in many Christian traditions because of the Latin for New Commandment. And in preparation for that meal, notice first Jesus' prediction. Look with me again in chapter 14, verse 12, please. And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. Wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is my guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. There prepare for us. And the disciples set out and went into the city, and found it just as Jesus had told them, and they prepared the Passover. When Jesus wakes up on Thursday morning, he will likely not close his eyes again until he closes them in death on Friday afternoon. Yet Mark tells us that Jesus never wavered, not even for a second. Jesus never hesitated in the final days of his life. In fact, careful readers of Mark's gospel will see that Jesus remained fully prepared to take deliberate actions that moved him toward the cross. when his disciples asked verse twelve, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? As thousands of Passover pilgrims flooded into Jerusalem from all over the world, the disciples' minds turned to very practical questions. Where are we going? What are we going to do? When are we going to do it? There's an urgency in their questions because of the significance of Passover. But there is a concern for us as readers, because we know what they don't, that Judas has already agreed to betray Jesus. Just look up at verse 10 of chapter 14 Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money, and he sought an opportunity to betray him. But Jesus is not concerned. And he is already prepared. Verse 13. And he sent two of his disciples and said to them: Go into the city, and you will find a man carrying a jar of water. He will meet you. The careful preparations made for this meal stress its importance to Jesus. Jesus desired to have this meal in particular with his disciples A fact that Mark stresses for us and emphasizes by mentioning Passover four times in our text today that this meal The final meal that Jesus would have with his disciples was the Passover meal on the very same day the Jews, verse 12, sacrificed the Passover lamb. The careful preparations not only stress Jesus' desire, his instructions demonstrate his omniscience. He tells his disciples that when they enter into the city, They will encounter a man carrying a jar of water, a man that they are to follow to the house where they will eat the Passover meal. Now finding a Jewish man carrying a jar of water in Jerusalem during Passover would have been highly unusual, not only because it was considered servant's work, But also because the city would have been flooded with thousands upon thousands of people preparing for the feast. To find anybody would have been difficult. It would have been a lot like when you travel overseas to Europe or to Asia and you come home And your friend asks you if you happen to have met the one European or Asian person that they know. The fact that they encounter the man who leads them into the house where they're to eat the Passover meal exhibits God's providence and Jesus' omniscience. And the fact that the room was ready shows the importance of this moment for Jesus, since he would have had to secure that room well in advance with the owner. because of the enormous crowds that made it nearly impossible to find any place to celebrate the feast within the city walls. And yet Mark tells us, verse 16. The disciples set out, went into the city, and they found it just as Jesus had told them. Friends, Mark wants us to see. That Jesus took deliberate steps toward the cross in the final days of his life. He went to the cross willingly, and he died more willingly than we receive eternal life. The question is, are you a recipient of that life by faith? Jesus' prediction. Notice second, Judas' betrayal. Look in verse 17. And when it was evening, he came with the twelve. And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, One of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, Is it I? He said to them, is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread and did the dish with me. For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Jesus and his disciples would have spent several hours in what we now know is the upper room, verse 15. The events would have included washing the disciples' feet. Eating the Passover meal, a prediction of Peter's denials and Judah's betrayal, and the lengthy teaching session recorded for us in John's Gospel Sometime around 6 p. m. , Jesus and his disciples would have reclined around a U-shaped table, and what Jesus says next to his disciples stuns them in verse 18. And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. An ominous tone for such a festive occasion. Yet once again, Jesus demonstrates his awareness And is total control of everything that is taking place. While he is moving in Mark's gospel to his destiny, forsaken and alone, he remains in sovereign control of everything. Nothing happened to Jesus by accident in his life. Well, as you can imagine, the atmosphere in the room would have become palpable and extremely tense in this moment when Jesus revealed that one of the people with him at the table was a traitor. You can almost imagine how stunned Judas would have been to learn that his secretive plan has now been uncovered The shocking revelation brings a flurry of responses from the disciples. They simply cannot believe what Jesus is telling them. So they all begin to ask in verse 19: Is it I? Is it me? Who is it among us? Jesus' reply to their question makes four things perfectly clear in verse twenty. He said to them, It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread and did the dish with me. For the Son of Man goes, as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. First, the traitor is one of the twelve. Second, he dips his hand into the bowl with Jesus. It would have been better for that man to never have been born. And this betrayal was ordained by God. When we read the gospel narratives and we come to this point, we think that what Jesus says would have made it clearer for all of the disciples. But Jesus comment that the betrayer is the one who sticks his hand into the bowl would not have made things as clear as we think they would have Where at this point in the evening, every single person around the table would have stuck their hand in the bowl at some point. That is why they're all confused and they don't know who is responsible This underscores the terrible nature of Judah's treachery. He is, verse 20, the one who is dipping bread into the dish with me. You eat with a friend. Jesus' identification of the traitor alludes to Psalm 41, verse 9, even my friend, in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me And that lament psalm, David decries the fact that a close friend, someone whom he trusted, someone he ate with, turned against him. Do you know what it's like to be betrayed by somebody that you love? A friend in your life that you would have trusted with your information. a colleague or a coworker, someone that you believed was for you and not against you So does Jesus. He knows exactly what it's like to be betrayed by the very people that he trusted with his life. And friends, that is why he can hear your prayers in the midst of brokenness and betrayal so effectively. And he is so merciful in those moments. You can take all of that sorrow to Jesus, the mighty friend of sinners, who knows exactly what it is like to be turned against by the very people that he trusted with you. In this psalm, David Sarah pointed forward to the Davidic Messiah, the son of David, Jesus Christ. Judas' betrayal is a part of God's plan written of long ago. And the fact that that betrayal is both the fulfillment of God's plan, having been prophesied in Scripture, is also underscores the fact that it is his willful choice. The choice of this traitor are stated clearly in verse 21. For the Son of Man goes that it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. God's sovereignty and Judas' responsibility perfectly coexist here in Mark's gospel. They are stated without embarrassment. God is sovereign Judas is responsible just as God is sovereign and you are responsible for your sin, not someone else Friends, Jesus must die according to the scripture, which immediately floods our minds with all of the familiar passages like Isaiah 52 and 53. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. But the emphasis in Mark chapter 14, verses 17 through 21 is also on the certainty of Judas' judgment. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Better to never live than to die apart from Jesus. Better to never live than to have the most full Most wonderful, most blessed, most envied life ever, and die apart from Jesus. Better to never live at all than to die estranged from Jesus. Parents, I wonder, what are you teaching your children is truly valuable? Presence? Accomplishments? Prestige, academic accolades, vacation, luxury. Better to never live than to die apart from Jesus Members of this church. What have you been teaching each other is truly valuable? Control. Power. Politics. Being right. Better to never live than to die apart from Jesus. Students, young and old, children here. I wonder what are you teaching each other as truly valuable? Material possessions? Followers? Platform? Sports accolades Better to never live than to die apart from Jesus. Unbelievers who are here today It is better to never live than to have absolutely everything that this world has to offer. To have everything that everyone would tell you makes you meaningful, successful, wonderful. Better to never live than to have everything and die apart from Jesus. Will you die apart from Jesus That is a question that only you can answer. Have you trusted in the Christ by faith? Or like Judas, are you corralling around all of his friends, playing as one of his followers? And not have followed Jesus. Jesus' prediction. Judas' betrayal. Notice third, Jesus' pledge. Look in verse 22. And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it, he broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank, and he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. The Passover meal consisted of several basic elements, each one having a symbolic importance, contributing to the retelling of the Exodus story. The Passover lamb reminded them of the blood of the lamb smeared on the doorpost above their heads so that they would escape the visitation of the angel of death The unleavened bread reminded them of the swiftness of their redemption. They had no time to bake their bread before their flight from Egypt. A bowl of puree reminded them of the clay that they used to make bricks during their captivity. The bowl of salt water reminded them of their tears during slavery, and the water of the Red Sea The bitter herbs reminded them of the bitterness of their bondage. Four cups of wine were taken during the Passover meal. Each one commemorated one of the four promises of God to his people in Exodus 6, verses 6 through 7. The passage says, say therefore to the people of Israel, I am the Lord, I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from slavery to them. And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm with great acts of judgment. And I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am the Lord your God, who has brought you out from under the burden of the Egyptians. The first Passover represented God's greatest act of deliverance in the Hebrew Scriptures and the creation of the nation of Israel Yahweh defeated Pharaoh by his mighty power. He delivered his people from slavery through the sacrificial blood of the lamb. So the Israelites were now to kill a lamb and to rub that blood on their doorframe. So what we read earlier tells us in Exodus chapter 12, verse 13. The blood shall be a sign for you on the houses where you are. And when you see the blood, I will pass over you And no plague will befall you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. The point is so important in Exodus chapter 12. It's actually stated twice. Verse 23. For God the Lord God will pass through to strike the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood on the lintel and the two doorposts, the Lord will pass over the door and will not allow the destroyer to enter your house to strike you The significance of Passover cannot be overestimated. It signaled not only the release of the Israelites from their slavery. But the dawning of the new cov a new covenant with their God. And at the same time, it foreshadowed the death of Jesus, our Passover Lamb. So later, when Israel was oppressed and defeated by her enemies, the prophets predicted a day when Yahweh would return to Zion to accomplish a new and greater exodus. And it is only in light of understanding that historical context that we begin to see certain parallels that exist between the Last Supper and Passover. In the Passover, God remembered his covenant with Abraham. At the Lord's Supper, a new covenant is established between God and his people. At Passover, Israel remembered their bondage and slavery in Egypt and how God delivered them At the Lord's Supper, we are reminded as believers of our former slavery to sin and to Satan, but through Christ, how we have received forgiveness of sins and freedom from bondage to sin. In the Passover, the blood of the Lamb was smeared on the doorpost so that each family would have a sign there of what God would do if they obeyed him. Lamb had to die to secure their freedom. And the Lord's Supper, the blood of Christ, our Passover lamb, has been shed for us. Jesus' words here in Mark's Gospel recall. And transform the rich symbolism of Passover. And they announce the arrival of the new Exodus and the beginning of a new covenant. Verse 22. And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it, he broke it and gave it to them. Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them. And they all drank, and he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drank it new in the kingdom of God. This is why the Passover meal involved a prescribed order, a liturgy. First came a blessing for the festival and the first cup of wine. Next, the food would be brought out, and the youngest son was to ask the father, Why is this night different than all of the other nights? And the father would answer the question by pointing to all of the elements, explaining to him the significance and their symbolism. And after drinking the second cup of wine, the bread would be blessed, broken, and distributed for all there. Then the bread would be eaten with the bitter herbs, and the bowl of puree. The meal was eaten next Passover meal included roasted lamb that had been sacrificed in the temple. And at the conclusion of the meal, the Father would bless with the third cup of wine, and they would sing some of the Hillel Psalms. And then finally they would take the fourth cup of wine. Jesus' statement here in verse 25 is rich with symbolism. Truly I say to you. I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drank it anew in the kingdom of God, directing his disciples' attention no longer backwards. But forward to the second coming, to the messianic banquet at the end of the age. The unleavened bread represents his body. This is my body for you. The wine represents the new covenant. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for you. Jesus' words in Mark 14, echo Exodus 24:8. Moses took bread and threw it on the peop blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all of these words, pointing us to the new covenant spoken of in Jeremiah. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord. When I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each one his brother saying, know the Lord. For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. While the Mosaic covenant was established with the blood of sacrificial animals, the new covenant is established through the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, God's beloved Son. Friends, Jesus viewed his death as a sacrifice of atonement. Establishing a new covenant with his people Leading them in a new exodus from their bondage of sin. This is why we celebrate when we observe the Lord's Supper. It's not simply a time to scrunch up our face and feel sorry for Jesus. We celebrate what God has done. This is a time why we gather each week to remind ourselves of the good news of redemption. This is why we remember and proclaim what He has done for us and for our salvation. But what specifically must we remember and proclaim that in the fullness of time, God sent forth his son Born of woman, born under the law, to redeem us from the curse of the law so that we might receive adoption as sons. That is the basic storyline of the Bible that we must remember and proclaim that God took action for us. And the very fact that he needed to save us and redeem us implies that we personally needed to be saved. Saved from what? From the curse of sin. You are a sinner. You have sinned against a holy God. Something that we all came in here in common with this morning is that we are sinners by birth and sinners by choice. Sins of ignoring God and rejecting God in the world He created, turning away from Him, not being or doing what He is required in His law. But how did God save us? By sending his son Jesus to live the life that we could never live and to die the death that we all deserve to die. So that if we would repent of our sins, turn away from them and trust in this Christ, we might be forgiven of our sins and have the joy of everlasting life and underscore The joy of everlasting life, the hope of redemption, as we're transferred out of the domain of darkness and into the kingdom of his beloved Son. Friends, have you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? Have you trusted in what He has done for us and for our salvation? Children in this room, trust in Christ. Adults in this room, let no shame keep you from trusting Christ. No one who's known you for any length of time will think ill of you for turning to Christ today. Everyone in this room, believers included, be reminded that what you need today is to trust in Christ afresh. It's not something that we do at the beginning of our Christian journey. It is something that we do day by day as we grow in the grace of Christ, reminding ourselves of the cross and trusting in Christ. One of the most frequently repeated commands in the Bible is remember. If you read the ESV version of the Bible, it is in there about 169 times We are commanded to remember, not merely so that we don't forget, we will if we don't work hard to remember. Not simply because we're prone to forget, we will forget if we don't labor to remember. But because our sins Cause us to forget, and our sins suppress what we're supposed to remember. That Jesus Christ came into this world And died for the people that he so loved. We labor to remember so that we can more confidently proclaim Christ crucified for you, for us. So that we might remember the beauty of redemption. The first week Gabe was in the hospital with encephalitis, there was a special high-five moment. He was allowed one visitor a day, and Andy stayed overnight so that Gabe's wife could go home and be with their daughter. That night Andy asked him, Do you know who I am? To which Gabe replied, Yeah, you're Andy. Did I get that wrong earlier? I'm really sorry. Then Andy asked him, do you know anything about the high five? To which Gabe replied, no, I don't know anything. The next morning, Gabe got up to use the restroom, and Andy said, Gabe, I know this probably isn't going to make any sense to you, but when you're walking back from the bathroom, I'm going to walk towards you, and I need you to hold up your hand and give me a high five. And as Andy started to walk toward Gabe right before the high five, he did the clap, snap, high five, and Andy just broke down in tears Later in an interview discussing that night in the hospital, Gabe said, that's one of the things that I love about the routine of it. Not just the mechanics of it, but the friendship part of it. It is so burned into my body that that's what came out. And now after having spent weeks in the hospital, I've been trying to put my life together again. And this guy is such a huge part of it. And this simple thing that we started several years ago is so important. When asked what it was like to carry on a tradition with a friend who can't remember it, Andy said, There have been seasons of our friendship when I needed more emotional support, and Gabe was there to walk with me through it. During this time, I've been carrying more of the memory. But that's the normal ebb and flow of any meaningful relationship. This feels like the time that I can repay Gabe for what he has done for me in the past. When asked what it was like to learn something new that was already so special to him, Gabe replied, In the midst of something I've never felt before, where my brain is swirling, there was some kind of routine. That brought a little less chaos into what was already a pretty chaotic time for me. And now, even after six years of doing this simple thing. Every time I see my wonderful buddy walking down the side of the road toward me, that's special We're dedicated to each other because we're showing each other that we love each other in something more than just simply saying, hey, I love you. We're doing something for each other, and it hasn't gotten old And friends, I'm here to tell you that it never will. Beautiful things like the high five will never get old. They are gifts to the world that renarrate our lives. And in a world filled with so many ugly things, we need beautiful things to bring a little less chaos in what has been a very chaotic time for every single one of us in this room. We need beautiful things to renarrate our lives around the story of redemption. Things like the Lord's Supper. Things like baptism Things like services of corporate worship, where there's a liturgy that reminds us of what we are all prone to forget and suppress because of our sin. The goodness of God revealed in the person of Jesus Christ. Things like friendship, that God has given us his friends as our own. And that we here today share something in common with one another if we have trusted in Christ. That we do not share with our best friends on this planet if they do not love Christ or our very own family members. Things like, and can it be? That remind us of what our state was like before we trusted Christ, no matter how innocent our life was lived, or how much of a wreck our life was before Christ. That our chains have fallen off, and that we have been brought near by the precious blood of Christ. Things like the Bible. Careful readers today probably notice that the Lord's Supper is actually sandwiched between two very ugly things. The betrayal of Judas and the denial of Peter, to remind us in the very structure of Mark's gospel, the great cost that the Son of God paid To bring us to redemption. He gave his life as a ransom for many. He was faithful in the midst of friends who were faithless Only as we hear the story rightly proclaimed and see the story in the biblical text will we be moved by the story to remember and proclaim Christ alone. For the forgiveness of sins. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the good news of the gospel, for the story of redemption. May it never become old to us. May it never be old hat. May we never become so familiar With the gospel story that we fail to be stunned by what Jesus Christ has done for us Father, may we never become so familiar with it that we become ashamed to share it with other people. May we boldly declare the good news of the gospel because we know that everybody we ever meet. Shares the same basic need to hear that Jesus Christ is the mighty friend of sinners and that he calls them to himself if they will repent and believe. Lord, make us bold. Make us grateful. Make us happy. Make us holy. Give us joy. Help us to remember, especially in those moments, Father, when we feel that you have forgotten us or forsaken us. And those moments of betrayal that are difficult and hard. And those moments when life is more than we can bring ourselves to bear up against. May we be reminded of the beauty of this gospel and the hope that it secures for us in the life to come forevermore. Amen.