Good morning. It is a pleasure to be with you here on this beautiful Sunday morning and to have the honor and privilege to open up God's Word with you and to hear Him speak to us today. through the scriptures. Since we are going to God and we want to hear him speak, it's right for us to display our dependence upon him for all things. By going to him again briefly in prayer to ask him to bless our time. So would you please pray with me briefly one more time? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are here as the sheep of your pasture. Your word says that your sheep know your voice and they listen to it. We ask then, Father, that you would speak to us clearly And speak to us through your word. Encourage our hearts. Open our hearts to receive your word. Convict us of sin. Sanctify us. Do everything in accordance with your great purposes for your word and your people here together this morning. Grant the Spirit. To awaken our hearts, we pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I want to start our time this morning with a question And my question to you as we begin is, what is the goal of your life? What is the goal of your life this morning? Now, to ask it another way, we might phrase it this way. What is it that you're living for today? What is it that you're living for today? What is the purpose of your life? Well, this is an important question, isn't it? Right? Because how we answer that question will inform the different decisions that we make in this life, right? What we do is we start with our goal. Once we've set our goal, then we work backwards from there and we understand the things that we need to do to reach that goal. So when I ask you. . What is the goal of your life, the overarching goal of your life? . I'm basically asking you to figure out how to frame the rest of your life. What are the decisions that you should make in this life to reach that goal? You should really consider this question. But what's your goal in life? Is your goal to have as much fun as possible before you leave this earth? It'll certainly lead to certain decisions versus others. Is your goal to have a great career or to accumulate as much wealth or esteem as possible from others? What is it that you're living for? Well, to answer that question, Christians turn to the Bible. Because we believe that in the Bible, God has not left these most important questions of life. unanswered questions like what is the purpose or goal of life? And one of my favorite answers given to that question is found in a document Called the Westminster Shorter Catechism, which is basically a summary of the Bible's teaching on various topics. And the very first question that the Westminster Shorter Catechism asks and answers is about the goal of human life. Question one of the Westminster Shorter Catechism is this. What is the chief end of man? Now I want to stop. I want to open this question up to the kids. Kids, can any of you tell me what the answer to that question is? What is the chief end of man? Clark? Amen, Clark. Well done. The goal of our lives, according to the Westminster Catechism, pointing to the Holy Scriptures, is that we as humans are called. to glorify God and enjoy him forever. What is your goal in life? Well if you're a Christian, your goal in life should be that to glorify God and enjoy him forever. But here's where we run into a problem. Goals are difficult to achieve. Studies show that 92% of people fail to achieve their New Year's goals. Me included. I'm part of that 92%. Year after year, I have failed to hit my New Year's goals. I'm among that group. Only 8% of people actually achieve their New Year's goals. And researchers who study these types of things have found that the people who regularly achieve their goals have one thing in common. They all recognize the steps that they will need to take to achieve that goal. So if your goal in life as a Christian should be to glorify God and enjoy Him forever, What are the things that you think you need to do to achieve that goal? Well, the reason I asked this question is because in our passage this morning. . Jesus is going to provide us with two of the things that we will need to do if we're going to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. . So I want to invite you to open in your Bibles to Mark chapter 12, verses 28 to 34. If you're using one of the Bibles that we provided, you're going to find our passage on pages 848 and 849. Now, I did say that there are two things that Jesus says that we'll need to do if we're going to glorify God and enjoy him forever. But because of how important these two things are, we're going to do a two-part series on this passage. So this morning we're going to focus on the first thing that we should do to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And then three weeks from now, when I return to the pulpit, we'll focus on the second thing. So, what are those things that we should do to glorify God? Let me go ahead and read the passage for us now. I'd encourage you to follow along as I'm reading. This is Mark chapter 12, verses 28 to 34. This is God's word. And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he, that is Jesus, answered them well, asked him. Which commandment is the most important of all? Jesus answered, The most important is, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength The second is this. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength and to love one's neighbor as oneself is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that, no one dared to ask him any more questions. Well, the point that I want us to take away from our passage this morning is this. Jesus wants us to know that if we're going to glorify God and enjoy him forever, We will need to love God completely. We will need to love God completely This passage in Mark occurs in the final week of Jesus' life and is part of a larger section in which Jesus' authority is being challenged by all of his different opponents. And in verse 28, immediately after answering a question about the resurrection that a group known as the Sadducees had asked him, A scribe steps forward. This is a scribe, a teacher of the law, somebody who understood the law really well and was a teacher of it. A scribe steps forward to ask Jesus about what the greatest commandment is. We don't want to ask ourselves, what's the point of this question? Why would the scribe ask him this? Well, I think I think the first reason is that uh the i it would show Jesus' Total mastery of the law. Does Jesus truly understand the law as a teacher from God? The rabbinic tradition actually counted six hundred and thirteen different commandments in the Torah, that is the first five books of the Bible. And it was common for rabbis to be asked which of the commandments was the most important. It was a way of asking them, hey, to summarize, hey, can you summarize all of the commandments of the law in a nutshell? Hey, boil it down for me. What do all these commandments essentially teach, these 613 different commandments? Now, look with me in your Bibles at verse 29, at Jesus' response. How does Jesus The master and teacher of the law respond. How does he boil it down? Oh, he responds, the most important is this. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength Notice a driving emphasis on a complete love of God, all your heart, all your soul. All your mind, all your strength. But before we get to that, I want us to stop and pause and recognize that Jesus frontloads the love of God with the knowledge of God. That is, you can't love God according to Jesus if you don't know who God is Notice that before Jesus says anything about how we should love God, he first makes a declaration about the identity of God. He says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Apart from the word here, there's no commandment to obey. He's just saying, Yahweh is God, Yahweh is one. And what he's doing is he's reaching back to the book of Deuteronomy. chapter 6 verse 4 which that verse within Judaism serves as a creed or a confession kind of like we did the Nicene Creed this morning They have creeds and confessions within Judaism declaring their faith in God and what God's identity and nature are. And Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 4 and 5 are known as a Shema, which is The first word in Hebrew, here, Shema, here, O Israel. And in Hebrew, this verse is literally reads as here, Israel, Yahweh God, Yahweh one. It's translated into English a number of different ways, but regardless of the translation, the message is always the same. Yahweh is God, and Yahweh is the only God. God has a specific identity and he wants us to know who he is. And we really need to think about this in our culture. In our culture, the idea that you need to be right about who God is to truly love him is anathema. Right, religious truths and our culture are thought to be purely subjective and therefore in no way can be universal for all people. Right? You hear people say you have your truth about God and I have my truth and in our opinion They're all the same because we're all just guessing, right? We can't really know religious truths the way that we can know other truths. That's how tr religious truth is viewed in our culture. But the reality is all religions are not the same Some may have similarities, but they're also vastly different from one another in many ways. And one of the main ways that Christianity is distinguished from other religions is by its belief about the identity of God. You might even hear it said, which I've heard it said as I follow along different trends within religion and conversations about faith, you might hear it said that Muslims and Jews and Christians all worship the same God because they all descend from Abraham and they're all monotheistic religions. So you all worship the same God. Let's stop quibbling about differences. But the reality is that's not true. We don't all worship the same God. Islam and Judaism and Christianity have vastly Vastly different understandings about crucial aspects of God's nature, which lead us to different conclusions about the identity of God. Most importantly, Muslims and Jews deny Jesus' divinity. While Christians believe that Jesus is fully God, it's impossible. It's impossible for us to be worshiping the same God when we disagree on such a fundamental aspect of God's I want to throw this into a little illustration to help you understand what I'm saying. I think it'll help bring this reality home. I want you to imagine with me that you're at a party. We're standing together and at the party, a woman walks up to me and says, I love your wife, Leah. I've been talking with her all night, and I am just so amazed at her kindness and wisdom and beauty. And I respond to this woman. I love my wife too, right? She is indeed kind and wise and beautiful. But then I asked the woman, something's a little bit off, and so I asked the woman, yeah, can you describe my wife Leah for me? And she says, oh, of course. She's five foot one. She has dark brown hair and brownish green eyes. But what do you think I'm going to say If you're a visitor here, you probably don't know the answer to that question because you don't know what my wife looks like. But most of you here know what my wife looks like. You know what I'm going to say. I'm going to say how well I'm sorry, if if you know my wife, Leah, then you're actually mistaken. That's not what my wife looks like. My wife Leah is 5'8 and has blonde hair and blue eyes. You may love a woman at this party named Leah, but you're not talking about my wife It's the same way with God. We can say that we love a God who is one, who is kind, who's all powerful, but if we deny that Jesus is God in the flesh, then we're just not talking about the same God. Does that make sense? You see how this comes out? Right? It's the same way with God. We can say we love God, but if we haven't identified him correctly, then we don't actually love the true God. We love someone or something that we've created in our own minds and called God. Now, I get this. I recognize that if you're not a follower of Jesus or if you are a follower of Islam or Judaism, I say this with great respect. I understand that what I'm saying sounds supremely self-righteous, as though I have and we have somehow figured out who God is and everyone else is wrong. But if that's what you think, I just want you to know that's not what I am saying. I want to assure you that's not what Christians believe. We do believe that we know God. And we want you to know him too. But we don't believe that we're somehow wiser than everyone else and have figured out who God is on our own. We believe, according to what the Bible teaches, that the only way that anyone can come to know God is if God reveals himself to them. Just like the people of Israel, Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4. They did not know God in Egypt. Remember one of the things that God told Moses to do, go to them and tell them that the Lord is God. And he says to them, What do I say about your name? What's your name? Tell them Yahweh sent you. And Yahweh came down to them on Mount Sinai, revealed himself to them, and Moses said, Hear, O Israel, the Lord, Yahweh is God. The Lord is one, and God has since then the most fully revealed himself to all of mankind and has offered faith and forgiveness to all of mankind through his son, Jesus Christ. Jesus is the image of the invisible God. And according to Jesus, if you don't know him, then you actually don't know God and therefore can't love God. He said this, I and the Father are one. If you knew the Father, then you would know me. If you knew me, then you would know my Father also. If you're going to love God, then you need to know who God is. And God has revealed Himself in one being, three persons. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And he's revealed himself most fully in his Son, Jesus Christ. You identify Jesus Christ as God, then you can come to know God, and you can come to love God Which is what Jesus teaches in this passage. If you want to bring glory to God, you not only need to know God, but you need to love God completely. Look at verse 30 with me. Jesus here is describing an all-consuming love. Now when he says that you must love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength. He's not describing different aspects of our being as though humans are made up of a heart, a soul, a mind, and a strength. Instead, these are all just different, yet slightly nuanced, ways of describing our one spiritual self. Right, so he's piling up different words that are used to describe the same thing in order to emphasize that God is the most glorified in us when we love him with our whole selves. Right? So we're called to love God with all of our heart. With all of our heart. What does that mean? That doesn't refer to the muscle that beats in our chest, right? In the Bible, the heart was understood really as the command center of the soul. So I want you to picture in your mind, there was this, I think there was a Pixar movie or something that went out uh maybe like two years ago It was about the the little dudes who sit behind the control center of the mind and give the words to the person. It was all about those little dudes who control the sticks, right? Well, this is what Jesus is getting to. Who controls your sticks? Right, who's inside of you controlling what's going on in this command center of your heart? That's the heart. It's the center of the innermost part of our very being. It's the place where decisions are made. Where emotions and feelings and passions and desires are all produced, and these are those emotions, feelings, passions, and desires that then drive us to action. That's what he means by the heart. But we're also called to love God with all our soul. The heart and soul are closely identified in Scripture, but the soul carries a slightly nuanced meaning of the power of life. Right? So when God created man, he breathed life into him. He made him a living being, a being filled with a soul. Right? The soul carries the motivating power that brings action to the desires of our hearts. This is a a call to commit all of our internal energy and strength of will to serving God. And we're also called, as we see here, to love God with all of our mind. Kids, I want to ask you this. What do you think he means when he says love God with all of your mind? What does he mean by that? Any of you can Offer up an answer. What does it mean to love God with all of your mind? Adam? To focus only on him and not things that you think the world should focus on. Yeah, so if you think set your minds on things above, not on things that are on earth For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ and God, right? Anyone else? Was anyone else going to answer? What does it mean to love God with all of your mind? Well, seeing as there are no other answers, I'll just provide some. It means to love God with all of your cognitive capabilities, right? The mind in Scripture is the God-given faculty with which we think. perceive, comprehend, and reason. We're to constantly ponder, think about, and meditate on God, His Word, and His ways, right? Throughout the New Testament, we're called to use our minds in the worship of God, right? So Paul prays for the Colossians, that they would increase in the knowledge of God. He then later says, treasures and riches of wisdom and knowledge are found in Christ. These treasures and riches of wisdom and knowledge that we access with our minds, which then set our heart and our soul ablaze, propelling us. to love God with all of our strength. Strength here when in this verse doesn't refer to physical strength. It's most often referred to used to God's infinite reserves of power and might, which he then gives to his weak and frail vessels of pottery like us. It's this spiritual strength and energy that allows us to put one foot of faith in front of the other and to continue living faithfully before God. It's a little bit similar to the motivating power of the soul. I want you to see, do you see how all consuming this love is to be in our heart in our lives? All your heart All your soul, all your mind, all your strength, everything that can possibly describe any aspect of your soul should be holy and completely dedicated to the Lord. Just Engaged in a full-on pursuit of Him with every aspect of your life. It's a love that is to affect every aspect of our beings. A couple months ago, I introduced my sons, Jack and Knox, they're five and three, to the show, Dude Perfect Dude Perfect. If you haven't heard of it, Dude Perfect is a fun, wholesome show about a group of guys who do all types of trick shots. They're paid to play with toys and do trick shots. It's unreal. I think they have like the biggest channel on YouTube. And I don't think that's an exaggeration. And my boys love Dude Perfect. They love it And so from the first moment that they watched the show, they were filled with a love for it that affected every aspect of their being, right? So after watching episodes, they would run around the house hooting and hollering, doing what the guys do on the show. Right? They're passionate about it. They love it with their heart and their soul. Then after the episodes are over, after they're done running around hootin' and hollering, they regularly ask when they can watch another episode. And then after those episodes are done, they start to ask questions about how the trick shots were done. They're thinking about the show. They want to understand it and how how the different things happen. They they love this show with all of their mind. And then what do they do? Well, they go and they create their own trick shots. They try to emulate the shots that they see on the show. They love it with all of their strength. It propels them to action. Right? This is a small picture of the type of love that glorifies God, taking joy in God. Thinking about God, serving God with all that is in us. Love that most glorifies God is love that affects every aspect of our being. And the reason, we've got to think about this, why are we called to love God? Why was Israel called in the book of Deuteronomy to love God? Why is Jesus calling to his people to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength? Well, the reason is one, because he is the Lord, but second, it's because of what he's done for us. Right, the verse that Jesus cites was spoken by Moses to the generation of Israelites that was just about to go into the promised land. Think about what had happened for them. They had been powerfully and miraculously delivered by God out of slavery in Egypt He brought them out of bondage and was bringing them into a land that was flowing with milk and honey, graciously doing for them what they could not do for themselves. And so they were to love him as a response to his gracious. And powerful salvation of them. And if they were to love God for rescuing them from physical slavery in Egypt, how much more should we love God completely, totally, holy for rescuing us? From spiritual slavery. Right? According to what the Bible says about us, we were dead in trespasses and sins. If you've ever read Ezekiel chapter 37, The vision of the valley of dry bones. If you haven't read it, please read it. It's one of the best images, illustrations in the Bible of mankind's spiritual state before God. We are like bones that are dry We're not only dry, we're very dry. There's no hope of spiritual life in us, but yet God speaks to us mercifully, graciously, giving his spirit to us, causing us to rise from the dead and to serve him. God has been so kind to us we were separated from God according to the New Testament. We were without hope in the world, but God Being rich in mercy, and because of the great love with which he loved us, made us alive together with Christ. It is by grace that you and I who profess Christ have been saved. He did for us what we could not great, what we could not do for ourselves. We love because God first loved us. Our love towards Him is a response of the love that He has shown us. But I also want you to see how much greater our salvation is. than the salvation he worked for Israel. Think about this. He may have brought them out of physical slavery and then given them his laws on tablets of stone. But the reality is they couldn't keep his laws because what they ultimately needed was not to be released from physical slavery, but from spiritual slavery. They needed new hearts, not new circumstances. That's all of our problems. We need new hearts, not new circumstances. What they ultimately needed wasn't to be released from physical bondage, but spiritual bondage. They needed God's law to be written on their hearts and not on those tablets of stone. And that is exactly what God has done for us. Who put our faith in Jesus Christ? Think back to God's promise through the prophet Jeremiah in Jeremiah chapter 31, which looked forward to the day when God would give his new people or give his people new hearts. And they would be able to love them, love him with all of their heart, soul, mind, and strength. Jeremiah 31 says this, behold, the days are coming. declares the Lord. When I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of Egypt. For this is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel. I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And through faith in Jesus Christ and by the power of his indwelling spirit, God has enabled us to love him in a way that pleases him because God has given us new hearts with his law written upon it. Right? The tablets of stone are done. Our hearts of stone have been removed. And hearts of flesh, hearts that are capable of loving God, have been placed inside of us. God has been so kind to us and through his spirit enables us to love him with all of our heart and soul and mind and strength But that leads to another question. If God has written his law on our hearts and given us his spirit, why do we still struggle to love him the way that Jesus calls us to? I don't know, have any of you ever accomplished complete, total love of God with all heart, soul, mind, and strength? I I don't know if I've ever even come close. I just look at my life and I look I think about like how just self-centered I am and how impatient I can be, how easily frustrated I can get and just like how much I worry this morning with the power going out. I'm just panicking, oh my gosh, what will I do? What will I do? How will it happen? And it's just like the Lord standing right here, just thinking, John, it's never been about you. It's okay if the service doesn't go off all right, my kingdom is going to be okay, right? But we all do this in our lives. It's because we love things other than God. We're not focused totally on heart, soul, mind, and strength. The type of love of God that enables Jesus to sit in the boat with the disciples While they sit in the middle of a hurricane, they are all losing their minds, and he is sleeping. He's able to rest in God because he loves God completely and he trusts God wholly Why do we still struggle if God has given us the Spirit and He's given us new hearts? What keeps us from being able to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength? Really, there is so much to say on this topic, and we spend uh I think weeks going through application and really drawing out application. We're not going to be able to do that today, but I just want to mention a few things. The first thing that keeps us from being able to love God this way is misplaced love. Misplaced love. We love the wrong things. You see, we were created to worship God. That's how God made us. We're worshiping creatures. And if we're not worshiping God or loving him, then we will worship and love something else. John Calvin said this, man's nature, so to speak, is a perpetual idle factory It's a great image, right? I imagine my heart at like the head of this assembly line with these conveyor belts coming out of it, and just coming out of it is one idol after another. Money Comfort, peace. You know, just like I like all these things just pouring out of my heart. And it's because I have misplaced love Misplaced love keeps us from being able to love the true God. He has called us to set aside our hearts and the throne of our hearts so that He can sit on it Think about the things that you're fearful of in your life right now. What are the things that you're worried about? What are the things that make you impatient? What are the things that make you frustrated regularly? What are the things that just cause you to be fearful? And what does that say about who's sitting on the throne of your heart? Misplaced love keeps us from being able to love God. Another thing that will keep us from loving God the way Jesus describes is sin. Right, even though we have been ultimately forgiven of our sins as followers of Christ, the reality remains that sin affects our love for God. And I trust that you understand this from your own life, right? Through Jesus Christ, we are now in a relationship with God. Think about the last time you sinned against someone close to you. What happened to that relationship? Right. Uh let's say it's with a spouse. It didn't ultimately fall apart. You have a covenant commitment between the two of you, so let me use that as an example. The relationship did not fall apart because of the covenant. Now God has made a covenant with us through his son Jesus, so the relationship's not going to fall apart. But distance is created. There's a coolness that comes between you. The love starts to wane a little bit Why? Because sin affects our ability to love. When you allow sin to take root in your life. It will prevent you from being able to love God the way that you're called to, which means that if we're going to fight to love God completely, we need to be able to commit to making war on our sin. And one of the ways that we make war on sin in our lives is by immersing ourselves in the Word. One pastor said this about the importance of the Word in the fight against sin. The Word brings joy directly and indirectly. Directly. By showing us the beauty of Christ and his ways and all the good things he's promised to be for us forever, which draws us to love him And indirectly, by weaning us off the toxic pleasures of the world by means of the superior pleasures of Christ, so that in purity of heart we can see the beauty of Christ more clearly. You see, the Word of God, combined with the Spirit of God, is a means by which God has chosen to empower us to put those toxic pleasures to death, right? The Word, another way to look at it, a different way, the Word is like poison to the weeds of sin. To not regular, regularly water your soul with the word is to create the perfect conditions for sin to grow. Right? Sin gets in the way of us loving God. Loving God completely commits us to a life of waging war on sin, and it's a war really that doesn't end. As long as we're alive, this will be a battle that we're engaged in. And it's only when we reach heaven, it's only when we reach heaven that the battle will end, and there will be no more indwelling sin in our hearts. And since we're not in heaven yet, that means this battle will rage on. And it's because we're not in heaven yet that we don't love God completely as we ought. And so all of us will struggle in various ways to love God with all of our heart and soul and mind and strength in ways that aren't really necessarily related. To loving other things or sin. Just living in a fallen world because we are fallen creatures means that at times our love will ebb and flow, as we've already sung this morning. Of times my love grows cold, and I'm sure yours does as well. Being fallen creatures, we're just going to deal with Flat affections at times with love that feels like it's grown cold. And if that's you, I just want to encourage you today to keep on fighting Keep on putting one foot of faith in front of the other. In the midst of struggle, there is still the hope of future success. But as soon as you stop struggling and fighting, that hope vanishes. It's in the midst of this struggle that hope still exists. John Calvin said this. And if you're fighting for faith today or your love feels cold, listen to what he says. He says we should ask God to increase our love when it is small. to awaken it when it is dormant, to confirm it when it is wavering, to strengthen it when it is weak, and to raise it up when it is overthrown. And what a great joy this is that in Jesus Christ our love will never fully be overthrown. Because as Jonathan said earlier, it's not our love that saves us, but God's love. through Christ for us, which is perfect, which is complete, which is total. God has loved us through the Lord Jesus Christ with all of his heart, with all of his soul, with all of his mind, and with all of his strength And it's because he has covenanted to show us his steadfast love. A love that never wanes. And this is a great encouragement for us today. Though God has commanded us to love him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, none of us has. But we no longer need to fear that God will abandon us because he signed the new covenant that he made with his people in the blood of his son, Jesus Christ. You know, it's interesting, even in this passage, that Jesus cites Moses speaking at a point in his own ministry when he was on the verge of leading God's people into the promised land. But you know that God that Moses was not going to be able to lead God's people into the promised land because of his own sin. Remember, he had struck the rock when he shouldn't have. He had sinned against God This command came on the verge of his death before Israel came into the promised land. And here Jesus speaks on the verge of his death He's at this point in his ministry. We're in the final week of Jesus' life, and here he is calling back to the Old Testament when the Redeemer Moses was about to bring the people of Israel into the promised land. But wasn't going to be able to because of his own sin in his life. And here Jesus is on the verge of bringing his people into the kingdom of God. And he is going to die upon the cross as the true Redeemer. But he's not going to die because he sinned. He's going to die because we sinned. Such is his love for us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Jesus alone loved God with all of his heart and with all of his soul and with all of his mind and with all of his strength and because he did that God raised him from the dead. And unlike Moses, Jesus rose from the dead and was able to bring his people into the kingdom of God himself as not only Redeemer, but Savior and King. Now, friends, think about the love that God has shown you this past week, even as your love has grown cold. I change. We change. He changes not. Christ is always nigh to you, even when your love is weak. Oh, what a great reason for us to commit yet again to loving him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and depend not on our love. But his for us. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your love is it's too grand to be comprehended, but we rejoice that you have made your love known to us through your Son Jesus Christ and have granted the Spirit to open our eyes to see him in all of his glory. We praise you. For your steadfast love. And we ask you to hold us fast as our love grows cold. That we rejoice knowing that your love is steadfast. For those who are discouraged in the faith this week Teach them, remind them about your steadfast love. For those who don't know your love through the Lord Jesus Christ today, show them your love by granting them the spirit to open their eyes to see the Lord Jesus Christ in all of his glory and help us to behold your grace. Your grace today that is greater than all of our sin. We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.