A good elevator speech is nothing more than a short but powerful summation of why you are special. It can be adapted to explain why someone should hire you. The good ones roll off the tongue so casually as to belie the preparation and practice that went into developing them. Usually lasting about 30 seconds, they are packed with important messages about what separates you from the competition. As a former student athlete, you have a built-in advantage in explaining why you are special. Few people have the opportunity to perform on such a big stage. And few leadership and character development laboratories compare to college sports. Weaving a tidbit or two into your elevator speech about what you learned and what you accomplished as a college athlete will make your pitch more powerful. Here are the building blocks for an excellent 30-second pitch about you. Start with an opening sentence stating who you are and why you are the best person for the job. Next, explain how you can bring the most value to the employer. As a former college athlete, this is an excellent opportunity to talk about the soft skills such as leadership, teamwork, time management, etc. , that you learned while competing. Close with a clear statement of why I think you are the best candidate. If you're really good, you will work in compliments about the interviewer and his or her company. To smooth out your presentation, practice aloud in front of a mirror with friends until it feels and sounds totally natural. Unaccustomed to bragging about yourself? Don't worry. This is the one occasion when it's okay. Your goal is to make a positive and lasting first impression that leads to something positive. I pulled that from the NCAA student athlete website. It's obviously a description of how to sell yourself to a prospective employer, to tell them why you are the best, why you should be chosen by them. I wonder, what did it sound like to you? If the world we live in encourages us to be forthright about our accomplishments and our skill sets. How do you think that affects us as Christians? What role, if any, should boasting have in this local church? Please turn with me in your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 1 to 10. If you're using the Black Pew Bible around you, you'll find the passage on page 970. Let me provide a bit of background information to our text this morning. This is obviously Paul's second letter to the Corinthian church. And one of the major reasons for Paul writing the letter is because false teachers had come to Corinth. And these false teachers were twisting the gospel message. And they were insulting Paul's authority. They claimed, they were very forward, about how they were greater than Paul. They were boasting. bragging about themselves and their credentials. Here's why you should follow us and not Paul. Let us tell you why we are special. More special than the Apostle Paul. They were boasting and bragging about their wisdom, their spiritual experiences, their credentials, and they were doing this to draw the people of Corinth away from following Paul. And because these men seem to have some success in getting at least some of the people in Corinth to follow them, Paul is then forced, out of love, For the Corinthian church to respond to the boasting of these false teachers with his own kind of mock-feigned boasting of himself He's gonna say, look, look, if these guys are boasting in their credentials, I'm gonna lower myself to their level to mock them and to show you that if anyone has any reason to boast, it's me. So look with me at chapter, and that's what he does in chapters 11 and 12. Look at me at chapter 11, verse 5. Paul says, Indeed, I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super apostles. When Paul calls them super apostles, he's not giving them a compliment. He's mocking them, right? So there's humor in here. Paul's just giving them a jab. These super apostles. I'm not in the least inferior to these men. But then what does he go on to do? What he goes on to do is brilliant. He acts like one of these boastful super apostles to show them that if anyone has the right to boast, it's him. Look at chapter 11, verse 18 He begins here, since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast. And he goes on in the rest of the chapter, playing the role of a boastful apostle. Fake bragging about his ethnic and religious heritage, his superior service to Christ. But then he you you see even a mixed in it, if you read it closely, he's just kind of like, look, these things also prove my weakness He's just kind of going back and forth in this tension. But then we get to chapter 12, verse 1. Look at the very first sentence in chapter 12, verse 1. I must go on boasting. So we are dropping in halfway through. Uh his fake boast. So he's just boasted about his ethnic and religious heritage, his superior service to Christ, and now he's gonna go on boasting And chapter 12, verses 1 to 10, or really the climax of the boasts. We're going to learn some really important things there. And I'm going to go ahead and show you what Paul brags about. He says if he has the right to brag, if anyone has the right to brag, it's him. But he's also in these verses going to show them a better way. A better way. And what is that better way? Let me read the passage for us. This is God's word. I must go on boasting, though there is nothing to be gained by it. I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man was caught up in a paradise, whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know, God knows. And he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses. Though, if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain from it, so that no one may think of more of me than he sees in me or hears from me So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this that it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak Then I am strong. What I want you to take away from our time together this morning is this. Since Christ's power is most clearly seen in our weaknesses We shouldn't boast in our strength. We should boast in our weakness. Since Christ's power is most clearly seen in your weakness, don't boast in your strength. Boast in your weakness. First, don't boast in your strength Before we get into the passage, let me first briefly define what I mean by boasting in our strength. We only see the word strong once in the passage, though I think the idea is ever present beneath the surface. So, what I mean by boasting in our strength, don't boast in our strength. That is to take vainglory in all the various skills, experiences, opportunities, and credentials that God has given to you. For what do we have that we have not received? Right? To pride yourself on those things. To prove your worth by them. Kids, if you're in here, it means to brag about yourself, right? Just very simply, it's to brag about yourself. Paul is telling the Corinthians, don't brag. Don't brag about yourself. Look at 12. 1. He says I must go on boasting. He continues to mock them, and what's he go on boasting of? Look at this. He continues to boast of his amazing and unmatched spiritual experiences. Look at verse 1. He boasts about visions and revelations of the Lord. What exactly are these? Well he tells us in the following verses. Look at verse 2. He says he was caught up to the third heaven. Paul was caught up to the third heaven. When Paul says he was caught up to the third heaven, he's using just kind of cosmology of the day. The first heaven was the atmosphere, the second heaven was the stars, and the third heaven was the presence of the living God. Now I don't think he he means here like I said he's not he's not meaning that there are multiple floors in heaven. He's not saying y'all are gonna be in the lobby. I'm gonna chill in the penthouse with the Lord. That's not what he's saying. He's he's just saying he was called up into the presence of the Lord And we even see that in verse 3. Look at verse 3. He calls the third heaven what? Paradise. Recall Jesus' words to the thief on the cross, right? Today you will be with me in paradise Paradise. Paradise. The apostle Paul was caught up into paradise. Whether in the body or out of the body, I don't even know. It was that amazing. It was that amazing. And not only that, but Paul and God had their own little secret. Right? Look at verse 4. And he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. Paul was brought up into the heavenly realm, into the highest heavens. Right? And he heard things which cannot be uttered. So think about this. Let's play some Bible trivia. This is for the kids only. For the kids only. Adults, you cannot respond. Kids Who in the Bible, who are the only people in the Bible who were brought up into the presence of the living God before they died? Shout it out. Who are the only people in the Bible? Elijah's one, chariots of fire come down, pick him up, and he goes up into heaven. Moses was in the presence of God on earth on Mount Sinai. Who else was brought up into heaven before he died? It's really early in the Bible. In the back. Enoch! Yes, good job. Remind me of your name. Lois, good job, Lois and Rook, well done. Yes, Enoch. So what's the point of all this? How many people have had this experience that Paul has had? Very few, very few have had this experience. We need to absorb what Paul is saying. Paul, before he died, was brought up into the presence of God in all his glory He beheld the lamb who was slain and the myriads of angels proclaiming, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. And then God looked at Paul and said, Hey. I'm gonna share with you a secret. Guess what? Just for me and you, you're not gonna tell anybody What an amazing experience to have. Yet despite how rare and amazing this experience was, all Paul gives us is this detached third-person account of Yeah, I know a man who was he was brought into the presence of God. He heard some amazing things that can't be shared, but honestly, I'd prefer not to talk about it. That's that's what he's doing here. It's like he's begrudgingly being pushed to the point of needing to talk about these things for the Corinthians' sake so that he can act like one of these boastful super apostles to show them how silly it is for them to boast in their own strength. But he's so repulsed. He's so repulsed by bragging and boasting that he can't even bring himself to say that it's him. I know a man. But then he goes on and says, Yeah, it was me. These are the surpassing revelations given to me. But I know a man, he's like, does he want to take credit for it? I think about this for our set our sakes and ourselves. I wonder Do you feel about boasting and bragging like Paul does? Are you so repulsed by it as he is? Now, what I'm not asking you is are you repulsed by it in other people? Of course you are. We all are. I'm asking about it if you're repulsed about it in your own life. Would you have done what Paul did? I mean, would you have to be pushed to the point of just like the the brink of not wanting to share it to talk about something this amazing? Or are you one of those people who just finds ways in conversation to just slip in? Hey, just let me, I just want to slide this verbal business card to you. Just so you know, I've had this experience. I had this job once. Once. Oh, this is what I'm doing now. You're the people I work with. Do you admire these people? Do you think about who they are? You know, think about my networks. Maybe I just find a way to talk about talk to you about, you know, how much money I make or the things I know. Right? Does your life reflect that? As you look back at your life this past week and think about the week to come, do you look for ways to tell people how great you are? We all do it, right? I do this. This is a text for me, like straight out of the Bible. Just I need this because I want to tell people. I want to tell people all that I've done. But then when I look back at my life, I'm like, that's kind of It's kind of silly. I'm the I'm a kind of a train wreck. My life has been really one example after another of like if it was me behind the wheel This thing would have been run off the rails a long time ago. What am I bragging about? What am I boasting about? Do you glory in and crave being in the inner circle? Just so that you can be in the inner circle. Brag to others about it. Look at the inner circle Paul is in. Paul's in an inner circle with the unseen God knows things that no one else on earth knows, and does he care? No, they happened, but he's not priding himself in it. He doesn't care at all. And why is that? Why is that? I think he gives us at least one reason in the text. He knows that there's nothing to be gained by boasting. Look back at verse 1. I must go on boasting, though there is nothing to be gained by it. That's a surprising statement, is it? There is nothing to be gained by it I think it's a surprising statement because that is not our experience, is it? We work in a city, or in the suburbs of a city, and many of us do work in the city, but we're boasting in your strength is how you survive. It's what gets you jobs. You have to boast in your school and to let people know how smart you are. You have to boast in your connections to let people know that you know the right people. You have to boast to get what you want. Right? The city is a mini Babylon, right? Babylon was built on boasting. That's what our city values. So I just just to hold it out to you How are you battling against that? Are you aware of what that can do to your own thinking? That it can just be it can just become so common because you have to do it in that world. That you just start to do it in the church, right? Stranger you know you've seen stranger things. You have the regular world and the upside-down world. Those who go into the upside-down world, whenever they come back from the upside-down world, bring it with them And their their lives are affected and they affect the other people around them, right? How are we defending ourselves in the real world, in the kingdom of God, in his church, from when we go out into the kingdom of darkness and we have to come back? Are we bringing its behaviors with us? Just think about it. Who was the last presidential candidate to run on a platform of weakness? Now I know some of you out there are thinking, well, that was weak what they were going to do and this this won't work, that policy won't work. I'm not saying if you thought their platform would end up making us weak, I'm saying who was the last presidential candidate who said I want to expose this nation's weaknesses. I want to show the world how frail we are as a people so that the glory of our God may be seen. Right? You're not going to find a presidential candidate who does that. What do they say? I am going to make us rich and powerful because that is how we will be sustained. And you see, the candidate who does that most convincingly, the candidate who does that most convincingly wins. Boasting seems to work. So we do it in our own lives in these subtle ways. But notice, notice what Paul says. There is nothing to be gained by it. There is nothing to be gained by it. And I think what he means is that the eternal significance of boasting in your strength Is meaningless. The eternal significance of boasting in your strength is meaningless. It secures nothing of lasting value. Did your boasting get you ahead in this life? Did you butt your way to the front? Congrats. It's all meaningless in the end. Right, our boastful achievements will secure us at best in this life a fleeting, temporary, and ultimately false peace and security. And in the end, our boasting will be exposed by the fires of judgment. God's going to look at every word we ever said, and he's going to look at the motives from which those words sprang. That's what he's going to do in the end. And as Christians, we should recognize that our need to boast about our strength is directly tied to a fundamental misunderstanding about who we are in Christ. And what that means for us. When we boast in our strength to gain respect, we forget that we are united to a Savior who was disrespected and who was mocked and abused. Right? When we boast in our strength to gain esteem, we forget that in Christ we are eternally cherished and loved by God. Regardless of what others think about us. Why do we need the opinions of others when we have the opinion of God who calls us sons and daughters? When we boast in our strength to gain value, we forget that being united to Christ is having Christ. And having Christ is of far surpassing value than anything boasting in our strength. Will secure us. He is a far greater treasure. And as a church, we need to be aware of how the world's ways of boasting and strength subtly creep into our life together. Right, so I was talking with Leah just a couple days ago. She was giving me an update on Tom's treatment. And I w I just wasn't aware about this with chemo. So he had his first chemo treatment and the doctors told him that when you go home they really instructed Leah because she was pregnant and Pam to stay away from him for about seventy two hours. Uh so they I think Pam was sleeping in another bed because The stuff that comes out of your pores is toxic when you are taking chemo. And so you have to stay away from the person or lest you be harmed by it. Well just think about that as an illustration of what it's like to live in the world and to have to boast in some way to get by. If you're just like you have to be able to talk about yourself in the world, you're just not going to get a job But but when we're doing that as a people, when we're living out in the kingdom of darkness and doing those things, we are drinking poison We are taking it into our spirits. We are taking it into our souls. And when we come back in here on Sundays, we're part of the kingdom of God with our church on Sundays and throughout the week, and we bring that back in. We can infect one another by that poison. Start to teach people that you need to boast. Oh, boasting must just be part of the Christian life. This person talks about like, you know, how great they are as a Christian and How you know how many great things they did for the Lord this week. And we can start subtly start to turn the picture to be less about the Lord and more about us. You know, like you we all know, humble brags, right? We find ways as Christians to humble brag. But that's the world's way of living. That's not what our God has called us to. He's called us in his head to boast in our weakness. And since Paul is speaking specifically about pastoral ministry, he's remembering he's talking about these false apostles versus himself, trying to show the Corinthian church what type of pastor they should follow. We should think about what this means for CBC and for the type of men that you should look for to lead this church now and for the years to come. Right? So you shouldn't look for men who are self-promoters. That's what these super apostles were doing. You shouldn't look for men who make much of themselves. You shouldn't look for men who can't handle being told that they're wrong. We've seen other churches fall because of that. Complete churches, thousands of people fall because of that. You should look for men who know, love, and cherish the Savior Who understand themselves to be weak and in need of Jesus, and who will lead others to do the same. Right? So kids, when you grow up, eventually you're gonna move away from the house. And I hope that you look for a church to join. I want to encourage you that when you grow up and you move away and you find a church of your own, that you look for a church that is pastored by a man who is like Paul. A man who understands that he's weak. There are churches, unfortunately, that have pastors who think they're strong and act like they're strong and act like they know everything. You don't want to follow a pastor like that. You should look for a pastor who knows that he's weak. You follow a pastor like that, and you guys are going to be in good hands. Okay? Just a little instruction for you guys. Since Christ's power is most clearly seen in your weakness, don't boast in your strength. Second, since Christ's power is most clearly seen in your weakness, do boast in your weakness. Do boast in your weakness. What do I mean by weakness? Well look with me at the end of verse 10. Paul says there that he's content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. Right? I think that's a pretty good description. of the various experiences that could be described as weaknesses. Right? So these are experiences that could be physical They could be spiritual, they could be relational, but what's common to all of these experiences is that they expose our limitations, our inadequacy, our inability. Here's a question. What's difficult for you in your life right now? What's difficult for you in your life right now? That would be a weakness. Right? So that I think that's what Paul is trying. He's just these are all the things that make life difficult for us. These are trials that we experience. And we find out some surprising things about Paul's weakness. Look at me again at verse 7. Look at verse seven. He says So to keep me from becoming conceited, because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Notice first, where does the weakness came from? We see that it was a messenger of Satan. Right? So we know from scripture that Satan prowls around like a roaring lion. I think we have a really great example of what a messenger of Satan looks like in an entire book called Job, right? So you remember in Job chapters one and two, as Satan is going Up and down throughout the earth, he's prowling around like a roaring lion, and then he comes to the Lord and he says, I bet if you allow me to send a messenger of Satan to Job, he'll curse you and turn from you. And God allows him to. So Satan's on a leash by God. Right? But Satan can afflict God's people in various ways. So does this passage teach that all the various trials we face in life comes from Satan? I don't know. I don't know the answer to that question. It absolutely does teach that some of them do. And we shouldn't be able to be afraid to talk about spiritual warfare or Satan's existence in the world. It is real. It is real. Christians for 2,000 years have believed it. But at the same time, I'm sure other weaknesses and trials are simply the result of us living in a fallen world. Right? So some things are spiritual warfare, some things are messengers of Satan, some things are us living in a fallen world, some things are our own flesh that cause us our own issues. And whether they come from Satan or the result of living in a fallen world, we know that they can be painful. Look at how Paul describes this affliction. He calls it a thorn in the flesh. If you ever picked up a rose bush that still had thorns on it, you know that that is painful. And this trial that he's enduring is a thorn in the flesh. What is this thorn? I have no idea. Since the time this letter was written, that's been debated. It could have been some physical ailment. It could have been a person. It could have been a spiritual struggle. I don't think we can know for certain. But at the same time, that uncertainty is kind of helpful for us because it allows us to be welcomed into Paul's experience. And we can better understand and learn how to respond to our trials by watching what Paul does in his experience. And one of the things that we learn from this passage is that Satan cannot operate in this world apart from God sovereignly allowing it. And that's what's going on here, though Satan is afflicting Paul with some sort of weakness. This thorn is given to Paul by God. So though God isn't explicitly stated in the passage, I think the context makes it obvious that it's coming from God. But what I one of the things I want you to fix your attention on is the fact that whatever trials you face in life that expose your weakness If it's a difficult relationship with a family member, a bad situation at work, a physical ailment, those trials. are allowed by a sovereign God who is in control of all things. And that can bring us comfort The second thing I want you to notice is that those trials are allowed to us by a sovereign God who is so loving that he would allow us to experience these trials for our own. Good. Look back at the verse. Notice why God gives the thorn. Twice Paul says it's to keep him from becoming conceited. Twice. In one verse, he doesn't want you to miss the reason why God gave it. It was to humble Paul. Because of the surpassingly awesome and amazing revelations Paul was shown, God allowed him to experience weakness. So that he wouldn't become conceited. He allowed weakness into his life to humble him. And another way to translate the word conceited there is exalted That's an important word for us to think about as Christians. The only other place that's used in the New Testament is in 2 Thessalonians, where it's used of the man of lawlessness who exalts himself before God. So God is giving a weakness to Paul to humble him, to keep him from exalting himself and being like the man of lawlessness. Recognize what Paul is saying here, right? Think about this. Satan, no doubt, intended the thorn in the flesh to cause Paul to curse God and turn away from him. God uses what Satan intended for evil to protect Paul from himself and lead him to greater holiness. By humbling him. Satan surely doesn't want Paul to be humbled, right? That's not what he's looking for. He's looking for somebody who's proud and who turns away from God That isn't amazing. God can take what Satan means for our destruction, thorns in the flesh, and use it to keep us from destroying ourselves, humbling us, from keeping us from exalting ourselves. And this is a kindness from God, isn't it? Because we are people who are good at taking any opportunity in life and turning it into an experience of self-worship, right? How kind of God to let us experience weakness in order to humble us and to keep us dependent upon Him. On this passage, one pastor noted that experiences of strength in our lives are met by God giving weakness, while experiences of weakness in our lives are met by God giving strength. He gives weakness to defeat strength, strength to uplift those who are weak. That's amazing. So that all things might be to him The glory. For from him to now you understand what Paul means when he says, For from him and through him and to him are all things. He is beyond wise. He knows me better than I know myself, and he knows exactly what I need. And I just want to say But if you have experienced trials in the li in this life that are surpassingly evil, that doesn't mean that God is the author of them, and it doesn't mean that those things are ultimately good. It's that God can use evil things for good, for our good. Just want to make that clear in our time together this morning. So if that's how we should understand weakness, how should we respond to it? Look how Paul responds to his affliction. He responds to God by pleading with him to remove it. So notice, boasting in weakness doesn't mean that we should go around talking about how awesome it is to suffer. Or to have weaknesses or to have trials, lest we turn everything into an opportunity for self-worship. Right? Paul thinks this thorn in the flesh is bad. And he's asking God, Lord, remove this from me. He's pleading with him. He's imploring him. But God says to him, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. So though God chooses not to answer Paul's request, He holds out something to Paul that is much more glorious than being freed from his weakness. He holds out to Paul his grace. Grace is a beautiful word, isn't it? I think for so many of us, that's all grace is. It sounds so nice. What is grace? What is grace? What is Paul? What is God holding out to Paul? When God says to Paul, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. He is calling Paul's attention to The cross. He's calling Paul's attention to the cross. Notice how Paul even subtly reminds us of the cross. How many times does Paul pray for God to remove the thorn? Three times. Who else prays three times for God to remove a trial from him? Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Lord, let this cup pass from me. Not my will, though, yours be done. Three times he prays. I know the gospels don't record an answer to Jesus' request for the cup to be taken from him, but I am willing to bet, I am willing to bet that as he labored there in prayer in weakness, sweating drops of blood, I bet he heard these words. My son, my grace is sufficient for you. My power will be made perfect in your weakness. And as he went to the cross in weakness, suffering beyond measure The fountains of grace for wretched sinners like you and me opened up wide and broad A vast ocean pouring forth of love from his body, and in his weakness he conquered our great enemies. For my power is made perfect in weakness. My power is made perfect in weakness on the cross. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who believe it is the power of God. The grace that God is holding out to Paul in his weakness is an all-sufficient grace that flows from an all-sufficient Savior. And it's a grace that is not just for the beginning of the Christian life. But for the middle of the Christian life and for the end of the Christian life, it is for all times. Paul intentionally uses a verb tense here that say he's basically saying God said to me and keeps on saying to me, my grace is sufficient in all of his trials, in all of his weaknesses, in all of his hardships. Paul would need to be continually reminded that God's grace is sufficient And we need to be reminded of the same thing today, saints, as we're struggling, laboring in this world, God's grace, not just that beautiful sounding word, but his grace through the cross where he pours out unmerited favor to you through his son unites him to him by faith and gives you all of the heavenly treasures, lifts us up with him into the heavenly places so that we might be seated with him here and now. That grace is held out to you. Today, it is sufficient for all of your weaknesses and for all of your trials. We need to come to terms with the fact that in our culture, we view weakness as a problem to overcome. But God views our weakness as the way that you and I will come to know, love, and cherish Him more. It's the weakness that leads you to cry out to God. And it's the weakness that shows you that the only reason God loves you is not because of your righteousness and your strength, but because of the righteousness and strength of his Son, Jesus Christ. What wonderful news for us today. Oh, it is so good, such good news. And I'm sure that there are some of you here that may be suffering some trial and you've been praying And praying and praying that God would remove it from you. That it would end. And it hasn't ended. If that's you, I want you to know how sorry I am for that. If you want to come talk to me after the service and share some of that struggle with me so that I can be praying for it to end in your life, I would love to do that with you. But I also want you to know that if he doesn't take away your trial and your weakness now You can know this, that God's grace in the gospel of his son is sufficient for you God's grace is sufficient in all his power and love, his mercy and compassion, God will come to your aid. He will open wide his arms of grace to uphold you strengthen you, uplift you, and enable you to endure any trial. Right? Turning to his grace and being reminded of the cross in times of need is like seeing that person You know who just like brightens your day but you haven't seen him in a while and then they come back and they walk in the room just like ah yes refreshed Right? Y'all know who that person is in your own life. For me, that person's Leah. Right? She's been away in Arizona all week with her dad, and life has just been bleak. It's been hard. I love that my parents are here. They're wonderful. But like, you know, just not having her around is difficult. I'm not as happy. As I normally am when she's around. But I know that when she comes in the door, it's going to be like, oh, my love. So glad you're back. In times of weakness and trial, when we turn to the cross, that is the refreshment that we're reminded of. This weakness will end someday This weakness will not overcome me. This trial will not separate me from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. It can't separate you. All that he's called to himself, he will have. He will lose none of them. That's the refreshment. God, you really are great. Your grace is sufficient. It's no wonder that Paul would go on to say that he will boast all the more gladly of his weaknesses. Like I said earlier, this doesn't mean that Paul is going to go around parading his weaknesses and talking about how much he's suffering When he says he's going to boast in his weaknesses, he means that he's not going to hide his weakness. He's not going to hide his trials under the mask of self-reliance or stoicism. We're not stoics. Christians are not called to be stoic. He's going to tell others about his weakness and of how God and only God is upholding him through it. So think about what this means for us as a church. If we're going to be a people who are marked by boasting and weakness. That means we need to be a people who are willing to share about the weaknesses and trials and difficulties in our life. We don't need to go about broadly sharing them. Just find some people to share with so that they can pray with you, remind you of the cross. Point you to Jesus. Tell you about his grace. We need other people in our lives to be doing this. But if we're going to be marked as a weak people, Well, if we don't ever share our weaknesses, how are how are people going to know that we're weak? Not only that, but we need to be a people who aren't surprised when other members of the church are struggling and feel weak. Right, so if you ever gotten to church and that person just kind of bounds up to you, how you doing, buddy? Happy Lord's Day! And you're you're not feeling all that great. It's not you know, there's nothing wrong with them being joyful But you respond and you're like, ah, it's just I'm having a I'm having a difficult day. And their face falls. They think you're like a heretic or something. You're falling away from the faith. You must be backsliding. I'm playing it up a little bit, but we need to recognize that when we're here on Sundays, we should be joyful. We should be joyful, and we should also remember that people are struggling And the Christian life is not happy faces and smiles. It's not stickers and lightning bolts and stars that we put on our refrigerator. There are peaks and there are valleys. There's the shadow of death. There's the glorious summit. There's the Lord Jesus transfigured on the mount. We know that he's going to return. There are these ups and downs in the Christian life So when people share that they're struggling, let's just not be surprised by it. Let's be a people who are ready to offer a shoulder to cry on, to offer a hug. To say, hey, let me just pray with you real quick. Right? We also don't want to go too far the other way. We can still be happy. Right? I still may greet you and be like, hey, how are you guys doing? Don't tell me hey, you're being like that guy. Leave me alone Right. So we want to be joyful, but we also want to be weak. So if you're in a season of weakness right now, if you're in a season of weakness right now, maybe you have a difficult relationship with a family member You're experiencing unemployment, or you're just a hard work environment. Maybe you just feel overwhelmed by life. How do you think you're responding right now? Do you feel like you're trying to take it all in yourself? I'm gonna be stoic. I'm gonna be strong. I was talking with Tom on the phone last night and he shared with me a simple yet profound insight. He was talking with one of his friends after he got the diagnosis that he had stage four pancreatic cancer, and he said to this friend, I need to double up. I need to get back to when I was younger, like when I got out of boot camp. I need to be strong, and I really need to get a fighting spirit. And then Tom was reading this passage this week and he realized, and he was reading Proverbs In knowing who our Savior is. And Paul and Tom just said, Yeah, that was foolish of me. I can't battle this with my strength. I'm weak So how are you doing with your weaknesses and trials? Are you recognizing that you need the help of the Lord Jesus and you need the help of a local church and you need other people speaking into your life? How are you doing with that in your own life? Are you asking God for help at all? Or do you feel bitterness growing in your heart? Do you feel bitterness because of the trials that you're facing? Or are you moving toward contentment even though you're still weak? Look at what Paul says at the end of chapter twelve, not the end of chapter twelve, but in verse 10, he says For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities He's gotten to a place in his life where it's not as though he's happy all the time and joyful all the time, but he's willing to understand and understand his struggles and his trials in light of the great truths of the gospel. That God has saved him, that his strength is the Lord and not Himself. That God is actually displaying His power through our weakness and our neediness and is reconciling the world to himself. through the Lord Jesus Christ, manifested in the lives of his people. You know, so I mentioned that I wanted to spend these first three weeks before we opened to the public to hold out traits that I'd like to characterize us as a church. And I want to lead us to be a weak people, so that in our weakness, Christ's power would be most clearly seen And this path is not going to be an easy one to walk. One theologian said this about living in weakness. The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It's been found difficult and left untried. The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and left untried. I want to hold out this path of weakness to us and keep it in front of our eyes because of how much easier it is to live the Christian life by our strength. Rather than in the weakness of God where his power is seen. It's so easy to make what we do in this life about us. I recently read a story about a church that had built a massive fountain in their lobby that looked similar to a pyramid. And the person who was recounting the story was surprised by the structure itself, and then went to look at it more closely. And as they walked up to it, They were appalled to find that the massive boulders that formed the foundation of the fountain were engraved with the church's achievements This is what they said. Let that sink in. Without realizing the implications Someone built the Tower of Babel in the lobby of a church with the foundation stones representing their own achievements. Someone built a model of the biblical portrayal of human arrogance as a physical representation of their own success. In the lobby of a church. The point of that story is not to mock that church, but to warn us of what we're capable of. Because you and I can so quickly take the blessings that God gives us and make this church about us and our strength. Are we going to be a people who remind one another that the cross and the way of Christ are counterintuitive? In the church, we should seek to serve and not be served. In the church, we should seek to be last, not first. In the church, we should show honor to the weak and not the powerful. In the church, weakness is strength. For when I am weak, then I am strong. CBC. What will our elevator speech sound like Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we proclaim proclaim loudly, not to us, not to us, but to you be the glory. Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever and ever. This kingdom is not our own. It is not by our strength that we achieve, but it is your strength in us. Oh God, let Christ be exalted in this church. Let us be a people who boast in our weakness so that Christ's power may rest upon us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, it is Jesus alone who is our hope. our light, our strength, and our song. Let's stand together and sing our final hymn on page seven in Christ alone.