I want to start off our time this morning with a question for you to consider. And that question is a pretty straightforward one. You've actually already heard it this morning. Mike brought it up earlier. And that question is Who is Jesus? Who is Jesus? Imagine somebody walked up to you on the street This week and asked you that question, who is Jesus? What would your answer be It take a moment even now silently to consider in your mind what what would your answer be to that question? You can even test yourself to make sure, hey, I want to make sure I'm on the right track. I'm gonna write down my answer now in my bulletin and see what the passage says to make sure that I believe what Jesus says about himself. I I think that that we're in a Baptist church likely means that if we went around the room, the range of answers that we would get would probably be pretty narrow, but I don't want to assume that everyone here is going to answer the same way, especially if you're here and you don't know yourself to follow Jesus. If that's you, thank you so much for coming this morning. There's no better place that uh we think that you could be and we're honored that you'd spend it here with us. But I also want to think about what would happen if we widened the circle outside of this room and outside of this congregation. Let's say that we surveyed our neighborhoods, our workplaces, or our classrooms. I'm going to ask you this now, and I want you to participate. Imagine we widen the circle to the neighborhoods that you live in, to your workplaces, or to the classrooms that you are involved in. What are some of the answers that you would hear? You can raise your hand or shout it out. What are some of the answers? Who is Jesus? What are you likely to hear? Ava Jesus is a mythical character. That's far more common today than it was 100 years ago, but that's absolutely true. You would hear that. Anything else? You would hear Savior, yes. If you're talking to a Christian, it's excellent. That's right. What else would you hear? Think about if you're talking specifically to non-Christians, what are some ideas that you might hear? What are some answers? Susan He's a good example. Anything else? A prophet? A good teacher. Anything else? A madman, that's right, a lunatic, or a liar. You might hear he's a prophet, he's a good teacher, he's a moral example, he's a mythological figure. These are all things that you might hear in our culture today about what people think Jesus is. We're hearing that there are a range of opinions about Jesus, even in our culture. I don't think this is any surprise to us. Certainly should certainly isn't a surprise to me, but the reason it's important for us to hear the variety of opinions that exist about who Jesus is and what he came to do is because it forces us to confront the fact That we live in a society that does not believe about Jesus the same things that Christians do. And interestingly for us. We're going to find that in the culture that Jesus lived in, it wasn't all that different from ours, at least in terms of the variety of opinions that existed about his identity. And even more importantly, from that, we'll learn from Jesus that not all answers to the question, who is Jesus, are correct. According to Jesus, there is a right answer, and there are many wrong answers. And Jesus wants you to walk out of here today, not only knowing the right answer, but believing the right answer. So I want to uh encourage you to open with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 8, verses 22 to 30. If you don't have a Bible of your own, you can find the passage in the Bibles that we provided on page 844. And if you're here and you're not really familiar with reading a Bible, when we say chapter 8, verses 22 to 30, we're talking about the big bold number 8. That's the chapter number, and then the smaller numbers after that are the verse numbers. We're looking at verses 22 to 30. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now. This is Mark 8, verses 22 to 30, and this is God's word. And they came to Betheda, and some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village. And when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, Do you see anything And he looked up and said, I see people, they look like trees walking. Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again, and he opened his eyes His sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. And he sent him to his home, saying, Do not even enter the village. And Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am? And they told him, John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. And he asked them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered him, You are the Christ. And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him. This is God's word. What we learn in our passage is that though there are lots of opinions about Jesus, Only those who say that Jesus is the Messiah see who Jesus truly is. Though there are lots of opinions about Jesus, only those who say Jesus is the Messiah see who Jesus truly is. Is we're going to look at our passage this morning in two different points. If you take notes, point one is going to be under the heading seeing. And point two is going to be under the heading saying. Point one, seeing. Point two, saying. First, let's look at point one, seeing. Look at me at verses 22. to 26 in particular. In verse 22, we learn that Jesus and his disciples arrive in the town of Beth Seda. Uh it's been three weeks since we were last in Mark's Gospel, so we want to briefly orient ourselves to where we are. The last time that we were studying Mark's Gospel, the previous passage. Jesus was confronted by a group of Pharisees who were demanding that he perform a sign in order to authenticate and to show where he was getting his authority from. But Jesus Refusing to be tested by these Pharisees, rebuked them, and then got into a boat with his disciples and began making his way to the town of Bethsaida. So he was traveling from the western side of the Sea of Galilee, the region of Magdala or Dalmanutha to the northeast side of the Sea of Galilee to the region of Beth Seda. And that's where we pick up this morning. And in verse 22, we see that a group of people bring to Jesus a blind man, and they're begging him to touch him. And so throughout Mark's gospel, when Jesus lays hands on people, it's also accompanied by healing. So he lays hands on people, and those people are healed. So these people have likely seen Jesus do this or heard of him doing it. And so they're asking him to do the same for this blind man. So Jesus, you see, if you're following along in the passage, he takes a man by the hand. He leads them out of the village, away from the crowd. Then we notice what is seemingly a strange treatment. Right? We think of eye drops or ophthalmology, ophthalmology appointments, or seeing the optometrist. Jesus spits on the man's eyes We don't know why Jesus did it does this. We don't know exactly what the reason is. We do know that Jesus doesn't need spit. And he doesn't need to lay his hands on people to heal them because we've already seen numerous times in Mark's gospel that Jesus can simply speak and heal a person. We remember he did that with the paralyzed person. uh in Mark chapter two. We also know that Jesus doesn't even need to be in the same room with a person to heal them, because he can simply speak a word, and the the woman, the Syrophoenician woman whose daughter was possessed by a demon, he says, Your daughter's been healed. She goes home, we're left to assume that that she was healed. He doesn't even need to be in the same room. So we know that he doesn't need to do this, and the text doesn't exactly tell us why he does it. So I think it's best not to speculate what's going on here Now, we do know that Jesus has the power to heal in numerous different ways, and here he chooses to spit and to lay his hands on the man. And in reading this, the thing that stands out most about this passage, if you've been carefully following along in Mark's gospel Is the striking similarity that this healing has to the healing of the deaf man back in chapter 7. So back in chapter 7, Jesus is traveling through the region of the Decapolis. This is a predominantly Gentile or non-Jewish region. And there a group of people come to him and beg him to heal their deaf man, the deaf uh friend, who is both deaf and mute. And what does Jesus do? Just like here, he takes a man away from the crowd, and there he lays his hands on him and he spits and he speaks. And the man is healed instantly. This man who is deaf and mute, Jesus says, be opened, and his tongue is opened, it's loose, and his ears are open, and he hears and speaks perfectly. But we do notice that there is actually one major and noticeable difference between the healing of the deaf man and the healing of the blind man. Look down at the passage with me. Notice what happens in our passage. After Jesus lays his hands on him, he asks the man, do you see anything? And the man says, See people, but they look like trees walking. That is to say, I'm I'm almost healed Kind of healed? Thank you. I can see partly. So what does Jesus do? He lays his hands on him again? And then the man opens his eyes. And we even see this kind of emphasis there that Mark pushes. He sees clearly. His sight was restored. He sees everything clearly. It goes from blind to blurry to perfect. Right now he's finally got 2020 vision But if we've been following along in Mark and we've seen that Jesus heals in the most miraculous ways, this healing actually stands out to us because of that this progressive Sight giving. What's going on there? What gives when we read this passage? Did Jesus just fail to heal somebody? Some people actually point at this passage as evidence that Jesus wasn't as powerful as he's made out to be. See, he he he he kind of got him a little of the way, and then you had to go back and fix the work that he hadn't done. Do the things that he didn't do the first time, and then he finally got him to the place. See, he apparently he doesn't do all things well. He actually messes up sometimes. But is that what is that what we're supposed to take from this passage? Is that what Mark is teaching us? Here. I don't think so. And there are really, I think, two very compelling reasons for that. First, we have to admit when we look at the passage, Jesus does heal the man So the man does see everything clearly. His sight is fully restored. Taking a person who was either blind from birth or definitely blind, having gone blind from some disease or some infection, uh is no small feat in itself. And so the fact that he restored his sight is to say that Jesus has the power to heal the blind man. His sight came back fully there. But you might think, okay, well then what's the deal with the peculiarity of the healing taking two attempts? If he's got the power to do it, why doesn't he just do it? And I think that's a fine question, but I think it's because the peculiarity of this healing Serves a greater purpose in this narrative. And I think that's exactly what is going on here. We need to be reminded also in the Gospels that physical ailments Physical ailments often point to deeper spiritual reality. So consider some of these. Leprosy, which Jesus has already healed, was a physical disease. That in Israel pointed to a deeper spiritual reality, that the person who had leprosy was spiritually unclean Deafness was often used to illustrate or symbolize a spiritual unwillingness or inability to hear the teaching of Jesus. And blindness was an illustration of either being unable to or unwilling to see Jesus for who he really is. Now a question For the for those of you who are here, the younger crowd, whether you're young kids or teenagers, here's a question for you. Who are people in Mark's gospel so far who have been unable or unwilling to see Jesus Not a doubt. Pharisees, that's one. They're not the only one. Who else? Boom, Caleb, some of the disciples. That's exactly right. The Pharisees is right. Some of the crowd is right. But I think what's going on here is what Caleb just pointed out: some of his disciples The disciples throughout Mark's gospel have been consistently unable to see Jesus for who he is. After he calms the storm, they literally say, Who then is this? That even the wind and waves obey him? Right The clear answer is he's the Christ. He's the Messiah. But they they can't see that. He's right in front of them. And they they can't see that. Though they follow Jesus for some time now Though they've heard his teaching and seen his miracles, they still don't see who Jesus is. So what does the disciple's inability to see Jesus for who he is have to do with the healing of this blind man? Well, let's just look at where Mark places it. What happens in the passage right before the healing of the blind man? Jesus is in a boat. with his disciples. This is the the climax of his relationship with them prior to this passage. And he's teaching them to beware of the teaching and the life of the Pharisees. And he calls it the Leven of the Pharisees. And the disciples are like Why is he talking about leaven and bread? We don't have enough bread on this boat. After he's just fed 4,000 people, they have living bread on the boat with them. And what does Jesus say to them? He delivers the longest rebuke in Mark's gospel yet to them for their inability to see him or understand him. Look at verse 18. Mark 8, verse 18. Having eyes, do you not see? He's connecting their inability to see him as the Messiah, as the Christ to their spiritual blindness. Then he goes and he heals a blind man. And this is the only time in Mark's gospel where he asks a person that he heals if he hey, are you seeing any better yet? And you notice the question even in the narrative, do you see anything? Take that question, put your finger on it in the Bible. Put your finger on it in your Bible. Do you see anything? Now let your other finger slide up to verse 21. What do you see there? Do you not yet understand? He's asking the disciples, do you not yet understand? Then he's gonna go and he's gonna heal a blind man, but he's gonna do it progressively, so that the first time he lays his hands on the blind man, the blind man sees blurly. I see people like trees walking. Okay. Now what? Everything clearly. And then guess what? Look at the passage that follows the healing of the blind man. Verse 29, he asked them, Who do you say that I am? And Peter answered, You Or the Christ. If you're reading Mark's gospel, you should hear the hallelujah chorus from Handel's Messiah right now. See, hallelujah! Hallelujah. Finally, for eight chapters, he's been bearing with them time and time again. Teaching them. They've been living with him. He's been doing all these amazing things. Guys, look what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna calm a storm. I'm gonna feed 4,000 people. I'm gonna feed 5,000 people. I'm gonna heal a paralyzed person. I'm gonna tell them to get up, right? But you just don't get it. That's them on the boat. That's them being blind. Then Peter confesses, you are the Christ. The disciples who have blindness, spiritual blindness, are on their move from being spiritually blind. to progressively seeing more of who Jesus is, which will become crystal clear at the end of Mark's gospel after he's crucified and rises from the dead. So why is this healing of a blind man that is progressive in nature tucked in between these two passages about blindness and about sight? Because he's teaching about how his very disciples are coming to see who he really is, and that's evidenced in Peter's confession. You are the Christ. Peter just said to Jesus, in essence. I see you like a tree walking. But soon I will see clearly. Because what we're going to find is the disciples continue making mistakes. But That's the point of this healing of the blind man. Yes, it absolutely proves that Jesus is divine. He can heal only, he can do things that nobody else could do. Nobody around him could heal blindness. He can do things that nobody else could do. We've been seeing that all throughout Mark's Gospel, but the purpose of this account is to illustrate Spiritual blindness. And it illustrates that all who say that Jesus is the Messiah have moved from spiritual blindness to sight. The point of the progressive healing of the blind man is to teach that only who s only those who say that Jesus is the Messiah see who Jesus truly is. And really the weight of this passage falls on verses 27 to 30. So let's look there with me. Let's move from seeing to saying After healing the blind man, Jesus and his disciples move on from the area. So they travel from Beth Seda on the north side of the Sea of Galilee and they walk. 25 miles, because that's where that's how you got places in that day. They walk about 25 miles north to the region of Caesarea Philippi. And as they're traveling, Jesus asked his disciples a question. Look at verse 27 with me. He asked them, and on the way. He asked his disciples, who do people say that I am? Right, so throughout Mark's gospel. That Jesus' disciples have been with him as massive crowds have gathered around. So we've he we've seen it happen over and over again Crowds throng to Jesus. They gather around him. Uh the disciples were with him when there were tens of thousands waiting to be fed by this miraculous food. And they were even responsible for handing out the miraculous food to those crowds. So it's It's undoubtable that they would have heard things about who people thought Jesus is and who Jesus was as they were walking around with these crowds following Jesus. And Jesus wants to know, hey. What have you heard? What are people saying about me? And you can see their response there. They say, hey, some people think you're John the Baptist. Others think you're Elijah, and others think you're one of the prophets. And this isn't the first time we've heard people say this about Jesus. So back in chapter 6. As Jesus' ministry was growing, we remember that Herod, as he was trying to figure out who Jesus was, we we see these exact same three answers. He thought either John the Baptist or Elijah or one of the prophets, and he landed on John the Baptist. But all that to say that lots of people were saying that Jesus was either a reincarnation of John the Baptist, or he was the new Elijah, or he was one of the prophets, one of the well-known and famous prophets who were to be waited for. And this honestly, as we think about things that could be said about Jesus in a particular culture at a particular time, this is a huge compliment. Right? This is a this is a compliment. Hey, he's the next Jordan Right, he's the next Tom Brady or the next Babe Ruth. I'm trying to figure out where else to go if you don't follow sports, but I don't know any other way to do it. Right? He's like he's one of the greatest of all time. He's right on the same level as those guys Right, John the Baptist was immensely famous in Israel, even during Jesus' lifetime. He was the first true prophet, true recognized prophet in Israel in some four hundred Years, and he was the one who people thought had come to prepare the way for the Lord. And people from all over the area flocked to see him, flocked to hear him teach, flocked to be baptized by him And we think of Elijah. Elijah is one of the most famous prophets in the entire Old Testament, not only because of his radical appearance and astounding miracles that he did. But the reason he's so famous, at least in Israelite culture and thought, is because Elijah didn't die. You remember that Elijah was taken up to heaven while he was still living. A chariot of fire descended. And brought him into the chariot and took him up to heaven. You see that happen to anybody, and you're gonna think, that's a special person. That guy's impressive Not only that, but the prophets who came after Elijah predicted that an Elijah-like figure would come as a forerunner to the very terrible day of the Lord that was to be expected. And to say that he's one of the prophets is not to say he was only a prophet, but he was one of the prop Prophets in Israel. The prophets were a special class of prophets. According to Moses, there would one day come a prophet in Israel who would decisively declare God's word to the people. And that's who some people think Jesus is. This is a compliment. He's a really good guy. We recognize this about him. He's like John the Baptist and maybe Elijah or maybe one of the prophets. What we're saying is we really like him. He's really powerful. But Jesus doesn't stop there with his disciples, does he? Now that he's heard from his disciples' lips what other people say about him. He presses in on them. He wants to know what his disciples say about him. Look at verse 29. And he asks them. But who do you say that I am? But who do you say that I am? Peter answered him. You are the Christ. And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him. Now we notice first, let's just deal with that real quick. Notice that he charges them to tell no one about him. We've seen this a number of times times in Mark's gospel. Often performing, after performing a miraculous healing, Jesus will charge people not to speak about him, which may seem odd at first glance. Wasn't Jesus' purpose for coming into the world to be known? For his message to be heard, why would he why would he say that he doesn't want people to hear about him? But the reason that he wants to keep his identity under wraps is because the story And his ministry is still unfolding. And he's keeping it under wraps at this point, is because there was so much misunderstanding about who the Christ, the Messiah, was and what he was coming to do. So most Israelites in Jesus' culture believed that the Messiah was coming to defeat Israel's enemies and establish an earthly kingdom where he would rule on earth. And so if word got back to the Romans who ruled the land that Jesus lived in, that if a person was going around claiming to be Israel's deliverer, who was going to defeat Israel's enemies and set up his kingdom on earth That would have made him public enemy number one in their eyes. And it would have messed up from a human perspective the plan that God had for him. So he commands silence about his identity. So that he can teach his disciples about his true mission, which we're going to see the next time we come to Mark's gospel, even right after Jesus confesses that he's the Christ. Peter, uh even after Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ, Peter completely misunderstands what Jesus comes for. So we're going to see more boneheadedness out of Peter and the disciples. So He's commanding silence so that his work and teaching about what the Messiah came to do and who he is could get into their minds and into their hearts. And there would come a day after the resurrection where Jesus would say, Go into all the earth and proclaim this message. about me. And it's his identity as the Messiah, though, that we want to think about, that Peter finally recognizes. This is crucial for us to understand. This is one of the places in Mark's gospel where you want to sit and think about you are the Christ. You want to understand what it means that he is the Christ. I think it's possible even in our culture to think that Jesus Christ is some kind of last name for Jesus if you're not all that familiar with him. And I say that Without laughing, right? Like it's it's possible in our culture to think that Christ is some part of his name, a middle name, a last name, but Christ isn't a name, it is a title. It is a title. You'll hear them called Christ Jesus or Jesus the Christ. Christ is the Greek word for anointed one, and it's the same word that's used in the Old Testament as Messiah. He is the Messiah, Jesus the Messiah. And the Messiah was the central figure in the Old Testament. That the Old Testament points forward to and predicts. You could even say that apart from Yahweh, the Messiah, is the most important figure in the entire Old Testament, and he doesn't even appear there Figured or actually, it's all pointing forward to him. And that starts from the beginning of the Bible in Genesis 3 points forward to a deliverer. It's entirely prophetic. The whole Old Testament is meant to predict the coming of this Messiah. This Messiah was the hope of Israel. So Peter is saying, you are the hope of Israel You are the one that the entire Old Testament has been pointing forward to and preparing us for. You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. This is a sentence that is packed. With meaning for us to understand. And as we watch how the Old Testament unfolds from Genesis to Malachi, there is a stunning stunning portrait of the Messiah that comes into focus. Think about this. Let me just walk us through this portrait in the Old Testament of what Peter is confessing here about Jesus. The Messiah would be the seed of the woman sent to crush the head of the serpent from Genesis 3. 15. The Messiah would be the descendant of Abraham who would bring God's promised blessing to the nations from Genesis 12. The Messiah would be the willing sacrifice that God would offer in the place of his people from Genesis 22, and the Passover lamb that protects God's people from destruction in Exodus 12. He would be born of a virgin, and his name would be Emmanuel, meaning God is with us from Isaiah 7. He would be born in Bethlehem from Micah. He would be a descendant of David from 2 Samuel 7. Yet he would be greater than David and even David's Lord from Psalm 110. He would be called God's son from Psalm 2, and he would be known as wonderful counselor, mighty God. Everlasting Father and Prince of Peace from Isaiah 9. Yet, even being all of those things, he would be humble, coming riding to his people on a donkey from Zechariah chapter 9. And though he would be God in the flesh, he would be the subject and object of a murderous plot from Jeremiah 31 He would be betrayed for thirty pieces of silver from Zechariah 11. And then he would be forsaken and pierced as the Messiah from Psalm 22, hung on a cross, his appearance so marred as to not be recognizable from Isaiah 52. Yet he would be pierced for our transgressions from Isaiah. 53, and even though he would be killed, God would not let his holy one, anointed one, see decay, but would cause him to rise From the dead, from Psalm 16. And in rising from the dead, he would establish with his very own chosen people that he came to die for a new covenant from Jeremiah 31. And after After rising from the dead, the Messiah would ascend into heaven and be seated at God's right hand, Psalm 110. And to him would be given All authority in heaven and on earth as he rules over an everlasting kingdom from Daniel 7, the Messiah is the humble God man sent to save his people from the dominion of Satan. offering himself as a sacrifice in the place of all who would repent and believe, so that those who repent and believe would be forgiven of their sins. Reconciled to God and given a promised inheritance in the Messiah's everlasting kingdom. And Jesus is the Messiah. You are the Christ. It's like the most important confession in the entire Bible. You are the one. Thousands of years have passed that we have been waiting, longing, and finally Finally, God has kept his promise. You are the Christ. Think about that. Let that sink in. Don't you see how far short the notions about Jesus fall from who he actually is? John the Baptist? Elijah? The prophets? Not to mention they would cringe in their skin if they heard anyone say that. John the Baptist himself said, the one who's coming after me, I'm not even worthy to get down on my knees and untie his shoe. Jesus is the exalted one. Sits at the right hand of God. Pre-existed before all things, existed before all time, came into the world, humbled himself, left the riches of heaven for your sake, the Messiah, the deliverer. This is Jesus. Good teacher. Moral example Mythological creature? Who is ever going to come up with a story about God becoming a man and then dying on a cross for his people Nobody. Nobody. He and he alone is the Messiah And though there are lots of opinions about Jesus, only those who say that Jesus is the Messiah see who Jesus truly is. But friend, if you're here and you don't follow Jesus, I just want to kindly, kindly ask you again, what do you make of Jesus? Who do you think he is? Does your answer match up with what Jesus teaches about himself and what the whole Bible teaches about Jesus? Do you say that Jesus is a wise man or a great moral teacher? Do you think he's like Gandhi or Buddha or Socrates? Or even my Muslim friends, if you're here and you're you come from a Muslim background, uh I I wonder what you think about this I understand that within the Muslim tradition, Jesus is viewed as an esteemed prophet, similar to Moses and others. I wonder what you make of Jesus' teaching here. Seriously, I'd be interested to know if any of you come from a Muslim background. If there's anything that this passage teaches is that Jesus, Jesus himself rejects the notion that he's only a prophet. What do you make of the claim of Jesus that he is the Messiah? Something for you to consider today As complimentary as it may sound to call Jesus a great teacher on par with Gandhi or even a prophet, I hope you see that those opinions about Jesus fall far short of describing who he really is. But to, and the reason this is crucial for us to understand is that our relationship with God as humans, just from one human to another, according to Jesus, our relationship with God depends on Depends on our response to Jesus. Our relationship with God, both now and forever, depends on who we say Jesus is. According to Jesus, there are not many roads that lead to God. I know it's popular in our day to think that. According to Jesus, there is only one way. All right, think about what Jesus says. That's through him. He says, I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. So can I just be sincere and live a good life? No. No, that's not sufficient. Can I just believe that Jesus is a good example for me to follow? No. No, that's not sufficient. That's not sufficient. To come to the Father through Jesus requires recognizing that Jesus is the Christ. It means recognizing that you've sinned against God and are deserving of his judgment. It means recognizing that God sent him as the atoning sacrifice to pay for your sins. And it means turning to him as both Savior and Lord. Apart from repentance of sin and trust in Jesus as the Messiah, there is no hope for salvation for us. He is the only mediator between God and man that God has given. And I know people in our culture would say, like, that's extremely prideful and self-righteous of you to say. And I understand why I might sound that way, but one of the things that we've learned in the Gospel of Mark and elsewhere in the Bible is that we don't come up with these things on our own. God is the one who implants in our heart the confession that Jesus is the Christ. This isn't something that we've come up with on our own as Christians. It's what Jesus taught about Himself. And I just want to just to think about this idea of it being prideful to believe that Jesus is the only way, that really hinges on whether or not Jesus got up from the dead. If Jesus got up from the dead, he is the one who has authority to tell us about how we are to relate to God and to deny God's sole means for forgiveness of sins. I think strikes me as a little prideful. And say that there are many ways when God has said, no, there's one, but there is a way, and it's for all. Think about that. There may only be one way, but it's for all people. All people can come to God through Jesus Christ. Right? There are going to be lots of people for those of you who are following Christ here. There are going to be lots of people for whom that this is offensive teaching. And so there's a few things that I want you to consider that we learn about, not only from this passage, but elsewhere in the Bible. First The way most people in our culture respond to the gospel is frankly no different from how people in Jesus' culture responded to his teaching Right? In the first century, the Apostle Paul described people's response to the message of the gospel this way, to one group, we are the aroma of death. And to another, the aroma of life. Many people simply respond to the gospel message as though it smells like death They're repulsed by it. They can't get around it. It's a stumbling block to them. But that shouldn't cause you to fear Sharing the gospel with them instead, like Paul, we can remember that the gospel is the power of God for the salvation of souls. Know that those whom God has called He will also save through the preaching and teaching and sharing of the gospel. That's his means for saving them. Second, recognize that to confess that Jesus is the Messiah, It's just going to place you in a minority group. Notice even in the passage, most of the people in culture that in the culture that Jesus lived in don't believe that he is the Christ. They may believe lots of really good and complimentary things about him, but they don't believe that he's the Christ, which is to deny who he actually is. Right, it's only the 12 disciples with Peter as their representative who are the ones who've confessed him as Christ. And that shouldn't surprise us either, because throughout the history of the church, Christians have almost always been in the minority wherever it is that they've lived. But that also is consistent with what Jesus taught about following him and about mankind. He said, For wide is the gate. And broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many enter through it. Most of mankind, whether when they hear the gospel, don't respond to it. And I can't assume to know all of the reasons why they don't respond to it. But based on what Jesus teaching it like teaches, it largely boils down to the fact that people don't want to submit to Jesus as Lord. That's simply all it all it boils down to. They don't want to give up control of their life. But just because most people don't believe that Jesus is the Messiah doesn't mean that he isn't. Right? Majority opinion has never, ever Ever been an accurate indicator of truth. Or it's not always an accurate indicator of truth. We could go throughout history and show how majority opinion about topics and about people and about things has been wrong time and time again. It's better to take Jesus' word for who he is because Jesus Got up from the dead. I don't know about y'all, but I'm gonna go with the guy who gets up from the dead. Doesn't matter if nobody else around is gonna go with him. I'm trusting him. He's done something nobody else has done. Right? For the teenagers and youth and kids here, I think this is especially important for y'all to consider as you think about what it means to follow Jesus. If our culture, the one that we live in right now, continues on the trajectory that it's on, then it's probably going to be a lot harder for y'all to follow Jesus than it was for your parents. Just the the the truth about it. And you can ask your parents a bit about why that is after the service. But it's because so many people seem to be growing in their open opposition to who Jesus is and what he taught. But here's where I want to encourage you. If Jesus is the Christ, if he is the Messiah Then no nation or culture has the power to stop the advance of the gospel because Jesus The exalted one who sits at the right hand of God, rules over the nations. And in spite of attempts, To rid the world of Jesus and his followers. Jesus has always and will always protect his people and carry out the salvation that he promised. And you can be sure that if you follow him, he will keep his promise to you. To rise that you again, that you will rise at the resurrection, and he will personally welcome you into his kingdom. How can we know and be confident that he will be able to do that? Well, consider the promises about the Messiah that God kept that we've already rehearsed this morning. Over thousands of years, God in the face of opposition from numerous nations and in spite of his own people's sin, perfectly kept his promises. He promised a deliverer and he sent the deliverer. He promised a deliverer born of a virgin, he sent a deliverer born of a virgin He promised that he would ride in humility on a donkey's back, and he rode in humility on a donkey's back. He promised that he would be pierced to a tree for the transgressions of his people. And what happened? The Messiah was pierced and hung from a tree, cursed. In our place, cursed in our place, his promises to offer a sacrifice for sins to swallow up death, to defeat the serpent. He kept all of them because when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son. Born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem you who were under the law, so that you might receive adoption as sons and daughters. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba, Father. So then you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. That promise is held out to you today that Jesus Christ, that Jesus is the Christ proves that God at his heart is a promise-keeping God. And so he'll keep his promises to you today. What's important for you that Jesus is the Christ and Peter's confession that Jesus is the Christ, not only that you've been saved and rescued from your sins, that he will keep his promises to you. He'll promise to sustain you this week when you feel weak and overwhelmed by life's circumstances. He'll promise to carry on the great work of sanctification that he began in you. He'll bring it to completion. Even when it seems like you're not growing at all, he'll continue to extend to you grace as he's promised to do, even when you continue to stumble and fall. He is able to keep his promises to you. Because Jesus is the Christ. Who do you say that Jesus is Heavenly Father, we rejoice again as we consider the fact that you have opened our eyes. We know that the the gift of the kingdom, the understanding of the kingdom does not come from us, but it's given to us from above. Peter's confession did not come from him, but it was revealed to him from our Father in heaven. We thank you for the spiritual sight that you've given us, and we pray that you'd open all our eyes. To confess that Jesus is the Christ and help us to live lives that are worthy of that confession this week. We pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.