Well good morning, friends. That's a joy to be with you here this morning and have an opportunity to open up God's word and to hear him speak to us. It is a powerful thing to come into the presence of God through his word. And so it's an honor to be able to do that with you today. Before we begin, I want to pray for us again briefly. Just that the Lord would open our eyes and bless this time in his word. So let's pray again briefly. Father in heaven, our request to you this morning is simple. You have said that you sent your word for a specific purpose to build up your people, to bring salvation, sanctification, redemption. We ask that you would do that work through the Holy Spirit this morning. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh, some of you have heard me share before the story of Florence Chadwick in 1952. Chadwick stepped into the waters of the Pacific Ocean, the frigid waters of the Pacific Ocean, off Catalina Island, determined to become the first women, woman, uh to swim to the shore of mainland California from the Catalina Islands. Uh the day that she stepped into those waters to make that that treacherous swim was a foggy and chilly day. Uh there were a number of boats that were sent to help her on her journey from those islands to the shore of California so that if she needed Uh rescue help they could provide it, but she could hardly see the boats around her because the fog that had settled in uh was so thick Uh she begged on numerous occasions to be taken out of the water, uh but her mother, uh uh ever faithful and present by her side, kept encouraging her daughter, keep going, keep going. The the shore is just Off in the distance, you can make it. Uh but finally, uh physically and emotionally exhausted, uh Florence stopped swimming and was pulled out of the water. But shortly after she got into the boat, the thick fog that had settled in over her parted and cleared, and Florence realized that she was less than half a mile from shore She had been swimming for 15 hours, and she got out of the water when she was less than half a mile from shore. At a news conference the next day, she said, All that I could see was the fog. I think, I think if I could have seen the shore, I would have made it. If she could have just seen that finish line was within her grasp She could have made it. Hers is a story that has a lot to teach us about the Christian life. And then now I mentioned already that some of you may have heard me share that story before, but what I won't what what some of you may not know is that that isn't the end and wasn't the end of Florence's story. So how does Florence Chadwick's story really end? Oh, we'll come back to that in a little bit. But for now, I want you to go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter 9. Uh if you're using the Bibles that we provided, you'll find Mark chapter 9 verses 2 to 13 on page 844. And if you don't have a Bible of your own to read at home, we want to offer the copy that we have in our seats to you as a gift, please. Take one with you. We believe that the living God who exists has spoken only through his word in the Holy Scriptures. Well, he's spoken in creation, but the writings that he's given to mankind, the only ones he's spoken in are the Holy Bible, and we would encourage you to take it and read and hear what God has to say to you today. Now we continue today in our study through the Gospel of Mark. And I'd like to know real quick before we begin, if any of the teenagers and below can tell me what Mark's main purpose is for writing this gospel. Does anyone know what Mark is trying to prove in his gospel? Who Jesus is and who is Jesus in Mark's gospel? What's that? God, the Son of God, right? Mark chapter 1 begins. The gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And that uh to prove that Jesus is the Son of God throughout his gospel in the first eight chapters He's proven that Jesus is the Son of God by recording numerous accounts of Jesus' supernatural authority, which then climaxes with Peter's confession in chapter eight that Jesus is the Christ. The Messiah, the Son of God. And then we saw two weeks ago, because we weren't here last week because of the snow, that climactic confession of Peter's was then followed by Jesus' shocking prediction. about the necessity of his own death, and then his sobering instruction to all who follow him, that they must all also be willing to die And surely, after hearing such a sobering message, Jesus' disciples would have needed something to encourage them, right? Something that would help them know that enduring suffering and persecution for Jesus would actually be worth it, right? Something that would help them reach the finish line of faith. In our passage this morning, we find that Jesus provides exactly the encouragement they would need, and he provides it in a truly remarkable way. So we are looking this morning at Mark chapter 9, verses 2 to 13. And I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now. And I'd encourage you to follow along as you read in your Bible. This is God's Word. And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them. And his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. And Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi. It is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. For he did not know what to say, for they were terrified And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud. This is my beloved son. Listen to him And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them, but Jesus only. And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen until the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean. And they asked him, Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? And he said to them, Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him. If you're taking notes this morning, the point of our passage is this: since we will share in Christ's glory Then we will also share in his suffering. And since we will share in Christ's glory, then we will also share in his suffering. First, in verses 2 to 8, we see that we will share in Christ's glory. I'll go ahead and look down with me at your Bible. Look at verse 2. Six days after Peter's confession of Jesus as the Christ. Jesus takes Peter and James and John on a hike. This isn't the first time that Jesus has chosen the three of these men to accompany him on a special trip. So if you're familiar with the Gospel of Mark, you might remember that back in chapter 5. He asked Peter, James, and John to accompany him, to witness him bring Jairus' daughter back from the dead. And then later in Mark's Gospel in chapter 14. He's going to ask Peter, James, and John to accompany him into the Garden of Gethsemane on his special trip of prayer. So we see this happen throughout Mark's gospel. But we also see in our passage that he takes him up on a high Mountain. We don't know exactly what mountain it is. We think it's somewhere in the area of Galilee or Caesarea Philippi. But that's really not as important as the fact that he takes them up on a high mountain. This is significant because in Scripture, mountaintops are often places of remarkable accounts of divine revelation. Right, think of God intervening for Abraham and Isaac on the top of Mount Moriah, or the epic account of God descending in a cloud on Mount Sinai, or God speaking with Elijah at Mount Horeb mountains are often places where God manifests Himself to mankind in amazing ways. And that's exactly what happens here. When they get to the top of the mountain, Jesus is transfigured. He undergoes a metamorphosis of sorts. So kids. Uh if you guys are following along, how many of you are familiar with Transformers? Raise your hand if you know what transformers are. Can any t can anybody just tell me what is a transformer? What's cool about them? Anyone. Ryan? You're a child at heart, aren't you? You're still playing with Transformers, aren't you? Yeah, they transform, right? They're these vehicles that transform into these amazing robots, but you can't tell when they're a vehicle, like, oh whoa, it turns into this amazing robot. Amazing robot also. So kids, if you're thinking about Jesus' transfiguration, I kind of want to use this as an image. He's not a robot, that's not what I'm saying, but he does transfigure form he metamorphiz more metamorphosizes in in a way it's like this uh uh this veil has been pulled back on his humanity and jesus in the The fullness of his divine glory is made evident to the disciples who are standing there. Alright, his clothes become dazzlingly white, blindingly radiant. Block your eyes, can't look at him. We even know from Matthew's gospel, Mark just describes the clothes. We know from Matthew's gospel that his face shone like the sun. Right? Have you ever stared at the sun? Don't do it. It's bad for your eyes. It'll burn your eyeballs out. But that the sun is millions of miles away. Jesus is standing right in front of them and his face shone like the sun, the Son of God, in the radiance of his glory. But not only does Jesus appear in blinding glory, But Elijah and Moses also appear. Two of the most well-known people in the entire Old Testament suddenly appear and they're carrying on a conversation with him, right? This is an experience unlike any other the disciples would have ever had in their entire lives. Right? Words like bewildering, stupendous, amazing, all fall far short. of describing what this would have been like. It's such an extraordinary event, but the disciples don't even know what to say. So Peter just kind of says the first thing that comes to his mind. Rabbi Let's build you a tent. What? Huh? Like Peter, you just hiked up a mountain. What how are you gonna build a tent? Are there materials? Did you bring tools with you? Like why would you say that? Well then Mark tells us, well, this is why he said it. He was terrified. He had no idea what to say. Some commentators tried to probe and look into Peter's summit. Maybe it had something to do with the tabernacle in the Old Testament, and there's some secret going on here. No, there's no secret. Mm Peter didn't know what to say because he was terrified. And you said the first thing that came to his mouth. Right? That's what's going on here. I don't think. And it's not only that also, uh if the scene wasn't terrifying enough. Then a cloud appears, overshadowing them. Right? And I don't I don't think this is like when you're outside and it's a nice sunny day and you're enjoying the warmth of the sun and then like a cloud passes way above you in front of the sun and it causes it to become a little bit more chilly and You're in the shade and you're just waiting for the sun to come out. I don't think that's what's going on here. I think there is a cloud that is dropping down upon them and enveloping them in that cloud. And I think what we're supposed to envision is this picture of God descending on Mount Sinai in a cloud. Recall that epic scene. As fire and lightning and a cloud came down on Sinai when God met with Moses. And then the cloud, from the cloud, a voice speaks This is my beloved son. Listen to him. This is the climax of this section that we're looking at right here. This is the climax. Listen to my son. Everything. His transfiguration. The fact that the some of the greatest people in the Old Testament are are appearing, having a conversation with Jesus, the fact that the cloud appears, and you know in the cloud it's supposed to ru to symbolize the hiddenness of God. You can't see God. It's like he's hidden in a cloud. But he makes himself known to mankind in the glory of his Son, Jesus Christ. Everything is pointing to the fact that Jesus is the Son of God. This is my beloved Son. Listen to him. You listen to Moses and Elijah only insofar as they agree with him. He is the one that you listen to. And what does he want the disciples to listen to Jesus about Well, I think one obvious application is that we're supposed to listen to everything that he says. So no matter what instruction he gives us We should seek to understand it and obey it and apply it in our lives. But I do think God the Father has something more specific in mind that He wants the disciples to listen to. He wants the disciples to listen to what Jesus has been teaching about the necessity of his own death and what that will mean for them. Recall that after Peter confesses that Jesus is the Messiah, Jesus immediately begins to teach the disciples that he must die and that they must also be willing to take up their cross and follow him. And how does Peter respond? He rebukes Jesus. You're wrong. That can't be right. So they're not listening to what Jesus is teaching Jesus is going to teach again on the fact that he will suffer in this very passage we're looking at this morning. Then later in chapter 9, he's going to teach very clearly again. I must suffer and die and be rejected. Then again in chapter 10, I must suffer and die and be rejected. And those who follow me must also be willing to die. And The disciples are going to continue to misunderstand them. And the Father is telling them, you must listen to what he is teaching you about his own death. and what that will mean for you as one of his disciples. You must listen to him. If he is going to die You must also be willing to die. If he is going to suffer persecution, you also must be willing to suffer persecution. If he is going to lay his life down as a servant, you must also be willing to lay your lives down and serve others. Listen to him. And here is where I think you see the great importance of the transfiguration for these three disciples and for anyone else who would be Jesus' disciple. Right? If if you're being called to lay down your life to endure persecution, To give up pursuing your own desires to become a servant of all. But you're going to want to know that your sacrifices aren't going to be in vain. You're going to want to know that this Jesus is who he really says he is. You're going to want to know that he can make good on the promises he has made to you. Right, you know I'm just not gonna lay down my life and and endure persecution for a man who who can't fulfill his promises to protect me This is where you see the importance of the transfiguration. The transfiguration is nothing less than a visible declaration to all of Jesus' disciples that he is who he says he is. Right, so that when they eventually see him in this life, pierced and hanging from the tree, they would know that his death is not the end. But is merely the pathway to a new beginning when he rises physically from the dead in power And ascends into heaven as the victorious Son of God and sits at God's right hand as his chosen king, who will rule and reign forever. Right? It's a visible declaration that all who give up their lives now to follow Him on that path of suffering will also one day share in His glory. The disciples receive a foretaste of the glory that we will all one day experience. When Jesus returns in the glory of his Father and with His holy angels, as He just taught in chapter 9, verse 1 Right? And Jesus offers this revelation to his disciples to give them hope and confidence And he offers this revelation to us today to give hope and confidence to those of you who have willingly given up your lives to follow him. So that you might know that in spite of the suffering, in spite of the persecution, in spite of the difficulties, in spite of the questions and the longing and the unfulfilled desires, in spite of all the pain, the space. Pain of following Christ in a fallen world. You will too one day stand on the mountain with him And see him in the fullness of his divine glory. And when you do, it will not be a temporary glimpse like the disciples received, but an eternal beholding of the Lamb who was slain. From before the foundation of the world. Friend, this is your future. This is the glory that is awaiting you as a disciple of Christ. How regularly do you consider the glory that is awaiting you in the presence of Christ? How often do you think about heaven and about the eternal riches and about union and reunion and redemption and and being in the very presence of God for all eternity. Seeing him face to face Finally my heart cries out, I just want to see you, and one day you will see him in all of his glory Oh friends, how is the knowledge of that shaping how you live today? Is it shaping how you live today? You hear people say that some Christians can be so heavenly minded that they're no earthly good. And honestly, that is such a misguided statement, because the reality is the only thing that will make m make us of any earthly use is that if we are heavenly minded, But repeatedly, regularly, the New Testament authors emphasize the importance of fixing your mind. Set your mind on the heaven above, where Christ is seated at God's right hand. Not on earthly things, but in heaven, Paul says in Colossians. Fix your mind on the life to come in Christ's presence forever. My fear is that if we don't regularly enough consider the glory and the hope of glory that awaits us, that we may become so earthly minded that we are of no heavenly good. Right? That's what happens. That's why we're called to fix our minds there so often. So my question to you today is, how often are you thinking of that day? How would it change how you look at your life today if you did? What are you facing today that's hard? What are the burdens that you're carrying as you follow Christ? What are the things that frustrate you on a regular basis? Doesn't make you just, ugh, wish this wasn't the case, but it's always gonna be the case. What are the things that are weighing your heart down with pain and sorrow? Walk with me. I'm a fellow traveler on this world. Let's walk together in our minds to that last day. Let's stand in the presence of Christ. See him in his transfigured divine glory. And then let him put his arm around you. And tell you, hey, turn around. Look back at those burdens now. How do they look from here? You're in my glory now. Those things were temporary, passing, fleeting. They were painful at the time, but you're in my presence now. Friend, that reality is yours if you are in Christ today. But you might say, John, John, I I I just don't know if I if I'm gonna share in that glory because I know that I profess faith in Christ, but I I'm struggling with sin today, and I feel like I just keep stumbling and struggling, and how can I know that Christ will will love me and welcome me into his glory? But friend, look at the page. Look who's standing with him on the Mount of Transfiguration. Elijah and Moses. Were they perfect? By no means. Both of them sinned. Moses sinned against God by striking the rock when he shouldn't have. Elijah shows up at Mount Horeb and God says to Elijah, What are you doing here? I sent you out to preach my word. Go do it. None of these men were perfect, and yet look at where they are standing. Christ's welcome, he welcomes sinners into his very presence, carries on conversations with them. Luke even tells us that they were glorified with him. Oh, you, sinner, are also a saint, and one day you will be made perfect in the presence of the one who is all glorious. Let us be reminded today of Paul's words in Romans 8 when he says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. He's not saying that these sufferings are light and inconsequential. He's saying they may be huge and hard, but in comparison with the glory that is to be revealed, they are nothing. And this is a man who suffered greatly. Oh friends, think about how this shapes and changes even your suffering, your present suffering now, knowing what is to come. Consider the glory that awaits. No longer will we live in homes that are in need of constant repair or maintenance. No, Christ says to his followers, In my Father's house are many rooms And we're preparing a place for you to live. A place that will make mansions and palaces of this world look like little doll houses. The home that we're building for you will never flood. You live in if you live in Chevrolet, you know you have problems with flooding. Never flood Never break down, never need maintenance. That's the home you're going to. No longer will we live in a world plagued by war or murder or hatred or racism No longer will we live in a world that's drenched by tears and filled with cries of anguish. No, Christ says, in my presence there will be no more tears, no more death, no more mourning, no more crying, and no more pain. No longer will we experience longing for God. We'll no longer feel like wanderers and strangers in this world No longer will our experience of God be like looking through a mirror dimly, because we will one day see him face to face. And because we will one day see him face to face, we will no longer suffer in bodies that experience decay and death. Because the apostle John says, when we see him, we will become like him because we will see him as he is. As he is. We will see him as the disciples saw him on the Mount of Transfiguration, the one in whom the fullness of God is pleased to dwell. We will see in all of his divine glory and his glory will be so powerful that it will transform our lowly, mortal, earthly bodies into glorious, heavenly, and eternal bodies forever. And we will dwell in the immediacy of his glorious presence forever. without end. We'll no longer hunger because we live in the presence of the bread of life. We'll no longer thirst because we live in the presence of the one who is a fountain of living water We'll no longer fear because we will dwell in the presence of the King of Kings, and we will no longer bear the sh the shame of our sin, because we will live in the presence of the Lamb who was slain as a sacrifice for the sins of his people, so that they could be cleansed by his blood. And be his bride forever. Oh my gosh, friends, this is what is awaiting us. We will live in the presence of his glory. The glory that makes the inhabitants of heaven all fall in their faces and worship and sing, worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and honor and glory and blessing and might to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be honor and glory and might forever and ever. And that glory we will dwell in and share in forever. Friends, that is yours today if you are in Christ. Oh, and since we will share in his glory. We will also share in his suffering. That's the point of verses 9 to 13. Look down there with me. In verse 9, as they come down the mountain, Jesus tells his disciples not to tell anyone what they had seen. Now let's just pause for a moment. Can you imagine being told that? Like, I'm the type of person, if I if I just see something funny out on the street, like two squirrels playing in my backyard, I want to like film it and put it on Instagram because I want other people to see it. And here, Jesus is transfigured into like the fullness of his divine glory and he says to his disciples hey can't talk about it can't talk about come on man like I want to tell everybody about this Then we do have to give them some credit. It says they actually kept it to themselves. I have a round of applause for the disciples there. I would not have been able to do that. But why would he tell them not to talk about it? Well, I think the answer is there in verse 9. Now look at verse 9. He doesn't say they can't ever talk about it. He just says they can't talk about it until he's risen from the dead. Right, they aren't allowed to talk about the transfiguration now because there's no way that they're going to be able to understand or explain its significance. apart from first understanding Jesus' death and resurrection. And it's clear from verse 10 that they still don't understand the need For Jesus' death and resurrection. Notice it says in verse 10, they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean. Right? They still show a lack of understanding. They don't understand what rising from the dead means because they can't understand why Jesus would have to die in the first place. You're the Messiah. What do you say? What does this talk about dying? So in verse 11, they respond to Jesus with a question. Look at verse 11. They ask Jesus, Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? And now if if you're following along with me, I just want you, I want to say this real quick, I just want you to track with me on this because it may seem confusing at first because there's a lot going on here that just kind of needs to be pulled apart before it can be put back together. So just track with me for a moment. I think what's happening here is that the disciples just saw Elijah and Moses on the mountain with Jesus. And I think seeing them triggers us in Peter's mind or the disciples' mind, wait a second, what about these prophecies in the Old Testament? They're reminded of predictions in the Old Testament that Elijah would return as a forerunner to the Messiah and as a forerunner to the day of the Lord, the the final day of judgment. That is Coming. And one such prophecy that I think they're thinking of comes from Malachi chapter 4, verses 4 and 5. I want you to notice this. It's actually kind of odd the way Malachi puts these two things together. Malachi chapter 4, verses 4 and 5, predicting Elijah to come, he says first, remember the law of my servant Moses. The statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. Now these disciples have just seen Moses and Elijah together with Jesus, and so they're thinking, Well, this prophesied day of the Lord has come And if the day of the Lord has come, that's the day when the Messiah would set up an earthly kingdom, defeat all of Israel's enemies, and restore his people to their former glory. If this day of the Lord has come, Moses and Elijah are here They're fulfilling that prophecy. How can all this talk about you needing to die? But when is this going to happen? The day of the Lord is here. You're about to set up your kingdom. What's going on here? We don't understand what's happening They don't understand what need is there for Jesus to die and rise again? That's why they asked the question about Elijah. If Elijah ushers in the end times, why all this talk about dying and rising? Doesn't make any sense. The kingdom's about to come. You don't need to die and rise. So Jesus responds in verse 12. Look down there with me. Basically, he tells them they're partially right. He says Elijah does first come, but then look at verse 13. Then he says to them, they don't understand that Elijah had already come. Matthew tells us in his gospel that when Jesus said this, the disciples understood that he was referring to John the Baptist. John the Baptist was the fulfillment of the prophecies promising that Elijah would return as a forerunner to the Messiah and as a forerunner to this promised day of the Lord. Now it's not that John the Baptist is literally Elijah, the way the Bible talks about these things and shows how prophecies are filled. It's as though he's like another Elijah. And we've seen that already in Mark's Gospel, haven't we? Mark begins his gospel with a prophecy from Malachi and then shows how John the Baptist fulfills that prophecy from Malachi about being the next Elijah. Then he goes on to paint a portrait of how John the Baptist is the fulfillment of Elijah by the unique attire that he wears. And he eats the same unique food as Elijah. Can any of the kids tell me what is it that John the Baptist wore and ate, Adam? Right, he wore an outfit of camel's hair, not on even the the the most like uh ho couture. You know, uh uh stores right now, you're not finding camel's hair. It was odd, even in that day. And he was eating locusts and wild honey Probably not on many of our menus. But that's what Elijah wore, and that's what Elijah ate. And John the Baptist is showing that he's of the fulfillment of this Elijah. And this is what is important for us to understand today. In first century Israel, the second coming of Elijah was one of the most long-awaited moments in their history. Because his arrival was supposed to signify their redemption. But Jesus is telling us that Elijah came in the person of John the Baptist Most of the people in Israel didn't even recognize that he had come as this Elijah. And worse than that, he was murdered for faithfully calling people to obey God's law. That's what Jesus means when he says that they did whatever to him they pleased. Remember that scene from Herod where Herod beheads him. And not only did they murder this second coming of Elijah in John the Baptist. But then Jesus tells his disciples that they're going to do the same thing to him. Look at verse 12. Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? He's saying to them, you're not understanding the full picture. Elijah has come and he was killed. And the Messiah has come. I am the Messiah, and I will be killed. And he wants them to see, he wants his disciples to see that if they would do this to John the Baptist, the fulfillment of Elijah, and if they would do this to the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, what do you think they will do to you? They will do the very same things to you. He wants his disciples to know that before they share in his glory, they will share in his suffering. And that's what he wants you to know today. Before you share in his glory, you will share in his suffering. In following Jesus, we are choosing to follow someone who was hated by the world for the message he proclaimed. So if we're going to follow him, we also need to be prepared. to be hated by the world. This is evident throughout the New Testament, right? Remember Jesus' own instruction on this in the Gospel of John. He says, Remember the word that I spoke to you. A servant is not greater than his master. They persecuted me. They will persecute you also. And friends, many of us have already experienced various forms. of persecution in our own lives. Some of us, I think we we think of persecution and think that's that's only like the really serious stuff that happens to Christians who lose their lives for Christ. But Peter says, no, there's all you suffer various forms of trials There's all manner of suffering for Christ. And we we have some of us been shunned by co-workers or maligned by people who used to be our friends but are no longer. Or we some of us have been opposed by our own families. All of these are forms of suffering for Christ Not to mention that there are clear signals in our culture that living as a Christian in this country is seemingly only going to get more difficult. And it's possible that even in our lifetimes, the church itself will be openly persecuted, as it was in the days of the people who received this letter in Rome, right? And I want to say this not out of a sense of doom and gloom, not at all. Not at all. Think about the glorious future we have. There's no doom and gloom. But I say it to get us thinking about it so that we might be prepared for it. We need to prepare for these things, for if and when it comes. This is why Jesus repeatedly teaches his disciples that he is going to suffer and that they also are going to suffer, so that they would be ready for it when it happens. But his teaching on suffering opposition for following him here in Mark's gospel, we need to remember that this, you are going to suffer for me, you're going to be persecuted, is inextricably linked to the transfiguration. Literally in this account, the transfiguration is right in the middle of two sections of teaching about those who follow me will suffer. He's trying to get you thinking your suffering is not in a vacuum. It is linked to the transfiguration. Right? What does it teach us? What does the transfiguration teach us? How does it shape our view of enduring persecution in this life? Think about this. It teaches us that now is the time for laboring for Christ. Now is the time for enduring persecution and for suffering for his name. We have not yet reached the mountaintop. Did you notice that the disciples had to climb a very high mountain before they saw the glory of the Lord? This very high mountain, if it was actually a high mountain in Galilee or Caesarea Philippi, was probably somewhere between 5,000 and 10,000 feet. And if they climbed to the top, they were tired. It is only after laboring, clawing, and scratching, making it up to the top of the mountain that we get to see his glory. And along the way, there's going to be rock slides. The hike will be hard. There will be treacherous paths. Storms will wash out paths. It will seem like, where am I going? I'm wandering. Even think about pilgrim's progress. When they they had that vision of the celestial city in the beginning, but then they walk down into the valley and all these things start happening and they start to wonder, didn't we ever even see the celestial city? That's what this life is going to be like. You're going to be so caught in the mire at times and suffering at times for Christ. You're going to wonder, like, is this really going to happen? Did we really ever see him on the Mount of Transfiguration? This life will be hard. We see it even in our passage, right? Notice that the disciples don't stay on the mountaintop. Peter wanted to build tents. He was like, hey, hey, we made it in your glory. I'm gonna build some tents. I don't know what I'm saying, but I'm gonna build some tents. I kind of just want to post up here and enjoy this. Jesus says, nah. Oh well we're gonna we're gonna take those tents down and you're gonna follow me back down the mountain. It's not time for that yet. You're gonna follow me down into the valley of the shadow of death. Right? And that's where we walk today. Yea, though we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, we will fear no evil. Why? Because thy rod and thy staff, they come from me. He's with us. Walking. Right, he he led them off the mountain. He led them off the mountain. He led them to Golgotha. He led them out of the tomb. He always leads his people. And he walks with us through the valley of the shadow of death. Why do we need to fear no evil? Because God is with us, and the transfiguration enables us to face persecution with confident boldness Because Jesus faced persecution to the point of death, but not even death could defeat him. He rose in power and glory and is seated at God's right hand even now. And he promised that if we even face death for following to him, we too will rise in power and share in his glory. There is no persecution that can ultimately defeat us. The gates of hell will not prevail against God's church. You will not be defeated ultimately. Right to the to the youth, to the teenagers here, how many of you would be afraid to play a game that you knew you were going to win? There was absolutely no possible way you were going to lose the game. Would you be afraid of playing that game Of course not. Why? Because you know that you're going to win. The transfiguration says to you, in Christ, you will be victorious. Nothing will stand in your way. There's nothing that you need to fear as a Christian. Just promise to the disciples that they can't lose. But you could say, you might say to Jesus, I could be opposed, hated, I could even lose my life. What do you mean I can't lose? Well, I think it's instructive to look at how other Christians in history have faced the prospect of losing their lives for Christ. Think of Jim Elliott, who said he is no fool, who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. He knew that he could not lose the glory of the presence of God forever. And he knew that he couldn't keep his life. So he willingly gave his life to gain what he knew he could not lose. Or think of Polycarp. Polycarp was a Christian in the first century, an apostle of John. He was discipled by John. Like, I want to be that guy. Disciple by John. That's amazing. Right? But Polycarp was facing death at the hands of the Roman tribunal. He was brought before a crowd in the Colosseum where they have lions and tigers. They torture people, brought before a crowd, and pressed to recant his faith in Christ. He said, 80 and 6 years I have followed him, and he's never done anything wrong to me. I will not recant. So they they pressed him and said, We're gonna torture you in these various ways. And they they continued to press and recant and recant and recant. And he didn't uh he didn't recant. And finally, the tribunal, the official, says to him, We are gonna burn you at the stake. Polycarp says, Good. Why? Because to live is Christ and to die is gain. You might lose your life for Christ But when Christ, who is your life, appears, you also will appear with him in glory. You cannot lose your eternal life for Christ. You will only ever keep it. But think about how that shapes how you view even the difficult relationships in your life of people you're thinking about sharing the gospel with. Think about how it shapes our fear, quells our fears. You will stand in his glory forever. It is coming. You will not lose your life Persecution will not consume you. Suffering will not overtake you. He will be good and make good on every one of his promises. Every single promise of his word. Polycarp and others like him had fixed in their minds the glory that they knew they would share in. I just want to say a word to you. If you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, I'm thankful that you've come this morning, taking time to spend your morning with us. I just want to hold out this glory is offered to you today. Jesus Christ came with a very clear message. You and I have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. We have broken God's laws, we have offended him, he is holy, he is perfect, he is just he will judge us, and we deserve it because we're guilty. But because God is merciful, he sent his son, the one who is full of glory, to take on flesh, to live a perfect life, the life that we should have lived, that Tom was talking about in his prayer praise. He did what we could not do but should have done. And then he offered his life willingly for sinners and rebels like you and me to take the punishment for our sins so that we could be reconciled to God if we would turn to him in repentance and faith. And he holds out that promise to you today that if you turn, he will finish. forgive you and he will make good on that promise. And you can know that if you turn, life might not may not go perfect for you. You may not experience blessings from heaven materially Right? Life may actually get very difficult, as Jesus warns his disciples about. But you can know for certain that when you pass into the grave, the grave will not be the end for you, because the Lord Jesus, who got up from the dead, will also resurrect you from the dead. And he calls you to die. to repent to put your faith in him trust in him today he makes good on his promises friends The transfiguration is a visible declaration that there is nothing for you to fear about persecution. You may be maligned, you may be hated, you may be opposed, but that will only be temporary. And one day you will share in his eternal glory. Friends, keep that day in mind Fix your mind upon it. And ask God to create in you a holy boldness that is rooted in the reality that you will one day share in Christ's glory. Which brings us back to Florence Chadwick. Remember her words when she came out of the water. If I would have known how close the shore was, I could have made it. Well, I said her story didn't end there, and it didn't. Now Florence tried again two months later. And she got into those frigid waters and began swimming Once again, a thick fog settled in, seemingly mocking her, right? The fog's like saying, We're gonna do it to you again. We will crush you, we will make you give up. Right? But this time Florence kept a mental image in her mind of the shore. And though she faced the same difficulties, She faced the same temptations. She wanted to get out of the water just as many times. Because she kept an image of the shore burned and fixed in her mind. Florence succeeded. She finished a swim from the Catalina Islands to the coast of California. Over 15 hours in the water. What got her through it? Kept the shoreline in mind. I will get there. I will get there. Friends, when you share in suffering for Christ, which you surely will if you follow him faithfully Keep your mind fixed on the transfiguration. And remember, remember the finish line. You will also share in his glory. Shoreline is approaching even now. Father, we are a weak people. We struggle with sin. We're often controlled by our feelings and impulses rather than by the truth of your word. And so we ask, Lord, that you would grant us strength, that you would grant us endurance and patience with joy according to your glorious might. Because we need your glorious might to get us through this life. We pray that you would hold us fast. We pray that you would preserve our lives. And we pray, Father, that you would cause the day where our eyes open and we see Christ in all of his glory to come soon and very soon. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.