Good morning. It's a joy to be with you all this morning, to open up God's word together and to hear Him speak to us. In light of that, it's right for us to go to him and pray briefly to ask him to bless the preaching of his word. So let's do that now. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we come to you this morning in the name of your beloved Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and we come pleading, Lord, bring us into your very presence. Cause us to hunger and thirst for your word. Grant the Holy Spirit to illuminate our path now, we pray. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 8. Uh we're going to be looking specifically this morning at Mark chapter 8, verses 31 and following, and we're going to go all the way through Mark chapter 9, verse 1. If you're using one of the Bibles that we've provided, you can find our passage this morning on page 844. Uh and also if you're here and you don't have a Bible of your own, we'd encourage you to take a copy of ours. There's nothing more than we would want in this world than for you to have a copy of the Holy Scriptures. We believe the one true God who exists. Who lives and who speaks has spoken in his word, and we believe that if you open his word and read it, you also will hear him speak And hear what he calls all men to do. And so we'd encourage you to take a copy for yourself. We have been out of Mark's gospel for some time now. We were in a series in Mark's Gospel for I don't know the last nine months or so. And over the Christmas break we stopped for a series in Advent. But since we're diving back into Mark's Gospel, we should take a moment to pause to understand the context of the first time. Of our passage to understand what is going on this morning. And if you're remembering our study in Mark's Gospel, you will remember that Uh his gospel can really be divided into two halves. Chapters 1 to 8 are the first half of the book, and chapters 9 to 16 are the second half of the book. And the first eight chapters really recount Jesus' authority. His authority as a teacher. His authority to forgive sin. His authority to heal sickness. His authority over the demonic realm, and his authority over nature. Recall his calming of the storm and his creation of food from nothing, the purpose of those ris repeated displays of authority in those first eight chapters is to prove Jesus' identity as the Messiah And so the climax of those first eight chapters really occurs in the passage that immediately precedes the passage that we're studying this morning. It was the last put passage that we studied in Mark's Gospel at the end of November. where Peter confesses on behalf of the disciples that Jesus is the Messiah. This was a bright shining moment of the first eight chapters of Mark's gospel where the disciples finally understood who this man really is. He is the Christ, the Son of the living God. And it's at this point that Mark's gospel really takes a decidedly ominous turn. And chapters 9 to 16 are marked by Jesus' predictions of his coming suffering. He sees the cross come into view on the horizon, and he begins to teach his disciples about his impending death. And connected with that, he begins to instruct his disciples on what his death means for anyone who would follow him Are you following Jesus Christ this morning? Do you understand yourself to be a follower of Christ? Listen carefully to what Jesus says to you this morning. Let me read Mark chapter 8, verses 31 to 9, chapter 9, verse 1 for us now. This is God's word And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed And after three days, rise again. And he said this plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, If anyone would come after me. . . Let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what can a man give in return for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation. Of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed, when he comes in the glory of his Father, with the holy angels And he said to them, Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power If you're taking notes this morning, the point of our passage is this. Jesus must die. And whoever desires to follow him must also be willing to die. Jesus must die. And whoever desires to follow him must also be willing to die. Let's look more closely at the text. Our first point will be Jesus must die. Look at verse 31 again. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed Now we see there that Jesus began to teach them. That means his disciples. So let's recall the context. Peter has just confessed that for the first time that Jesus is the Christ, that is the Messiah. And so Jesus then seizes on Peter's confession and begins teaching the disciples what the Messiah actually came to do. And what he says next. would have come as an absolute shock to his disciples. Notice what he says. He says he will suffer many things. He will be rejected and he will be killed. To say that these predictions would have been puzzling to the disciples. would actually be a supreme understatement. They would have been totally baffling to them. Yet perhaps what is most baffling for us this morning, and what we should consider carefully about his statement is that he says, the Son of Man. Must suffer and be rejected and be killed. He must suffer and be rejected and be killed This is a precise prediction about what is going to happen to him, right? Jesus isn't a medium or a spiritist or a poem reader He isn't standing back and saying, I I sense that someone in this room is in turmoil. Right? Of course. You get a get a room of anybody, you know, uh any number of people together, you're gonna hit the name like the bullseye on that one. I sense that somebody has lost something in this life. Yes, of course. That's not what Jesus is doing. He's speaking precisely about what is going to happen to him. He must suffer. He must be rejected and then names the exact people he will be rejected by, the elders, the chief priests, the scribes, the religious authorities, and then be killed. He says precisely what is going to happen to him. The level of certainty with which Jesus speaks reveals that when he says he must die That he is speaking of a predetermined plan. His death is by design. That his death was by design really is an inescapable fact of the New Testament when we read it carefully. It's this design that Peter spoke of in Acts chapter 2, verse 23, when he says that Jesus was delivered up to die according to the Definite plan and foreknowledge of God. The definite plan and foreknowledge of God Then again in Acts chapter 4, while praying to God, and Peter says that Herod, Pontius Pilate, the Gentiles, and all the Israelites did to Jesus what God's hand and plan had predestined to take place. Jesus must die Because his suffering and his death were in accordance with God's divine plan of redemption. He must die because before the foundation of the world, the Trinitarian Godhead, Father, Son, and Spirit, and on all their wisdom and glory agreed within themselves that the eternal son would take on flesh and would offer himself to redeem a lost and ruined world. He must die by design. But there's also another meaning to this comment that he must die. He must die by necessity. When I say that his death was necessary, I'm not speaking of the fact that God's plan made it necessary, though it did. I'm saying that he must die. Because our sins could be atoned for no other way. I want to encourage you to let the reality, the seriousness of this reality, sink deeply into your hearts this morning. So desperate is man's condition, so far fallen from grace is he, that only the death of the living and incarnate Word of God is sufficient to atone for his sins and cleanse us of. our stains. Mankind thinks little of his sins. He discounts their seriousness. He explains away anger, malice, and bitterness. He makes excuses for jealousy and gossip and slander, justifies indulging lust and greed and pride. Surely he says God can't Possibly be that offended by my sins. But who I ask can stand before the cross of Jesus Christ And see the Son of God utterly crushed, broken, marred beyond human form, and not understand the seriousness and the weight of our sin. And not come away from the cross, concluding that mankind is altogether lost and ruined by the fall. There can be no other answer for the death of the Son of God upon the cross than we are in desperate need. We are in need of something far more greater than we could possibly provide for ourselves. He must die For us, so terrible is our condition that the only solution sufficient To pay for your transgressions and mine is the death of the Son of God. Let us not trifle with the notion that all we need is a little help That all mankind needs is to be just steered in a little bit better of a direction. Mankind is altogether dead The only thing that can make him alive again is that a life would be given. A life that is precious enough and perfect enough that could cause mankind to be brought back from the dead. And there is only one life that can do it. The Son of God, the Son of Man, the ancient of days, the Alpha and the Omega, the eternal Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, pierced and nailed to the tree. They must suffer. They must die. They must Oh, friends, let this sink in. If in any way you are brought low by the recognition of the cost of your sins. Then you are in the place that you should be. Our sins should bring us low when we see how grave and serious and costly they are. But let the wings of this truth cause you to soar to the heights of praise. That the Son of Man must die is also an expression of the steadfastness of his love for you. Recognize, friends, that Jesus could have chosen to avoid the cross out of self-preservation He could have chosen to avoid pain out of self-interest, but such was the steadfastness of his love for his people that he was faithful to the end. He must die. I must die for my people. The Son of Man must die because he knew that apart from his death, his beloved bride could not be cleansed of her sins. Apart from his death, she can never be made holy. And he loved her so dearly that he was willing to endure the suffering and shame of the cross that she might live. The Son of Man must die because he passionately loves his people and is zealous for their salvation, their redemption, and their sanctification. He must die. But marvel at his love for his people. That he sets his mind to our salvation. That he goes to the cross, pierced and nailed to the tree for our sakes. Praise be to God. Yet we find that this prediction of Jesus, his prediction offends Peter. Look at this. So Peter takes it upon himself to rebuke him. To rebuke God in the flesh. No, no, no, no. You've got it all wrong, Jesus. You've got it all wrong. This this can't be so We know from the other gospels here, Mark basically just says, it's almost like a passing comment that Peter rebuked him. He doesn't say what he what he actually says, but we know from Matthew's gospel that Peter says to him, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never happen to you. We should ask, well, why would Peter rebuke him? Why would he say that this should never happen to you? Was it out of love for Jesus? That Peter is trying to protect his life? Is it is it because he loved him so dearly that he's trying to stop him from going to the cross I don't think so. As we continue in Mark's gospel, we'll find that even though Peter had confessed that Jesus was the Messiah, he and the other disciples will continue to misunderstand what that actually means. You see, in the Old Testament, the Messiah was predicted to come as a king and defeat Israel's enemies and set up an earthly kingdom, restoring Israel to its former glory. And what's happening here, I think that's the motivation behind Peter's rebuke of Jesus, is as the wheels start turning in the disciples' head, they start putting together the fact that, oh This is the Messiah. This is the king who is to come, who will set up a kingdom on earth. He will vanquish Israel's enemies. Well, they see themselves as the early adopters. If we get in on the ground floor, surely we will sit at his right and his left in power. Their minds are set upon the power and prestige and fame that will be theirs, sitting at the right hand of the King of Kings. And so Peter's rebuke is motivated by self-interest. You see, it's not motivated by love of Christ. He's rebuking him because he sees his own future going down the drain with Christ's own death. No, no, far be it from you. Because I want to come with you. I'm going to be at your right and your left. Right? I'm trying to have that power. I'm trying to be powerful in this world. Right? Jesus' suffering and dying is unacceptable to them because it doesn't align with the vision that they have for themselves. We will be with the King of Kings. We will be his right hand of power. I think that explains the harshness of Jesus' reply to Peter. Look at verse 33. Look at verse 33. Jesus turns, sees his disciples. I think he's just trying to gather everybody into this statement because he recognizes all the disciples share in Peter's rebuke. And he says to him, Get behind me, Satan! But he calls his own disciple Satan. Not that Peter has transformed into Satan No, he calls him Satan because in opposing Jesus' plan, he's opposing the very means by which mankind might be saved. Were he to succeed in derailing Jesus' plan, he would succeed in ensuring that all mankind remain enslaved to sin and under the just judgment of God. Opposition to that plan can only be described as satanic because it's Satan himself who wants mankind to join him in his own destruction, a sure and certain destruction. And now Peter is like a missionary of Satan. Stop! You can't die! He has no idea what he's saying. If Christ doesn't die, then Peter himself will remain in his sins. And notice, I want you to notice this where this satanic opposition to Jesus manifested itself. It manifests itself in Peter's mind. In his mind. Peter, get behind me, Satan. You are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. Peter is concerned with self-preservation and self-interest rather than self-sacrifice and the salvation of souls. He's setting his mind on the things of man, concerned only about his own gain through Christ's reign as king But I want you to see here especially the great importance with which Jesus regards the mind. It is with his mind that Peter has become Satan's missionary. It is with his mind that it has happened. Throughout Scripture, the mind plays a central role in the life of faith. Think back to the Old Testament. Can any of the kids think of the Old Testament of a passage that speaks about the mind? How important the mind is? Just raise your hand if you can think of one. What over here, Lois? Exactly. Exactly Passage I have written here. Well done, Lois. Yeah, even in the Old Testament, the Israelites were called to love God with all of their heart, with all of their soul, and with all of their mind The mind is important to God. And this continues even in the New Testament, where believers are called to be renewed in their minds. They're called to set their minds on the spirit and not on the flesh. They're called to set their minds in heaven where Christ is seated at God's right hand. Our mind is important to God. Think about the role of the mind in the fall of mankind. Was it not Eve's mind that Satan subtly attacked with his seductive question? Did God really say that? Did he did he really say that? And then was it not with the mind that they considered his question and then reasoned for themselves? Well the fruit looks good to eat. Don't know why God would have said that to us. Sure, we must sure with our minds we are gonna make this decision. Friends, Satan is waging a war for the for your soul on the battlefield of your mind. Yet how many of us give careful attention to what we allow into our minds? Consider the lengths that people will go to protect their material resources, right? I can hardly get into my bank account online because I I apparently set up 15 passwords and then forgot all of them. Right? It just multi-layer. I try to log into Amazon and I've got to go to my phone and then my iPad and then I've got to go back to my computer. You've got to put all these things in. You're trying to protect or password. Passwords are material resources. Cars come custom fit with alarms, tracking devices so that they get stolen, you can follow them. Homeowners install cameras and alarms to protect their homes. But what is being done to protect the mind? Friends, all those things will perish. The mind is eternal. You will always have it. It is with the mind that we consider God and we walk by faith. The heart and the mind are together. When was the last time that you seriously considered what you allowed into your mind? Whether TVs, movies, video games, books, music, podcasts, whatever it is. You must recognize that every single piece of content that you bring into your mind is making an argument to you. It is going to push you in one of two directions. It's going to encourage you to set your mind on the things of man, or it's going to encourage you to set your mind on the things of God. Do you notice that Jesus doesn't mention an in-between way? He doesn't say the things of man, the things that are neutral, and the things of God. There are only two ways: the things of man and the things of God. And what we put into our minds pushes us in one of two directions. So I have a question for you. Who have you served with your mind this past week? Have you served the kingdom of man or are you serving the kingdom of God? This is not a call to fear. I'm not calling you to be completely separate of the world and just put ear muss on and not let anything in your mind. Right? I'm not telling you to insulate yourself from the world. This is a call for discernment. Are you considering the messages that are coming into your mind and testing them against what God says about the world? That is a way that you can think about taking what you hear from the world and using it to direct your mind to the kingdom of God. What does God say about what I'm listening to? What does he think about the message this movie is pushing or this TV show? And for the children, for those of the children that are here, one way that you can practice protecting your mind now is by obeying mom and dad. God has given your mom and your dad to you as a gift to train your mind to think like him. And their instructions and rules are meant to be a burden to you. They're meant to teach you what God thinks like. They're meant to teach you. This is what God is like. This is what he said is good and what's bad. They're helping you to train and protect your mind. And for those of you who are here who are approaching the teenage years or are teenagers even now, I think there's another way that you can protect your minds. It's not just obeying mom and dad But I think at the age that you're at, I would consider that you would protect your mind by opening up to others about the sins that you're struggling with. And the doubts that you have. Right? We are a congregation of sinners. That's what it means to be a Christian. We're saying that there's only one other person who's perfect, who can who can die in our place. We are fallen. So kids, I don't want you to be ashamed if there are things that you're struggling with, or if you just have questions about the faith and doubts. Those questions And those things that you're struggling with exist in your mind. And Satan is going to want to convince you to not open up to anybody. He's going to say, hey, that's too shameful. People are going to be embarrassed by you. Your mom and your dad won't understand. Hey, nobody else has that doubt about Jesus. But that's not true. We all struggle. There is no struggle that's not common to all mankind. So kids, teenagers especially, you can protect your mind by opening up with the things that you're struggling with and sharing those with others and seeing what God has to say about it. He's so kind. He's spoken to us in his word. Right, it's through our minds that Satan will attempt to persuade us to disobey even what Christ commands of his disciples. in the second half of this passage. And we'll see that to disobey those commandments will have devastating consequences. And that brings me to my second point, since Jesus must die, whoever desires to follow him must also be willing to die Jesus moves from instructing about his mission as the Messiah to instructing his audience about what he requires of anyone who follows him. Look at verse 34. Look down there with me. And calling the crowd to himself with his disciples, he said to them, If anyone would come after me, Let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Just note briefly from the outset that Jesus' instruction applies to anyone and everyone who wants to follow him. Nobody is exempt from what Jesus is saying here. And we should really also consider the placement of this instruction within Mark's gospel. Just thinking big picture here real quickly. The proximity of this instruction to Peter's climactic confession of Jesus as the Messiah and to Jesus' climactic prediction of his future suffering Means that this is Jesus' definitive teaching on Christian discipleship in the Gospel of Mark. Right? You want to know what Jesus wants of his disciples In his mind, both self-denial and self-sacrifice are defining characteristics of Christian disciples. Defining characteristics. Whoever would come after Christ must deny himself. That is, those who follow Jesus will cease being governed by self-interest They'll cease being controlled by the cares of this world. Self-preservation and prosperity will no longer hold sway in that person's heart. The self will no longer be the sun around which all else in life orbits. Right, they will be moved from outside of the center of their own orbit. Right? The person who denies himself will put away his desires for fame, fortune, and power and place the call to serve Christ above all else in his life. Christ will be the banner under which he lives. Christ will be the foundation underneath his feet. Christ will be the breath in his lungs and the blood in his veins. Christ will be his all-in-all because he has given up his whole self to follow Christ. And we see that whoever would come after Christ must also take up his cross and follow him I do think we really need to pause here and consider that in the culture and context in which Jesus makes this statement, these words would be truly, truly shocking, even grotesque. Now, I I I have a cross tattooed on my body. Others of us wear crosses around our necks, but to recognize that in that culture, that would have been just seen as what are you doing? Well, why on earth would you wear that on yourself? David Platt has said it's akin to getting an electric chair as a pendant and wearing it around your neck. The cross was a grotesque instrument. To inflict suffering, shameful suffering on criminals used by the Romans to put certain criminals to death But Jesus is placing the audacious requirement upon anyone who follows him that they must willingly enter into the same shame and fate that he himself would suffer. And any who would follow Christ must be willing to daily take up the cross of death and carry it to their very own Golgotha. Christ is the way of the cross. And any who follows him must also come to know that cross. He said this plainly. Jesus states in the plainest terms possible that the road ahead for those who choose to follow him will be difficult. So difficult, even that many, I think, will try to find another way or propose that there are other easier ways to follow Christ, but there is no path to Christ that does not involve self-denial and cross-bearing. The path does not exist. I think a story that illustrates this well comes from the polar expedition of the USS Jeanette that took place in 1879. The Jeannette set sail in the hopes of becoming the first vessel in human history to reach the North Pole. Uh it was an American vessel, there was uh not like an arms race, but there was an expedition race among the countries to see who could reach the North Pole first. Uh and the Jeanette set sale in the hopes of being the first to do it and planting that flag, the American flag there. So numerous countries had tried and countless lives had been lost trying to reach the North Pole Oh, why? Because as boats approached the North Pole from any point on the globe, they found that it was protected by a just gigantic pack of ice. And as boats would try to make their way through the ice, they would be trapped, crushed, and sunk in these massive ice packs that formed a barrier around the pole. And the desire to reach the pole really fueled all sorts of what we would consider crazy speculations now. Really interesting stuff. You just kind of you you read this book and you see some of the scientific speculations and then you start looking at things that are speculated in our day and you're like Ooh, that's not all that great. Speculations such as possible pass to the pole that we're free from these deadly ice packs People actually thought that the waters of the North Pole, once you got inside the ice packs, were actually warm and that was a there was a hidden Caribbean inside these ice packs. That was proposed in scientific magazines And the reason that was proposed is because people found that there was a warm wetter current that exist warm water current that existed off the coast of Japan called the Kiwosiwu that runs all the way north And they speculated, well, this warm water must run all the way north to the North Pole. And since it's warm water, it will cut right through the ice pack and it will provide a clear channel to the North Pole. Game over Right, so the Jeanette, the crew of the Jeannette uh set off uh to find this path. But they experienced what every other crew of every other vessel found on every other attempt to reach the North Pole. They got trapped, crushed, and sunk in this gigantic, impenetrable ice pack. The lesson was clear. There is no path to the North Pole that does not go through the ice pack. My friends, nor is there a path to following Christ that does not require self-denial and crossbearing. If anyone tries to sell you a gospel that says to you, God wants you to be healthy, happy, and prosperous in this life, run from them. They are lying to you. God is concerned with your health, your wealth, and your happiness, but he's concerned with your eternal health, your eternal wealth, riches in him, not in money, because money is a horrible comparison and substitute for God. He wants you to be with him. It's not in this life that we're guaranteed health, wealth, and happiness. The gospel comes with demands, friends It comes with demands, the call to self-denial, the call to bearing your cross daily. Christ speaks plainly about this. If you're here today and you're considering what it means to follow Jesus, I do want to hold out to you the glorious gospel. The gospel means good news because it really is good news. If you're thinking about following Jesus Christ, I want to hold out to you that if you recognize that you have sinned against God, if you recognize that you have offended his holiness and you would turn to him in repentance and faith, seeking his mercy and his grace, you can have the assurance of faith that he will completely pardon you, fully justify you, and fully adopt you into his family as his own very child, then seal you with the Holy Spirit and give you the guarantee of the hope of heaven. That is the good news that is held out to you today. And he offers it to you freely. Yet if you accept that good news and you choose to follow Christ, you are also accepting to deny yourself daily. To daily take up your cross, to daily follow him. This is the call that Christ is giving to all who would follow him I think a person might be justified in asking why on earth a person would willingly choose that path. Why would anyone want that? If that's your question, I'm glad you asked. It's because the answer is that the it's because the answer is that it is the only path that exists to save your soul. It is the only path that exists to save your soul. Look at verses 35 to 37. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what can a man give in return for his soul When you meet those, if you're if you're just reading the Bible and you meet those rhetorical questions in the Gospels, I would encourage you to just flip them into a statement. To understand more clearly what Jesus is saying. For what is it, what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? Rhetorical question. It does not profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul. But what can a man give in return for his soul? Rhetorical question. A man can give nothing, not even the whole world, if he's become the wealthiest person in the world in return for his soul. Listen to these statements. According to Christ, there are two ways to live: one that ends in eternal destruction, and one that ends in eternal life. The one that ends in eternal destruction is characterized by saving one's own life now. Jesus is speaking about the manner in which a person lives now. This is the person who lives for self. Whose desires are centered on maximizing comfort and enjoyment in this life. He's not concerned for the life to come because his gaze is transfixed on the here and now. He's not concerned with storing up heavenly treasures or receiving heavenly inheritance because he is consumed with storing up worldly wealth now. Everything is about self. This person is the center of the own their own universe. the ruler of their own kingdom, and all of their life is taken up with the pursuit of protecting the boundaries of their kingdom and seeing that kingdom expand outward. But do you see the great tragic ending that awaits for all who live for self in this world? They will lose their soul. Forever. There's never been a worse trade that has been made to gain the material. And lose the immaterial. To gain the temporal and lose the eternal. Friends, you have a soul. You were made to live forever with God. Don't trade it for the here and now It's a horrible trade to make. Not even all the wealth in the world is enough to buy back your soul. Look at what Jesus says. You can gain the whole world. Now remember, he was posed with this temptation Remember, standing on top of the temple, Satan tempted him. All of this can be yours if you just say the word. But Jesus denied it. He knew there's something so much greater than gaining this world, gaining the life to come in the presence of God, eternal. What is wealth really worth in the end? If it can't even buy back your soul? I wonder what describes your life today, friends? Is it controlled and governed by self-interest? Are you only thinking about life in this world? Are you only considering how you might get on today? You ever consider the state of your soul before God? Or are you too concerned with your own thoughts, desires, wants, and needs? What is it that guides your thoughts? What is your North Star? Is it self or is it God? Those are the only options that we have. Are you living in the kingdom of self? You ambitious to expand your own kingdom. It's a little kingdom. We should always remember that. It's a tiny kingdom. I think if that's you, consider carefully the words of Christ. Whoever would save his life will lose it. I think you should consider these questions from David Pallison this afternoon as you reflect on this passage. What do you feel entitled to? The things that you feel entitled to will will reveal who it is that you think is at the center of the world. What are the rights that you feel like you have? What are the ways that you live for yourself? Paulison said, self takes 1,000 shapes and wears 1,000 disguises. For me, it's my my time. I don't want anybody to impede on my time and my comfort. Now I'm saying that because like that's the true sinful motivation that's there. I'm happy to give up my time because I trust that God has filled me with his spirit and he's making me more like Christ. But I really struggle to let those things go because it's mine. What is that that you claw into? What do you feel your hand close around? Might show you the way that you're living for self. We want to grow in skill in identifying those areas in our lives and putting them to death because they're not worth trading for our eternal soul. And there is one other hindrance that we'll look at briefly to following Christ besides living for self. We see it in verse 38. Just as living for self will lead to destruction. So will I avoiding identifying with Jesus Christ. Really, this is the heart of what it means to take up one's cross You can consider the shame of the cross. It was a shameful thing for Christ to bear, and so that those who take up their own cross are are accepting upon themselves that the mockery that he endured The shame that he endured, the scorn that he endured. And this is why he says, those who are ashamed of me, because they don't want to take up the cross and join me, I also will be ashamed of them. Will you let people see that you love and follow Christ? Will you stand for Christ's truth or shrink back when opportunity to speak for him arises? Will you silently stand by when his word is mocked? He says, Whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, my words are one with me. They are my very word Are you going to stand by silently when his word is mocked or condemned? Or will you boldly claim Christ as your Savior and Lord so that all might know that you are one of his disciples If you do that, you can be certain that persecution will come, for all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. So how are you doing with this? How do you see being ashamed of Christ or not being ashamed of Christ play out in your life? Now listen, I know that we're all going to be making mistakes in this area. We're all going to fail in this area, but we must be warned by Jesus' words here. Whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. When it says that he will be ashamed of those who are ashamed of him, it says that he will cast them out of his presence. Kind of what he said to Peter, get behind me. You're not with me. You must not be one of mine. To those of you who are following Christ, I just want to say to you, I I fully recognize that this is a sober passage. And it's good for us as followers of Christ to stand in front of these passages and to really consider them. And to examine our lives in light of them. It's good for us to hear Christ's requirements for all who would follow him so that we wouldn't be ignorant of them and fall short on that final day. If you're feeling condemned, though, because you haven't lived up to these commands perfectly, take heart. You're in good company. None of us have. I have failed this week. I have failed to deny myself. I have failed to take up my cross. I haven't failed to be ashamed of Christ, but I weren't I wasn't given all that many opportunities to to to proclaim him. I was in my house working on the sermon for most of the week. But I have failed in denying myself. I have failed in taking up my cross. But Christ does not expect that we will do it perfectly. He didn't save us to become Christ's. He saved us so that we would cling to him by his blood and by his sacrifice daily, so that we would grow more aware of how amazing his grace is, that he would continue to love and show grace to sinners like us. He must die for his people. We can also take comfort in Jesus' words in this passage. He says, whoever loses his life for my sake and for the gospels will save it. They will save it. If you've given your life to serve Christ, albeit imperfectly, if you've lost your life for his sake, albeit imperfectly, then you have this sure and certain promise that your soul will be saved Your soul will be saved, and we can be confident that his promises are true because of how Jesus' predictions here came true in every way. He did suffer. He was rejected. He was killed. And three days later, he got up from the dead. If you look at chapter 9, verse 1, that's even what Jesus is talking there, talking about there, when he says, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come in power. People wondered, what is he talking about there? Well, what he's talking about is after he rose from the dead, the kingdom of God was shown to hundreds of people when Jesus appeared to them visibly, bodily, in the flesh, showing that the kingdom of God had come. And numerous of his disciples who were present with him here, listening to these words, saw him resurrected in power, were then filled with the Spirit, and those disciples who were ashamed of Jesus Christ at his death who did deny him, who did not take up their cross, were transformed by the resurrected Christ and by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit to become disciples who were not ashamed of Jesus Christ. To become disciples who would lay down their lives. Peter, as tradition has it, would not even be crucified hanging the right way. He is not worthy, he said, of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he chose to be crucified upside down. He took up his cross. He bore the shame. And tens of thousands of thousands of Christians have done it for thousands of years. And if the Spirit dwells in you, He is going to empower you to do it also. Friends, that is how we live, this spirit-filled power to lay down our lives. To take up our cross, to do what is otherwise impossible for us to do. The Spirit works in his people. And friends, that resurrection power and that spirit lives within each of us who follows Christ. So let us lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Look back on his willingness to take upon himself the shame of the cross for your sake and look forward to the day when he returns in the glory of his father and with his holy angels to redeem his people as the king of kings. Let's pray Oh Lord Jesus, we rejoice in the reality, the recognition of the truth that you would die. You must die for your people. And we trust in your death, we trust in your resurrection, and we pray that you would grant the Spirit to cause us, to help us, to transform us, so that we might deny ourselves and take up our cross and follow you. Let us scorn the shame of the cross and endure all the shame that comes with following you because you are better. You are worth more. Help us to do that this week, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.