This morning, the sermon text is from Genesis 2, verses 4 through 25. These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created. In the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, when no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up For the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was no man to work the ground, and a mist was going up from the land, and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed, and out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers The name of the first is the Pishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Havila, where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good. Delium and Onyx stone are there The name of the second river is the Gihan. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Cush, and the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die Then the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. So out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens. and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name The man gave names to all livestock, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept, took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman, and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. This is God's word Well, good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you and to have this opportunity to open up God's Word. And to see what he has to say to us from it on this very important topic, this topic about gender in the beginning of God making man male and female But as we read in the passage, or as Leah just read for us from the Genesis chapter 2, in the same way that God breathed into the man and made him into a living creature, so we should turn now to God and ask him to Breathe upon us his spirit, the spirit that gives wisdom and understanding, so that we might better understand and receive God's word. So would you pray with me briefly? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the one who has all power to create. We've already sung about that this morning. We've already heard from your word in the call to worship from Nehemiah that you're the creator of all things. And so we plead with you now, as the one who has the power to create, to create spiritual life in us. And for those who have not trusted in you, we pray that you would open their eyes today for those who have We pray that you would strengthen our faith and help us to hold fast to what your word teaches about everything, regardless of how it might be received in the culture and the world around us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well friends, let me invite you to open in your Bibles if you haven't already to Genesis chapter 2, which you'll find on page two of your Bible, uh different from most weeks. Most weeks we uh move carefully through the text, methodically looking at each verse of a passage. to better understand what it says, what it means, and what it means for us. This week we're going to be doing something a little bit different. We might consider this a bit more of what you would call a topical sermon. We're not going to be looking as carefully at chapter 2 as we would in normal weeks. We did that last week as we studied the beginning of mankind and we thought about what the main point of Genesis chapter 2 is So if you haven't listened to that sermon, I would encourage you to go back and listen on our podcast. You can find that on iTunes under Chevly Baptist Church. You can listen to that sermon there. This week, Genesis chapter 2 will really serve as the base camp for us, and we're going to be looking at what God says about him creating mankind as male and female, both in Genesis chapter 2 and in Genesis. chapter one. Right? If you were here last week you'd recall that we were in the same passage as we looked at the beginning of mankind. But I thought that given our current cultural moment that it would be good for us to consider what God's word says about gender, which we're going to do this week and next This week we're really going to take a big picture view. You might get to the end of the sermon today and feel a little bit frustrated because gosh he didn't tell me what to speak. specifically do and what the specifics are. That's not my goal for today. My goal for today is simply to take a step back and look at the big picture about what God says about him creating man mankind, male and female, and then next week. We'll then move towards the specifics. So that would be your cliffhanger. If you want to hear the specifics, you've got to come back next week also. And this really is a topic that we need to consider. Because we live in an age where we are encountering increasing confusion over the inherent and unavoidable differences between men and women. And so we need to increasingly turn to God's word to be renewed in our minds and instructed in our thinking. and in particular this morning on matters of gender. And before we begin, I just want to say a brief word to all who are here. In a room this size, I assume that not everyone shares the same point of view on these matters. And for some of you, this may be a very sensitive topic. So you may have seen men abuse their authority in your family or in your friends' families Or perhaps you know someone who is struggling with their own understanding of who they are, whether as a man or a woman, if that's you. I want you to know if you're at all tense about what I'm about to say, I want you to know that what I'm gonna say, uh I say in love and not out of hate or fear. And my request for all of us this morning is that we would just simply carefully consider what God's Word says about who we are And how we're to live in the world. And then if you have questions about it, or even if you're a little bit upset and you want to come talk to me, I'm going to be at the door after the service. I would love to talk to you if you have take issue with anything that I've said this morning If you're taking notes, my main point this morning is really simple. It's to show that God created mankind with different genders. And different roles in order to fill the earth with his glory. That's the point of Genesis 1 when he created mankind and Genesis 2. It's that God created mankind with different genders. And different roles in order to fill the earth with his glory. And we're going to break that sentence down into three points. So first we'll see that God created mankind with different genders Second, we'll see that God created mankind with different roles. And third, we'll see that he did this so that mankind would fill the earth with God's glory. I also recognize, before I begin, I just want to say, I know some of you might be a little bit uh you know frustrated by even my use of the word gender. It seems maybe like The word gender is not used in the Bible. Why are we using it today? I think the reason I'm choosing to use it and calling the to the title of the sermon, The Beginning of Gender, is really because the word is here to stay in our culture. It is not going anywhere. And so what I want to do this morning is seek to provide a biblical definition of gender so that we can think clearly about it when we hear that word used around us. So, first, we learn that God created mankind with different genders. That God is the creator is really the central and unifying theme of Genesis chapter 1 and chapter 2, right? We've seen how all of creation owes its existence to God. He creates everything in chapter one, and then in chapter two he zooms in on the fact that he created the man and the woman. He is the author of all creation, which means that he is the Author of mankind's existence. And we see his creation of mankind in Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. So I want you to look down there with me in your Bibles. I'm going to go ahead and read those verses for us. Chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. I think what we need to immediately notice is that mankind is both a singularity and a plurality. Look at verse 26. Let us make man, there's your singularity in our image, man, mankind, in our image, and let them, there's your plurality, let them have dominion over the earth. In creating mankind as both a singularity and a plurality, we already see the text hinting at the fact that mankind will share similarities. because they are single, there's a singularity to them. They are one in the fact that they are mankind. And differences, because there will be more than one kind of human. How many different kinds? Well, we only need to look at the text to see. There we see that the them does not refer to an amorphous group of androgynous beings. No, the them that God creates are specifically, beautifully, and distinctly made male and Look back again at verse 27. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. You notice again the singularity and the plurality, the similarity and the difference, the unity and the diversity. Humans share unity in that we're all humans. We're all mankind. Yet we share diversity because God, in his infinite wisdom, chose to make two genders, male and female. And it's really worth acknowledging and appreciating that this is the only physical characteristic about the first man and first woman that God tells us about. Did you notice that? He doesn't tell us what their skin color was. He doesn't tell us what ethnicity they are. We don't learn about their hair color, their eye color, their build, nothing. Nothing except that they were made male and female, which should indicate to us not only the importance of the two distinct genders God created, but the indispensability, the essentialness. of both male and female in fulfilling God's mission for mankind. Look at Genesis chapter 1, verse 28. After creating them male and female, what is the mission that he gives them? God blessed them and God said to them, be fruitful and multiply. And fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the creature kingdom. Right? We're going to talk more specifically about that mission in point three, but here We see already the essential and indispensable role of both male and female in the fulfilling of God's mission. Because Both male and female are necessary to exercise dominion and to multiply So when we come to the Bible and we ask, how does the Bible define gender? Again, we need to recognize the Bible does not work use the word gender How does the Bible define it though? How can we think about it? Well, in another sense, the Bible doesn't define it, it simply assumes it. And I think it assumes it in such a way that prior to the fall, man and woman would simply realize that they are either male or female. But we are in a place where we need to think carefully about what the Bible does say about gender, and we do need to come up with a definition of how the Bible would define gender if it would if it had the opportunity to. So what we might say about what we've read in the passage this morning is that we can say that a male Is a human born with male reproductive organs, which make him capable of entering into a one-flesh union with a female. And a female is a human born with female reproductive organs, which make her capable of entering into a one-flesh union with a man. Now I recognize that post fall there are such things as humans born with uh either both reproductive organs, but those are such outliers that that we don't define the category by them, either male or female. I think it's less than like 0. 01% of humans are born in that way. Right? And we could also think about that definition, how After the fall, there's so many things that there are people who simply are unable to enter into one flesh unions for various purposes. That doesn't mean they're not male or female. We're thinking about prior to the fall, God's intentions for mankind and his design of them as male and female. What we see in the Bible is that gender is inextricably linked to our sex. our biology and those genders or sexes are fixed and immutable And given the advent of modern science and technology, we really now know that gender or biological sex penetrates down to the very core of our being. to the chromosomal level. Males have an X chromosome and a Y chromosome, and females have an X chromosome and an X chromosome. What you see in that is that our gender, which is our biological sex, is woven into the very fabric of our being as humans. We can no more change our gender than we can change our chromosomes. We are either made male or female. And when we think about the Bible's definition of gender in this way, we now see just how differently the world we live in thinks about gender. So for instance, in a Time magazine article written in 2017 with the title, Beyond He or She, so getting beyond the words he or she. We meet Rowan Little, an 18-year-old high school senior in Kentucky, who said this about gender. Some days, and the the article does not say what Gender, what biological sex Rowan Little is. Some days I feel like my gender could be like what I was assigned at birth. Already there you see the difference. It's something that's given to you, not something that you are But there are some days when I feel the opposite way. And see, Little goes on, the article says Little Little identifies as gender fluid and uses the pronoun they rather than he or she In fact, Merriam-Webster, the dictionary, named they as its word of the year in 2019 because of its role in upending the oppressiveness of categories like he. And she, even though they did not recognize the word with that definition until September of 2019, but it became very quickly their word of the year. And they is meant to capture a vast and constantly increasing array of gender identities, of how a person feels. So if you use Facebook, Facebook at one time offered 50 different gender choices when when creating a profile. You could choose between profiles or gender choices like gender fluid. gender queer, intersex, agender, neutro or neutoit, which is, I think like a French ending, and two spirit But already as of January 2020 that list has grown to 70 plus, and it will likely continue to grow as long as people give energy to conceiving or creating names for their opponents. apparently unique self-understanding. Right? The quickness, the rapidity with which our culture has changed its views on gender is frankly bewildering. But in reality, this revolution has been in the works for the last 50 to 70 years. Right? Until roughly 1950 to 1970, during those decades, the world understood gender as biological sex. That's how it was defined. But it was during those decades between 1950 and 1970 that a shift occurred first in the Academy through authors like Simone de Beauvoir, whose 1949 book, The Second Sex. famously claim that one is not born a woman, but rather becomes a woman. It's an id it's now an it's an identity external to oneself that one takes on as one lives life. Or you have the psychologist John Money, who in the 1960s essentially created and then popularized the category of gender identity as an identity. Right, so according to the world, gender is not inextricably linked to biological sex, and that decoupling of gender from biological sex Along with gender being redefined along the lines of a person's self-understanding is what has created the madness that we're now living in and experiencing. And I do think it's right for us to not shy away from pointing out the madness of it. Even while there are people who are hurting and living within it and having difficulty understanding themselves, there is a sense in which this is madness. Right? Consider the headlines that we've already seen and we'll continue to see more and more of. We are going to continue seeing more and more headlines celebrating men winning women's sporting events. Eventually, women's sports will no longer exist. That is a fact. That will happen. There will be no place for them in sports. Eventually, those won't exist. We also see that in some places men are allowed into women's bathrooms, putting all women, and especially young women, in extremely dangerous circumstances. And all of this, because we live in a postmodern culture in which people are really indoctrinated with the belief that there is no higher authority than what you feel. Or desire. And the suppression of those desires is harmful, right? And to disagree with someone who wants to identify in a way that's inconsistent with their biological sex is hateful. But I think also as Christians, when we take a step back and assess what's happening in our culture biblically, we also shouldn't be surprised. Right? Yes, we can certainly point to the combination of postmodernism and these changing definitions of gender as a cause for what we're seeing in our country. But but biblically speaking, Christians should understand that the problem is much deeper. deeper than that. The root cause beneath all of this is that all humanity has rejected God. And that leads us to pursue our own desires and live out our own way of living in so many different ways. This is just one of them. Right? We've decided to be our own gods. We've chosen to let our feelings and desires rule us rather than God and His Word. Right, but the problem is we can't trust our feelings or our desires as good guides. Right? Think about what the Bible says about the heart and it God says this in the book of Jeremiah, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick. Who can understand it? If you're not familiar with biblical language and imagery, the heart there is not talking about the physical muscle in our chest. It's talking about the seat of emotions Right? It's where we where where our desires arise from in the in the human soul. And the the uh God says in Jeremiah that that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately Who can understand it? Right? Because all of us have turned away from God, our hearts are filled with desires for things that are contrary to God. and his word. Right, so I want you to think about this. How many of you would get into an Uber that pulled up and when it pulled up you looked in and you realized that the driver is blind Right? He's blind. And he says to you, I'm blind. Hop into my Uber. Your ride is here. How many of you would get into the Uber? I'm sure none of you would And yet we rarely question whether the desires driving our hearts and our actions can actually see where they're going. They actually can't in our flesh. I don't know about you, but over the course of my life, I have had thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of desires for all sorts of things. that if I would have followed through on them, I would have hurt myself and others. In fact, for a better part of 30 years of my life, I did do what my desires uh wanted me to do. And I hurt myself and I hurt other people terribly. Terribly. So if we're going to say that we should simply follow our follow our desires, What are we going to do as a country with the terrible things that people will do simply because they felt like it? Who gets to judge between good desires and bad? In reality, we need a judge that's outside of us to help us distinguish between what good desires are and what bad desires are. And that is what God has given us in His Word. It's in His Word that God gives us instructions on how we should live. It's God who tells us what's good for us. what's bad for us. And it's God who provides us with a path to an understanding of ourselves that's actually true and consistent with how He created us. Right? It's God's word that helps us to understand the world we see around us. And as Christians, if you're here and you are a Christian, you should be prepared and we should be prepared as a church. to encounter individuals who are experiencing a disconnect between their biology and their self-understanding, because we know that sin has affected every aspect of the human experience. It shouldn't be something that surprises us. Sin has affected body and soul. No part of the human experience has been left untouched by sin. Not gender. Not biological sex and not how we understand our biological sex. And since we understand this And since you and I, if you're a follower of Jesus, have experienced the effects of sin in our own lives and yet received mercy from God in the midst of it, we can move towards these individuals with grace and compassion. Think about what the Lord Jesus did in his earthly ministry. He moved towards those who were hurting. He moved towards those who were outcast. Uncommon in society. Think of the leprous person that he was willing to move towards and touch. He moved towards those who were broken, towards those who were sinful. In short, the Lord Jesus moved towards you and me. Right? So we should move towards and engage with those who are experiencing a disconnect between who they are and how they feel. And we should be prepared to winsomely tell them about God's goodness. In creating mankind as male and female, and how living within the boundaries of God's design for us will ultimately lead to our greatest spiritual and physical flourishing. And for some, that will be very difficult in this life because sin, God does not always remove the effects of sin when he saves an individual. Sometimes those effects, those scars, remain. And it can be really hard to choose to follow Jesus and deny those desires that will continue to affect your heart and continue to want to pull you this way. Don't follow him, go this way. But it will ultimately lead to our greatest physical and spiritual flourishing if we choose to submit our lives to Him and understand that He has made us both male or female Right? Those genders are good gifts from God, and they are given by God in order to fulfill his mission. But we also see that God hasn't just made mankind with different genders. We see that God has made mankind, male and female, with different roles. Which brings me to point two. God created mankind with different roles. And we see those roles hinted at in the mission God gives to the man and the woman in Genesis chapter 1, verse 28. I want you to look back down there with me, even though we've already looked at it. We want to look at it again through a different lens. Genesis chapter 1, verse 28 says, And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. I think a helpful way to Summarize the mission that God gave to mankind there in Genesis chapter 1, verse 28, is with two words. You can summarize it with two words. Reproduce and rule. Reproduce. Be fruitful. Multiply. Fill the earth and rule, subdue the earth, and exercise dominion over the creatures And when we look carefully at that mission, we see how the man and the woman are uniquely created, differently created, to fulfill the one mission that God has given to them. Right? The man is uniquely created, uniquely suited to rule, to subdue the earth and exercise dominion over it. And the woman is uniquely created to reproduce. to fill the earth with human life. Now I want to be clear about what I'm not saying. What I'm not saying is that only men rule and only women or or excuse me, that men only rule and that women only reproduce and care for children. It's plainly obvious in the passage And throughout scripture, that both male and female participate in each aspect of the mission. The man participates in reproducing and then in caring for children, and the woman participates in ruling. But we cannot ignore the ways that God uniquely created man and woman to carry out each aspect of his mission Right? The man is uniquely created to rule, to subdue the earth, to exercise dominion over it. And we see this in the fact that man was made from the earth. Look at Genesis chapter 2, verse 7. The Lord God formed the man of the dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. So being made from the ground, the man is uniquely created to be oriented towards the ground and towards the earth, towards the subduing over o of it. And you notice this that just before the man is made in verse five, look at chapter two, verse five. It says that there were no bushes in the land yet, because There was no man to work the ground. The word man in verse 5 isn't the collective word for mankind, but the word for male. The male was created for the ground. He was made to work the ground. And that idea appears again in verse 15 of chapter 2. Look at chapter 2, verse 15. God puts the man in the garden to work it and keep it. God uniquely created the man to rule. And we see this borne out in reality and the way that God uniquely created men. Men possess physical characteristics that uniquely enable them to rule the earth and subdue it. What do I mean by that? Well, men are, by and large, physically stronger and larger than women. By and large, men have longer limbs and higher bone density, and all these physical traits add up to enable a man to carry out the difficult work of subduing the earth. The physical traits that God has endowed men with. lend themselves directly to subduing the earth. So in in in in essence, God says to the man, I created you to get out into the field, to plow it, to subdue it, to push the boundaries of the garden paradise outward. And that work takes physical strength. Do women have physical strength? Absolutely. I want to I must say it again. Do women have physical strength? Absolutely. I want you to say it with me. You're gonna say absolutely when I ask the question. Do women have physical strength? Absolutely. Do women and have women throughout history labored with their hands? Absolutely. Yes, absolutely. But But God created the man with physical characteristics that uniquely enable him to rule over the land. Likewise, the woman is uniquely created to reproduce, to multiply, to fill the earth. You gotta think about this. If it were the case that God's mission for mankind was only to exercise dominion, was only about subduing the earth, then God would have simply created another dude Right? Just make two men to to subdue the earth and to f uh to to exercise dominion over it. He would have created a buddy for the man. But he didn't because his mission wasn't just exercising dominion. The reason that God looked at the man in verse 18 and said that it was not good that man was alone is because as a male He was incapable of fulfilling the mission that God had given to mankind. Men, are we able to fulfill the mission that God has given to mankind on our own? No. Men, are we able to fulfill the mission that God has given to mankind on our own? No, that's right. That is right. Men are not able to fulfill the mission that God has given to us on our own. Right? We could or he could have exercised dominion, but he could not have multiplied and filled the earth. In order to fill the earth, the man would need a helper fit for him. Corresponding to him. And the only helper, the helper that was essential and indispensable to the mission God had given mankind was not another man. It was a woman. I just want to pause briefly. We are going to talk about this uh much more specifically next week when we talk about the role of the woman as a helper, if you look at that word helper and you think that just that that feels so demeaning, that feels demoralized. It feels like I'm I'm I'm less than the man. I'm going to point out ways that that's just completely not true. We can't take that from the text later in the sermon, but I just want to point out, throughout Scripture, do you know who is the helper of his people? God. God is described in the Old Testament over and over again with the exact same word as the woman. He is a helper. The work of helping is a divine mission. The divinely endowed mission. It's filled with God's image and God's glory and God's power. Even his own character enters into that mission that God has given to women. The mission of God cannot go forth without the woman. It is the woman who is uniquely created with the frankly mind-blowing capacity to produce life and then nurture life. This is why at the end of chapter 3 we'll see Adam names the woman Eve. Why does he name her Eve? Because she is the mother of all the living. In the New Testament, the Apostle Paul says, just as woman was made from man, so now man, mankind, is born. from woman. The advancement of the human race is uniquely tied to the creation of the woman In God's eyes, we we we cannot continue as a race without women. God created the woman with physical characteristics that uniquely enable her to reproduce. What does all this mean for us? What it means is that ruling, subduing, exercising dominion, and reproducing multiplying, filling the earth, become the distinct domains, the distinct spheres in which the man and the woman live out their primary, not only primary callings which flow out of their being e made either male or female. And we see that these domains These spheres are where the man and the woman live out their primary callings because after the man and the woman have sinned, when God curses them for their disobedience, he specifically curses each Different domain. When he curses Adam, he says, the ground is cursed. It's going to produce thorns and thistles for you. I made you to work the ground, and now it will be difficult and painful. And to the woman he curses, childbirth, childbirth will be difficult and painful. We see even the this curse on childbirth worked out through the rest of the Old Testament. You see Barrenness is a symbol in the Old Testament for this curse on mankind and the way that sin has affected the entire created order. And so for any of you who are struggling today, man or woman, husbands and wives who are struggling with infertility I I hope that you don't take it as a specific curse on you as individuals because it's not, it's simply uh uh uh an effect of the created order that we now live in where sin has just brought destruction and disruption to the entire created order. But God has given us the power to see new spiritual life born as He's given us the gospel to preach the gospel and see others. brought to life and to fill his eternal kingdom with spiritual life. And I hope that's a great gift and encouragement to you today as you consider your own mission in this world, which we'll think more about at the end of this sermon. Right? Right. To the man, God curses the ground, and to the woman he curses childbearing. Right? Now I want to say again that it's the man the man uh I'm not saying that the man only works and the woman only bears and cares for children. Not at all. Both the man and the woman will share the burden of each other's roles in different ways ways, right? The creation account isn't concerned with the specifics of how their roles would play out on a day-to-day basis. It's more concerned with the fact that they do have different roles, but that those different roles work together to carry out one glorious mission. Right? The fact that the man and the woman are different and have different roles is to be celebrated. These are glorious realities that flow out of the infinite wisdom and creative power of God. But we don't live in a world that celebrates those differences, do we? Right? And the reason that it doesn't celebrate the differences between male and female is because it has wrongly assumed that to be different is to be either better or worse. Right? To the world, difference has become an issue of equality and inequality. And so the only way to ensure that men and women are equals is to remove all distinctions, all differences between them So Judith Lorber, a transgender activist, said, when we no longer ask boy or girl in order to start gendering an infant, When the information is as irrelevant as the color of a child's eyes, only then, only then will men and women be socially interchangeable and really equal. And when that happens, there will no longer be any need for gender at all. You see, for Miss Lorber, any hint of difference implies inequality. To achieve complete equality between the sexes, gender must be done away with completely. Any distinctions that we seek to create socially, these social socially created uh created distinctions and categories and ways that people live life. All of that needs to be removed and only then will we really be equal. But you see Christians, Christians can uphold that men and women are different and have different roles And yet also uphold that men and women are completely and utterly equal because both the man and the woman are made in the image of God. In the image of God, he created him Male and female, he created them. That's a poetic way of saying male and female are both made in the image of God and therefore completely equal. But not only that, as Christians I want you to see how your understanding of God affects how you think about these things. Because within the Trinitarian Godhead, we see different persons. Different persons. The Father is not the Son, but is different from the Son. The Son is not the Spirit, but is different from the Spirit. The Spirit is neither the Father nor the Son, but is different. from them both. And not only within the Godhead do we see different persons, but each person assumes a different role in the story of redemption. The Father is the Most High God, who in eternity passed chose a people for himself who will be called by his name and upon whom he would lavish his grace and mercy. And he would lavish his grace and mercy on mankind, not by coming to earth himself. That would not be his role. No, the Father sent the Son. And he sent the Son to fulfill the role of being the atoning sacrifice to bear the punishment for his people's sins. And yet the work of redemption was not limited to the Father and the Son, but also included the Spirit, because after the Son, Jesus Ascended into heaven, the Spirit proceeded from the Father and the Son, and the Spirit was sent to regenerate the hearts of those the Father had chosen, and the Son had bled and died for. Yet Though they are different persons with different roles, they are completely equal because they are all completely God, fully God, co-equal, co-eternal in their persons. Persons and their divine essence in the same way, yet with some differences, because we are not gods. In the same way, man is different from woman And woman is different from man. And man has one role in fulfilling God's mission, and woman another role in fulfilling God's mission. And each is equally glorious in our difference. And in the one essence we share as humans, because each is made equally in the image of God. When was the last time you turn to your spouse, if you have a spouse, and you say Husband, I am so thankful for the way that you as a man faithfully seek to live out God's good design of you as a man. Husbands, if you have wives, have when was the last time you turned to your wife and you said, wife, I am so thankful for the way that you seek to faithfully live out God's design of you as a woman. You embrace and uphold and rejoice in the way that He created you as a woman You should because God's creating us male and female is a sign of a picture of his glorious and powerful and infinite wisdom in creation. He's a glorious God. And I want you to see how the man and the woman, with their different genders and their different roles, uniquely embody, image, and reflect God's work in creation. What do I mean? When you read Genesis 1 and Genesis 2 side by side You will notice, if you carefully read them, a parallel between the work that God does on days one through three and the work the man is tasked with. And another parallel between the work God does on days four to six and the work the woman is tasked with. More specifically. On days one through three, what does God do? He creates, he divides, and he names. He creates: let there be light, let there be skies, let there be dry earth. And then he divides. Light goes here, darkness goes here, land goes here, seas go there, right? Skies go here, land and seas go there. Dry earth and seas, everything. He's dividing and creating boundaries. And then after creating and dividing, he names God called the light day and the darkness he named night. He named the expanse sky, he called the dry land earth. The waters he called seas. Now, what does the man do in the garden? He doesn't create, but he does cultivate. He's tasked with cultivating the land that God has given to him and bringing forth new plants, creating new plants. He also divides. He's tasked with keeping the boundaries of the garden and pushing those garden boundaries outward and maintaining the division between the garden paradise. and the land that needs to be subdued outside of the garden paradise. Not only that, but the man names. He names each of the animals and then he names the woman. The man uniquely reflects, embodies, and lives out the creative work that God did on days one through three. But the man can't say, I'm like God, and you're not, because we also see that on days four to six, there's a parallel between what God does there and what the woman does in the garden. What does he do on days four to six? He fills the earth with life. He makes it beautiful and glorious. He takes the earth that he had drawn boundaries around, the empty and unfilled earth, and he starts to blast it full of life. Let there be plant life and vegetation. Let there be fish in the sea, birds in the airs, let there be animals and creeping things. Let us make mankind in our image. On days four to six, God creates life. and beauty and glorifies the world within the boundaries that he had established. And so what does the woman do? She takes what the world that the man has brought order to and created boundaries around and fills it with life. She creates life and beauty and glorifies the world within the boundaries that the man has established. both in their different genders and their different roles, male and female, uniquely embody, image, and reflect. God's good and glorious work in creation. And so we should celebrate our differences as well as our similarities. Because both male and female glorify the creative wisdom, power, beauty, and glory of God. And so as a church We want to be the type of place that highlights, brings attention to, and rejoices in the ways in which God blesses our church and the church through the different roles and gifts. God is given to men and women, women and men, because doing so glorifies him as our all-wise, all-excellent, all-creative, and all-beautiful God who made man and woman with different Essential and indispensable roles for the purpose of fulfilling the mission he gave to them. Which brings me to my third and very brief final point. What is that mission that God has given to man and woman? That mission is to fill the earth with his glory. When God commanded the man and the woman to be fruitful and to multiply and to fill the earth and subdue it and to exercise dominion over all the creatures, he was in effect telling them to fill the earth with his glory. He created them and placed them in the garden paradise that he had prepared for them. And there, in that garden, they were to be fruitful and to have more children, more image-bearers. reflecting God's glory on the earth and more hands to push the boundaries of the Garden Paradise outward as they subdued the land. They were to continue this work generation after generation. They were to continue having children, and those children would have children. All image-bearers, thousands of points of light now filling the earth, reflecting the glory and light of God on the face of the earth as they work together to see the boundaries of the garden paradise pushed outward and they were to do this until the whole earth had been filled with image bearers and the garden paradise Now covered the entire earth. And in so doing, the whole earth would be filled with the glory of God. The entire earth will become the temple garden paradise of God. Right? But this glorious mission failed before it could even start. The man and the woman reject God's law Sin enters the world, and with sin, death, and a total disruption of the created order And since sin disrupted the entire created order, it disrupted our own self-understanding And our relationships with one another and the roles that God created us for. The man and the woman were now at war with themselves and with one another. Which is why it's so hard for us to talk about gender roles today. Because, frankly, there have been so many terrible abuses. of the different roles God has given to man and woman and especially the abuse of authority that man that men have carried out against women, even in our culture recently. Thinking about Jeffrey Epstein and Harvey Weinstein And just these terrible accounts of the ways that men have abused their authority. This is a product of the fall. This is a product of sin in our own hearts and in all of creation. And men need to repent of the ways that they have abused their authority. But we don't repent and then do away with the good design that God created man and woman for. We repent and seek to live within it. Right? We have all abandoned God, but he didn't abandon us. His purpose has always been to fill the earth with his glory. And so to redeem man and woman from their sin and to reconcile them to himself and to restore right order in their relationship with one another, he sent the true and better Adam. the Lord Jesus Christ to live the perfect the to live the perfect life and unlike Adam he exercised perfect dominion over the beast of the field which includes The serpent. And on the cross, as he died as a sacrifice for our sins, he crushed the serpent's head Bringing victory over sin and death and hell and making restoration, reconciliation, and forgiveness possible for man and woman. And three days after his death, the Lord Jesus rose from the dead. And he proclaimed the forgiveness of sins to all who would repent and put their trust in him. And to those who repent, Jesus gives his spirit And he restores them to a right relationship with God. He gives them a new heart and enables them to live out God's original purposes for man and woman in creation. And he commissions his church now to be his helper. to go out into the world proclaiming the good news of the gospel. And as the church carries her task of preaching the gospel, God uses our preaching of the gospel to fill the world with spiritual life, new spiritual life, that the image of God might be more clearly seen as men and women across the globe are restored and reconciled to God through repentance. and forgiveness of sins until he's going to do this until the whole earth is filled with his glory. You see, the cultural mandate to be fruitful and multiply and exercise dominion over the earth finds its fulfillment in the Great Commission. As the church goes out and proclaims the only message that can reconcile God and man and man and woman And the church is not only the place where that message is preached, but it's also the place, and to be the place, where people can see what it looks like. for man and woman to live in reconciled relationship to God and to one another, for husbands and wives, for man and woman to live in reconciled relationship to one another as we live out the primary but not only callings that God has given. to each of us. What are those callings? You gotta come back next week if you want to hear more about them. We're gonna think about how this uh mission that God gives to man and woman and the ways that he has created them prior to the fall, then works itself out in the Old Testament and finds its fulfillment in the New Testament. So we're going to be thinking next week. about the specifics. What does it look like to live as a man and woman in this world today? But what we can say from our passage this morning is that God in his infinite wisdom created mankind with different genders and with different roles, and he did it in order that man and woman would fill the earth with his glory. And that's the work that's going on today as the church preaches the gospel and calls people everywhere to repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you and we admit that uh yeah, i it's hard to to lay hold of these truths in our culture today. We know that your word is good. We know that your instruction is good, but sometimes it's hard to believe it. And if we believe it, sometimes it's hard to rejoice in it. Help us to believe it, to rejoice in it. Help us to understand. Correct mistaken understandings that all of us have about what it means to be a man and a woman, so that we might more faithfully reflect your glory. And help us also to call people everywhere to a reconciled relationship with you through faith in Jesus Christ. And we pray that you would do that work by your Spirit here even today, this morning. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.