A little while back, two of my boys got in a fight that led to the older one really whacking the younger one. When we asked the older one to apologize, all he could do was talk about what the younger one did to provoke him, and why the younger one was the one we should be talking to. He was near tears about the injustice of only having to speak to what he did. If we're honest with ourselves, the reality is that it's hard for any of us, not just kids. To apologize sometimes. That's because apologies are acknowledging that we really were that bad. And oh how our flesh hates to take responsibility, to admit wrong. Sin fights and fights to not be called out, to stay in a dark corner in our hearts And while we can encourage others like our children or friends or spouses to apologize, an apology that doesn't come from the heart isn't worth very much. When are you really sorry for your sin? Where does that sorrow come from? How do you know it's real And is being sorry for your sin the same as being repentant. Our passage this morning is 2 Corinthians chapter 7. verses 10 to 11. Go ahead and turn there now. You can find it on page 967 on the Bibles on Your Chairs. Since we're jumping into 2 Corinthians for the first time this week, let me give you a bit more background so you have a better idea of the context. We know from Acts 18 that Paul planted a church in Corinth on one of his missionary journeys. After he left there, he hears reports of ongoing sin within the church. So he writes a letter that's now lost, sharply rebuking them for this sin. But to Paul's delight, as we find out in our letter, the letter of 2 Corinthians. The Corinthians were grieved into repenting, he writes, for you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. Paul anticipates his reader's next logical question. What do you mean we were grieved and too repenting? What's godly grief? And that leads us into our verses for this morning. 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 10 to 11. I'm going to start actually two verses up with verse 8 and read down to verse 11 so you can get a bit more context. And as we read, I'd encourage you to have that same question in your mind. What is godly grief? Let's read now. For even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it, for I see that that letter grieved you, though only for a while. As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting, for you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment. At every point, you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter. So what is godly grief? Point one, godly grief really is a matter of life and death. Read verse 10 again. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. So according to this verse, grief is not repentance. Grief can produce repentance, but being sad about our sin isn't actually the same thing as being repentant. In fact, there is a kind of grief called worldly grief in verse 10 that doesn't produce repentance at all. It produces death. But how can sadness about something that is wrong, that is sin, be a bad thing Well, there is a kind of sadness that is a sign of a rotten heart. And the reality is all of us have had rotten hearts. We all have hearts that are sinful. We all are selfish. We all at times think we know better than God. And of course, for that to make logical sense, we'd have to admit either God is so small that he can be overruled by us. Or we don't really believe that God exists. But that's sin for you. Sin is not logical. God does exist, always has and always will, and he created everyone and everything. Non-Christian, I wonder if deep down you have a sense that there actually is a God. And if so, what is he like How do you know what he is like? Well, the Bible tells us that God is not just all powerful, but all-wise and holy, pure, and perfectly good So making that mistake, making ourselves God, is made by everybody. And it's possible that everybody has at times the same reaction to that sin: grief But our passage today tells us that that is where there's a fork in the road. And you can only go but two ways. There are those who grieve in a way that produces repentance from their sins, trust in God, and so are saved. Then there are those who grieve, but that grief doesn't produce repentance. It produces death. According to the Bible, there is an eternal separation: believers and unbelievers. It's true, we all do die if Jesus doesn't come back first, but those who are saved will die once and then go to heaven. Those who aren't will die, face judgment, and go to hell. The path of life versus the path of death. That's what death means in our context this morning. Non-Christian here this morning now to be sad about your sin, even perhaps regretting it, and feeling sorry for the hurt you've caused. will not save you. We all have to give an account to a sovereign God. What God has offered you is is offering to you now the free gift of Jesus Christ. He died on the cross for your sins Put your trust in him, rely on him, and you will be saved. The verse 10 really raises the stakes, right? Paul isn't like, oh, I'm so glad to see you're sad about your sin. As long as you're genuinely sad, that's all that matters. No. Instead, Paul's like, you can be genuinely sad, and you're still going to everlasting death. That may sound harsh But if it's true, wouldn't we rather be warned now than when it's too late? Sorting out what is godly grief and what is worldly grief all of a sudden becomes very, very important. Thankfully, our text has a good amount to say about this difference. Before we move on to the list that we find in verse 11, we shouldn't look past the simple adjectives used to describe these two different kinds of grief. One is godly and the other is worldly. The NASB actually translates worldly grief as sorrow of the world. I think this helps. The Greek word for the world for world is cosmos. And especially in the New Testament, it's used to represent opposition to God. One grief is godly, the other is worldly. Worldly grief is, therefore, ungodly. It has nothing to do with God. What you are sad about reflects what you love. My brother's family fostered a child for six months. And even though they suspected the child will be returned to his biological family at some point, when he was returned a month ago, it'll hurt a lot. Why? Because they love this boy. It was a sign of how much a blessing, a gift he was to my brother's family, that the sadness cut so deep. Likewise, because Christians love God, when we sin, we're sad about the fact that we sinned against God Non-Christian, I think it's fair to say that when you sin, you're probably not thinking about God. And you're certainly not sad or broken-hearted over your sin being an offense to him Your sadness is more about how this sin has affected your day-to-day life. Maybe even those of whom you love. But those are earthly consequences of your sin, and not about a God that you don't believe in. Maybe an unbelieving husband commits adultery, and his wife and kids find out. I'd imagine that actually is really painful, Christian or non-Christian. And the grief over disappointing his kids is real. Maybe this unbelieving husband gets divorced because of it. Maybe he even regrets committing the act of adultery itself, having seen the fallout that came of it. But his worldly grief is all horizontal. How this affected him and his kids and his wife. There is no concern about his vertical relationship with God, the one who created him and commanded him not to sin. He's sad about the effect his sin has had on those around him and himself. He's not sad about what an affront his sin is to God The Bible can help here, of course, two examples. Where you see a real person exemplify worldly grief and one who exemplifies godly grief. Genesis 25 tells the story of two brothers. I'm sure most of you know it well, Jacob and Esau. Jacob is cooking stew, right? Esau comes in, loves the smell, loves it so much. That to get some of the Sioux, he sells his birthright to Jacob. So when it comes time for Isaac to bless his boys, he gives Jacob the firstborn's blessing instead of to his older brother Esau. And upon realizing this, Esau lifted up his voice and wept. But nothing was to be done. Interestingly, Hebrews 12 looks back on this and says, When Esau wanted to inherit the blessing, he found, quote, no place for repentance, though he sought it with tears. Esau was clearly grieved. His tears show that. But it was grief over what he had lost as opposed to his rejection of God. In the end, Hebrews tells us his grief was not godly grief that produced repentance, but worldly grief that led to death. Then there is, of course, the famous case of King David and Bathsheba. While her husband is away at war, King David sees Bathsheba bathing, lusts after her, commits adultery with her, and then has her husband, Uriah, killed. David's grief was godly grief in part because it focused on the fact that he had offended his creator. As we read earlier, just this morning in Psalm 51, it's an entire Psalm dedicated to David's acknowledgement that his sin had a vertical effect. David clearly recognizes that he sins against God. Against you and you alone have I sinned, does he say? When you think back on your week. When you have sinned, have you, like David, acknowledged the offense it is to God? Did you confess it to God? Were you sorrowful towards God? Pray that God would turn your heart from it Were you only thinking about the horizontal effects, how this affected you and what this has done to your life? And give you three points on David's grief. And I hope they're encouraging. Number one, yes, David is grieved about what his sin means to God. But he's also grieved by the earthly consequences of his sin. God's punishment for David's sin was to take away David and Bathsheba's son. And in 2 Samuel we read that David fasted and wept at the thought of losing his son. So, Christian, we should be sad about what an affront our sin is to God. But it's also okay to grieve over the earthly consequences of our sin. Godly grief allows for both Second, David's godly grief didn't come after he voluntarily confessed his sin, but only after the prophet Nathan called him out on it. I am not suggesting we shouldn't confess our sin. The Bible explicitly commands us to proactively do so. But the point here Even in the case when we are caught in our sin, godly grief is still possible. Such is God's grace to us sinners Last point. David's sins, murder, and adultery, were really awful. And yet God still gave him godly grief and repentance. Christian, there is no sin that you've done that God's mercy and grace can't cover. If you have a sin that you think is so terrible, look at David. See the forgiveness. That is found in God. You too can have godly grief over this sin. You can repent of it and you can be saved Before we move on to verse 11, one more clarification on verse 10. What in the world does salvation without regret mean? Again, going to the NS NASB translation, which sacrificing some readability gives us a little bit more exact of a translation, I think makes the point easier to understand. Here's how NASB puts it in verse 10. Sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation So the NASB has that without regret modifying repentance as opposed to the whole phrase repentance that leads to salvation without regret. I think that's an actually important distinction because it makes the point clear. There are times when the repentance that leads to salvation does not taste good. It's unpleasant. Our flesh wants to return to our sin. But in the end, repentance is unquestionably better Its fruit is so much more precious and pleasant than the bitter gall of sin. The phrase without regret acknowledges that grief and repentance can be heavy, burdensome, and even costly Bible is saying clearly, yeah, this is gonna hurt, but it's worth it. Give up your sin, and in the end, you won't regret it. So that's point one. The stakes are high. Life and death paying in the balance. We should grieve not just over the earthly consequences of our sin, but most importantly over the offense it is to God. Point two, godly grief displays the work of the Spirit. In verse 10, we saw that godly grief produce repentance, and in verse 11, we see seven other fruits of godly grief. And before we go one by one through these fruits, I think it's helpful to think how they relate back to repentance. I think you should think about them as altogether. If you have godly grief, you'll have repentance. If you have repentance, you have some or even all of these seven other fruits. It's a package deal, if you will, where the heart is changed, the life and actions will be changed too. This means that this passage really helps us break down repentance because now we have seven other signs when trying to determine if we or someone we love is repentant. Let's now spend just a few minutes on each of these seven signs. The first fruit is earnestness. What does it mean to be earnest? Well, it means to really want something, to really go after it. It's sincere, an intense conviction for something. And what we want, of course, is a lot about who we are. If we are God's children, then deep down we will want what God wants. How do we know if we have godly grief? We have an intense conviction against our sin. Another good way to think about this is to consider the opposite. Have you been nonchalant in your fight against sin? A lack of concern? Don't really care. That's a bad sign. If there is an earnestness in us, then there is this consistent attention to correcting our sin. We cannot let it lie. We cannot let it fester. The second fruit of godly grief Paul sees in the Corinthians is an eagerness to clear yourselves. This is the attitude of someone who's like, okay, what do I have to do to beat this sin? How can I get as far away as possible from it? This is not someone who's giving excuses about not wanting to put up boundaries, or laziness about following through, or for equivocating on what the next really should next step really should be. No, the person is eager, wants to know what to do. Want me to confess it to God? Okay, good, done. What next? Other people? Okay, I've confess to them too. But I pray every day for help. Okay, I'll do that. I'll pray every day There is no hesitation in this person's heart about which direction she wants to go in. Whatever it takes to clear herself, she is eager to get away from her sin. Number three, what indignation. Indignation is like anger, but anger at something that is unworthy or unjust. Imagine you're at a park and you see a 15-year-old kid beating up on a 10-year-old. I think your reaction would be the same as mine. Yes, we would run over there and break it up, but there would also be this feeling inside of us of anger at the injustice done It's that kind of anger that Paul is talking about here. Godly grief will make us indignant at the sin itself. We will see how disgusting and vile it is. We will be indignant at ourselves for wanting such a thing. How could I have given in to that? We will be indignant at the devil for tempting us in this way. So do you harbor this kind of indignation at your sin yet? If not, confront yourself with this sin. Meditate on how awful it is. Remind yourself of how God clearly commands you not to do it. Look at the consequences. it has already brought on your life and the ripple effects it has had on others. Properly consider its true nature. Evil. I think it's been hard in my life to repent of sin until I've been convinced in my heart of how ugly it really is. In the 1989 version, Disney version of Little Mermaid, stay with me here, Princess Ariel is about to marry Prince Eric. But the evil sea witch Ursula transforms herself into a beautiful young woman named Vanessa and hypnotizes Eric. It isn't until Vanessa's magic necklace is broken that her white dress rips apart, her big black octopus tentacles burst out, and she turns back into the grotesque sea witch for all to see. Sin is like Ursula. Money and pleasure and power And the approval of others, wanting people to like us, and gossip and pride and laziness, and on and on, of course we could go, in the midst of temptation to give in to sin, it all looks like Vanessa But the more we hold our sin up to the light, the more we will see that sin is no Vanessa. It's this ugly Ursula that is out to destroy us. All of this is a way of giving air to the fire of indignation in our souls. A righteous anger and an evil thing is good. If we're going to fight our sin, we have to be convinced of just how bad it is. Number four, fear. The relationship between Christians and fear is too complex to cover this morning, but there are two ways, Christians, I think we should fear. I mean, I think we should think about fear in this context. First, we should properly fear sin. As Christians, we used to be enslaved to sin, and we know the disastrous effects that sin can have We know sin leads to death, so why would we even walk down that road? Why toy with something so dangerous? You don't keep a lion as a pet. Second, we should fear ourselves. Yeah, I don't trust myself. If I'm put in this situation, I fear I'm gonna give in. So I'm not even gonna get close to that That's not cowardice. That's maturity. That's the kind of fear that is produced by godly grief and is in line with repentance Number 5. What longing? If you long for deliverance, it will make your heart look for all opportunities of advantage against the enemy. It's the feeling of the psalmist in Psalm 42, who longs for God as a deer pants for the flowing streams. Or in Psalm 63, he cries out, O God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh faints for you in a dry and weary land where there is no water. We should long for God like we're in the desert and we need water. I remember this feeling when I studied abroad during my junior year in college. It was my first time out of the country, hadn't been to Canada or Mexico even for a day, and it was ten straight months at a university in Japan. Two to three months in, I was very homesick. I longed to see my family again. If you had asked me before I left whether I was particularly close to my family, I would have said, sure But I wasn't the type to dwell on it or get overly emotional. Yet in that Tokyo dorm with sky blue laminate floors and mostly dark hallways, in a small little phone booth holding on a calling card It was a relief to hear my parents' voice, and it made me long all the more to be home. To smell the salty ocean air just outside our front door, to have the fog all around me once again To be in the kitchen with the nineteen fifties yellow and black tile, see the paintings my great grandmother did, hanging on our living room wall. Now there wasn't anything particularly special about Ocean Air nineteen fifties tile, or even the paintings themselves I don't think you'd want that kit that tile in your kitchen today. I'm not sure you would pay much money for those paintings. But for me, those things made up home. What I had known my whole life, and I'm sure there are some more things like that that you can remember about your childhood home. I deeply ached to be back there It wasn't a romantic feeling, but it was a pit in my stomach that wouldn't go away. I carried it with me to class and lunch and on bike rides around town For a long time it was there, my uninvited companion. That's the kind of longing that Paul marks out here. We know we aren't created to sin. And when we do sin, we long to get back to how God made us. We are unsettled, bothered, disappointed until we give up sin and return to the forgiving, merciful arms of God. Our hearts should be in a state of panting, sighing, crying out. That's what longing looks like. Does your soul long for deliverance from sin? Number six, zeal. Zeal is similar to longing that there is desire in it, but it has a more intense focus to it. Think of a sprinter who trains for four years for one race in the Olympics. He kills his body week in and week out with intense training. It that goal of Olympic gold manages, affects every area of his life. What he eats, what time he goes to bed. Even how he plays with his kids, how much time he spends with his family, there is no area in his life that that gold does not touch. So should our zeal be in our fight against sin. In his book Practical Religion, J. C. Ryle says this about a Christian zeal. Zeal in religion is a burning desire to please God, to do his will, and to advance his glory in the world in every possible way. It's a desire which no man feels by nature, which the Spirit puts in the heart of every believer when he is converted, but which some believers feel so much more strongly than others that they alone deserve to be called zealous men. This desire is so strong when it really rains in a man that it impels him to make any sacrifice, to go through any trouble, to deny himself to any amount, to suffer, to work, to labor, to toil. To spend himself and be spent and even to die if only he can please God and honor Christ. Whether he lives or whether he dies, whether he has health or whether he has sickness Whether he is rich or whether he is poor, whether he pleases man or whether he gives offense, whether he is thought wise or whether he is thought foolish, whether he gets blame or whether he gets praise. Whether he gets honor, whether he gets shame, for all this, the zealous man cares nothing at all. He burns for one thing, and that one thing is to please God and to advance God's glory. When we think of being zealous in our fight against sin, we should have this singular focus on beating it back. Essentially, this is exactly what Jesus is alluding to when he says in Matthew 18, 9, if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire. He is speaking in hyperbole here. We have no bib biblical record of any of his followers doing this, but the point is clear. The excuses we offer on why we don't kill our sin are pathetic. We should not coddle our sin. Our zeal to fight it should be all-consuming. Number seven, what punishment. Now you might be thinking, punishment. I thought Christians don't get punished because Jesus took the punishment we deserve Well, think about our penal code. Someone may be truly sorry for stealing from someone else, but that's not enough. They have to pay a fine or even serve jail time. I think that's what's in mind here without the coercion. Christians are willing to accept just punishment here on earth for their sin. Remember Zacchaeus the tax collector. Already referred to that this morning. In Luke 19, when he places his trust in Jesus, he says he will pay back fourfold what he defrauded out of others. Daceaus is the one that volunteers this punishment of sorts. Dicius wants to make it right and then some, even at personal cost to himself That's godly grief. That's repentance. While there may be some form of punishment here on earth for our sins, what Jesus does save us from is eternal punishment, and we should not equate the two. Getting punished here on earth does not mean that we now don't need Jesus to atone for our sins. Again, Zacchaeus teaches us well here. Zacchaeus' repayment absolved him completely of his sin of defrauding others, then he doesn't need to be saved. But what does Jesus say to him? Today salvation has come to this house. It wasn't that Zacchaeus' repayment satisfied the wrath of God. Only Jesus can do that. No matter what Zacchaeus did here on earth, it could not erase the wrong that he had already committed. Of course, Jesus knew this too. It was after he had this conversation with Zacchaeus that he continued to march to the cross. Why? Because he still needed to take the eternal punishment that you and I deserve. He still needed to take God's wrath for us. What Zacchaeus's repayment did show was his belief in this salvation provided through Jesus. It showed his godly grief that produced repentance. Now I'll admit there are some sins where earthly punishment is clear, but I'm not yet convinced that punishment always has to be there to show godly grief. Our text doesn't say that. And we need to be really careful when thinking about this aspect of godly grief, because it can be easily abused. So, the application of punishment to your specific sin struggle is worth talking through with other mature believers. But it's important enough that Paul includes it in this list. So we shouldn't ignore it either. Indeed, willingness to accept punishment can be a clear fruit of godly grief. Paul wraps up this list by saying, at every point you proved yourselves innocent in the matter. And what he means by proved yourselves innocent is not that they never sinned in the first place. But that no one could now accuse them of still being in this sin. They are so far removed from this sin that it would be totally unreasonable for someone to say they are still committing this sin. Saying the Corinthians have proved themselves innocent in this matter is not a surprising conclusion, right? Earnestness, eagerness, indignation, fear, longing, zeal, and punishment Yeah, if I saw all those combined in someone, that would be pretty convincing that they had godly grief that reproduced repentance Well to close, for both Christians and non-Christians, we see that sin brings sorrow Grief is a part of life. You can't get around it. And it's not just that bad things happen, but that we choose foolishness. And that brings grief to everyone. The question then is not how we can avoid grief. We can't, but what kind of grief we will have, and what will that kind of grief produce. Worldly people will have worldly grief that produces death. Godly people will have godly grief that produces repentance that leads to salvation. What I love about this passage is how it opened up the box of what repentance looks like. It gives us a hint into all these different fruits that can accompany repentance. So when we go back to that question at the top of how we know we are repentant, we now have lots of good signposts to show us if we are at least heading down the road of repentance. A diagnostic test, if you will, to assess repentance in our hearts and help others to do the same. So what sins are you struggling with? These could be long-term sin struggles over years or challenges that have recently cropped up. I want you to know that there are a bunch that I could name for me. Does your grief, my grief, over this sin, look more like godly grief or worldly grief When I look at this list, it honestly can be daunting. Do I really feel like I've seen all these fruits of godly grief in my battle against sin? It's a mixed bag. Sometimes yes, sometimes no. It's good for us to press in on a sin and hold our attitude to it against this list. It should spur our fight against it As we do, seven quick tips to wrap up. Number one, we shouldn't assess our hearts in isolation. We can give ourselves a rating that is too high or too low. We are innately biased. So bring some close friends in to help you assess your fight. Number two, don't just focus on one sin. By God's grace, I trust there are sins that over the course of your Christian life you have seen victory over. If you're not seeing all the fruits of godly grief in one scenario, don't jump to conclusions about your faith without looking back on these victories too. Number three. Realize any assessment is a snapshot of where you are today. Paul lays out no deadlines in 2 Corinthians 7:10 to 11. Which means if you conclude there's a sin area in your life where you don't see much of this fruit at all, the right response is not to give up the fight, but to attack your sin all the more. As long as God gives us breath, this fruit can come. Number four, we can't force this fruit to come. After reading this passage If you're like me, it would be natural to think to ourselves the next time that we sin, okay, I know I've sinned, and I know I need to repent. So, what's a step towards repentance? Ah, godly grief. Okay, I'll have godly grief, and then I'll be earnest and eager, have zeal, and on and on, and then I'll be repentant. This passage is not a formula to force ourselves to be repentant. No, that is works-based righteousness, which has never reconciled man to God. We have hundreds of years of Israelite history to prove that point. This is not a seven-step program to repentance, because if repentance or if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose Just like we need the Holy Spirit to first open our eyes to see God for who He is and believe in Him, so we need the Holy Spirit to give us godly grief that produces repentance. Which leads to the fifth point. Pray. In the end, if the only one who can give us godly grief is God Himself, we should ask Him for it. We should do what Jesus tells us to do, be like the tax collector who beat his chest, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. We should get on our knees and beg God for godly grief because we are helpless. God, give me this godly grief. Give me earnestness and eagerness and indignation and fear and longing and zeal and punishment. Make me repentant. I know I'm not. Deep down, that's what I want. I want to be made right before you. I don't want to be stuck in the mire of my sin. Here's the good news. If you're a believer, God will hear your prayer and not just answer every prayer. Not just answer yes or no. His answer will be yes every time. Why? Because he promises that every believer will repent of his sins. That is the glorious news of the gospel. God keeps all his promises. Number six, act. When, not if God answers our prayers and gives us godly grief, we should take action. Throughout the Bible, you cannot separate faith and works, works and faith. These two verses are yet another proof point of that. So when God gives us godly grief, and our hearts swell with earnestness and eagerness and fear and longing and so on. We should listen to the Holy Spirit and repent of our sin. Forsake our sin and walk in the light. Lastly, number seven. Kids, this message is for you too. You too can act. You too can repent. I wonder kids, have you ever done something wrong and felt bad about it? You get this icky feeling in your stomach Knowing you did something wrong. Maybe you stole a toy from your brother or your sister that you knew would make him or her sad. Maybe you lied to your mom or your dad. Well that icky feeling inside of you could actually be the Holy Spirit working in you. That can be godly grief, that can be godly sadness. Becoming a Christian is not like driving a car. It's not like voting. It's not like moving out of the house. You don't have to wait until you're older to do it. You can trust and believe in God right now. So if you feel that pit in your stomach when you send kids, don't quench it. Don't ignore it. The Holy Spirit could be working in you. Listen to it and follow it down the path of grief, repentance, salvation, life. And that's the offer to all of us. Life in Christ today, and life in Christ forever Are you grieved over your sin? Is it a grief that makes you want to repent? Will you repent? Let's pray. Lord, we praise you because you have freed us from the bondage of sin. Thank you for the Holy Spirit who empowers us to turn from our sin. Please, give us godly grief over our sin this week, give us sorrow over what our sin means to you, and open our eyes to the ways in which you are calling us to take clear action against it. May we not hesitate to choose life in you. Amen.