Good morning. Our reading is from Genesis one, twenty-six and twenty-seven. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Well good morning, friends. Would you join me one more time briefly in prayer? As we ask God to bless the preaching of his word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are completely dependent upon the work of your Spirit through your word. We ask, Lord, that you would accomplish that work among us this morning. Renew our minds that we might be sanctified and renewed more and more in the image of your Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh friends, I want to invite you to turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 1. We'll be looking this morning specifically at verses 26 and 27. But I do want to say also up front that this uh today's message will be a bit different from my normal sermon. Normally I take a passage of scripture And then explain what I understand to be the main point of the passage to be, and then offer ways that we can apply that passage to our lives. That's what people would generally refer to as expositional preaching. But every once in a while, I think it's helpful for God's people to sit and meditate on what God's word has to say to specific issues. Is what people might call a topical sermon. And today I want to preach what most would consider a topical sermon. That is, I want us to meditate on what it means that man is made in God's image. And specifically, I want us to meditate how being on made in God's image provides the only foundation for human dignity. And the reason I want us to do this is because it's crucial for us to understand how being made in God's image provides the only true foundation for human dignity. And it's crucial for us to understand that because we live in a culture that is and has been for a long time, seeking to decouple human dignity from belief that man is made in God's image. Now, but what happens inevitably when you remove God from the equation, you also inevitably lose human dignity with it. Because if there is no God in whose image that we have been created Then human dignity becomes merely a human construct that is left for humans to define, and different humans will define our dignity on different things or based on different things. And when it becomes a merely human concept, humans will inevitably seek to ground our dignity in things that cannot Support it. And that has always, throughout the history of mankind, opened the door for terrible attacks on human dignity to occur. And thus it has opened up terrible attacks on God's image to occur. And while there are many ways in our culture in which God's image is under attack, there are two specific attacks on God's image in our culture that I want us to consider carefully this morning. And those two attacks are racism and abortion. Racism and abortion. I recognize that our message this morning is going to be a bit heavier than normal. But as Christians, we recognize that the fall has done devastating things to mankind, such that there are terrible things that we have done to one another And as Christians, we want to be renewed in our minds to be able to think clearly about what God's Word has to say to those specific issues, what it has to say about God's image, what it has to say about racism, what it has to say about abortion. So we want to be renewed in our thinking this morning. So my goal for this morning is simple. I want us to be renewed in our thinking about racism and abortion by looking at how the Bible speaks to both of these issues so that. so that we would zealously fight against these terrible attacks on God's image and on human dignity. So what I want us to look do first is look at the fact that all humans are made in the image of God. See where we find that in Scripture, and then I want us to consider specifically the attacks of racism and abortion on the image of God. So first, all humans are made in God's image. If you have your Bible open, please look down at Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. Verses 26 and 27, and the creation of mankind is really the crown jewel of the entire creation account that's laid out in Genesis 1. Everything that is said in Genesis 1 has been building up to this point. Look down there with me again. Then God said, Let us make man in our image. after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So God created man in his own image, and the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. Literally, the very first thing we learn about humans is that they, as a collective group, are made in God's image. But that collective group is also made up of individuals. And what Genesis 1 is holding out to us in 26 and 27 is that humanity as a whole, both collectively and individually is made in God's image. And God doesn't want us to miss this, does he? Look at how many times he repeats it in these two verses. Four different times God says that man is made in God's image or likeness, which are synonyms. They mean the same thing. So that means that Whenever you are looking at a human being, you are looking at an image bearer of God. Whenever you are looking at a human being, you are looking at an image bearer of God. It does not matter how much sin they have given themselves to, it does not matter what their job is, it doesn't matter what the color of their skin is, it doesn't matter what nation they grew up in All people, in all places, all mankind is created in the image of God. And I just want to apply this personally real quick to you. I want you to think of somebody that you consider just a person who is Just kind of makes you revulse when you think about them. Who are you repulsed by in your heart when you think of that person? Right? That person is made in the image of God. And we need to hold firmly to that as Christians. And I want you to also notice about verse 26 and 27 that being an image bearer comes before anything else. The commands to work and to marry and to procreate follow the declaration that man is made in God's image. Therefore, being made in the image of God is inherent. to being human and not defined by whether we can work or contribute to society, marry, have children, or any other attribute, capacity, virtue, or function And it is crucial that we understand this, because incorrectly defining what it means for man to be made in the image of God is what has led in part to terrible atrocities throughout history. We need to consider some of these terrible examples. Hitler, for instance, defined man being made in the image of God wrongly in terms of strength. and physical fitness. And if the strong were made in the image of God, then the weak, physically, by his own distinction. He's the one who determines what strong and weak is, right? Because man is made in the image of God. The image of God is strength. Therefore, I need to determine who is strong and who is weak. And he decides to remove, cleanse, erase from society all those he has deemed to be weak. Right? They were deformities of the divine image that needed to be cleansed from society. In our own country, the atrocities committed against Native Americans were in part fueled by John Locke's philosophy that being made in the image of God was defined by the busy improvement of wealth-producing capacity. In this view, the Native Americans weren't like God because they didn't have wealth-producing capacity and thus were subhuman and then able to be treated terribly. See how the wrong definition is what leads to these atrocities. Not all the time, right? If it doesn't lead to it, it doesn't lead to it in spite of it, right? But these wrong definitions lead to these terrible atrocities. Mistaken conceptions of man being made in the image of God were also at work in the early years of American slavery. Christian theologians, Christian theologians from both the North and the South defined being made in the image of God in ways that reflected their own culture. Resulting in the belief that black men and women weren't made in the image of God. And because of this, their enslavement and horrendous treatment was justified. And these dangers aren't only in the past. For instance, today you'll regularly hear that being made in the image of God means that man is a rational being. But if the image of God is defined by our rationality, then what do we do with humans suffering from cognitive disorders or Alzheimer's or dementia? Well, they cease to be human. They're no longer persons worthy of value or dignity, if it's defined by rationality. Or you'll hear it said that being made in the image of God means that man rules or exercises dominion over the earth. But if the image of God is defined by our capacity to work and exercise dominion, what do we do with those who have disabilities, who are unable to work? On that definition, they cease to be human and are cease, they cease to be worth protecting and valuing. But that's not that's not right So what do we arrive at? What we arrive at is the reality that reducing the image of God in man to specific attributes virtues or capacities inevitably opens a door for terrible atrocities. Right? But if the image of God isn't rationality or the capacity for human relationship or any other attribute, what is it? I think the first thing that we need to recognize is that in Scripture, the Bible doesn't offer a specific definition of what it means to be made in God's image. Which I think is why many have understandably imported their ideas into it. Oh, it means rationality, it means relational capacity, it means rulership over the earth. Right? And while those things may have some relationship to what it means to be made in God's image, they are never ever offered as definitions. Of what it means to be made in God's image. In fact, throughout Scripture, it is simply asserted that man is made in the image of God, wholly apart from specific attributes, functions, or capacities. So I think if I want to offer a definition to you this morning, which I'm going to offer you a definition for what it means to be made in the image of God, the best definition of what I've heard for what it means for man to be made in the image of God comes from John Kilner, who has an excellent book on this topic called Dignity and Destiny, and he says this, being made in the image of God means that humans have a special connection with God, which makes it possible for us to become a meaningful reflection of God. Being made in the image of God means that humans have a special connection with God, which makes it possible for us to become a meaningful reflection of God. And the reason we got it, he admits in his book, like we we have to keep this broad and we can't state specifics about what this means because the Bible doesn't state specifics and it shouldn't surprise us. If God is so transcendent, if his thoughts are so far above our thoughts, if he is outside of our ability to completely comprehend then it makes sense that we aren't going to completely understand what it means for us to then bear his image in our soul, in our very being. It's it's just what makes us human. We accept it on the bare fact, the bare assertion of God that we are made in his image. And it's also important to understand this, that according to Scripture, according to Scripture, sin has not, has not damaged the image of God in man. The Bible never once speaks of a degradation that has occurred to God's image as a result of our sin. Quoting John Kilner again, he says, to be clear, sin has badly damaged people in many ways, and the Bible uses many different terms to convey that. But humanity's status in the image of God is not one of them. Because if you see, if you if you base the definition on our sinfulness, on how much it has degraded us, then we are in the same position we were with rationality or relational capacity or any other capacity or virtue because then we are left to determine Who is more sinful than us? And if you're more sinful than us, then you have less of God's image in you, and you have less value, worth, dignity in our sight. It's the same thing. The Bible never ever says that God's image has been damaged in mankind Genesis 5, chapter 1, after the fall, after sin has occurred. Adam, made in the image of God. Genesis 9, after the flood, in which all people have been judged off the earth, except for Noah and his family. And he tells Noah, man has been made in the image of God. Sin has not degraded the image of God in mankind. We see it in the New Testament. James says we shouldn't curse others made in the image of God. He doesn't say we shouldn't curse those who still bear like the largest capacity of God's image in them. He just says, no, humans are made in the image of God. Therefore, you should not curse them. Sin has not degraded in any way the image of God in mankind. The special connection we have with God by being made in his image holds through the ravages of the fall. Scripture does assert that human nature has been corrupted It asserts that humanity has fallen and needs to be restored, but it never asserts that God's image in man has been degraded in any way. Which means that all people from every tribe and tongue and nation and every size, color, and stature, all people are indelibly stamped. With the image of God. And as a result, all people possess a special connection with God that enables them to be a meaningful reflection of God, regardless of mental health. Ability or disability, class, status, vocation, or anything else. Right? Understanding that, uh, understanding that reality is what led Frederick Douglass to argue against the terrible institution of slavery, saying this. It is an attempt to undo what God has done, to blot out the broad distinction instituted by God between men. and things and to change the image and superscription of the ever-living God into a speechless piece of merchandise That is what it has done to humanity whenever we seek to define the image of God by attributes that we come up with. It's to change men, the image and superscription of the ever-living God, into a speechless piece of merchandise. And as a result of being made in the image of God, All people possess a special connection with God that enables us to be a meaningful reflection of God. And Kilner said this in his book. Herein lies the ultimate human dignity. People cannot add to or subtract from this dignity in themselves or others Since being in God's image is not an attribute that anyone or anything can cultivate or diminish And because we know that all people are made in the image of God, Christians should be those who not only champion the inherent dignity, worth, and equality of all s of all humans But we should also be those who openly oppose attacks against the image of God in man. And there are two particular attacks on the image of God. occurring in our society today that I believe are especially important for the church to consider. And as I said, those attacks are racism and abortion. I just want to say quickly, these are not the only two attacks on the image of God occurring in our culture, nor are they the only two important attacks. There are other important ones occurring. These are two, though, that I think require special consideration given our particular cultural moment. So, the first attack of racism on the image of God And why is this important for us to discuss? Well, apart from the fact that racism is an affront to the image of God in man, It's imp it's important for us to discuss because it's impossible to ignore that over the last three to five years the racial tensions and divisions that have existed between African Americans and Caucasians in our country have been freshly exposed, and it is inevitable as enculturated beings We live within our culture. As Christians, we exist in our culture and we bring our culture into the church with us, which means that we will bring in the tensions. Hurts and sorrows that we experience on a societal level into our services and to our life together as a church And these things threatened to do the same damage to the church as they are doing to our culture. So it's important for us to discuss Because the health of this local church and the glory of God, which God intends to manifest through the local church, is on the line. But I also want us to see that at the at the kind of fountainhead of this conversation, I just want to say, and I hope that you can agree with me, we can have this conversation with confidence. and hope, knowing that God has provided a real and true remedy for all racial and ethnic animosity in the gospel. And we'll talk more about that in a bit. But if we're ever going to have a productive conversation about race or racism, we need to make sure that our definitions match the Bible's definitions. And there are two ways that the Bible speaks about race that are important for us to consider this morning. First, the Bible speaks about race biologically. Biologically, according to the Bible, biologically speaking, there is only one race, and that race is mankind. Let us make man in our image. Mankind is the race of people made in the image of God. In Acts 17, verse 26, Paul speaking to those at the Areopagus, and he says. And God made from one man every nation of mankind to live on the face of the earth, having predetermined times and boundaries of their dwelling places. From the one man and the one woman, Adam and Eve, came forth every beautiful shade of skin color, every glorious color and texture of hair. and every magnificent color of eye. Whatever differences there might be between us as ethnicities, do not erase the fact that biologically speaking, we are one race of people bearing one image of God. That's biologically speaking But you don't just want to dismiss the race conversation to say, hey, it's just one race. We're all just one man, we're just all one mankind. Therefore, there's there's no point in having these conversations because the Bible also speaks about race ethnically Ethnically, in Acts chapter 7, during Stephen's speech to a group of Israelites in which he was recounting the history of the people of Israel, He said to them, As the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants so that they would not be kept alive. You notice there that Stephen refers to Hebrew, the people of Israel, the Hebrew people, as a distinct race among all the other people on earth. But we also need to pause here and say that he's using the term race differently than how it's used today. The world's idea of race is based almost solely on skin color, and that's not how Stephen is using it here, and that's not how the Bible uses it. In the Bible, the word race refers to families, people groups, and even nations. The Bible's idea of race is a lot like what we refer to today as ethnicity. Ethnicity includes biological descent from Adam, but it also takes into account language and culture and custom. Basically all of the things that bind a people group together. And it's clear in the Bible there are many ethnicities. many races, biblically speaking. So what you see in the Bible is that there is one race made up of many races, tribes, tongues, nations, people, groups. Race in the Bible isn't defined by something as superficial as skin color, but it does include things like skin color and things like language, custom, and culture, which bind people groups together and which they share a common identity. And between those races, even in the Bible, there existed racism. But here again, we need to stop and define our terms. The popular definition today of racism. as something in which uh uh a people of the majority culture uh majority group who have power uh do to the people of a minority people group who don't have power is not a definition that can be supported by the Bible If the biblical equivalent of race is ethnicity, then racism is prejudice, partiality, discrimination, or antagonism towards another person or group of people on the basis of their ethnicity. In short, the most biblically concise definition of racism I can think of is ethnic hatred. This is what it is. It's hating somebody on the basis of their ethnicity. And that hatred, you put it up on a spectrum, can appear in a lot of different forms James 3, show no partiality. It's partiality to those of your ethnicity in a way that is hurtful or destructive to those of another ethnicity. It can look like partiality or prejudice, discrimination, antagonism, or out-and-out hatred, and it can be expressed individually, person to person, across ethnic lines, or it can be expressed corporately. Group to group across ethnic lines. All you need to do is open scripture to see this. In the book of Esther, Haman A government official codifies laws that unjustly target with the intent to destroy the Jewish people. Or think of Herod, who used his governing authority to put to death all the Jewish children under two Now, if you're familiar in here with biblical theology, you might be saying, yeah, but those are massive biblical theological events in which God is preserving the people of Israel. Yes, but you can't Flatten it out and say that there is not ethnic animosity occurring here. Haman hated the Jewish people and he wanted them destroyed. Praise God that God preserved them through it. Shows that God can preserve us through our ethnic hatred and wars. And while various forms of racism in the form of ethnic hatred exist among all people groups on earth, American Christians should deal plainly with the terrible reality of slavery and its particular fallout in our country That the division created between the ethnic people groups that make up African Americans and Caucasians because they are not a monolithic group as a result of slavery is deep and wide And then when you couple that the reality of slavery with the long and arduous battle that African Americans had to fight to obtain civil rights in their own country, A battle which some understandably feel like they are still fighting today. What you have is a recipe for division in the world that may never end. That's how deep and wide it is, apart from the grace of God. And our only hope, our only hope for overcoming and uprooting racism is uprooting the dead hearts that racism is allowed to thrive in and replacing them with hearts filled with God's Spirit. Hearts that recognize that all human beings, regardless of tribe or tongue or nation, are made in the image of God. Kids, I want to speak to you all this morning. Uh briefly. I want you to think about this. Every child, every kid, every classmate of yours that you come in contact with, regardless of what they look like, they are made in the image of God and they are to be cherished valued and upheld as worthy of all dignity and honor because they bear the image of God upon their souls And I want you to think about this in a particular way. If you are ever at school or on the playground or on the street and you see kids getting picked on for how they look, you need to step up and defend them. Because they are made in the image of God. And you should not participate in making fun of kids for how they look and making fun of them for their skin color. Or their hair or where they come from, whatever it might be. I want you to remember that all people are made in the image of God just like you are. And so you should defend their rights, treat them with worth and value and honor. Right? The only way for us to acquire hearts that are freed from ethnic hatred is to repent and believe in Jesus Christ. According to Paul, his death on the cross broke down the wall of hostility that existed between Jews and Gentiles. And if it has the power to break down the wall between Jew and Gentile, a wall that existed for thousands of years, it has the power to break down the wall between black and white, between Asian and Indian, between Persian and Arab. And not only does his death break down the walls that divide us, but his blood makes us into one new people Just imagine what's going on in Scripture out of one couple that seems ethnically generic, nothing is ever said about Adam and Eve. All the multiple nations come, all the beautiful people groups on earth, all the many come. But because of sin, they hate one another. So that through the one perfect man, Christ, the many become one again. You see what God is doing in the gospel, He's making us a new people. He says in Ephesians 2, Jesus Himself is our in this church. You sitting here right now. He is our peace Who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace between us and between God. and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. According to Sinclair Ferguson, Christ's blood creates a deeper lineage than our own genes. I know this is hard to understand, it's hard to grasp, but according to Scripture, it doesn't matter what ethnicity you are. If you believe in Jesus Christ, you have more in common with a person from another ethnicity than you do with people from your own people group who don't believe in Christ. You have been made one in Christ with them. We are now one family. But you also realize in the New Testament, especially the book of Ephesians, that Paul says, okay, if we are now one new man in place of the two. We got to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. And what that means for those who have so much ethnic animosity towards one another, you need to pray for the unity of the Spirit and walk in the bond of peace, right? You need to pursue it eagerly. That's what we need to think about. If the church is going to be the place that shows off the power of the gospel to unite people who may once have been opposed to each other. She is going to have have to act differently than the world when it comes to engaging with racism, both past and present. Now obviously Because of the time, I don't I don't have all that there is to say uh on this. I think I could have written possibly most of my manuscripts are like 4,500 words. I could have written 20,000 words on just this topic easily and more. I mean books and books have been written on it, but I want us to think of big picture ways that the church can pursue this unity and the bond of peace across ethnic lines as uh in order to show off the glory of Christ The first way we do that as a church, and the first way we act differently than the world, is by decrying racism as an attack on the image of God and an affront to God Himself. Right? We call racism what it is. It is a sin committed against a holy God who in his glorious wisdom made mankind in such a way that they would have skin that would span every shade of black and brown, goldens, yellows, tans, and whites, a God who in his splendorous creativity made man to have red hair and brown hair and blonde hair and black hair Fine hair and thick hair, curly hair, dreadlocked hair, and straight hair. God's wisdom in man's variety is awesome, and we should glorify God for it. And so are the customs, cultures, and languages that bind us together as people groups. And to hate another people group because of those things is to hate the wisdom of God and to hate God Himself. So we call racism what it is. Another way the church acts differently than the world on this issue is by talking with and listening to one another and extending grace to one another as we do so And on this point, I just want to say it shouldn't be hard to be different from the world, right? You just watch the news, people shout at one another. They talk past one another. They hurl expletives at one another, right? And that should not be the case in the church. So you can show that you care about these realities by asking honest questions about the way the ways other members of our church may have been directly impacted by racism in their lives. And then grace can be shown as members try to have these conversations for the first time. Right? We're not going to do it perfectly And as we think about having these conversations, we need to be aware of the danger of what we call two-speed thinking. We either go 100 miles an hour at the conversation and are just careless and reckless in the way that we go about it Or we go zero miles an hour and do nothing at all and don't even broach the subject, treating it like it's a non-issue. And neither of those is good. What we need to pursue is kind of that middle ground. Go 50 miles an hour. Or 35 or 25 if you live in a residential zone, right? Right? We need to pursue an attitude of persistent faithfulness over a long period of time. Right? The damage that's been done in our country isn't something that can be fixed by one conversation. Have you ever like you ever been in a conversation with somebody and they're just they're lamenting things going on in their life? Don't you have to do it with race or just think about this and They're lamenting things going on in their life. And you're hearing this and you're like, oh I got it. Here's a way to fix it. This is this is what you need to do. And the person's like, no, no, no, no, you're not listening. I'm not interested in a solution. I just I want to talk, I need to process out loud, and you need you to help me to work through these issues and help me to think about them, right? Just stop trying to fix it I think it's how you want to approach this conversation. We don't want to approach it with a fix-it mentality, but a faithfulness mentality. Right? It's going to require long-sustained faithfulness and love in the midst of meaningful relationships. fueled by the power of the Holy Spirit. And it's through these types of conversations, which may be uncomfortable and difficult at first, that understanding comes And with understanding comes compassion, and with compassion is then manifested the love of God in Christ Jesus. So we want to be a people who recognize the way that racism is an attack on the image of God in man. And pursue faithfulness and love and compassion in the midst of our conversations and our relationships with one another. And that brings me to the second attack on the image of God. uh which is abortion. Now I recognize that this may be an uncomfortable topic to discuss. But it is an important one because according to statistics, four out of ten women were regular church attenders when they had their abortion. So uh 40% of women who go for abortions were regular church attenders at the time of their abortion, right? So abortion isn't just a problem in the world. Uh it's a problem that the church needs to deal with as well. And if those numbers are accurate, then it's possible that some of you have either had an abortion or encouraged someone you know to have an abortion. If that's you, I hope to disarm you and encourage you in the gospel, our gracious and merciful God. brought forgiveness of sins through his son Jesus Christ for all who believe. There is no act of taking a human life that is beyond the redemption. that is possible in Jesus Christ. For those who repent, God's grace is powerful enough to wash away all of our sins. And I hope that you hold on to that this morning. Yet neither do I want us to shy away from the reality of what abortion actually is. It is the intentional taking of a human life, which is murder. It is the intentional destruction of the image of God in the most vulnerable of human lives. And if we understand that abortion is murder, then what we're looking at both worldwide and in our country is a holocaust of unrivaled proportions. According to the World Health Organization, one in five pregnancies worldwide ends in abortion, which adds up to roughly 56 million abortions worldwide per year. Since the institution of Roe v. Wade, over 60 million babies have been killed in utero in America In 2017 alone, which is the last year that stats were available, roughly 862,000 babies were killed in utero. And these numbers are so large that we may think that there's nothing we can do. Right? It's just like, how do you even begin to deal with that? How do you even begin to address that issue? How do you even begin to climb Mount Everest? But it's gigantic. But we need to remember as Christians that we serve a God who is able to do far more than we ask or think. We serve a God who explicitly says that what is impossible for us is totally possible for him. And we serve a God who is not silent on the issue of abortion. Right? We need to come to terms and recognize the way that the Bible helps us to think about abortion and the way that all children in utero and outside of are made in the image of God. We need to recognize that his word provides answers to the most common arguments in favor of abortion. And not only has God made it crystal clear that all people are made in the image of God, which he does in Genesis 1, verses 26 and 27. He says that that image is possessed from the moment of conception. It was common in the past. It's not common anymore or as regularly. You won't hear it as often Uh anymore, but it was common in the past to refer to newly conceived child as just a just a clump of cells, no different from any like skin cells that you know just fall off of your body. And if it's just a clump of cells, then it can be disposed of without afterthought. Yet As embryologists have continued to study the stages of human development, the full humanity, the full humanity of the fertilized egg has become evident to all. One bioethicist, Dr. Megan Best, said this. Almost all higher animals, in which she's including humans, almost all higher animals, including humans, start their lives from a single cell. The time of fertilization represents the starting point in the life history of the individual. Now I said that scripture speaks to this. You're like, John, you're quoting me, you know, a bioethesis. This is clearly not in scripture, but I'm holding out her quotation to show you how closely it matches what the scripture says. About this issue. She says that the time of fertilization represents the starting point in the life history of the individual. Interestingly, Job understood this as he reflected on his own life. So in Job chapter 3, Job considers his life history. He's upset with God and he's cursing his whole life history. He's saying he wishn' he wishes he wasn't born because he didn't want to endure the agony that he is currently experiencing. And he begins that history not on the day when he was born, but on the night when he was conceived. This is what it says in Job chapter 3. After this, Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth. And Job said, let the day perish on which I was born, and the night that said, a man is conceived. The word for conception is used the same way we use it today, and Job says that on that night, a man, a human being bearing the image of God, was conceived. Which is why many today in arguing for abortion have tried to then now separate humanity from personhood. Oh, it's not human beings, it's it's it's it's persons. Well, what's a person As you would expect, there are numerous definitions to this, which we fall into the same pitfall that we uh were discussing earlier. They tried to separate humanity from personhood. Arguing that it's still okay to take the life of an unborn child because they aren't yet a person. That personhood requires self-consciousness But we see how quickly that argument fails because by those standards, anyone in a coma ceases to be a person and is now no longer worthy of protection and can be killed. Others say that personhood depends on viability. It's unable to survive outside of the womb. That means it's not yet a person. But that would then mean that anyone dependent on any type of medical support to survive would cease to be a person because they're not viable on their own and could then be killed. Others say that personhood begins at birth when the baby comes out of the womb. But are we really saying that a baby at full term doesn't become a person until it travels like three inches outside of its mother's womb to be out in the world? I mean, these are not viable definitions of personhood. And because of the grasping at straws, at least in our culture, you have the horrific reality that people are now saying it is okay to kill children after they are born. The mom doesn't want it. This is what we've come to. When we depart from the reality that all human beings are made in the image of God, we have our feet firmly planted in mid-air. We cannot come up with any definition on our own and atrocities ensue. But what does the Bible say about personhood? In fact, it says nothing about personhood because personhood isn't a biblically viable category. To be human is to be a person, and humans are fully present from the moment of conception, as we saw in Job. But not only that, you recognize this in Psalm 51, verse 5. David says, behold I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me. David David traces his sinfulness to the moment of his conception. Sinfulness, though is a moral status. And in order to have a moral status as a sinner, one must have a soul. Therefore, you see the full picture of human being with a soul and the image of God fully present at conception And just because we don't know how it is that God unites a soul to a human at conception, doesn't mean we can't state with conviction that all humans do have a soul from the moment of conception. In fact, the Bible even speaks to the mystery of how that happens. In Ecclesiastes 11, verse 5, the author of Ecclesiastes says As you do not know the way the Spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes everything. It shouldn't surprise us if we can't understand how this happens. But we need to believe that what God says about it. The image of God, the soul, the human, is fully present from the moment of conception and is worthy of all protection, of all dignity, of all honor. We see this consistent teaching on the full humanity and moral status of pre-born humans is consistent throughout Scripture. God providentially creates and sustains the life of each human being within their mother's womb. Psalm 139. According to Exodus chapter 21, pre-born children have the same standing before the Mosaic Law as adults Not only that, but according to Luke chapter 1, John the Baptist, after being in the womb for six months, he leapt for joy when Mary entered Elizabeth's house. The baby in the womb leapt for joy. You're saying, okay, that's that's six months has passed in the womb. Why was he leaping for joy? He was leaping for joy because Mary was pregnant with the Lord Jesus. But Mary at this point would have been pregnant for five to seven days. And Elizabeth even says, you are blessed because in your womb is the fruit of the Lord. The Lord Jesus, fully, the image of God, fully present. At five to seven days in his mother's womb, the image of God is present from the moment of conception. And is worthy of dignity and honor. So the question is, how can we, as a church, be involved in protecting them? We really want to match our hatred for this sin, recognizing what it is, with appropriate action. It's not to say hatred for those who have committed this sin. We need to separate those two things and recognize it is terrible, but we also see with how much poor argumentation just proliferates our culture that people feel like they just go and get abortions. We want to oppose the sin. Help to love those who are tempted towards it. You know, what's appropriate action for us? Well earlier I mentioned that we served a God who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we could ever imagine So the first and most important impactful thing that we should do is pray. Pray. Pray. There is a sovereign God in heaven who can open the eyes of entire nations. He is able to do it. Pray that God would open all of our eyes to the realities of abortion and pray that He would move in the hearts of people considering abortion to choose life. And we should also pray that God would give us wisdom to consider ways that he might use us in other ways. And for some that may look like considering adoption. For others, it may look like giving financially to support an individual or an organization that works to help women choose life For others, it may work like volunteering at a crisis pregnancy center. We'll hear a bit about that from Caroline after the service. But what I want to encourage us is to think about ways that we can act. And do something we can we can act and think about ways to encourage the passing of legislation that protects unborn children We want to pray and ask God to show us ways that we can work to end abortion. And then if you have ideas and you want to think about ways that that you're doing it in your own life and you want to encourage others in Reach out to other members of the church. Use our email listserv. Say, hey, I would love to get whoever's interested together to talk about this issue because I have some ideas of things that I think we can do. And then trust that the Lord will give his spirit to members of this congregation to act in different ways. But ask God, pray that the Lord of heaven and earth would show us ways that we can, in our own lives, work to end abortion. As we think about the issues of racism and abortion, I want to close our time with a story out of South Korea. It starts like this, and this is a true story. In a ragged working-class neighborhood in Seoul, South Korea. A one house has a small drop box built into the wall. There is a hand-scrawled sign outside the dropbox that says. . If you can't take care of your disabled babies, don't throw them away or leave them on the street. . Put them in this box. The box, as it's open, is lined with a soft pink and blue blanket, and has a bell that rings when the little drawer is opened. The Dropbox is at the home of Presbyterian pastor Li Zhong Rak. And since 2009, Li has saved the lives of more than 600 children. He and his wife adopted 10, which was the max allowed in South Korea. Then he arranged for the adoption of others. Inscribed. Inscribed along the top of the drop box is Psalm 27 verse 10. For my father and mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Why does Lee do this? He does it because his heart has been changed by the knowledge that in his sins He was forsaken and cast off. But the Lord took him in and cleansed him by the blood of his son, Jesus Christ. Jesus, who is the image of God, showed us the love of God by offering himself on the cross for the sins of racism And abortion and for the sins of all who would turn and trust in him. Greater love has no man than this, that he lay down his life for his brothers. Our friends, this is what Christ has done for us who didn't deserve it. He laid down his life so that we who have received the forgiveness of sins would be built up into his image by showing the same type of love to other image-bearers, to those who are different ethnicities to those who are unborn and to all. So the question I have for us today is how will you lay down your life for other image bearers today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, these things are too great for us, but they are not too great for you. We call upon you, the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth, to grant your spirit to your church that we might be a people who are united Around the cross of Christ and by the blood of Christ, and that we might pursue unity across ethnic boundaries, and that we might display the power of the gospel to rec reconcile enemies together in Christ, so that enemies Will become friends because you have made all of us who were your enemies your friends in Christ. And we pray, Father, that you would open the eyes of our country and all the countries on earth. So that the attack of unborn children would come to an end. A sovereign Lord, you can do this. We pray that you would. We pray that you would show mercy to us and to all the earth. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen