Well good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with you here this morning to open up God's Word uh and to hear what He has to say to us today. It's an honor and a privilege for us to be able to come before the Lord and to hear him speak. And so before we open up his word and hear what he has to say to us this morning, I want to lead us in one more brief prayer that God would bless this time. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning in confidence, not in our own strength or because we have anything to offer. We come empty-handed and completely dependent upon you. We come in confidence because you are trustworthy and you are good and you have promised to your people that all of your promises to us in Christ are yes and amen. And so we pray to you this morning, Father, please bless us. Teach us through your word. Give us insight. Help us to glory in the reality that those of us who've trusted in Christ are awaiting the ultimate marriage when the bridegroom will return for his bride and we will finally be with you forever. Speak to us today, we pray, and encourage us in your word, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in the 1970s, uh scientist Thomas Kuhn coined the term uh paradigm shift. I'm sure many of you are familiar with that word. Uh Kuhn put forth the word to describe what occurs within a scientific revolution when the most basic and widely held scientific concepts are challenged and then reordered, restructured And though the term wasn't coined until the 1970s, we can look back and appreciate the many paradigm shifts that have occurred throughout human history. Uh thinking within that scientific framework, we can think about the paradigm shifts, such as when humans went from seeing the earth as flat to understanding it as round or spherical Or again, during the Copernican Revolution, when the sun came to be understood as the true center of the solar system, these are all examples of Paradigm shifts. They were major changes in basic assumptions about how the world around us worked. Uh but since Kuhn's coining of the term, the word has been used to describe really any and all major shifts that in concepts that are basic to our understanding of the world. For instance, uh one would be the advent of the internet. Right? The advent of the internet ushered in the age of information and brought about a paradigm shift, not a scientific one, but a paradigm shift in how we look at our access to information and understand the world around us. I mean you just think about what you did. If you were alive in the late 80s or early 90s, if you're like me, like, you know, if you needed to know where somebody was, you couldn't pull up Find My Friends, right? Or iPhone Finder or whatever might you you just had to wait. You wait, I can't know where the person is? Right? But the age of information, the internet, and all the connectivity and access that has come through it has created a paradigm shift in how we view the world around us. We have instant access to information about everything. Well, I bring up the concept of paradigm shifts because when a person comes to follow Jesus, a paradigm shift occurs There is a fundamental reordering of your understanding of who God is, who you are, and what that means for how you think and live. And as we come to our passage this morning, we'll find Jesus challenging his culture's basic assumptions about marriage and children. And at the same time, calling those who follow him to undergo a paradigm shift in the way that they think about marriage and children. So let me invite you to turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter 10. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 16 this morning. If you're using the Bibles that we've provided, you'll find our passage on page 845 and 846. And again, if you've been visiting with us for any amount of time, you've heard me say this before. I say it almost every Sunday. If you don't have a Bible, a copy of your own, please take the copy that we've provided as a gift from us to you. We would love for you to have a copy of God's Word for yourself. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now, and then we'll dive in. Now this is God's word. Mark 10, verses 1 to 16. And he left there and went to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan. And crowds gathered to him again, and again, as was his custom, he taught them. And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? He answered them. What did Moses command you? They said, Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away. And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment. But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter, and he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them. And the disciples rebuked them But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, Let the children come to me. Do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them. This is God's word. If you're taking notes this morning, the point of our passage is this. If you're going to follow Jesus, then you must adopt his paradigm-shifting views on marriage and children. If you're going to follow Jesus, you must adopt his paradigm-shifting views on marriage and children. And we're going to look at our passage this morning in two points. Point one is going to be marriage. And point two is going to be children. First, point one, you must adopt Jesus' paradigm-shifting views on Marriage. Now, before I dive into the passage and we start looking at it more closely, I want to say a word to those of you here who may be apprehensive about what I might say about the text this morning, given what Jesus says in the passage, uh maybe you're here and you have gone through a divorce yourself. Um maybe the fault of the divorce is has something to do with something you did, or maybe the divorce had nothing to do with you or or your actions. If you're feeling concerned or apprehensive about what Jesus is saying to us in the passage this morning, I just want to say a word to you up front. I hope you feel uh comforted knowing that God treats with all of us. He extends to all of us grace So as you come to his word this morning, whether you've been through divorce yourself or you've experienced the fallout of a divorce in your own life, God's word to you this morning, I think, is going to be one of comfort and grace. So if you're feeling apprehensive What is he gonna say to me this morning? I hope you uh are able to let that go a little bit. We want to look carefully at what Jesus has to say, but I think the the word in the end to us this morning is gonna be one of comfort uh and grace. So just be thinking about that uh now. But let's go ahead and look at the passage. Look at me at verses 1 to 12. This is our point on marriage. Verse 1 introduces us to a new setting. Jesus had been in the region of Capernaum on the west coast of the Sea of Galilee, but has now traveled 100 miles south to Judea. uh since he largely or likely traveled on foot from Capernaum to Judea, it probably would have taken about two weeks to walk there. And you see there that crowds have gathered around him to hear him teach. This has been happening throughout Mark and As Mark tells us, as was his custom, he taught them, but the crowds have also attracted the attention of the religious And these religious authorities, the Pharisees and the Scribes, have been deeply opposed to Jesus throughout his ministry for some time now. We can even go back to chapter 3 and see that in chapter 3, which is likely a year, year and a half before this is going down, they were plotting to kill him. They had already were hatching plots to figure out a way to destroy and kill Jesus. And you see here that they're at those plots again. Look at verse 2 with me. Notice the Pharisees come up to Jesus in order to test him. This is not to see whether he can get an A or a B on the test. The word test there means they're trying to trap him. It's a little bit of entrapment going on. They're going to ask him a trick question to see if Jesus' answer lines up with either the Mosaic law or with rabbinic tradition. And if he fails, that's going to give them more evidence by which they can accuse him and maybe disparage him or undermine his authority. And so in particular, the question they ask him in the passage this morning is about divorce. Look at verses 2 to 4. They ask him, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? So Jesus responds to them by turning the question around and then just asks them, hey, well, what did Moses say about this in the law? And so they respond to Jesus: well, Moses allowed a man to divorce his wife. By writing a certificate of divorce and sending her away. Oh, what are they referring to? They're referring to Deuteronomy chapter 24, verses 1 to 3. Where Moses says that a man may divorce his wife if he finds some indecency in her. I want to be quick to say, as soon as you import your indef your definition of indecency into the word, you've gone wrong. We go wrong when we immediately think our definition is the Hebrew definition from 3,000 years ago. And so we want to think carefully about indecency. The Hebrew term for indecency really is a bit vague and unclear, maybe even intentionally It's used elsewhere to describe nakedness. And nakedness, you'll see in the first five books of the Old Testament and even throughout the Old Testament, is closely related to shame. Those who were naked bore shame. It was a shameful thing to be naked. So it's possible, though not certain, that indecency refers to some moral failing that brought shame upon the marital union and by which a person could seek a divorce. But I also want to be careful to say, if you go and look at that passage later today, uh Moses, though he was making allowance for divorce based on indecency Also was heightening the importance of marriage and making it clear that divorce should not be sought flippantly because he prohibited The husband or the wife whoever left their spouse from remarrying that spouse if they then married another and that marriage fell apart So he's basically saying to them, do not enter into marriage lightly, nor seek divorce lightly. This is a serious thing. And so that's what's going on in Deuteronomy chapter 24. But I want you to think about the Gospel of Mark, the context of Mark's Gospel. Let's think back to the Sabbath laws in chapter 3, in chapter 2, and chapter 3. uh where God had made specific allowances for what was uh prohibited and what was allowed to be done on the Sabbath. But in the millennia that followed, uh those laws coming into place back in the Mosaic comm uh the Mosaic Law, 2000 years prior to Jesus. In those two thousand years that followed, the rabbis sought more clarity on what was allowed to be done on the Sabbath and what wasn't. And so they created all types of rules that by the time Jesus came, Jesus is like, y'all don't even understand the law anymore. This is not what God intended on the Sabbath. Well, in the same way, regarding Moses' law on what was allowable grounds for divorce in those 2,000 years after the Mosaic Law came into being. The rabbis in Israel sought clarity. They didn't like the vagueness of indecency, and so they started articulating concrete examples of what were appropriate grounds or allowable grounds for divorce. Now here's what happens though over those 2,000 years. Uh in the Mishnah, which is the collection of Jewish, it's a Jewish authoritative uh collection on the law of God, they explain And in the section on divorce, you find very clear teaching that by the time of Jesus came around, if a meal was burned Or if a spouse found another person more attractive, divorce could be sought. So in the original Mosaic Law, it's only in decency, but by the time Jesus comes around and in the culture that he grew up in If a meal was burned, I'm okay, my marriage is over. I would have burned your meals long ago, right? Or if a spouse found another person uh more attractive, divorce could be sought So as we come to this passage and as we hear the Pharisees asking this question, can a man divorce his wife? They're importing all these ideas of these false reasons that divorce could basically be sought for any reason. And in fact Though Mark doesn't record it in his gospel, if we turn over to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll see the parallel account of this. And Matthew records the Pharisees asking, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? For any reason. For any cause. That's the attitude that they're coming to Jesus with. Not only do they want to test him, but they're just saying, hey, can we divorce a person or spouse for any reason at all And that is the framework that we need to understand Jesus' response to them within. And it's that desire to be able to divorce for any reason at all that provokes Jesus' response. He tells them, hey, the mosaic command was given because of their hardness of heart. The mosaic command, this allowance was given because of hardness of heart. Essentially, what he's saying to them is that the only reason an allowance for divorce was ever given in the first place is because of the hardness of heart within human beings that produces sin. That produces division that then leads to divorce. And he's saying to the Pharisees, the hardness of your heart is seen in your desire to be able to marry and divorce for any reason And so he's just pointing out to them, this is completely contrary. You've just lost all understanding of the original intention of marriage in the first place. And this terribly low view of marriage as a relationship that could be entered into flippantly or exited out of for basically any reason. meant that even in Jesus' culture, the true origin, nature, and importance of marriage had for all intents and purposes been lost. They just had they they had no idea why God had originally created marriage anymore. They're only looking to the Mosaic law and saying, hey, can we do this or can we not? What's the big deal? And so Jesus points back all the way to Genesis, right? He goes back to the very creation of the universe and the creation of mankind itself. Long before the Mosaic Law ever came into place to make three massive paradigm-shifting statements about marriage. Look at verse 6. He takes them back to the creation of mankind and he says, when God made man, he made them male and female. And the reason he made them male and female, look at verse 7. Therefore, is so that the man would leave his family of origin and hold fast to his wife, literally, so that they would become a one Flesh union. The physical, spiritual, and emotional bond in marriage was to be so complete that there would no longer be two individuals, but now one And because of that, in verse 9, look down at verse 9, man should not separate what God has joined together. Here's what Jesus is saying to the Pharisees. You've forgotten that marriage didn't originate in the Mosaic Law Marriage was a fundamental aspect of God's creation of the world. God is the author and originator of marriage and he intended it to be between one man and one woman joining together physically, spiritually, and emotionally in such a unique way that the two become one And it is such a unique and important relationship that it is the only one in Scripture of which God is said to have created Do you notice that so when Christians talk about marriage, if you're not really familiar with the Christian view on marriage, when Christians talk about marriage, we talk about it as a creation ordinance. That is, it is not something that is reserved for Christians only. It it was given in the beginning to all of mankind and human civilization throughout human history has been built upon this bond between one man and one woman. And it is so unique that wherever it happens on the world, when when a man and a woman have intentions and purposes of their own to come into marriage and they get married before a a group of people, whether in India or in Asia or in Russia or America or Canada or South America or wherever it might be, when they are coming together in this union. God above is bringing them together, whether they recognize it or not. It is such a unique relationship. But what we see, though, is that this widespread low view of marriage that the Pharisees held had really affected all of culture. So after Jesus leaves the Pharisees, he walks away with the disciples. And it's clear that the disciples are a little bit surprised by what he's just said, and so they want further clarification. They share the view of the Pharisees, maybe not their hardness of heart But they have the same questions. They they they thought you could get married and divorced and remarry. There's why what would stand in our way from doing that? And he responds to their question by saying If a man or a woman divorces their spouse and marries another person, they have committed adultery. And I think with these words, he's underscoring the God-ordained, God-created importance of the marriage relationship, and he's confronting one of the most fundamental mistakes about vape marriage in that culture. And it was a view that not only could you divorce for any reason, but you could get married to whoever you wanted. It just it doesn't matter anymore. And that's why he speaks as clearly and soberly as he does about divorcing and remarrying being tantamount to adultery. Now, I think it's at this point that obvious questions uh arise. Does this mean that Jesus forbids all divorce? Or does it mean that a divorced person can never remarry? He speaks very clearly. How do we navigate these things? How do we understand what the scriptures say? As we come to these questions, whether a person is uh whether divorce is forbidden or whether divorce and remarriage is forbidden, I think it's right up front for us to recognize that faithful And mature Christians have disagreed on these issues and have come to different conclusions on these questions throughout church history. So I want to encourage us as a body, before I offer you what the view of the elders here is and what my own personal view is, I want to encourage us as a body to hold our convictions on these issues charitably. You can hold them firmly, but you want to hold them charitably as well. Broadly speaking, there are three different views on the answer to those questions. View one says that all divorce, all divorce is forbidden, and that divorced persons are not able to remarry. So if you're familiar with the ministry of James Boyce or John Piper, that would be their view The second view says that divorce is allowable under particular circumstances, but not remarriage. And this view was more common prior to the sixteenth century. It isn't as common today, though though some do hold it. And the third view, which is the position of the elders at CBC, says that in the case of adultery or abandonment, there may be grounds for both divorce and remarriage. Now, I wouldn't be surprised if some of you have specific questions about these issues. If that's you, obviously this isn't the forum to discuss specific circumstances, but if you have questions, I want to invite you to talk to me or any of the other elders Uh we'd be uh very interested in talking to you about questions you might have about divorce and remarriage. But you may also be wondering why I and the elders of CBC think that divorce and remarriage are not forbidden, given what Jesus says here. And the first and most important reason is because we need to read Scripture in light of Scripture. As Christians, we don't come to though the the verses, the way that the verses are laid out in the Bible, they kind of encourage us to pick apart scripture and read it on its own. But scripture comes within a context. It comes in sentences, paragraphs, larger units, whole books, and those books are in the context of the whole canon. And so we need to read scripture in light We need to take into account everything that the Bible says about a particular issue. And in this case, I think there's good reason to believe that there are legitimate exceptions to Jesus' statements in Mark. Because on two different occasions in Matthew's Gospel, chapter 5 and chapter 19, the parallel account of this account. Jesus states clearly that adultery is a legitimate ground for divorce. Then in 1 Corinthians After the Gospels, Paul, the apostle, who spoke by the Spirit of Christ as an apostle, says that abandonment is also grounds for divorce. And we need to take those passages into account when drawing conclusions about what is or isn't permissible. Mark Records Jesus' response as clearly and emphatically as he does to show how greatly the Pharisees and the whole culture needed a paradigm shift And they're thinking about marriage. He's saying, hey, look, you are all the way over here and you're thinking about marriage, and I need to get you all the way over here Once you're over here, now we can talk about exceptions and nuance, but you are so far from where you need to be on this issue. I'm just going to state very clearly, let's get you over here. And then we can start hashing it out and talking about exceptions and nuance. And I think that's why he speaks the way that he does. And it also fits Mark's overall scheme of showing how following Jesus requires a paradigm shift in thinking about everything. And we're going to look at some of these paradigm shifts later in this sermon. It fits Mark's scheme that discipleship entails radical rethinking about life's most basic issues. We paradigm shifts in everything when we come to follow him. But as we consider also the forcefulness of Jesus' words about divorce to the Pharisees, I want to take a moment to speak to those of you who've been through a divorce or a broken marriage of some sort. My guess is that seeing the forcefulness with which Jesus speaks about these things might make you think that he looks down on you or condemns you in some way. If that's you, I want you to notice what Mark tells us about the Pharisees. Notice, they're obviously opposed to Jesus. They come to him trying to trap him. And not only that, but they're hard-hearted towards him. They've been that way throughout Mark's gospel. And I think in large part, that is that it's their posture towards him that brings about the sharpness and clarity of his response. But if you've been through a divorce, or maybe you your your parents went through a divorce, if you went through a divorce, maybe it was some sin uh of your own that brought it about, or maybe it it wasn't. I want to encourage you as you think about your relationship to Jesus and how Jesus views you. I want to encourage you to remember what Jesus has already said in chapter 3 of Mark's Gospel. All sins and blasphemies will be forgiven, the sons of man. All sins, all sins, not some Not just a few, not a select chosen ones, but all sins and blasphemies will be forgiven. So if you have committed a sin that is led to divorce. It is not an unforgivable sin. It is not a stigma that you carry with you. Jesus Christ cleanses us all by the power of his blood. We are all stained by sin and we all need to come for him for come to him for his forgiveness. And I want you to think about then how how if you've been through a divorce and you're wondering how it is that Jesus might engage with you, I want to think about, I want you to think about the difference between the way Jesus engages with the Pharisees And the way Jesus engages with the woman at the well in the Gospel of John, right? Does he talk to her the way that he talks to them? No, not at all. She comes to him with an open heart and an open mind. Remember his offer of living water to her. Here was a woman who had been married five different times. And does Jesus shun her or drive her away? No, he says, hey, I have living water for you. And you can drink of it as much as you want. And what does she do? She goes away and tells everyone, there's a man who finally has living water. It's for all of us. Not just me, because I've been married five different times. It's for all of us. We all need this living water. In fact, this passage has something to say to all of us, whether we've experienced divorce. Or not, notice that Jesus says that it's because of hardness of heart that Moses allowed for divorce It's hardness of heart that produces sin, that creates divisions, that in some situations leads to divorce. But if we're honest with the text and if we're honest with the Lord Jesus Christ Whether we've been married or not, whether we're married or not even now, all of us have displayed that same hardness of heart in our lives this past week. We've sinned against others and we've sinned against God. We've been rude, angry, impatient, unkind, disobedient to parents Faithless, heartless, ruthless, the list goes on and on. And our sins, according to God, are a form of spiritual adultery. And because of our spiritual adultery, according to God, he would be right and justified to divorce us forever But instead, God mercifully and patiently bears with us. You see, the reason that the marriage union is so important to God is because it's meant to reflect God's relationship with his people. His relationship to us is like a marriage. He's committed himself to us to become one to us. We've been united to the very body of his son through faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus laid down his life as a sacrifice to pay for our spiritual adultery. And if we turn from our sins and trust in him God promises to wed himself to us forever. And even when all of us continue to struggle with hardness of heart and sin and being spiritually unfaithful to God, God Like a faithful husband will never leave us or forsake us. That is good news to us today. And to those who've chosen to follow Jesus, God clearly calls us also in this passage to understand and hold fast to his teaching on marriage today. Right, so we just need to think about the culture that we live in. We live in a culture in which the good gift of marriage, as God intended it, just seems less and less necessary Even trivial or foolish like why people view it like why would you even enter into that? Uh look at other countries like Australia where you just have partners for the rest of your life Man and woman, it's just like we're just partners. We're in this thing together, but if something comes up that that really drives us or keeps us from our personal goals, then we'll we'll part ways. And that culture is a culture that we live in. And we need to see that even when we turn on the TV or we look at movies, marriage is mocked. The way that uh Extramarital affairs are held up in TV, whether they're they're shown to be a good thing or not, it's they seem to be everywhere. Marriage is kind of looked down on as uh an archaic convention and institution that's not needed by mankind anymore? Why would you enter into commitment with somebody for the rest of your life? That just is, that's old man. We're progressing forward. Well, as God's people, in the midst of this culture, we need to think about the ways that its views start to affect how we think about our own marriage. Marriage is keeping me from being happy. It's keeping me from fulfilling my great purposes in life. But we were never meant to live for ourselves, friends. We were meant to live for God, and marriage as a covenant commitment is meant to teach us that life and goodness and God's grace comes through our sacrifice to one another. Right? It teaches us about God's sacrificial love for us. And so as a people, we want to think about when we have opportunities with family or friends or coworkers who may think differently from us about marriage. We want to use those as opportunities to hold up. No, here's here's actually the goodness of marriage. Let me tell you why it is so good, because it it shows to us how God actually loves us because all of us are unlovable and yet he commits himself to us. So when my spouse is unlovable towards me or I'm unlovable towards them, it gives us an opportunity to show what God's love is like for us. We want to be able to articulate those things to our friends. But I also want to guard us against another mistake. As a church, we don't want to hold up marriage as ultimate. It is not ultimate. And so you may not be married now. You may have been married and not married now. You may never be married in your life. Whether you're married or not married, the reality is marriage is not ultimate in this life because marriage, whether it happens in this life or not, is a shadow, a faint shadow, a broken shadow of the true marriage that all of us will share in. So whether you are married in this life or not, oh friend, look forward to the day. Let marriage or the idea of marriage prepare you for the day when Christ, as Luke said earlier, breaks upon the dawn. And we see him as he is, and he comes like a bridegroom for his bride. The reality is, friends, whether you're married or not today, you will be married forever in eternity to the Lord Jesus Christ. And it will be a perfect union. Right, the unions in this life, you'll will all make each other unhappy at times. We're never going to be able to fulfill each other's needs. But marriage now is preparing us for that day when Christ comes and fulfills all of our needs and weds himself to us. Forever. That's the day we want to look forward to. And even if our view on marriage brings us into opposition with our culture We must be prepared to follow Jesus, who obviously knew opposition for his paradigm shifting views on marriage in his day But marriage isn't the only topic Jesus calls for a paradigm shift on in this passage. He also calls for a paradigm shift in the way that his disciples view children, which brings us to point number two, which will be shorter. Point number two, children. So look at verses 13 to 16 with me. There you'll see that people were bringing their children to Jesus so that Jesus might touch them. The touch there would have been some sort of way to communicate a blessing, a way that his touching of them communicated his blessing of them. But before these parents, these people can get their children to Jesus, the disciples rebuke them. Mark uses a severe word for rebuke here. It's the same word used to describe when Jesus drives out demons. So the disciples are like, hey, get out of here! Be gone, children, out of this place. Like there's nothing for you here. Like driving these kids away. That's a pretty harsh thing to do. And when Jesus sees what they're doing, he becomes indignant Angry, let the children come to me. What are you doing? Do not get in their way. And then notice the reason that he gives. He says, for Or because to such belongs the kingdom of God. Because the kingdom of God belongs to children. Jesus is saying to them, you are driving away people that I came for. You see, in Jesus' culture, a childhood was viewed as an unavoidable and unfortunate interim between birth and adulthood. Right, so according to Jewish custom, children entered adulthood at age 13. If you're familiar today with the Jewish custom of bar mitzvah or bat mitzvah. Uh that is the the the the thirteenth birthday when they are allowed into the religious practices and adult society uh within Israel. But until then, until age thirteen as a group They were overlooked as having anything meaningful to contribute to society. And that's really what informs the disciples' response to these children. They think the kids have nothing to offer They're only getting in the way of Jesus doing real ministry, ministering to the masses like he should be doing right now. The kids have nothing to offer. They're getting in the way, and so the disciples drive them away from Jesus because of it. And Jesus essentially tells his disciples that they need a paradigm shift in the way that they view children, because children are a subset of the people he came to save. and bring into his kingdom. The kingdom of God belongs to children. What is the kingdom of God? The kingdom of God is the already present, but not yet fully realized reign of God over mankind. The kingdom of God is already present. So it exists wherever on this planet people have repented and believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. When you repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, he becomes Lord over your heart and Lord over your life, and you're now living under his reign. You're living in his kingdom in the middle of a fallen world. That's the kingdom of God. And remember also the very first words out of Jesus' mouth in Mark's gospel. He says, when he comes into Galilee, the time is fulfilled. And the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. The kingdom of God is at hand, therefore, repent and believe in the gospel. And according to Jesus, Entrance into the kingdom of God is based on repentance and belief, repentance and faith. And we see in Mark's gospel that repenting and believing is something that children can do. Just look back to chapter 9. You think back to chapter 9, Jesus illustrates the need for his disciples to become servants of all by embracing a child in his arms. And then while holding that same child in his arms, in chapter 9, verse 42, you can look there, Jesus says, Whoever causes one of these little ones These children, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck. Jesus says very clearly to us that there are little ones, children, who believe in him. They've answered his kingdom call to repent and believe, and so are rightful heirs to his kingdom. And though there isn't a whole lot about children in the rest of the New Testament, what is written, I think, supports what Jesus says here in Mark 10. For instance, in Acts chapter 2, after Peter's sermon on Pentecost about how Jesus is the Messiah, it says there. Now, when the people of the city heard this sermon from Peter, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you And for your children, and for all who believe. The promise, the promise of forgiveness of sins and the presence of the Holy Spirit is for you, adults And for you, children, and for all who believe. And so Peter, we see here, has even been shaped by Mark's teaching in Mark chapter 10. By Acts chapter 2, he's remembering when Jesus was indignant with him for driving away children, and he's saying to you, children, repentance and faith, if you repent and believe, the promise of forgiveness of sins and entrance into the kingdom of God is for you too. And to all who are fall off, far off, who have not believed. I want to stop briefly on this passage here in Acts chapter 2 and recognize We are in a Baptist church, which means that we believe that baptism is reserved for people who have made a credible profession of faith. They've repented and believed in Jesus Christ. There are other dear brothers and sisters in Christ, namely those from Presbyterian or Anglican churches, Presbyterians mostly would view this passage in Acts chapter 2 as teaching that infants should be baptized. But in a Baptist church, I just don't think that is the correct reading of this passage. He could use the word infants if he wanted to, but he says children. And we think that throughout Acts you see that repentance and faith, they need to be a rational, conscious choice by people who intend to follow Jesus, such that infants can't make that choice. But we do need to see that Peter says the promise of forgiveness of sins is for children. It's for children if they repent and believe. And then in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1. Paul speaks to children in the Ephesian church. He speaks directly to them and says to them, children, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. And then he goes on to explain why it's good to obey your parents. But the thing I want you to notice is that he describes the children as in the Lord. That language in the Lord, when it comes from Paul, is very specific language that he means union with Christ And you only become united with Christ through faith in Christ. So the only way that a child could be considered in the Lord is if they've repented and believed and been united to Christ by faith. And now I said that the kingdom of God exists wherever individuals have repented and believed, and in so doing have come under the lordship of Christ. But the kingdom of God is also seen in the church, right? The gathering of those individuals who've submitted to Christ's rule and reign. The church serves as an outpost of the coming kingdom, right? The the church, the local church, is a uh an embassy of a kingdom that's It's in the church where people who've repented and believed have come under the Lordship of Christ and together seek to submit our lives to his word. Right? It's to be a place where people who don't know Jesus come in and see that some massive paradigm shift has occurred in all of our lives that sets us apart from the world around us. You just go back to the beginning of chapter 9 and think about the paradigm shifts that Jesus has already commanded. We're to be a people marked by a willingness to take up our cross and die to self. Or we're to give up on trying to gain this world and instead seek the world to come. We're to be a people who don't live by our own strength, but in constant dependence upon God, pray and live by faith in everything. We're to seek greatness by becoming servants. We're to do whatever it takes to remove temptations to sin in our lives. You see all these paradigm shifts. They're all stacking up in a row. And we're to treat with the utmost dignity God's institution of marriage, even the world around us disparages it, and were to be a place that's that pays special attention to Children to children. In Jesus' day, they just seemed like they didn't have anything to offer. And Jesus says, no, I came for them. I came for them. Children have a place in my kingdom. And so we need to be a place and a body in which We foster and encourage repentance and faith among the children and nurture it where it exists. Right, we need to be a place that fosters and encourages repentance and faith and nurtures it where it exists That is one of the things that we have agreed to do in our church covenant, right? Our church covenant, when you become a member, says we make an agreement that we will endeavor to lead those in our care in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That means, whether you have children or not, you're agreeing to encourage, spur on, and instruct the children in this congregation to lay hold of the Lord Jesus Christ by faith. And so I do want to take a moment briefly to publicly thank Kessid, Liana, and Shannon, who for the many hours they've spent working to bring the good news of the gospel to the kids in children's ministry. I want to thank you guys for the hard work that you're doing. You were doing the Lord's work. He says that the kingdom is for children. So thank you for doing that work. Your work is not in vain. And I want to thank all of you who have served in child care. I know that it is not easy to do it on a regular basis, but it is one of the best opportunities we have on a weekly basis to disciple others in the faith. So when you come and maybe you're serving in childcare, you come to church, it may be one of those things where you've been at home with kids all week and you're just thinking, oh, this is the last thing that I want to do after being home with kids All week, I just want to encourage you to look at Jesus' attitude towards children, not just your own, but all children. So that when you come to serve in children's ministry, you can serve the little ones who can't respond to the gospel right now by caring for them and protecting them, holding them, keeping them from hurting themselves. But then as soon as you get into the twos and threes and fours and fives, you get to teach them the good news of the gospel, that they can turn from sin now and put their faith in Jesus Christ. And he will welcome them. He'll take them in his arms and embrace them. So it is not done in vain. Your work is not in vain. Keep it up. You are doing the Lord's work when you work back in children's ministry. And so I want to challenge and encourage all of you to own the great responsibility and stewardship that God has given to this church by lovingly pointing the many wonderful children we have. to the Savior. But it's also right for me to talk to the kids. Kids, there's a bunch of you in here I hope y'all are listening. I want you guys to think about what this passage has to teach you about the Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to know that we as a body desire to love you And point you to the Lord Jesus Christ. We may not always do it perfectly. We may not understand you and understand all of the things that you're going through because we forget what it was like in our own life because we're a forgetful people. But we want you to know that we love you. We want to pour into you and we want to see you come to know the Lord Jesus Christ in your own life. I think one of the things that that can that that might be a temptation for you is if you've grown up In a Christian home, uh, it may seem like God is kind of a this boring thing, you gotta go do lessons on him, and it's something you have to study, and God is like, ah, I wanna go and have fun like the rest of the kids of the world, but I want to I want to point you kids to something. I want to point you to the universe around us and to all the crazy and amazing animals and trees, stars, and the galaxies. Why am I pointing you to that? Because God is not boring. God is amazing. He does things that will blow your mind. He makes things that are just like it just like makes my head explode. I was watching Planet Earth with my kids and we were doing the planet, the blue planet, and watching Uh the the the creatures that live in the bottom of like the Mariana trench and they make their own lights and they like light up like these crazy aliens and you're like God is way different than I thought he was. He's amazing. Kids, God is not boring He's awesome. And if he seems born, it's only because I do a poor job or a terrible job of teaching you about him. But he is wonderful. And not only get do you get to know how amazing he is through creation, it's even better to know him through his son, Jesus. To have a personal relationship with him. We need to see here that you don't have to wait until you get older to start following Jesus. You can start now, kids He calls you to do the same thing that he calls adults to do: to repent and believe, to take hold by faith of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he calls you to come simply as a child would come, empty-handed. There's nothing to offer. I'm just coming like a child because you have everything I need, right? Kids, you may be tempted to think that that you need to keep all the rules before you can come to Jesus Don't believe that you can't keep all the rules. Jesus kept all the rules for you so that you could be saved through him. You don't have to clean yourself up to come to him. You can't do it, right? We we are a mess. We need God to cleanse us But if you come to Jesus, he will cleanse you. Right? That's the call that is there for you, is to simply come as a child. And if you do that, say, Lord, I I can't save myself. I need you to save me. Would you save me through your son Jesus Christ? If you come that way, that's all that's required for faith and salvation. Jesus welcomes children into his kingdom and will welcome you and embrace you in his very own arms. So kids, I want to encourage you today to think about turning from sin And laying hold empty-handed by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you do that, Jesus says, the kingdom of God is yours. It's yours. But this passage speaks to more than just children, doesn't it, right? It has something to say to all of us. Look at verse 15. Jesus says, Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. When Jesus starts a sentence with the word truly, you can know that he really means what he's about to say, and he says that if anyone wants to come into his kingdom, then they need to come like a child. So The kingdom is for children, and it's for all who are like children, who come empty-handed. So whoever comes to Jesus needs to come empty-handed and totally dependent on him. And you see that this in and of itself for adults, so I want to speak to the adults now, this in and of itself is a paradigm shift Why? Well, because humans are inherently works-based creatures. In nearly every area of life we strive to prove our worth by what we can do and what we bring to the table and the way that that striving affects us in our relationship with God is we start to think we need to be able to provide something. We need to come not empty-handed. I need to show you what I've done, Lord, to have earned your Favor, which is why the religions of the world propose various rituals and codes that are required to follow to make oneself acceptable to God. All religions accept Christianity. Christianity is the only religion in the world that says to people, you can't do what is necessary to make yourself acceptable to God. But take heart, because God has done it for you. Jesus lived the perfect life that you and I couldn't live. Jesus died the death that we deserve. And on the cross he cried, it is finished. Because It is finished. There is nothing left for you to do. You're not going to take up your good works and bring them to him. His work is the only work that counts on our behalf. We come empty-handed, totally dependent, saying to the Lord, it's you and you alone by which I'm saved. It's you and you alone by which I'll be cleansed. It's by grace you were saved. It's by grace that you live. And it's by grace that you will be brought into his kingdom. And that grace is yours today. So I, if you're here today and you're feeling the burden of feeling like God doesn't accept you because you haven't kept up your quiet time, you haven't prayed enough You weren't kind this past week. That is a form of thinking. I need to bring something to the table. But we need to come to the kingdom with empty hands. We drop all of our failures. We drop everything that we think is good, everything that we think is worthy to come into the kingdom, and we say, Lord Jesus Christ, it's by you and you alone that I can come into the kingdom. Help me to be like a child. And frankly, friends, when you come to grasp that That God desires you to come with nothing in your hands, and that He accepts you when you come with nothing in your hands, a paradigm shift will occur. You'll start to change how you think about God, how you think about yourself, and how you think others Jesus calls us to that paradigm shift today. The kingdom of God is offered to all of us. Will you lay hold of it by empty-handed faith? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we must admit that this is uh extremely difficult for us to do. We struggle to want to do things to make ourselves acceptable to you. We struggle to believe that you are really for us and have completely forgiven us. We struggle to believe That it is finished. We think we need to keep doing, doing, doing to make ourselves acceptable to you. Help us to be a people who understand that salvation is by grace through faith alone. And Father, we do pray for the many children here who are present today. We ask, Lord, that they would turn to you by faith today That they would know your tender embrace, that you welcome them because children are heirs of the kingdom of God. Encourage us, Lord, in how we care for the children this week And teach us of your love for us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.