Well, hallelujah. We serve a great God. Amen. Amen. Well, it's great to be here with you all this morning. It's a joy and a privilege for me to be able to open up God's Word with you and to study and hear what He has to say to us together. And because God is to be dependent upon for all things, it's right for us to go one more time and pray to God and ask him to bless the preaching of his word and the hearing of his word. So let's do that now. Pray with me briefly. Heavenly Father, we confess with one voice that you are our great God. And we pray, Lord, that in your greatness you would show mercy to your people. By granting the Spirit to open our eyes, give us ears to hear and eyes to see the glory and power of your all-authoritative Son who rules and reigns. Overall, fix our eyes upon the Lord Jesus Christ this morning. In the power of the Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in 2004, a man by the name of Ken Jennings took the Jeopardy World by storm. Uh Jennings was a native of Edmonds, Washington, and a computer scientist by trade. And he made his first appearance on uh Jeopardy on June 2nd, 2004. June 2nd of 2004, and I think that was a Monday, uh I think. And by the end of his first week on the show, Jeopardy Faithful began to take notice of Mr. Jennings' prowess at answering questions By then, Jennings had won five straight episodes, which was not easy, uh not an easy feat by Jeopardy standards by any means. But if you're familiar with Jennings' story, he wasn't done, not by a long shot Jennings went on to win every episode the second week and the third week and the fourth week. In fact, Jennings wasn't finally defeated until just shy of 15 straight weeks of Jeopardy victories, amassing a 74-game win streak. That is amazing. Amazing. Put it in context. The second longest streak of Jeopardy wins to date is 22. He had 74 straight games. But it's not only that he won seventy-four straight games, he also dominated those games. He averaged just over thirty-five correct answers per game out of a possible sixty. In one particular context, Jennings contest Jennings answered 44 of the 60 possible questions correctly. You're like, what are the other two people doing? Like are their butt-like they're probably like shaking their buzzers, wondering like, do these things even work? This guy is dominating everything But, like every other amazing winning streak in all sorts of contests, whether it's sports or game shows, eventually Jennings' run came to an end. And the reason it came to an end is because nobody has all the right answers all the time. Or is there somebody? Is there somebody who always has the right answers that we can go to with Life's most difficult questions or life's most trivial questions and trust that they will give us the right answer, the true answer, the wise answer. Is there anybody that comes to mind for you this morning that you could go to and know that you will always get? the right answer. I think the encouragement for us this morning is that there's something there is somebody who does have all the right answers, and we're going to meet him in our passage this morning. So if you have your Bibles, I want to encourage you to turn with me in your Bible to Mark chapter 12. And this morning we're going to be looking specifically at verses 13 to 27. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you'll find our passage on page 848. And as always, we like to let people know that if you're here and you don't have a Bible of your own, we want to encourage you to take the Bible that we provided as a gift from us to you. There's really nothing. that we think is more important for you than that of a copy of God's own word so that you can study it for yourself. So please take a copy if you don't have one. This morning, as is obvious, we're continuing in our study through the Gospel of Mark, and we find ourselves in the final week of Jesus' life. Jesus has traveled to Jerusalem from the area of Galilee for the Passover festival. You might remember in the triumphal entry back in chapter 11. He came into Jerusalem riding on a donkey. thus showing himself to be Israel's true and humble king. And as Israel's true king, he then showed his authority by pronouncing judgment on the temple. And that famous scene when he comes in Flips over to tables in the temple. It's uh often called the cleansing of the temple. And that event brought Jesus into direct conflict with the religious authorities. The religious authorities, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders, they come to Jesus and confront him and question him about the source of his authority. They're basically saying, Who are you to be doing these things in our temple? Who gave you this authority, but if you were here last week, you remember that he confounds them with his wisdom by turning their question back on them, thus revealing their malice and their hypocrisy And this malice and hypocrisy that he really then brings to life in the parable of the wicked tenants. And that was the passage that we looked at. Last week. But it was that confrontation there at the temple and the questioning about Jesus' authority that then causes the religious authorities of Israel to then begin barraging Jesus with a series of questions in hopes of finding some sort of incriminating answer against him. Maybe he will say something that they will find offensive or Unlawful and they can bring charges against them. Go ahead and look down at Mark chapter twelve, verse thirteen This is the first verse that we're going to be looking at this morning. They sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians. And we see there that they want to trap him in his words. But what I want you to notice here now is from Mark chapter 12, verse 13, all the way to the verse 34 of chapter 12, Jesus is going to be approached and basically interrogated by every large group of religious authority in Israel. It's a bunch of people coming and asking him questions. Hoping to trip him up, hoping to find some flaw. Maybe he won't have an answer, but what we're gonna see this week and next week is that Jesus Always has the right answer. So what happens to the people who are coming to ask him questions? Look at chapter 12, verse 34. No one, after all of his answering their questions, no one dared ask him any more questions. It's as if Mark is wanting us to see That if any uh if if Jesus is going to be found uh speaking against the law, someone is going to have to bring false witness and false testimony against him. If Jesus is going to be tripped up, it's not because he's going to have a flaw in himself. It's because he has intended to come to Jerusalem. To be handed over, to die for the sins of his people. But this section that we're in is just trying to show to you, Jesus cannot be cross-examined and found and found to be at fault. He has all the answers all the time. And so we as a people should listen to him. And that's the theme tying these three sections together, these three encounters that we're going to look at two of them this morning. Jesus has all the answers. He's the all-authoritative teacher. And since he's the all-authoritative teacher, God's people and all people should listen to what he says. So what I'm going to do now is read for us Mark chapter 12, verse 13 all the way to verse 27, and we're going to see these first two encounters, and then we're going to dive in. and try to explore a little bit more of what Jesus is trying to teach us today through uh Mark's gospel. So this is God's word. And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians to trap him in his talk. And they came and said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's opinion, or you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay them or should we not? But knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, Why put me to the test? Bring me a denarius and let me look at it. And they brought one. And he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? They said to him, Caesar's. Jesus said to them, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. And the Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. There were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and when he died left no offspring And the second took her and died, leaving no offspring. And the third likewise, and the seven left no offspring. Last of all, the woman also died. In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as a wife. Jesus said to them. Is this not the reason you are wrong? Because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. And as for the dead being raised, Have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite wrong. This is God's word Now, friends, if you're taking notes this morning, the point of our passage is this: since Jesus is the all-authoritative teacher, we should listen to what he says. Specifically, we should listen to what he says about government and we should listen to what he says about life after death. And those are going to be our two points this morning. If you want to follow along With two points for your outline. The first one's going to be listen to what he says about government. And the second one will be listen to what Jesus says about life after death. So first, friends, let's listen and look at what Jesus has to say about government. Look back again down at your Bibles at verse 13. He's approached there by the Pharisees and the Herodians who want to trap him in his word. So they want to get him to say something incriminating. So that they can be bring charges against him. They're stalking Jesus as a hunter would stalk after its prey. Right? Then in verse 14, they say to him, We know that you are righteous, truthful men, and you pay no attention to outward appearances. You don't judge on the basis of what's on the outside. No, you, you, Jesus, you truly teach the way of God. Right, if you're if you're puzzled, like, wait, I thought they wanted to trap him, why are why are they why are they speaking so well of him? Well that's what we call flattery, right? Flattery is saying to somebody's face what you would never say behind their backs. I got that from Matt Smethers. It's a great couplet, gossip and flattery. Gossip is saying behind somebody's back what you would never say to their face flattery is saying to somebody's face what you would never say behind their back. And they would never say this about Jesus behind his back. Why? Because when you go back to chapter three, it was the Pharisees and the Herodians who after Jesus healed somebody on the Sabbath, got together and plotted to kill him. They're straight flattering him. They're trying to butter him up. They're trying to actually force him to make a particular answer, the answer that they want him to give. And you see that. That's why they emphasize his truthfulness. You are true. You truly teach the way of God. Therefore, you will give us the answer that we want, because you are so true, right? They're they're flattering him to his face, but Jesus doesn't buy it. That's why he says to them, Why? Put me to the test. That word test there in Mark is very important for us to understand. The first place that word occurs in Mark's gospel is when Jesus goes into the wilderness. and is tested by Satan. And then the only people to test Jesus after that are the religious authorities. So he he's but Mark's just basically trying to give us a verbal cue. that these Pharisees and Herodians are aligned with Satan in opposition to God's own son. They're putting him to the test And then how do they put him to the test? What's this test that they they bring to him? Well they say they they ask him there in verse 14. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay them or shouldn't we? It's a little bit of two, there's a little two different questions going on there. Is it lawful? Then should we do it? Kind of a little distinction there. But what we need to understand for our context today, that's most important for us, is that this was an unbelievably explosive question. In Jesus' culture. The tax that they're referring to is not at all like the taxes that we pay today, not in the way that it was explosive. The tax that they're referring to was known as the imperial poll tax, and every adult male Israelite had to pay it. It's where we get the word census from today. It's how the Roman Empire took a census of its citizens. And why was it so explosive? Because it showed to the Israelites Who basically had in their law, you shall make no other graven images. You shall have no other images before me. And they have to carry around and hold this coin that has a graven image on it that proclaims the divinity of Caesar. It was a horribly explosive question and an insulting thing for the Israelites. It also reminded them that they lived under Roman rule. They were supposed to be God's chosen and special people who lived under God's rule alone, but here they are living in occupied territory as subjects and servants too. The Roman Empire and to Caesar. And worse than that, like the biggest slap in the face is that this imperial poll tax then went to the Roman armies, which then occupied Israel. So they're helping to pay and prop up for the state that is occupying them. It was a ridiculously explosive question. So we see the trap that's been set for Jesus Here's the trap. The pro-Israelite Pharisees want to see if Jesus is going to go on record supporting the Roman tax, so discrediting himself in the eyes of the Jews. And the pro-Roman Herodians want to see if Jesus is going to encourage a revolt by telling them not to pay taxes, and then so put himself in the crosshairs of the Roman It really is a masterfully crafted question, one that would likely trap all of us, I assume even Ken Jennings, right? But it doesn't Trap Jesus. Look at verse 15. He recognizes their malicious intent and calls them out. Why are you putting me to the test? Then he tells them, Bring me a denarius. Which was the small silver coin that was used to pay the tax, and then he says to them, Whose likeness, whose image, and whose inscription are on it? They answered, Caesar's. So every coin in circulation at that time had a picture of Tiberius Caesar stamped on it, which showed his authority over the Roman lands. The image that was on the front of it was Caesar's kind of bust, and then over it, it proclaimed Caesar's divinity. He was son of the Most High God, is what it said on the front, and then on the back. He was inscribed to be Rome's great high priest. You see the Son of God, Jesus, holding a coin Jesus is both Son of God and High Priest, holding a coin, this feeble little silver thing with a man's bust stamped on the front of it that proclaims that this man is the Son of God and the Most High Priest. And you just got to think Wow, what would what was that like? Jesus who created silver that the coin was made out of, Jesus who created Caesar, is now looking at a coin where Caesar has proclaimed himself to be the son of God and high priest. We just imagine what that would have been like. So they bring him the coin. He asks him who's on it. They say to him, Caesar is on it. So in verse 17, look down there with me, Jesus tells them Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and give to God the things that are God's. And the Pharisees and the Rhodians, these men who want to kill Jesus instead, marvel at him What? That is not the question we were we were thinking. And I don't think there that their marveling means that they approved of him. They still hate him They just couldn't have fathomed that he would answer this way. They came up with the perfectly crafted question. You can just imagine that they got together in a back room. They had to work through the exact language of it. If any of you here work in policy, you know what that's like. We need to fine-tune it. We need to get this question. We need to polish it off. We need to make sure it fits together, that there's no way out. And then they offer it to Jesus and Jesus Slips right through the trap. No, how did he do this? Well, how did he slip through the trap? Why did they marvel so much at his answer? What you kind of read it and you're like, ah, I'm not sure what the big deal is there. Well, first thing I want you to notice is that Jesus, Jesus doesn't have a denarius. They have a denarius. in their pockets or their bags or wherever they would have carried it. They, the Pharisees and Herodians, are the ones in possession of the coin. And by having and using a coin that has Caesar's image stamped on it, they are implicitly recognizing Caesar's authority over their land. And so Jesus' answer implies that if they're going to have and use a coin that declares Caesar's authority over the land, well then just give them the taxes that he's owed. Y'all are the ones holding the denarius. You're the ones carrying around the graven image, and you use it. You go about your daily life using it. Hey, it belongs to Caesar. His image is on it. Just give it back to him. But then he adds, give to God the things that are God's. And here he's avoiding, avoiding seeming to appear in favor of idolatry. Because he's saying this this Caesar who claims to be the Son of God and most high priest is not God. He may claim to be God, but but clearly I'm setting him apart. Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, give to God what is God's He is avoiding, seeming to be in favor of idolatry. The coin may have an inscription on it that says Caesar is God, but Jesus is making it clear. Caesar is not God. In his first answer, he avoids appearing to incite a revolt against Rome. And in his second, he clearly denies Caesar's idolatrous claims on the coin. It's no wonder that they would marvel at him. But honestly, even though they were uh unlikely to uh immediately understand just how marvelous his answer was. The reason is because of how far-reaching the implications of his answer were and still are today. In his amazing response, what is so marvelous about it is Jesus, in a single sentence, lays the foundation for a new understanding of how God's people should relate to the government. in the new phase of salvation history that he was bringing about, which is the phase of salvation history that we live in. In the Old Testament, before the Messiah came, God's people were organized into a single state, a single theocratic state, in which God was their head. It was the people of Israel. He ruled them directly by his law. They sinned against him over and over. They were sent into exile. Their covenant with God, they had broken their covenant because of their sins against him. He sent them into exile, but in order to save not only them, but all people from all nations, God sent his son, the true Messiah, the true high priest. To usher in a new phase of salvation history in which people from every nation and tribe and tongue would live under his authority in his kingdom in the midst of the various kingdoms that they live in on earth It's this new phase of salvation history that we live in today. And so we need to listen to what Jesus is teaching us about government and our relationship to it. So let me just keep it real with y'all. This topic we could spend weeks talking about. The last church that I worked at had a 12-week series exploring the implications of this passage. 12 weeks, I've got about 10 minutes. So uh suffice to say, I'm gonna have to keep it high level, which means I'm not gonna be able to get into all the implications, all the nuance, all the various little, what about this, what about this, how do we think about this? If you have questions, I want to encourage you to come talk to me after the service. I'd love to talk to you about some of those questions. I plan to give a book away after the service that I think it'd be helpful. But I just want to go on record saying what we want to do with our time today is look at what we can take away, definitely take away from Jesus' teaching so that we can think about his big picture principles in our life. And then we can start working down towards the particular implications in our one-on-one time together as a church. Okay? So there's so much that could be said about this topic, but we're not going to be able to say it all today. What is the first takeaway? What is the first takeaway for us? Well, the first obvious takeaway for us today is that Christians should be good citizens. Christians should be good citizens. Jesus commands his audience to pay their taxes. Likewise, Christians are to be people Who not only pay their taxes and pay them honestly. Friend, if you have been dishonest in your taxes whatsoever, you should confess to others, confess to God. We sin against him when we don't honor the government that God has put over us in that way by doing and filing our taxes honestly. But Jesus is also using taxes here as a kind of big picture illustration of Live under the government as a good citizen. That's what he's saying. Be the type of people who obey the laws of their land. So the pattern of living That Jesus is teaching and that we see expanded upon in the New Testament is that Christians should be ideal citizens. Oh, where else do we see that in the New Testament? Think about Romans 13. Paul calls the Christians in Rome to be subject to the governing authorities. Peter then calls Christians spread all throughout modern-day Turkey in various provinces under various rules, saying to them, submit. To the governing authorities. Paul, be subject to the governing authorities. Peter, submit to the governing authorities. Jesus, pay your taxes, right? What they are trying to say is that we should be ideal citizens. We see elsewhere in the New Testament. Christians should be those who strive to live quiet, peaceable lives. Now that doesn't mean there are never circumstances in which Christians should disobey the government, right? We turn to the book of Acts and we see the apostles disobey the rulers who told them they couldn't preach the gospel, right? The human law preventing the preaching of the gospel. Clearly contradicted God's express command to preach the gospel to all nations. And so God's law always trumps humans' law when they come in contra uh contradiction to one another, when they come in conflict with one another. We see the same thing even in the Old Testament. We write about this Caroline read from Daniel this morning for us, where Nebuchadnezzar commands the people to worship him, and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refuse to worship him because they know God alone is to be worshipped. We're not going to obey you in that way, right? But, but, the normal pattern. The normal pattern of our lives is to be one of obeying the laws of the land that we live in And here's something that I think is important for us to recognize today with the culture, the country that we're living in at this present day and age. I want us to take a step back and recognize this. When Jesus Paul and Peter gave instructions to obey, to submit to, to be subject to the governing authorities They were writing those instructions while there was a terribly violent and tyrannical governing authority over them. They weren't like it wasn't a law, it wasn't lost on them that this would be hard for Christians to do. At the time that Peter and Paul gave their instructions, they were living under Nero Who is without a doubt one of the most tyrannical maniacs to ever govern Rome? Right? This is a man who, among other horrendous acts, used Christians as living torches by setting them on fire. But that is what Nero did, among other things. This is just one of the crazy things that he did. And this is the government that Peter and Paul were both living under when they wrote these letters. 1 Peter, 2 Peter, Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians, all under Roman Empire and Roman rule And to Christians living under Nero's rule, they write that we should be subject to the governing authorities. And the reason that they could write that with a straight face is because they recognized that our living in submission to the governing authorities, our living in submission to the governing authorities helps to create a society in which the gospel can be proclaimed and God's kingdom can be advanced and grown in the midst of it. And our living in submission to the governing authorities and our seeking to be good citizens is also directed to that end. That is why we should be subject to the governing authorities over us. So whether in the workplace or in the home, our submission to the governing authorities is directed at and uh directed at creating a society in which the gospel can be proclaimed Because we of all people should recognize that there is a greater kingdom, a perfect kingdom, and a just kingdom that eclipses all of the kingdoms of this world, including the United States. Right? If there's anything that we can say amen to, we can say amen to that, right? There is a greater kingdom than the United States. Amen. All God's people said amen, right? As much as we have been blessed. By this country or hurt in various ways by this country. There have been good things promoted in this country that have allowed the gospel to spread, but we recognize this is not a perfect country. Far from it Great stains are on this country with various evils that have been committed. Slavery and abortion, two horrendous stains. But also good things have happened. And what do we recognize when we think about living in a fallen world and submitting to the governing authorities Whatever kingdom we look at, we're going to find good and bad happening in the midst of most of them. There are some kingdoms that seem to be purely evil. Right, you think of North Korea and the way that they treat their citizens. You think of Nazi Germany, right? What they're doing is purely evil. But when you look at most kingdoms, it's a mishmash of like good and bad. Why? We live in a fallen world Right? That's why they say the normal pattern of our lives is to be subject to the governing authorities. I find that fascinating about the writings of the apostles. When you look at the apostles' writings in the New Testament, you would think. That living in the midst of the Roman Empire and under the rule of an emperor like Nero, and with all of the various terrible abuses of power that characterize that government, that the apostles would have written way more on how Christians should engage with culture and affect change in their government and how they should stand up to their government, but they write almost nothing about it. They write almost nothing about it, and that's because Rome and all its power and all its might was simply eclipsed in the apostles' mind's eye by the coming kingdom of God. Right, when we see in the light of when when seen in the light of God's coming kingdom, the kingdoms of this world should simply fade into the background in a way. And the apostles want our eyes today to be fixed on that same kingdom. They recognize that focusing too much on the kingdom of this world and life within it would threaten to derail us, right? So I was talking with Leah yesterday. I'm always running ideas by her about what I'm going to say so that she can tell me, hubby, that is not wise. You should not say that. Here's how you should say it instead. And she's been a great help to me in that But she used the illustration yesterday as we were talking about it, about how we keep our eyes fixed on the coming kingdom. She described it like a bug hitting a windshield, right? Like a bug splatters on your windshield, you're on the highway. What happens, kids? You could even tell us this, even though you don't drive yet. What happens if your parents just start staring at the bug and not at the road behind the bug? What's going to happen to the car? They're gonna crash, right? They need to be able to look past the splatter bug on their windshield to the road that's coming. They can keep their eyes on that road. That road's gonna take them to where they need to go. If they fix their eyes too much on this bug, they're gonna run off the road. Right? And in the same way, though, that life in this kingdom creates difficult things on our windshields, and we've got to kind of figure out how to clean it and keep navigating in this world. We need to keep our eyes fixed on the kingdom to come. And one of the ways that we do that is by living a life that is patterned after what the apostles teach, and that is that we should be ideal citizens, ideal citizens. And honestly, confidence in that coming kingdom is really the only thing that can provide us hope in the midst of suffering through the ills of living within a fallen kingdom. But we can have confidence that God will one day right every wrong and hold every governing official accountable. And that's the other takeaway we see from Jesus' teaching. That is that God's authority here, what we see from Jesus teaching, God's authority extends over all government authority. Some make the mistake when they read this passage of thinking that Jesus is saying Caesar gets his sphere of influence and God has his sphere and they operate in different spheres. No, Jesus is saying, give to Caesar what is Caesar's and his sphere, and to God what is God's. Caesar exists within the sphere of God's authority and will himself have to give an answer for the way that he's used his authority. He And every other ruler who is made in the image of God, because we all have God's image stamped upon our souls. Lives under God's authority. So no governing authorities operate apart from God's authority. Their rules are subsumed under His authority. So the Dutch theologian Abraham Kuyper famously said, there is not a square inch in the whole domain of our human existence. Over which Christ, who is sovereign over all, does not cry mine. Every square inch of existence, every square inch of the universe, Christ cries mine, and that includes human government. In Romans 13, Paul is undoubtedly expanding on this point when he says that there is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God, which is why Jesus said to Pontius Pilate, you would have no authority over me unless it wasn't given you first from above. Pilate is going to abuse his authority. He will have to give an account for that authority. But God is using that terrible abuse of power to bring about the greatest good, which is the salvation of the world and bringing salvation to the nations uh of the world. All human governments exist by God's decree. And his purpose for instituting human government was to bless those who do good. and to punish those who do evil. And because God instituted government and decreed government and directed the purpose for government, all human governments on earth today and all that have ever existed Will have to give an account for how they bless those who did good and punish those who do evil. And though many rulers act as though they are gods, This passage clearly teaches that there is only one God, and it's not Caesar. Because just as the Daenerys has Caesar's image stamped upon it, so all humans Have God's image stamped upon our souls and inscribed upon our hearts is the law of God. We know that we are His. We can either accept it or deny it. But Caesar was choosing to deny it and call himself the Most High God. Rulers are only creatures made in the image of the great creator. And since rulers are only creatures, we shouldn't treat them like they are gods. Now, I I'm gonna go ahead and limb and assume that nobody here today is going to look at any world ruler and say that person is a god. I get that. But But, and this is what we were spending time confessing this morning, even thinking about as Luke was leading us, we can treat rulers of this world like functional gods. When we allow our hopes or our fears to be tied to their election or their rise to power, right? Any hope we place in an earthly ruler must be massively and obviously eclipsed by the hope that we have in God who rules over all. Likewise, any fear, and there is good reason to fear in this world. I even think about myself as I was talking about this with Leah. I think it's totally possible in my lifetime that I'm gonna get arrested for the things that I'm preaching. Like there is reason to fear. This is no joke. This is a fallen world. Dangerous things happen within it. But I trust that God is good and he has purposes and he's working in it. So anyone who has fear today because of a particular ruler must be immensely calmed and quelled by the reality that the only ruler to be feared is God. And both those who place ultimate hope or ultimate fear in the election of a particular leader, if they claim the name of Christ, need to remember that no ruler on earth can provide what we ultimately need. Or take what we already ultimately have. No ruler can give the salvation we desperately need, or take the salvation that we have. No ruler can give or take the refuge, grace, and mercy that are found in God alone. No ruler is infallible. No ruler is all-knowing because no ruler is God. So no matter what party we're loyal to, the most important thing that we need to remember as a congregation is that we are first and foremost citizens of heaven, right? If you have confessed the name of Christ along with me and together with this body, we have one Father. We have one Father We were cleansed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ and we share in the same spirit. And we are now one body. And that should shape everything else in our lives, including our politics. Right? Our politics. So there's obviously so much more that could be said about what Jesus is teaching here, but we should listen to what Jesus says about government And second, much shorter point, don't fret, we should listen to what Jesus says about life after death So if you're looking back with me at the Bible, you can look at verses 18 and following. After Jesus' marvelous response to the Pharisees and Herodians, he's approached by a third group, the Sadducees. They're throwing the kitchen sink at him. The chief priests, the scribes, and the elders have already come. Then the Pharisees and Herodians came. Now it's the Sadducees. We're just like, we're just going to chuck it all at him and see if he fails at any point. If any of you are wondering where the Sadducees got their name from, well, it came from the fact that the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. And because they didn't believe in the resurrection, they were always sad, you see? So I just want you to know that there is a there's a hidden pastoral code that when you become a pastor, you have to tell that joke anytime their name comes up in the Bible. Kidding, kidding, kidding. I thought you would enjoy that. Now you can go spread the good news of that joke. In fact, not much is really known about this group, the Sadducees. Apart from the fact that they were influential in the religious and political life of Israel, and they also had some distinctly different views than the Pharisees. Which we see here, one of the views that they held that was different from the Pharisees was that they didn't believe in the resurrection. So they come to Jesus, their minds are already made up, right? So this isn't a sincere question. They don't believe in the resurrection And in verses 19 to 23, they then present Jesus with a hypothetical scenario. You can just let your eyes fall over that while I'm describing it to you. The scenario that they propose is based off of a law given in the book of Deuteronomy by God that required a man to marry his brother's wife if his brothers if his brother died and they had no child. And the reason for this law was to provide the woman with a child. The child would then be counted as belonging to the husband that had died, and that would preserve his family line, which was of great importance in Israel. But then they present a hypothetical scenario. Okay, so based off of that one, here's a hypothetical scenario. They ask about a woman who ends up being married to seven different brothers. Each of which dies before they're able to have a child with the woman, and then finally the woman dies. So they ask him, who will she be married to in the resurrection? Right? What they're trying to do is just show how ridiculous the idea of resurrection is, because in their minds, the woman can't possibly be married to all seven people in heaven. Therefore, resurrection must be false. But look at how Jesus responds in verse 24. Look there with me. You are wrong I think as I've been reading like and studying the Gospel of Mark, this has been my favorite response so far of Jesus to anyone who's approached him. They ask him a question that does not does not seem to lead to an answer in which someone would say you are wrong. They have this Grand hypothetical scenario because of their great learning and their studying of the scriptures. They come to him based off a Deuteronomic law. We're going to present this unbelievable hypothetical scenario. It's just going to show the ridiculousness of resurrection. And Jesus says, you are wrong. Wrong. If you think that I'm pressing the point too much, go ahead and look down at verse 27. What is the last thing Jesus says to them? You are quite wrong. Greatly mistaken. Greatly mistaken. Let me take your hypothetical scenario. I'm gonna ball it up and I'm gonna throw it out. You are wrong, right? This is what's going on here. There's some times where it's okay to tell people, hey, you're making a mistake about what you're saying here. And they're wrong on two fronts. They're wrong on two different fronts. The first front they're wrong on is that there's no marriage in the resurrection life. There's no marriage in the resurrection life. So you see what's going on here is the Sadducees wrongly assumed that if there were a resurrection, that life in the resurrection would continue just as normal. The same relationships would carry over. But Jesus immediately corrects their mistaken assumption. There is no marriage in the afterlife. Instead, we become like the angels. Now, Jesus is not saying that we become ontologically like the angels, that we become different creatures altogether. They are different creatures from us, and they remain different creatures from us in the resurrection. But I want some of the kids here, if any of you can tell me what it is that angels do in heaven, and that might help us to understand what Jesus means when he says we become like the angels. Kids, can any of y'all tell me what angels do in heaven? Caleb They praise God. Anything else? They praise God and they Serve God, they praise God and they serve. We sang about this already. All praise to Him and our great God You have the seraphim around his throne, praising him day and night, serving him. They are his ministers. Jesus is saying, hey, in the new heavens, in the new earth, in the resurrection life, your relationship to God will be like that of the angels. you will be praising him and serving him for all of eternity. Therefore, marriage is no longer necessary. It's no longer necessary because we will be married to the Lord. You see, what the Sadducees failed to recognize is that marriage in this life is a symbol, it's a picture, it's an illustration of God's covenant commitment to his people. He has taken us as his bride. He's committed himself to us, and in the resurrection, earthly marriage will fall away. To be replaced by our heavenly marriage to the Lord who has promised to wed himself to us for all eternity. All right, so John Piper was reflecting on this and he said, marriage In this life, marriage is temporary. And it will finally give away to the relationship to which it was pointing all along. Christ and the church, the way a picture is no longer needed when you see face to face. And so if you're here today, I just want to help you reflect on this, whether you're single or you're married, or you're separated, or divorced. I want you to think about this, recognize that marriage in this life, though it is a good gift from God, is not ultimate and it does not last forever. A day is coming when earthly marriage passes away to be replaced by the most glorious wedding ceremony ever experienced. A wedding ceremony that all of us will not only be present for, but participating in when Christ returns for his bride, the church, and brings her to the new heavens and the new earth. And we can have confidence that that wedding ceremony is coming because there is a resurrection. That's the second front that they're wrong on. He's just correcting them and telling you, no, you're wrong. There is a resurrection. You see, one of the unique distinctives about the Sadducees is that they did not listen to any of the books after the first five books of the Bible, the Torah. They believed that everything that was authoritative from God was contained in those first five books alone, and they were great at understanding those first five books. They took it very seriously. And so what Jesus does here is he proves the resurrection by going back to the first five books of the Bible, to the second book, to the book of Exodus And he takes them to the scene of the burning bush to prove to them that there is a resurrection. Look down in the Bible with me. He says to them, Is this not the reason you are wrong? Because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush? How God spoke to him saying, I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Just recognize what God says to Moses long after Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob have died and fallen off the face of the earth. I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of those who are dead. He didn't say to Moses, I was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but my promises only lasted so long and now they're dead, and I've got to find new people to rule. No, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I remain their God even in death. My promises to them are not limited by the boundaries of this life. I am still their God, and when they rise from the dead, they will receive the fulfillment of all the promises they have. They were given. You just think about this. You go back to the promise to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12 when God told him that his uh descendants would be like the sand of the sea and the stars of the sky. Abraham never saw it. Yet that day is coming when Abraham will rise from the dead and he will see descendants that are like the sand on the sea. He will see all of God's promises fulfilled. God is the God of the living, and his promises to you don't end when your life ends, because your life will begin again. And when it begins again, it will be glorious. Right, when Paul talks about the resurrection life, he says, look, you can't fathom what that life will be like. Your body is like a seed that needs to fall into the ground and when it and die. And when it dies, then it will sprout again. And what comes forth from the seed? Is it anything like the seed itself? No. I mean, you think about like a uh a uh the the seed of a redwood tree Could anyone fathom that out of the little seeds that fall from a wet redwood that this gigantic beast of a tree would come forth? So it is with our bodies when they fall into the ground and then are resurrected Our heavenly and glorious body will be like unlike anything we have ever seen. And I think part of the fall makes it such that we can't imagine what it will be like. So what what was that toy? I had it when I was little, so it might predate some of you. It was the toy where you you turn the dials and you could draw in it and then you had to shake it to get the picture off of it Etchas sketch, right? Think of the Grand Canyon, right? The Grand Canyon. If you've been have you been there to visit the Grand Canyon, raise your hand. The Grand Canyon is like an etch a sketch of what the new heavens and the new earth will be You cannot fathom the glory and beauty that is coming when God gives life to our mortal bodies and raises us from the dead. That's what Jesus is saying. You have no idea what you're talking about. This thing is going to be amazing. And it's not just passages like Exodus chapter 3 that teach us about the resurrection. If you want to think about the resurrection in the Old Testament, you can turn to Daniel chapter 12, verse 2. You can turn to Isaiah 26, verse 19, or Psalm 16, verse 10. The resurrection is a fact of the Old Testament, regardless of whether or not the Sadducees or us want to see it in the text. The fact of the bodily resurrection from the dead is central to Christian doctrine. Paul describes belief in the bodily resurrection from the dead as a matter of first importance. It wasn't a spiritual awakening that we all go through that's kind of mystical. Jesus got up bodily from the dead. He could be touched. He could be spoken with. And so we too will get up bodily from the dead. And it not only is it central to Christian doctrine, the resurrection from the dead is the bedrock of Christian hope. Jesus' resurrection from the dead is the turning point of all history. It is the moment when objective, true, and certain hope became available to all mankind. It was the moment when we could be assured that no trial. no matter how great, will ever ultimately consume us, because those who have put their faith in Christ have been filled with Christ's Spirit. And if the Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead Dwells in us, then we too will be raised by that same spirit, and our bodies will have life even after we die About the resurrection, Joni Erickson Tata, a woman who suffered greatly in this life after suffering a diving accident when she was younger, said this about uh the the resurrection life and what jesus brings. She says, because Jesus came out of the grave, we have a hope that nothing on earth can quench. Not paralysis, not pain, not cancer, not governing authorities, I might add, not even death itself, because we have received Christ's resurrection life We can face anything in this world or Satan that anything he might throw at us because Christ lives, we too will live with him forever. And that is the hope of all Christians today. And friend, if you're here and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I just want to thank you for coming this morning. I appreciate that you would take your time to spend it here with us. this morning. I just want to kind of tie these things that we've been talking about together this morning for you. I want you to think about what is it that government authorities And governing authorities and all people have tried to do throughout all history whenever they gather together and they try to govern themselves. They are trying to bring about a perfectly just and peaceful society. But as you look at human history What you will find is that no human society, no government has ever brought about perfect peace and perfect justice. And you have to ask yourself the question, why? Why can't we get there and why will we never get there? Well, the answer, friend, that the Bible holds out to you today is because our first parents rejected the only good perfectly just Government when we rejected God's government in the Garden of Eden. And after that, sin came into the world, and all humanity fell into sin. And all governments, because they're full of fallen sinners, are corrupt in varying degrees to one another. But what you need to understand is that God is bringing about a new kingdom, a perfectly just and righteous government. And the way that he did that was by sending his son, Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God and the Most High Priest, who came into this world to live a righteous life on our behalf. And then he went to the cross. He bore the punishment for our sins, sins that we have committed, judgment that we deserve. He took the punishment for us. And then he took his sacrifice into heaven, offering the blood of his sacrifice, and the Father said to the son, your sacrifice has been accepted, and forgiveness is now extended to all people. And now all people can participate in this Coming kingdom, this resurrection life is yours today if you would repent of your sins and put your trust in Jesus Christ. He offers this hope to you today. It is a kingdom in which true peace and justice reign. And even though we've sinned and deserve God's judgment, God, the merciful King, chose to extend mercy to us. That is the hope that is offered to us today, and it is an eternal hope. Why? Because there is a resurrection life that is coming. And that's the hope that belongs to all of us today. The resurrection life is yours if you have put your faith in Jesus Christ. And it will empower you to walk in this fallen world. And it will empower you to give to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God's what is God's while you wait for God to come and rescue the kingdom that is his. Friends, we should listen to what Jesus says because what Jesus says is true. As much as Ken Jennings and others may have lots of answers, only Christ has all the answers. And he's worthy of all of our trust today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you and we long for this kingdom to come. As we've already prayed this morning, we pray that the coming kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ would return today. Come, Lord Jesus, come and usher in your perfect kingdom. Yet while we wait, Father, we pray that you would help us to submit to the governing authorities over us while we also offer our lives as living sacrifices to you. Help us to put our hope in the resurrection life, to fix our eyes on Christ who is at your right hand. Empower us to do this by the Spirit and awaken our hearts to follow you and to love you today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.