Morning. Good morning, good morning, good morning. It's a joy to be with you all. This doesn't count in my time. It's a joy to be with you all this morning. We've been praying for y'all since you started, and we're grateful for the times that we know you've prayed for us. Shown partnership in the gospel through just fellowship and even gifts and prayers. We're grateful for you guys. And it's just a joy to be with you this morning and worship the Lord with you. Now let's get to what really matters, the word of God. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we need help this morning. We need help. We need so much help. This is a room full of people that need a bunch of help. But we have come to know that that's your specialty. Would you help us? Would you sanctify us in the truth? Your word is truth. So in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Uh well if you have a Bible go ahead and open up to 2 Chronicles chapter 26. 2 Chronicles chapter 26 My guess is that if I were to survey the room and ask who plans on failing miserably at life No one would raise their hands. There's the wise guy who would raise their hand, the jokester, but nobody seriously signs up. To just make shipwreck of their faith or to ruin their life. And yet it happens. How does that happen? Well, one answer that the Bible regularly gives as a cause for people's downfall is pride. Pride, you're familiar with that King James. And some verses just sound doper in the King James. They're not more true because they're in the King James, but they just sound more true. Pride cometh before the fall. God doesn't want us to fall. And the Bible says that's one reason why he's recorded the history of his dealings with mankind so that we might be instructed by their example. We might be trained in righteousness, rebuked, reproved by it. And so we're going to spend some time this morning considering such a sad story, hopefully reflecting on our own souls, our own lives, our own walks with the Lord. and find encouragement for our walk with him. So 2 Chronicles chapter 26, before I read, if you're not familiar with what Chronicles even is, it's the second one. This is just a collection of the history of the kings of God's people. And what you find is just that king after king, none of them are good enough. But the longing that's being kind of developed in God's people, king after king, is they're supposed to be waiting for that kind of promised one that God said would come. promised seed who would right all wrongs, that promised ruler who would be the ruler, the the son of David, who would have that everlasting kingdom stuff. Well, wait a minute. You just keep finding out, well, this guy's not him, this guy's not him, and the guy we'll consider this morning is also not him, King Uzziah. So if you join me, I will read all of chapter 26. I will focus in on 15B through 16A. But we'll skip throughout the whole chapter. 2 Chronicles 26. This is the best part of the sermon. This is God's word. And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old. made him king that of his father Amaziah. He built Eloth and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers Uzziah was 16 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 52 years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jequaliah of Jerusalem And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to all that his father Amaziah had done. He set himself To seek God in the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the fear of God, and as long as he sought the Lord, God made him prosper. He went out and made war against the Philistines and broke through the wall of Gath and the Wall of Jabna and the Wall of Ashdod, and he built cities in the territory of Ashdod and elsewhere among the Philistines. God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabians who lived in Gerbal and against the Mayunites The Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread even to the border of Egypt, for he became very strong. Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate and at the valley gate and at the angle and fortified them. And he built towers in the wilderness and cut out many cisterns, for he had large herds, both in the Shephalah and in the plain, and he had farmers and vine dressers in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved the soil Moreover, Uzziah had an army of soldiers fit for war in divisions according to the numbers and the muster made by J L Yel, Jel I don't know. We'll call him J, Secretary J. G-I-L, the Secretary, and Maaseya. The officer, M the officer, under the direction of Hananiah, one of the king's commanders, the whole number of the heads of fathers' houses of mighty men of valor was 2,600. Under their command was an army of 300, 7,500 who could make war with mighty power to help the king against the enemy. And Uzziah prepared for all the army shields, spears, helmets, coats of mail, bows, and stones for slinging. In Jerusalem, he made machines invented by skillful men to be on the towers and the corners to shoot arrows and great stones. His fame spread far. He was marvelously helped. Till he was strong When he was strong, he grew proud to his destruction. He was unfaithful to the Lord his God, and entered the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense. But Azariah the priest went in after him with eighty priests of the Lord who were men of valor. And they withstood King Uzziah and said to him, It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the Lord, but for the priest, the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for you have done a wrong, and it will bring you no honor from the Lord God. Then Uzziah was angry. Now he had a censor in his hand to burn incense, and when he became angry with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests in the house of the Lord by the altar of incense. And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he was leprous in his forehead. And they rushed him out quickly He himself hurried to go out because the Lord had struck him. And King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death. Being a leper lived in a separate house, where he was excluded from the house of the Lord. Jotham his son was over the king's household, governing the people of the land. Now, the rest of the acts of Uzziah from the first to the last, Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, wrote: Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the burial field that belonged to the kings. But they said, He is a leper. Jotham his son reigned in his place, this is God's word. And we're thankful for all of it. Yeah? This is kind of one of those chapters I could have just read and sat down. Because it so explains itself. I do really want to focus on the explanation I think the text gives right there at verse 15b through 16a, because it provides us what was really happening. In King Uzziah's heart, amidst the great success and at the time of his rebellion, Scripture freezes a look At the condition of his heart and brings it to the forefront for our observation and for our reflection, for our own self-examination, for our own instruction, for our own reproof, our own training and righteousness. So, what was happening with King Uzziah? Well, he became proud. He became too strong. His unfaithfulness was the fruit of his pride And it's interesting that the pride seemed to blossom out of how successful he had been. Do you see that? 15B, his fame spread far, for he was marvelously helped till he was strong. But when he was strong, he grew proud to his destruction, for he was unfaithful to the Lord his God. Uzziah had a great start This isn't the story of a guy who just started bad, stayed bad, and then died bad. He had a great start And we learn in verse 5, he set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the fear of the Lord. And the Bible says: as long as he sought the Lord, God made him prosper. God was with Uzziah, blessing Uzziah. Verse 8 of chapter 26. He became very strong. We find out his army was strong. Under his command was an army of 307,500. And these weren't just soldiers, these weren't just bodies. We're told that they were they were dope soldiers. They were mighty warriors. They could make war with mighty power to help the king against the enemy. So he had a big squad, and his squad was strong. And we learn the secret to his strength. The scriptures want us to see it. Uzziah just wasn't a super smart king. He wasn't he didn't just happen to have a Midas touch. He was greatly helped. And the text says marvelously. He was marvelously helped How's that for a phrase? And we say amen, because isn't it so with every faithful saint? When we look at faithful saints, we're not looking at men and women who have just been killing it, who are just super, super faithful We're looking at saints that God has marvelously helped. Behind every great man or woman is the help of a great God. And as obvious it would seem to state, it is somehow regularly missed by us as people that what we see, when we see something wonderful, we're actually seeing the fruit of God's wonderful help. And sadly, even here with King Uzziah, it's missed. Verse 15 tells us that Uzziah forgot it. His fame was spreading, armies building. And he forgot it. He was marvelously helped until he got strong How sad it is that oftentimes people pursue the first part without being nervous about the second part Pursue fame, pursue success, pursue more, without any awareness of what that danger can mean for them. Well, any hesitation or serious concern of their own heart's proclivity to stray away from the Lord. We seem to operate without this understanding of how easily we can abandon him. That we read in the Bible where Paul's in the Colossians says, yo, Luke's here, and so is Demas. He says hi. And then when but when we hear Demas, we know what ended up happening to Demas. Demas fell in love with the present world and fell off. In Revelation 2, when the Lord is walking among his churches, we find the church in Ephesus that has some great things about it. Love, sound doctrine. It's all about enduring for the name, but Jesus is like, Y'all don't love me. Our whole lives must be diligently watched, carefully tended to, so that verse 16 would never be spoken of by us. It would be wonderful to have verse 16 never said of anybody in this room. That when they got strong, they got proud to their destruction and became unfaithful to the Lord. Now, one way we are tempted to grow proud, When we feel strong, and we see this fairly regularly, and I'm sure your own experience testifies, is when you you start distancing yourself from the means of grace. We experience this as Christians. You have a bad day, you have a bad week, and you're able to discern this is God's kindness. Your day doesn't prosper Your bad temper just seems to come out. You and the spouse seem to just have some conflict. Just stuff doesn't go right. And it you know it's not because stuff always goes well for the people of God, but God in his discipline of you kind of reveals it to you is like and I haven't been praying I haven't been abiding I haven't been reading. I haven't been with the saints. And so when you have your senses, you say, I'm going to return and do the works I did at first. And then what happens? You actually start experiencing the benefits of the means of grace. Grace comes to you in the means. And then what happens to you? You start being like, Alright! I've been praying a lot, so today I can. Well no, I was I've I've been consistent for like two months. Like that's like impressive. But I just gotta go to work. I gotta, I gotta. And then what happens? God in his kindness brings you back down where you like. Let me go back to what I did at first. And that's really what the story of kings is. There's just kings that keep doing that on a large scale with the people of God Just failing, and then every now and then you get this little glimmer where somebody's kind of good, but then they just fall off. And just over in all, it's just this need to stay close, stay tethered to the Lord. I think it's easy, I think it's good rather, whenever we read this to insert our names here just to understand how real the possibility is of this being you. Because it's very easy to think, man, King Uzziah was tripping. That would never happen to me. But everybody who falls never thinks it's going to happen to them. Because this room could have been a room with him any earlier if I said, Oh, you plan on ruining your life? He would not have raised his hand either. It's important that when we read this, that it's a possibility for Brian. When Brian grew strong, Brian grew proud to Brian's destruction. Brian became unfaithful to the Lord his God. That is totally possible. How sad that a story that begins with, and he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, crescendo's with, but when he was strong, he became proud to his destruction and was unfaithful. This just reminds us that it can all be in vain, right? Unless the Lord builds the house, unless the Lord builds with us. It's just a bunch of labor in vain. We cannot be strong without the Lord. Ever. The Lord Jesus. Wanted his disciples to understand this when he was going away from them. You remember that conversation he had with his disciples? He said, Listen, bring it in, guys. Main thing here: abide in me You need to remain in me. I'm the vine. You're a branch. You got no source within you. I'm the source. I'm the vine. You're the branch. Remain in me because without me You can't do nothing. And in the Greek nothing means nothing And that should humble us all. Then there's nobody in here who can do anything without Jesus. I think John's lovely. John can't do nothing without Jesus. Four things. I just want to think through four things from this text that can train us in righteousness and help us to take heed lest we fall. Because that's what Paul says. He says, don't read. What happened to them like it won't happen to you. Take heed. Because anybody who thinks he stands like I'm good. He says, nope, take heed lest you fall One thing. Remember your weakness. Remember your weakness. And boast in it. There ain't no strong people in here. And once everybody understands that, we can have some good conversations. Ain't nobody in here wonderful Jesus don't save wonderful people. Nobody here is righteous in and of themselves. Jesus didn't come for them. Nobody here got it all together. We like to feel like we got it all together. We like to seem like we got it all. But we're a bunch of messed up people. And what sweet is this one we have in common with Christians everywhere? We're the messed up ones. We're the ones that got nothing. We can't do nothing, we got nothing. Remember your weakness. Because it's only remembering your weakness that you're actually going to remember the gospel. Because the gospel is good news for weak people. The gospel is the message of God-loving weak people. Romans 5: For while we were still weak, at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. Oh, remember how weak you are in your sin, how weak you are in yourself, and how much the Lord has helped you in Christ. The only way to remain humble that is not proud is to stay tethered to a cross that always puts us to size. Surely nowhere cuts us to size, nowhere shrinks in egos more effectively than the cross of Christ. When we're reminded that we're saved, not because of anything in you. I did choose him, though. No. There's nothing in you. That's why the Bible says it had nothing to do with your work, nothing to do with your effort. At the right time, while you were weak, that's obviously weak, obviously helpless, obviously ungodly. God showed his love for you in that Christ died for you. This wasn't you on your wedding day looking great. This is you your on your regular day And God sees the real us on our regular days. This isn't what you want to put forward. This is what you want to hide. God loved you, anyways. But we're reminded that God, because of His grace, not because of our labor, because of His mercy, not because of our merit, because of His kindness to us in Christ. He made us alive together with Christ. He's rich in mercy. He's great in love. He's displaying his kindness. Even while you were dead in your trespasses and sins, God made us alive together with Christ. Uzziah was marvelously helped. We were more so For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It's a gift of God, not a result of works. Why? So that we won't be proud. So that no one will boast. So that no one would grow proud to their destruction. He had fame, he had prosperity, he had a name, he had an army, he had a couple properties. Oh, but we have God. We have the forgiveness of our sins. We have a kingdom that's our inheritance. We have a secured place. With him full joy, pleasure forevermore, forever. God's helped us more. You've been helped out of hell. You've been strengthened by his salvation. Are there any as marvelously helped as the redeemed of the Lord? That's what the song in Revelation is. It's to him who sits on the throne and unto the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might Because he's strong to save people. Forever and ever. That's the song. He's the strong one. In going to Saint's ali, he's the strong one. All strength. You ever wonder what that what that phrase even how you even work with that? All strength, all might belongs to him. Remember your weakness. Only when you know that you're weak. But be less tempted to become strong. This is what Jeremiah says. Jeremiah 9, 23 through 24. That says the Lord, let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might. Let not the rich man boast in his riches. Let not the big church boast in the numbers, let not whatever you think is cool, don't boast in that. He said if you're gonna boast, you got something to boast about. That's that you know the Lord Whoever boasts, make his boast this that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord. The place of the Christian boast is not that we're strong and we're killing it, but it's that the Lord is strong and he saves. And this is all our boast all the time. It holds us down now. It's going to hold us down for it's what we're always going to sing about. We know the mighty Lord. He's mighty to save. He saved us. Nobody in glory is like, look what I did. Nobody Jesus, remember he sent his disciples out, and we're we're so the disciples, right? He sent his disciples out there with King's like, oh Jesus, demons was listening to us Jesus says, that's what you're happy about? He said, don't rejoice in that. Rejoice in this, that your names are written in heaven. Remember your weakness and how much God has helped you. Two, beware of prosperity. Beware of prosperity. Really one of the big ironies of the prosperity gospel is it kind of goes against everything the Bible tells us to be careful about. It's interesting that the helping of the Lord became a stumbling block for this king. And how we've seen it become a stumbling block for many. Again, we talked about demons, he fell in love with the world. He grew in power, Uzziah did, money, fame, success in his endeavors, had a building project, and that went well. And these opportunities for thanksgiving and to boast in the Lord became stumbling blocks for his soul. As one writer put it in the screw tape letters, he said, prosperity knits a man to the world. He feels that he is finding his place in it, when really it is finding its place in him. And we're supposed to see a dual irony here, even as we read this story, because Uzziah's very name testifies against him. Uzziah's name means the Lord is strong. He's named the Lord is the strong one. In 2 Kings 15, there's another version of his name, which is Azariah, and that name means the Lord helps. Yeah. The irony just gets underlined. His very name was supposed to be a preacher to him that at some point he silenced. Every time someone praised King Uzziah, King that the Lord helps, King that the Lord is the strong one. That was a gift to him. But he turned it off. Oh beloved, have you forgotten that the Lord is the strong one who's helped you I mean this is this goes back kinda to that first point. I mean when you just kind of be honest about your sins It's all kinds of opportunity for gratitude. And you just kind of remember not how bad you were, because we were bad. Praise God. We're not what we were. But We're not perfected either, right? That sanctification bar is still loading and When there's so much in your life every day. Humble us all in the dust. But when stuff starts going well for us, we start feeling ourselves. And if you're anything like me, it doesn't take much It doesn't take much. John Bunyan talked about this even as a preacher. Well, he had got done preaching and he came down and somebody said that was a great pre uh sermon. And he said, the devil told me that already. But you you you know what he means because you received a compliment you walked away like okay all right I did do a good job I did do a good job I love to see. I don't know if you've ever complimented somebody and you have godly saints here, I'm sure you've seen it, when you can see someone get uncomfortable with the way that you encourage them. Doesn't mean you shouldn't encourage them, encourage them. But someone who's aware of their own pride and just that they like to kind of soak in the sun and get a tan under encouragement. And how they try to kind of control their face. They try to focus on the Lord. Or they just kind of, you say something, it's like, man, that's great. Yeah, only Because of the Lord's grace. And you're like, okay, I understand that. But what they're trying to do is they're trying to turn what might be a temptation for them into praise for God. Prosperity is a tricky thing. Thomas Brooke says adversity has slain her thousand, but prosperity her ten thousand. It's so rare to hear prayers like those of Agar and Proverbs. You remember Proverb 30? He asks two things he requests of God And one of them was concerning prosperity, and this is what he said. He said, Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that's needful for me, lest, and speaking of riches, he says, I be fool and deny you, and say, Who is the Lord? You ever pray that God wouldn't give you what you want? It's a godly thing to do To curb your appetite. Just to know that all the things you desire are not good. I've been reading through Deuteronomy and it's just striking how much this concern comes up from God. I'm going to take you to the promised land, and he's like, be careful So as y'all loving this wonderful plush land, you don't forget that I'm the one who brought you up out of slavery. I brought you out of Egypt. I sustained you in the wilderness. I brought you to myself. And we appreciate that because again, our own lives testify that happens regularly. When you have a need, you be praying without people ask, what does it mean to pray without ceasing? But then whenever you have a need, you know what it means, because you do it. Let's just pray again. I know we just prayed, but let's pray again. You go throughout the day praying. And then once that need goes away, the prayers go away. It's why it's a kindness of God to not give us everything. Think everything we want. Think of how little you would pray if God gave you everything you wanted. We would like not pray. Trials are one of those gifts from God that remind us of need. It reminds us that we're weak. It reminds us we don't control anything. It reminds us that our treasure's not here. It reminds us we need the Lord. And it's dangerous to be so satisfied in life. It naturally makes us think that we're satisfied in ourselves I mean this is one reason why in the Bible there's this weird rejoicing connected with affliction. An obscurity for those of us who know we need to stay needy and understand God's plan is to keep us needy. It helps us process trials as not these kind of random arbitrary things we happen to meet with. but they're they're gifts from God to keep us alone. And this is what the Apostle Paul said. The Apostle Paul. Knew the word, wrote a lot of it by the Holy Spirit, godly. We look at the Apostle Paul and think, man, wish I could be like him. Paul understood something about himself, though Paul knew that Paul had an issue with pride. So he's like, I had this thorn in the flesh. And I kept asking the Lord, please take this away. This is Paul who when Eudychus fell out the window, he went and raised him up. We got this thorn in the flesh that won't go away. And I just love his commentary. So 2 Corinthians he says, so to keep me from becoming conceited. Keep me from growing proud to my destruction. Because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations Because God has so prospered my Bible study. He says a thorn was given me in the flesh A messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this that it should leave me, but he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you My power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly in my weakness, he says, so that the power of Christ might rest on me. For the sake of Christ then I am content with weakness, insults, hardship, persecutions Calamity, he says, because when I'm weak, that's when I'm strong. I'm at my strongest when I'm at my weakest, because when I'm at my weakness, there's no me, and it's just Jesus. And if I just got Jesus, that's when I'm at my strongest. So praise God for my affliction, he says. I boast in it because I get more of Jesus that way. Kids. Children. Okay, I see y'all. There it is. Your whole life Everybody is going to try to have you find strength in stuff other than God. They're going to tell you that what's most important is where you go to school or how much money you make when you grow up, what kind of job you're going to do But that is not God's way of making his people strong. The way that God's people get strong is not in what they do, it's not in what they have, it's not in what they know. What makes God's people strong is that they have the Lord. And if you have the Lord, you'll have everything you'll ever need. If you don't have the Lord, you can ask your mom and dad, what does it mean to have the Lord be my strength? That's a good thing to ask your parents at lunch And that's one of the gifts of just kids, even in a community. They're like living sermons that just remind us that people are sustained by someone else. One kid's main contributions to the kingdom is just reminding everybody else we're supposed to be like them. Kids don't help out with the rent. Can I get an amen? They don't help. They don't help. Like at all. They just don't help. They're wonderful. Love you. And God calls us his children. We don't help. We receive. We receive. In our variety of spheres, the very opportunities that should humble us can be used to provoke pride in us. Success is so funny that way. Because it just makes us forget how pitiful we are. It makes pigeons to think that they're peacocks and weak sinners to think that they're strong. Hebrews 13, 5 gives us this warning, keep your life free from the love of money. Be content with what you have because the Lord has promised He'll never leave you or forsake you. And the next line is, so we can confidently say, the Lord is my helper. Third thing. Listen to counsel. Proverbs 17:10 says, a rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. And here King Uzziah proves himself foolish, resisting the opposition of 80 priests. This is profound pride. We're told at the scene of his sin, how pride made him resist sound counsel. Verse 16 says, He entered into the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense, but Azariah the priest went in after him with eighty priests of the Lord. Who were men of valor, and they withstood King Uzziah and said to him, It's not for you, King Uzziah To burn incense to the Lord. It's for the priests, the sons of Aaron, who consecrated, who are consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for you've done wrong, and it will bring you no honor from the Lord. And Uziah wasn't like, Word, thank you so much. I was I was tripping. I should not have done that. And he should have slowly backed away. But that is not what he did. Usiah wasn't abandoning his folly, but he chose to get angry. And this is the kindness of the Lord. He's doing something foolish, and God sends eighty people to warn him not to do it. Eighty priests of the Lord to appeal to him, honor and serve the Lord. But Uzziah responds how we often and unfortunately do, not in a humble, receptive way, but in an angry, arrogant way, and verse 19 says he got angry. You relate to that? May as well ask your spouse. Have you ever been opposed and been opposed correctly, corrected for good reason? But rather than be like, ah, thank you You're like angry. Friend, this is pride to think that we're above being corrected, that we're above being wrong. When so much of the Bible is screaming to us that we are regularly and devastatingly wrong. If you're here today and you're not a Christian, I wonder if this resonates with you. Anger as a response to God's people telling you that you have done wrong. No doubt if you're here today and you know Christians, they've told you before that you should repent of your sin and believe in Jesus. And I wonder if that makes you angry that God thinks you sin and that you should turn from it Have you considered why people get angry rather than appreciative? If God sent Christians to you trying to help you like these priests do and say what you're doing is not right. Do you see a similar response of pride in your own heart that you see here in Uzziah's? One of anger. No doubt the gospel is good news. It's a word of comfort. But it's a word of comfort to those who have clearly seen they are corrupted by their sin. And this is what you see happen when that gospel message comes forward. It kind of divides out the humble from the proud. I was talking with one woman at our living room table and she asked me, What kind of church are you? I said, Well, we're Baptistic. She asked me if we were Baptist church. I said, what do you mean? I said, we're Baptistic. She said, what does that mean? I said, well, what do you mean? She said, are you Baptist? You know, holier than thou. I said, ma'am, that's not what that word means. But it's interesting that you think Christians are the ones who are holier than now because Christians are actually the ones that know that they're totally wrong and weak. You're actually the one who thinks you're holier than us. That you don't have to repent of your sin. That's what Jesus comes with. He comes with that dividing word. He says, I don't come for those who think they're righteous, I come for those who know they're sick. And for all who know they're sick, Jesus comes and says, I will help you. I will help you out of the grave. I will help you carry your burdens. And I will help you to glory and be with me forever. If you turn from your sin and trust in me, if you come to me, I will give you rest. That's an offer that's standing today. If if you have sin and you know you have sin, if you're proud and you've been proud against the Lord. Today, you can lay that down. You can do what most of this room has done, which is turn from thinking you're strong, acknowledge you're weak, and come to the Lord and have Him as your strength. He will help you in every regard And just as I was reading this, I was just struck by how loving it is, how much love God had for Uzziah in this flood of appeal that was sent to him. God wants us to be happy and holy, and He helps us through surrounding us with people that will tell us when we're tripping. When we're not doing the right thing. It's what happens in church discipline. When someone who's professing to be rightly relating to the Lord just keeps on sinning and the saints come and say, that's not right And then they increase their number and say that's not right. And then ultimately, God says, send the whole priesthood to them and tell them, You have done wrong, it will bring you no honor from the Lord. That's what a church is intending to do in church discipline, leveling the appeal to somebody saying, what you're doing is wrong. This is how God loves us. He appeals to us through his people. And then in the chapter previous to this one, we find that this kind of pride ran in his family. His dad had the same situation. Amaziah, he disobeyed the Lord too. When he was sinning, God sent a prophet to him. He says, Why have you sought the gods of the people who did not deliver their own people from your hand? But as he was speaking, the king said to him, Have you who made you a royal counselor? Stop it. We say this to each other. Well somebody's saying you shouldn't be doing that. Who made you? You ain't my pastor. Unless it's John speaking, then he he can say it. He is your pastor. But this idea of who made you somebody over me rather than I hear the Lord appealing to me through you When the way God shows his love through us is warning us to repentance. The proverb tells us, faithful are the wounds of a friend. How much differently had this story went if Uzziah said, let a righteous man strike me. It's a kindness to me. It's like oil for my head. Let my head not refuse it. One way God keeps us from falling is by surrounding us with faithful friends who will cut us when we're needing correction. Last thing is give all glory to God alone. One way you can fortify yourself from falling is to Structure your life, your words, your actions to ascribe all glory to God always. Friend, how much glory do you ever deserve? Any takers? None. Zero. Zilch. Nada. Ever? Ever. John the Baptist understood this. You remember? He was Had his disciples, his disciples were leaving him to go be with Jesus. And his disciples said, yo, John, you gonna put up with this? And John said, you do not understand. I am not the Christ I'm the friend of the bridegroom, and I am happy to hear his voice. He must increase. I must decrease. This is intentionally ascribing glory to the Lord. It's to live life singing that Romans doxology we we sang earlier for from Him and through Him. And to him, I can't sing, are all things to him be glory now, right now, for this thing that God has done. What we have, we've got it from the Lord, it's from him. It's payday Friday. Praise the Lord. Praise God that he's provided for us again. He gave Daddy strength this week. To go to work. He gave daddy his right mind to not get fired, and he's provided for us again Oh, praise the Lord, it's another school year. And he gave grace for the mind to understand. He gave patience for the teacher, whether that's in a school or that's at home. He gave patience for the teacher to keep teaching. Well whatever it is. Oh, someone got saved. And this is how this is how we know we're wicked. We like to take credit for stuff. Yeah, you know, I was talking with them and after talking with me, you know, it changed their mind, but praise the Lord Yeah, we had a guy he's been visiting and I delivered a pretty mighty sermon on Romans 5 and got saved. Praise the Lord. Other than what God's done. What God's done. People are understanding their Bibles better. He's a good teacher. He's not that good of a teacher to where he can add life to someone's soul. That's the Lord's work. People have been kept away from making shipwreck of their faith because of relationships in this room. Not because y'all got some super counselors up in here, but because God is in your midst. Because the words of Christ are spilling out of mouths and encouraging and exhorting each other in wisdom. Because the psalms are adding backbone to the saints and their afflictions Oh, God is at work, and we must be careful to give him all the glory for it. This way, Christians are cashiers. We we scan everything that comes across us and we calculate the glory of God. He did that. He did that. He did that. He did that. He did that. He did that. His glory alone. That's from him. Through him. To him. From him, through him, to him, from him, through him, to him. I had a preacher who heard that illustration and he came up to me and made it better. He said, and you know what happens if cashiers take what's not theirs? He said they that's stealing and they get fired That's a good point. Don't steal God's glory. We just scan his works. And we help the people of God appreciate his activity in our midst. Oh saints, we've been wonderfully, marvelously helped. You have been wonderfully, marvelously helped. And he's promised to help you marvelously still I must say the the hope here is not because this is not okay, let's just not fall. Because that's not gonna help you. This isn't let's just try harder than King Uzziah. We are called to be instructed by his example, and I think we want to be, want to work, take Care, take attention, take heed lest we fall. But the effort, that attention is not the basis of the hope that we won't fall ultimately. You see, the kings of Judah, they were placeholders, all of them were What makes King Uzziah's story unique, and what makes it uniquely sad, is that this king was the king over God's people He had a unique role. He had a unique function. As it went with him, it went with all the people. This isn't the story of a random man's failure. This is the story of the leader of God's people. And as he fall, So does their leader, so does their hope. The people of God had been taught to long and look for that coming king whose dominion would be everlasting, this son of David whose Throne and kingdom would be established forever, established in justice, established in righteousness, established in peace forever. But this king ain't that king And we know this because of how the book ends. It just ends super sad. It starts well. This king shows up, he's young, he's seeking the Lord, he's prospering. And then his kingdom's growing. You're like, yo, this is just like David. This is just like Solomon. Okay. Okay. And he just falls off. And it ends with these sad words. Verse 23 through 23. Now the rest of the Acts of Uzziah, from the first to the last, Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, wrote And Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the burial field that belonged to the kings, for they said, He is a leper. Kingdom over and unclean. Uzziah thought he started well and he did, but he revealed he's not the one. They must look for another. His death says so, the state of his death. says so. And so just so we're all clear, God also says so. Because if you've heard that name King Uzziah, it takes you to another text. Something happened in the year that King Uzziah died. The Bible says in Isaiah chapter 6: in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah says, I got a vision. I saw the Lord sitting upon his throne, high, and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. So though the king of Judah had fallen and was found unclean, the real king of Judah is enthroned in glory, reigning from the throne, and the seraphim are exclaiming that he's the opposite of unclean. He's holy, holy, holy. And that king is King Jesus. John 12, 41 says the things Isaiah saw and wrote about was Christ. Jesus is David's son and David's Lord. Jesus is the Son of God who heals those with leprosy King Uzziah caught leprosy and died that way. Those who are needy come to Jesus with leprosy and leave clean Jesus is the promised king who doesn't grow proud to his destruction, but we're told the magnificence of his rule is demonstrated in that fact that he humbled himself and came to die. Humble to save, save sinners and die for them. Would we be proud when our king has been humble? How will we not fall, saints? It's not just that we were helped by the Lord, but that we're still helped by the Lord. Because this Lord Jesus, after he died on the cross for our sin and resurrected with victory over it, the Bible says he ascended to his glory and he sat down on a throne. And you know what he told the saints? Come get help. That way is open wide. He says, come boldly, come confidently to my throne of grace. And get grace and mercy to help in your time of need. Oh, the saints weren't just marvelously helped at the cross, they stay marvelously helped by their king. This is the boast. This is our confidence that we have been helped and are helped. Now to him who is able to keep us from falling And to present us faultless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and now and forevermore. And the saint said, Amen. Father, I pray, I pray, I pray, I pray that you would help us to know how much you can help us. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.