Good afternoon. Thank you. It is a sobering privilege to be able to look at God's word with you this afternoon. So with that, let us pray again before we Look at your word. Look at God's word. God, sanctify us in the truth, for your word is truth. Thank you for your word. I pray that in the next 30 minutes, your word would sing to us, that we would be encouraged in the power of your word to strengthen and save I pray that your word would gently sting, that we'd be challenged to seek opportunities to encourage others, especially those who are hurting in your word. I pray that you would be glorified. I pray these things in your name. Amen There's a website I discovered recently that offers help in finding just the right thing to say in a text message, if you're not sure. And it covers a multitude of different occasions, uh even including recommendations for a text message that you could send if you want to break up with somebody by text message But for our purposes today, I went to the page that offers ideas for texts of encouragement. So here are a few messages that are recommended by this website when someone you know needs a bit of encouragement So here's the first one you could try. If you need a bit of a self-confidence boost, you can count on me, buddy. You are absolutely unbelievably incredible, and I will do anything to make you believe in yourself. There's a great future waiting for you If you didn't like that, how about this one? It's hard for me to find the right words to describe the way I feel about you, but I just want you to know that every part of my soul believes that you are the best thing the universe has ever created You can do anything. Stop thinking and start doing. Or a third one if you didn't like those. I know you can do anything. You are the most smart and ambitious person I know, so basically nothing can stop you. You will reach your every goal and your achievements will be legendary. Love ya That's what it said. Well, these are ways a website offers to encourage someone by building them up and helping them recognize the level of awesome that is oozing out of them. But it's worth asking the question, will words like this provide encouragement when life gets really, really hard? When we encounter seasons or events of suffering Where else can we turn to for true deep encouragement? In today's passage, we will find a person who is in a season where life is really, really hard. David is being chased by Saul, and Jonathan comes to encourage him, not by building David up, but with the promises of God. But please turn in your Bibles to 1 Samuel 23, verses 15 through 18. We'll read that passage together now. 1 Samuel 23, verses 15 through 18. Please listen or follow along with me. David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Zif at Horish. And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went to David at Horash, and strengthened his hand in God. And he said to him, Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father, shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father also knows this. And the two of them made a covenant before the Lord. David remained at Horush, and Jonathan went home. As we look closer at this passage and this interaction between David and Jonathan, we will conclude that we are to lean on God's promises when we're not strong. And encourage others to lean on God's promises when they're not strong. To that end, there will be two main points this afternoon. Number one, God's word is our strength. And number two, strengthen others in God's Word. God's Word is our strength. Strengthen others in God's Word. Before we look at the text though, because we're dropping into this passage while we've been studying through Colossians as a church, let's look back in 1 Samuel briefly to see where the nation of Israel is and why this moment may be important for Israel and for redemptive history. The book begins with the introduction of Samuel, a prophet, priest, and judge of Israel. At the time, or at the same time Samuel is being brought up, the priest Eli is told by God that his household is being rejected. And in chapter 2, verse 35, God tells Eli, I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind, and I will build him a sure house. And he shall go in and out before my anointed forever. Now in the short term this faithful priest will be Samuel, but God is also paving the way for a priest that will intercede for man, before God, forever. During Samuel's period of leadership over Israel, Israel, in chapter 8 now, declares the desire for a king to rule over them, like all the other nations around them. God told Samuel to obey them, because they were not rejecting Samuel, but were rejecting God from being king over them. And even in this rejection of God by Israel, God is paving the way For the king that will reign over the world forever. So Israel gets their king from the tribe of Benjamin, Saul, a tall, handsome man. He showed some promise early on, but before long Saul rebelled against the Lord's commands. And as a result, Saul is told, in chapter fifteen, verse twenty eight, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day, and has given it to a neighbor of yours, who is better than you. That neighbor, we soon discover, is a boy named David. David is the youngest of eight sons of Jesse from the town of Bethlehem of the tribe of Judah. So David is anointed, meaning God indicated that David would be king over Israel. And the Spirit of the Lord rushes upon David. Immediately after we read about this anointing of David, we read of the Spirit of the Lord departing from Saul. And nearly everything else we read about Saul shows us a man coming unhinged, grasping. Grasping at the kingdom that is going to be torn away from him. And he's fighting against the promises and commands of God in more and more violent and sinful ways. Additionally, during this time, we begin to learn about Saul's son, Jonathan. So Jonathan, being the son of the king, is the rightful heir to the throne. We learn that Jonathan also had a courageous faith in God, which is displayed when, just before he and his armor-bearer go up to defeat a garrison of Philistines, In a tactically unsound endeavor, if I may add. He states in chapter 14, verse 6, It may be that the Lord will work for us, for nothing can hinder the Lord from saving by many or by few. So Jonathan, we know, is a man who trusts God fully. We now have the background to the men in our passage, so let's look at where we find them now. Jonathan, we could presume to be in Gibeah, which is the capital of Israel during Saul's reign. It's just a few miles northwest of Jerusalem, if I recall. Saul, meanwhile, is, for lack of a better word, hunting David. And has been for some time. Like I said, Saul is grasping at straws and seems to be convinced that if he can just kill David, God's promises will fail. Saul's kingdom will be restored and will remain with his family. And David. David is in the wilderness, running from Saul. But I think sometimes we can make too little of what David is going through here. To say or think that David is enduring a trial or having a difficult time would be an understatement. Consider all that David has been through, even just with Saul here. So David saves the kingdom of Israel and Saul by defeating Goliath. Saul naturally responds with jealous anger. Saul tries to spear David to a wall, then offers him his daughter, two daughters, in marriage. David marries into the family, and Saul sends him to fight the Philistines, hoping he'll die. David defeats the Philistines, the enemy of Israel and of Saul. So Saul instructs his servants to kill David Repeatedly, Saul's attempts to kill David fail. And when Jonathan attempts to defend David, Saul tries to kill him, his son. And in one of the last recorded events before our passage, Saul discovers that the city of Nob had helped David and his men. So Saul commands his men. And they strike down eighty five priests of God in the entire city of Nob, men, women, children, infants, oxen, donkeys, sheep. They are all put to death by the sword And that is where we find David, hunted by his father-in-law, and reeling from the reality that an entire town was just destroyed simply because they helped him and his men. What could possibly strengthen and encourage David at a time like this? What could possibly strengthen and encourage you in the midst of trials and suffering? Look at point one. God's word is our strength. Saul is seeking David every day, and David is aware of that. Jonathan, being a loyal friend to David, rises up and goes to meet him. And it says Jonathan strengthened his hand in God. What does that mean? It means Jonathan pointed David to God for his hope and strength. He pointed David to God's promises Do not fear, David, he says, for the hand of Saul, my father, shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel Here, Jonathan is reminding David of God's promise, God's declaration when David was anointed by Samuel all those years ago. David will be king over Israel because God said he would be. The path forward does not look easy, and it has not been smooth, but it will end in his reigning as king And I'm sure Jonathan's encouragement is especially significant and encouraging for David, as Jonathan, he stood to lose the most by David becoming king. He is the rightful heir to the throne. Jonathan is reiterating his submission to the will of God, which is in distinct contrast to Saul, who also knows the will of God for Israel, but is throwing an epic tantrum in response to it. And by submitting to God's will, Jonathan is submitting to David as the heir to the throne. He is saying of David, just as John the Baptist said of Christ, he must increase, I must decrease. Jonathan knew and reminded David that God's words were completely reliable. He could know with complete confidence that what God had promised to David, he would certainly fulfill. David needed to hear this. Kids, you ever ask your parents for something or ask to do something, and they reply with, yes, later, but not right now. Really rolled off my tongue really smoothly. Uh maybe you were assured of ice cream or going to the park. Or if you're older, uh being able to play video games or have a friend over. At the point when you're told yes, but not right now, how easy is it to be patient and confident your parents will remember that? Not easy, right? Well then you, in a small way Know how David felt in a big way. He was anointed king as a boy. And at this point David, now a man, could be wondering, when is this happening? Does God remember what he promised to me? Jonathan is here to assure him that God does remember. This waiting, waiting for God's promises to be fulfilled is a common theme in the Bible. And friends, we too are waiting for a promise to be fulfilled. Not for Christ the Messiah to come. God has fulfilled that promise already. We are waiting for Christ to return, though. And we, like David, can be completely confident, even in the midst of an increasingly godless world, that what God has said, He will do. Now, some things that Jonathan did not say to David. He did not build up his self-confidence like we read in our text messages at the beginning. David, every part of my soul believes you are the best thing the universe has ever created. You can do anything. I mean look what you did to Goliath David, you are the most smart, ambitious person I know, so basically nothing can stop you. I mean you escaped out of your window. You're awesome. No, Jonathan did not build up David here. He built up God He strengthened David in the truth about what God had promised to David and reminded David that what God has said, he will do. A critical question that must be answered then when talking about God's Word and God's promises being our strength is: what separates God's word from being just another coping mechanism in our toolbox of stress relievers? Many forms of stress relief have merit, but they are extremely limited in comparison to being strengthened in God Now, what I certainly don't want for you is to be sitting here and thinking to yourself, this is really good. Now, when I have a bed day, I'll squeeze my stress ball, I'll read some really uplifting verses from the Bible, get some punches and kicks in on my heavy bag. You're in trouble now, stress. The Word of God is not just a tool that we wield to our benefit. And if I could boil the difference down to one thing: God's Word and the truth and promises therein. Has the power to strengthen and sustain us not only day by day, but up to, through, and beyond death. Because what is at the core of God's word? The gospel. The good news that God had a plan to redeem his creation from the penalty of sin. By sending a priest that would intercede forever on our behalf, just like this book mentioned at the beginning. By sending David to be king, in whose kingly line would come the king who would reign forever. And that priest and king is Jesus, who, through his shed blood on the cross for our sins, through his death and resurrection, offers us righteousness, a right relationship with God, and offers us hope and strength. that transcends this life. Said a different way and a much better way, what is our only hope in life and death? That we are not our own. But belong body and soul, both in life and in death, to God and to our Savior Jesus Christ When that is true, when you give your life to Christ dependent on him for the forgiveness of sins and salvation, you have a hope and strength that doesn't just help you cope But gives you strength to finish the day, to finish the race, and be eager to be united with Christ after this time on earth is past. A stress ball or punching bag doesn't offer that. A walk in nature or a hard run doesn't do that. Movies, entertainment, alcohol, video games, even earth relationships, good things, children, wives, romance. They don't either. Now, I'm not discounting all of those things and saying you should eliminate everything I just listed from your life. By no means. But none of them are a source of lasting hope or strength. And none of them should be what we first turn to when confronted with difficult situations. It is why Jonathan strengthened David's hand in God rather than reminding David what a brave warrior or cunning escape artist he was. And that is why we, whether in times of plenty or in want, must find our strength and hope in God. And it is why, as Christians, We need to encourage others specifically in God's word, which is our second point. Strengthen others in God's word. The first point addressed why we need to be strengthening God. And now let's look at the importance of a community of believers joining in relationships for the glory of God and the strengthening of his body, the church. First of all, this encouragement of each other requires intentionality and effort. Look at the intentionality of Jonathan as an example He didn't just happen to cross paths with David and then strengthen his hand in God. Remember, David is in hiding. Jonathan had to pursue him, and he likely traveled somewhere around 33 miles to go and pursue David. And since he's hiding, he can't just enter his address into the GPS and find him. Although he did have much more success finding him than Saul did. So Jonathan was aware of David's plight. Concerned for his welfare, and pursued David to strengthen him. Intentionality and effort And today, whether it's in-person, phone call, email, a letter, I know, crazy, a text message, voice texts are becoming a thing now, it requires effort to encourage one another. For me, it requires not thinking about myself or what I want to do, or what I have going on, or what I want to do with my time or my commute, and thinking about others. Furthermore, how well could Jonathan have encouraged David if he himself was not strengthened in God? Therefore, how can we encourage others in God's truth without ourselves knowing it and trusting it? Jesus says in Matthew 12, 34, while speaking to the Pharisees, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. If we're feeding on gossip and newsfeeds and work issues and criticism, our mouth will speak that. If we're feeding on the Word of God, hiding God's word in our hearts, If we're thinking about whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, pure, lovely, amendable, our heart will speak that I think everyone in this room has felt at one time or another like they didn't know what to say to encourage someone in a difficult situation. And I bet if we step back, it's true of me, and considered our time in God's word and prayer, we would see a likely connection between a dry spiritual well for us and a sense of struggling to encourage others with God's word. And as it relates to this example of Jonathan's conscious effort to encourage out of an overflow of his own faith in God's promises, I'm challenged by a habit of a brother I was told about. Each day, when he has his devotions, he tries to memorize one verse or small section of what he was studying. And his aim and prayer with that is to At some point in the day, have opportunity to encourage someone with that scriptural truth. He's strengthened himself in God's word, and he's making a conscious effort To strengthen others' hands in God out of an overflow of what's in his heart. Whether it's at the dinner table with your children, on the phone with distant family. Monday morning, at work, seek opportunities to share the hope and strength that you have in God. And make it a pattern that your spouse, children, coworkers, neighbors, and friends come to expect from you. I was delighted to reflect on times in my own life where God has used other people to strengthen my hand in God. And I wanted to share a few of them so that, in addition to the example of that brother I just mentioned, your hearts may be stirred to encourage others, perhaps in these ways And these are all within the last year. On January 7th of this year, Scott Feiler texted me a link to the song, Oh Church Arise. And shared that he was praying for me that day. That I would have physical rest and rest in Christ, reminding me that God is sovereign, loving, and just Making atonement for our sins through Jesus, and reminding me that no fear, sickness, famine, or sword can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. On that same day, a friend I hadn't spoken to for several years, appropriately named David, called to strengthen my hand in God by praying for me and checking to see how I was doing. A couple months ago, I shared with one of our elders my struggle to have consistent time in the Word with my somewhat unique work schedule, and he generously sent me a year subscription to the Dwell Audio Bible app. And I've been strengthened in God because of it. And I'm not telling you who it was so you don't inundate him with requests. On April 19th, after I shared with our community group some anxiety I was struggling with. You Fike texted me verses of encouragement and strength. Lamentations three, twenty-two through twenty-three. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. And that was it. Just the verses. And that was enough. Jordan Coughlin, Andrew Peterson, Matt Merker, and others were kind enough to write songs that in the past year have been regularly played on my way to work. One of them is Jesus is mine. In the second verse, we are strengthened by the truth. In days of fragile peace, Jesus is mine Through tearful nights of grief, Jesus is mine. He will sustain my hope. Jesus is mine Amen. Children, teens, you are not excluded from being strengthened in God. Nor are you restricted from this opportunity to encourage others in God's truth. Teens, speaking from what I remember of my teen years, and I was very involved in church, there aren't a lot of people your age Strengthening others' hands in God. I know it takes incredible courage, but if a friend is having a hard time, encourage them with God's truth. And even younger children. Just a few weeks ago Liana was driving through Chevrolet, my wife, uh with our kids, and they saw a cross in front of a church that had fallen over. Eowyn, our six year old, said just because the cross fell over doesn't mean our God isn't God. Amen. In her own words, Awen was strengthening our hands in God, saying, Essentially, the grass withers, and the flower fades, and the cross falls over. But the word of our God stands forever. Nothing can change that truth. So if you know and believe these truths about God, encourage others. Kids, other children. Need encouragement. Parents need encouragement. Pastors, elders. We're all eager to hear truths about God and be strengthened by. And let's go even younger. If you're three, four, or five, I'm talking to you. You know a way even now that you can begin practicing encouraging others? Say hi to them. Just start there. Saying hi shows someone that you see them, you value them. You're preparing to love and encouraging others in more ways and with more words. And I remember young kids encouraging me with a hi. So we'll leave it at that. This passage should also remind us of the importance of pursuing relationships specifically with fellow believers. There will be times when we are feeling weak or weary, and we need others to come alongside to encourage us to look to God for strength, just as Jonathan did for David. And that should be commonplace in the church. And in fact, we who are members of Chevrolet Baptist Church covenant together that we will do that. The third paragraph of our Church Covenant reads, We will walk together in love as Christ commands, caring for each other, watching over for each other, watching over each other, sorry, and encouraging and admonishing one another as occasion requires. And I think in this year, where many church relationships and relationships in general have looked very different, this is an opportunity to renew this practice of encouragement for some of us, or being encouraged Whether you've kept ride-on working and doing every social event that you could, or if you've been pretty isolated this past year, evaluate how much you have people in your day-to-day life speaking the truth of God's word into your life. If you feel distant from the encouragement and exhortation that comes from relationships with others in the church, please reach out to those relationships that have lagged Or if you're new to the church and you don't have those relationships, without asking them, I can guarantee an elder would not be disappointed if you came and said to them, I need a relationship that can encourage me in God. I'm speaking on their behalf. Community groups are a fantastic way to accomplish this, by the way. I've been part of two community groups in this church and have been so encouraged and challenged by the openness of the groups And they're seeking accountability and encouragement from each other to strive after God. But what if there are times when that encouragement from others is lacking? When we feel like we have few friends, whether because of a global pandemic, or geographic separation, simply the natural cycle of some friendships. Are we without hope for encouragement? No. Because God provided a friend for us, Jesus. Jonathan knew David very well. David, I'm sorry, Jesus knows us better than we know ourselves. Jonathan loved David deeply. Jesus loves us more deeply than anyone else can Jonathan knew David's griefs and sorrows and strengthened his hand in God. Jesus? He's borne our griefs. He's carried our sorrows. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. Friend, if you find yourself seeking the strength or comfort that the world offers, And find that it offers temporary hope, but ultimately leaves you wanting and encourage you to look to Christ for strength That was where John Patton looked for strength when he had none of his own. Pastor John called him John Payton, but John Piper says Patton, so I'm going with Patton. John Patton was a missionary to the New Hebrides Islands in the South Pacific in the eighteen hundreds. His autobiography, where he recounts deep sorrows and joyous provision, reads like a thriller, which is why, as Pastor John mentioned, there's a few copies out on the back table if you're interested in being strengthened by that man. One of the thrilling stories of this book has John Patton hiding in a tree as crowds of natives are hunting him. Sound a little familiar, right? Hiding from people who are hunting you. See where I went there? And listen to Patton recount his time in this tree. I climbed into the tree and was left there alone in the bush. The hours I spent there live all before me, as if it were butt of yesterday. I heard the frequent discharging of the muskets and the yells of the savages. Yet I sat there among the branches, as safe as in the arms of Jesus Never, in all my sorrows, did my Lord draw nearer to me and speak more soothingly in my soul than when the moonlight flickered among those chestnut leaves And the night air played on my throbbing brow as I told all my heart to Jesus. Alone, yet not alone. If it be to glorify my God, I will not grudge to spend many nights alone in such a tree, to feel against my Savior's spiritual presence, to enjoy his consoling fellowship If thus thrown back upon your own soul, alone, all alone, in the midnight, in the bush, in the very embrace of death itself, Have you a friend that will not fail you then? While hiding in a tree like Patton, or running from a maniacal king like David was doing, are certainly unique sufferings. Many of you here are enduring trials. Or you will be. If your heart had shoulders, they would be slumped If your spirit had a head, it would be hung low. Friends, you have a priest in Jesus interceding before God on your behalf You have a king in Jesus, sovereign over all things, today, forever. You will keep his word. And you have a friend in Jesus that will not fail you. Find strength in God. In his word. Strengthen others' hands in God. Please pray with me. God, we just sang earlier, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart, Lord. Take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. God, we have been seeking strength in so many places. We've been looking to the love of others, to the obedience of children, to financial stability. The list goes on and on. God reorient our hearts to turn to you, our friend, to find abiding strength for today and bright hope for tomorrow Thank you for your example from your word of how to strengthen others by building you up and how to be strengthened, even beyond death, by the hope that we have in you. I pray these things in your name. Amen.