Roughly 3300 years ago, a legendary conflict broke out between the people of Greece and the people of Troy. This conflict ended up turning into a 10-year siege in which a number of legendary figures died. And so you think of names like Achilles or Hector of Troy. And we think about those legendary figures, and we think about the war between the Greeks and the Trojans, and we hear those names, but what we most often remember about the Trojan War is what it's most well known for which is the Trojan horse, right? The infamous sleight of hand used by the Greeks to gain entry into the city of Troy and bring an end to the siege and the war. According to Greek historians, the Greeks constructed a gigantic wooden horse and hid somewhere around 30 men inside that horse. Then they had a courier bring the gigantic horse to the city of Troy to offer as a sign of peace and a gift to the gods of Troy. That's just a sign. The siege has ended and the war is over. We are now retreating. And as the gates opened up and they welcomed the horse into Troy, the Trojans could look out and see the Greek ships Sailing away from the city. The siege had truly ended. It seemed legitimate to the people of Troy. They had believed the war had ended. Yet, as legend holds, during the middle of the night, the Greek troops that were seen sailing away during the day returned to the shores of Troy under the darkness of night And the men waiting inside that Trojan horse unhitched the door, climbed out, opened the gates of the city, and welcomed the Greeks right into the city of Troy And so in the Trojans' eyes the war had ended, and indeed it had, but not the end the people of Troy expected. They had unwittingly welcomed into the heart of their city the gift that not only ended the war, but the gift that brought their city to ruins. I bring up the Trojan War Horse because in our passage today, we're welcomed into an account of a small battle in a larger war, a war that in some ways has a remarkably similar ending to the Trojan War. So go ahead if you have your Bibles with you. Please open to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 5, verses 1 to 20. That's the passage we're going to be looking at this morning. If you don't have a Bible, you can use one of the Black Pew Bibles around you. You'll find our passage on page 840. And if you don't own a Bible, you don't have a copy of your own, please take one of these Black Pew Bibles It's a gift from us to you. We want you to have a copy of God's Word. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now. This is chapter 5, verses 1 to 20. They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Garosenes. And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat Immediately there met him a man out of the tombs with an unclean spirit. He lived among the tombs And no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain, for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him. Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains, he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones. And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him. And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you, by God, do not torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of the man, you unclean spirit. And Jesus asked him, What is your name He replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. And they begged him, saying, Send us to the pigs. Let us enter them. So he gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out and entered the pigs, and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and drowned in the sea The herdsmen fled and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what it was that had happened. And they came to Jesus. and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had had the legion sitting there, clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid. And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs. And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region. As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with the demons begged him that he might be with him. And he did not permit him, but said to him, Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and how he has had mercy on you. And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him. And everyone marveled. Well, the first thing that we learn in our passage this morning is that real personal evil exists. Real personal evil exists. Look at me at the passage. We're going to look at the beginning of the passage. just the first couple verses. Jesus and his disciples arrive in the country of the garrisons. So if you were here last week, the storm that they were caught in the middle of, that storm that threatened their life. Jesus brought calm to that storm and they then made it to the other side of the shore and they arrived in the country of the Garresenes. If you're familiar with the gospel accounts at all, then you know in Matthew's account, Matthew calls it the region of the Gaterenes. Here, Mark calls it the region of the Garoshenes, and I believe Luke also calls it by the name of Garoshenes. So which is it? Is it the Gadderenes or the Garacines? Well, I think this area could legitimately be called by both names. Garassa or the garrisons. Garassa was the more immediate locale. It's thought to be located where the modern-day town of Kercy is uh on the so uh the east side of the Sea of Galilee. Uh and Gadera, or the region of the Gadarenes, is a town about thirty miles south of Curse. And so the area could legitimately be called the country of the Garosenes or the region of the Gadarenes. And Jesus and his disciples come ashore after that harrowing trip across the sea, and immediately Jesus is accosted by a man with an unclean spirit. The man was living in the tombs among the hills in the region of Garassa, and seeing Jesus comes running towards him to confront him. But we got to deal with first the thing that we notice about this man is that he had an unclean spirit. According to Scripture, unclean spirits, also called demons, are conscious personal beings. They were formerly angels who lived in the presence of God, yet who when they joined with Satan in his rebellion against God, they were cast with Satan. out of the kingdom of God and they now inhabit this world and continue to oppose God and do everything in their power to oppose God and destroy mankind. And one of the things that Scripture makes clear about these unclean spirits or these demons Is that they are able to inhabit the bodies and minds of people, causing them to be a harm to themselves and a harm to others. They are real personal evil beings. Now I realize that some of you, I don't know how many of you, some of you may find this impossible to believe, right? This is Prove to you that the Bible was written by primitive people who were simply grasping for a way to understand their experiences in this world, and they simply assigned some of those experiences to demons, but they were primitive. They didn't understand what we understand about how mental illness works. And if they understood, then they would see that there are no such things as demons. I mean if that's what you think, I just want to say that I don't think that's actually a tenable position. I don't think these people were as primitive as we, as C. S. Lewis I think put it, we have chronological snobbery. We like to look down on people in the past. They don't they didn't know as much as we know, clearly if they were as wise as us They wouldn't resort to saying that demons did these things, but I don't think they're as primitives as we might think. Right? So in Matthew chapter 4, Tim Keller noted That in chapter 4 of Matthew's gospel, people were bringing lots of hurting people to Jesus to be healed. And in Matthew chapter 4, it says that they brought the sick. Those who had diseases, those who had seizures, and the demon-possessed. And one of the words that they use for sick refers to mental illnesses. So in the original language, Matthew is distinguishing between physical sickness, mental sickness, Seizures and demon possession. So they didn't attribute everything to the demonic or demonic possession. They weren't as primitive as we might think. But not only that, I just want to appeal to your common sense if you think that this is far-fetched. And ask you, can you really look at the world we live in and say that this explanation is as far-fetched as it may seem Right, what am I talking about? With all of the truly evil things that happen in the world that leave us without explanation. Right, so when that man, can't remember his name, climbed to the top of that hotel in Las Vegas and started picking off people, what do we start doing? Well, we gotta find some reason that he did this. And I'm not saying that he was possessed by demons. But we always try to find explanations. And there are not always explanations. With all of the truly and horrifically evil things that happen in this world, is it that far fetched to think that demons exist? I don't think that it is. Right now you might agree that with me that there are horrifically evil things that happen in the world, but you don't need to assign those things to demons, or you don't need to believe in the supernatural world to call those things evil. Well, if that's what you believe, then I want to encourage you to consider that if there is no supernatural realm, if there is no supernatural world, then it is impossible to call anything objectively evil. You cannot call anything objectively evil. If this world is all that there is and we are simply the product of blind forces of evolution, then real objective evil does not exist. What we call evil. is actually just our way of saying we don't like something. We don't approve of something. Objective evil. Real evil, true evil, cannot exist in a world in which God does not exist, because without God, the things we call evil are just certain things that other human beings do that we don't approve of. We can't call it evil because if we all just evolved, then we are left to define for ourselves what is right and what is wrong. And who are we to say that what another person does is actually truly evil? They evolved just like we did. But are we really going to say that there are things in this world that aren't actually truly evil in and of themselves? I think it's obvious when you look at some of the things that happen in this world that they are objectively evil. But here's the rub. For something to be objectively evil, there must be a law outside of us. That defines whether those things are good or evil. And if there is a law outside of us that defines whether those things are good or evil, then there is a lawgiver outside of us who gives that law. And that lawgiver is God. And God exists apart from the natural world. That is to say, he is supernatural. And God says that in the supernatural realm there are real, personal, evil beings exist that are at work in the world to bring destruction on mankind. And the Bible calls those unclean. spirits. And the second thing that we learn in our passage is that real personal evil has corrupted mankind. I want you to notice, look at verses 1 to 5. Notice how much time Mark gives to describing how awful this man's condition was. Right, nowhere else in the Gospel of Mark does he spend time describing for us in such detail the spiritual state of a person. And it's because he wants us to see just how corrupted this man had become. Right? Three different times he mentions that the man lived among the tombs. These are cave tombs that are carved into the hills outside the city of Garassa. If you were in the town of Kersi today you would still see some of these cave tombs. So this man lived among them. He was like the walking dead, right? He lived among the tombs. He was more fit to live among the dead than among the living, which means. He was a total outcast from society. And not only was he an outcast from society, but he was also a threat to society. Look at verses 3 and 4. Look at verses 3 and 4. Time and time again, the people of the surrounding towns tried to restrain him and subdue him with iron chains and shackles. And he broke out of them. It says that people, they gave up on trying to restrain him. He was that violent. So Matthew and his gospel said that people ceased traveling in the vicinity of the tombs for fear of him. He was so disturbed, so evil, so violent, they tried to restrain him with iron, shackles, and chains, and the dude broke them off. Because he was possessed, he possessed supernatural strength. He was a terrifying individual. And not only is he a threat to society, but if you look at the passage, he's a threat to himself. Look at verse 5. Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains, he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones. I mean this is a awful picture of this man's state. He had no rest night and day going around the mountains and in the tombs, howling. crying out in pain, spiritual pain and physical pain, because he's harming himself, cutting himself with sharp stones. You can't read this and not be moved. You can't read this and not be moved to terror or not be moved close to tears. How horrible this man's life was, right? Who is he today? Well, he's the man that polite society puts in a straitjacket, stuffs into an asylum, throws into a padded room to keep out of sight. Because he's a harm to himself and he's a harm to others. That's what this man was like. He was just deranged and crazed. He is in ruins. And why is he in ruins? The corrupting power of the demonic has made him less than human. It's made him sub- But you see, this is what the demonic does. Never do demons ever come in contact with humans and leave them in a better condition. They only corrupt and destroy. Now there there are a couple of things we need to say about the demonic. I think whenever Christians start to talk about the demonic, there are two dangers, right? If we're on a path, there are two pits that we can fall into when we think about the demonic. Two things we need to be aware of. The first one is that is the danger of ascribing everything to the demonic realm, right? So I have a cold. I get a I get I I catch a cold. That's Satan attacking me. It's a demonic possession. It's a demonic attack. I stub my toe. It's it's demonic. Right? That's a demon. If you're angry, that's a demon. There's some Christians who think that every sin struggle behind every sin struggle, there is a demon. Right, but what does that do? That removes our culpability. Right? We battle against the flesh. It's not just the devil that we're at war against, it's the world. and its desires, it's its systems that are opposed to God that that cause us to lust after it and desire those things. It's the flesh, it's indwelling sin in our own hearts that we legitimately struggle with and fall prey to, and it's the devil. Who does attack Christians, right? So we can begin to see the demonic behind everything, but that's just not biblical, right? That's not a biblical way to talk about. We need to recognize that inside the Gospels and outside of the Gospels, there is relatively, relatively, relatively I'm going to underscore that word. There is relatively little written about the demonic. What is written is clear. It exists. We need to defend against it, and Christ has defeated it. But given the relatively little treatment it's given in Scripture, it doesn't seem right for us to attribute everything to the demonic. But then you have the second danger, right? What's the second danger? Not attributing anything to it at all, acting like it doesn't exist, right? It's the opposite danger to not think about or talk about the demonic at all To treat it like it's not really there. And honestly, I think in our context, in America, in this culture, that is the danger that we need to be aware of. Why? Oh, because of the secularization and anti-supernaturalism that is taking hold of our country, it's just gonna become the norm. Like You believe in what? What are you stupid? Like that's ridiculous to believe in demons. And as Christians, because we fear man, we struggle with fear of man, we're going to begin. I can just leave that part of my faith. I can talk about Jesus, but I can just leave that part of my faith alone. I don't actually need to talk about this. But that would also be a mistake. Why? Because it exists. It needs to be defended against. Satan wants to destroy mankind and he does legitimately attack people But we need to remember that if we're following Jesus, if you are a follower of Jesus, then you do not need to fear the demonic. And that's because when we follow Christ, the Holy Spirit comes to dwell inside of us, and demons cannot take up residence in a person indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Jesus is already taught on this. A kingdom divided against itself will not stand. If you are a Christian, then your heart is the kingdom of God, right? God dwells inside of you. He lives in your heart. The Holy Spirit lives with you. And what are the chances that the Holy Spirit is going to allow a demon to take up residence in your heart as well? Not very good, right? So you don't need to fear the demonic. And I especially want to take a moment to encourage not only the kids, but the younger adults. So those of you who are getting closer to your teenage years, I want to encourage you with this truth. If you follow Jesus, Then you do not need to fear demons. Why? What does Jesus say? Greater is he who is in you Then he who is in the world, right? Jesus is stronger than demons. If you follow him They're not going to overpower you. They can't possess you. Jesus is saying that Satan can't ultimately harm you if you are one of God's children. But I also want to warn the kids, and especially those who are nearing their teenage. years as you get closer to things like middle school and high school, I want to say that the demonic is nothing to be played with. It really exists. It can do great damage to you, and so you shouldn't toy with it, right? There is a reason in Scripture that God forbids things like magic. and wizardry and witchcraft. We, our culture has done a really good job of caricaturizing those things so that Satan is a guy with red horns and a tail and runs around and we have great movies about how cool things like wizardry and magic and that things like that are. But what that does is it dulls our senses to how real the demonic is and the way that Satan works through those things. That's why God says not to engage in those things. They open us up in a unique way to the demonic realm. Now I'm not saying real quick, I'm not saying that you can't watch movies. I quoted Harry Potter last week. In some sense, I gave the wrong spell. But I'm not saying you can't watch those movies. I'm telling you to be careful with really toying with those things. Though especially as you get towards high school and your friends, if you have any friends who want to mess with things like false religion, or magic or witchcraft or Ouija boards or seances. Do everything in your possible power to stay away from those things. The demonic is real and it does have an effect on our lives. But I also think it's not this isn't just a lesson for the children. I think there is a lesson for all of us here, even those of us who are following Jesus. as we look at this man, this man who's been totally devastated by the demonic realm. I think there is an interesting picture in Scripture That has a lesson for us this morning. The only other place in Scripture that a person is described as breaking free of iron shackles and chains is in Psalm 2. And do you know what the person in Psalm 2 is described as doing? Rebelling against God. The person in Psalm 2, the kings and counselors take counsel against the Lord and against his anointed, and they say. Let us burst apart his bonds from us. Let us break his shackles and his chains. They view God's ways as shackles and his chains. And I think this man who is possessed by demons is like a living picture of a person who lives in rebellion against God and who chooses to side with Satan by sinning against God. They are breaking God's chains. And so what does that mean for us this morning? I think what we can learn from this man is the dehumanizing effects of evil on the image of God in all of us. Right, Paul says in the New Testament, do not be angry, because in your anger Satan can gain a foothold in your heart and exploit you. So even in the Christian life, even if Satan can't possess you or demons can't possess you, he can use and exploit your sins to bring harm on yourself, on your family, and on those around you. But you see, every time that we give in to those temptations and allow Satan to exploit us and our communities through our sins, we are taking a step closer, becoming just like that man. He has been totally corrupted by evil. He's like a kingdom of evil, all these spiritual forces living inside of him. But every time we sin against the Lord, we decide to side with Satan. And believe that God can't be trusted. And Satan, you are actually right. I should follow you on this path. But where does this path lead? It leads to utter corruption and destruction. So I just want to ask those of you who are following Christ this morning, how are you doing fighting sin in your life? Do you understand that Satan wants to destroy you? He doesn't just want a little taste. He wants to take down your whole life. So if you're toying with sin You're toying with temptations to sin. Know the dehumanizing effect that that is having on your soul. And you are slowly and subtly becoming more like this man. Do not let Satan gain a foothold in your heart through engaging and satisfying temptations to sin, right? It's like Gollum. You think of Golliman, the Lord of the Rings. The longer he held on to that ring, the more corrupt and twisted he became. And there got to a point in his life where he no longer resembled the human that he once was. When we hold on to sin, it's like we're holding on to the ring. We don't see it, but it is corrupting and twisting us, and before long, we're no longer smeagal. We're gollum. Right? We are a twisted person. That is what sin is doing to your soul. Friends, I just want to encourage you to fight against sin and to fight against Satan who will exploit you through your sin And lastly, I just want to note the futility, the futility of human effort in this passage to change someone's spiritual state. Right, look, what was the only thing the people could do to help this man? Surely they tried to help him over and over again before it became clear that he was just going to assault them over and over again. And what could they do? The only thing they could do to help him was to chain him up and to cast him out of the society. Now that there are very good things that humans do for one another whether it's medicine, therapy, things like that. There are lots of great, even self-help books, things like that. But you cannot change. I cannot change a person's Spiritual state, all human effort to try to change the heart of a human being will ultimately fail. You and I need someone who is powerful enough and strong enough to overcome the evil one. And what we need is Jesus Christ. He is the only one. Who has that power. So look, that's the third thing I want us to look at this morning. If you're following along, look at me in verses 6 to 13. Jesus is the only one who has the power to deliver us from this evil. So verses 6 to 13, this is possibly the craziest part of any of the Gospels. It's recorded in all three synoptic gospels. It is Frankly, an astonishing weird scene. If you are parents, Garrett Kell, another pastor in this area, said if you're parents and you want to have an interesting diva with your kids this week and hear some funny questions, sit down and read this passage with them and see what they come up with, because it is a frankly shocking passage. So the the man sees Jesus after Jesus gets off the boat. Right? So if you're the disciples, think about this. You've just come through the storm. You are probably ridiculously tired after fearing for your life, trying to bail water out of the boat all night, and then Jesus gets up, he calms the storm. Then you come to the other side of the sea and you're like, finally solid ground. Yeah, like we are gonna rest. And then you look up and you see a wild madman running down the hill, bug naked, as Luke says, he was naked, screaming, howling. Like what is going on? If I'm the disciple, it's like Jesus is in front of me. I'm I'm just gonna move back here. I'm gonna stand right behind like I'm gonna let Jesus take care of this one. This is a crazy scene. And who knows what the disciples were expecting the man to do, but I am guessing they weren't expecting him to do what he did do. Look at verse 7. Falls on his knees and calls Jesus the Son of the Most High God. Remember in the Old Testament, book of Genesis, Melchizedek comes to Abraham. And Melchizedek talks to Abraham and offers an offering to Abraham on behalf of the Most High God, Lord of heavens and Lord of earth And who do the demons say that Lord of the heavens and the earth are the most high God? Jesus Christ. Then in verse 9, Jesus asks the demon, his name. And he responds, my name is Legion, for we are many. So a legion was a Roman military term And it referred to a unit of about five to six thousand men. And so most people who study this passage believe that this man is possessed by thousands of demons. And there's one speaking on behalf of the whole. It's like the entire demonic realm has taken up residence in this man's. Heart in his soul and in his body. But not even the not even thousands of demons are a threat to Jesus. If we look at the passage, they're not a threat, and they know that because they know they have no hope against him. So what do they start doing? They start begging him Please send us into the herd. Have you come to torment us? They don't even step to Jesus like, yo, what are you doing here? Like we're about to fight. They don't they don't confront him. They just fall. Like, what are you doing? Please don't torment us. Just a sign that he has he has no problem confronting thousands of demons, not just one. He can confront thousands. And they asked to be sent into a herd of 2,000 pigs feeding nearby. Why do you think they want to be sent into the pigs? I have an amazing revelation to share with you. I have no clue. I have no idea. Alright, it doesn't make any sense to me that why they would want to be sent into the pigs. I think it's possible that they're symbolically, whether they know this or not, they're symbolically showing how unclean they are, right? So to to the Jewish people, pigs were an unclean animal. So when Jesus comes across to the other side of the Sea of Galilee and he's in a country where people are herding pigs, it's clear that they're not in Jewish country anymore. They're in Gentile country, non-Jewish country. And it it seems like the demons are are asking to go take up residence in these pigs, uh, and it's symbolizes how unclean they were. These unclean spirits are going into unclean Animals. Can demons possess animals? I d I yes. That's the only answer I have. I don't know how that works. We're gonna move on from that one. Lots of questions. Again, you can ask your kids about the questions they have. So uh the one thing I want us to note though in this passage, when the demons ask to be sent into the herd of pigs, Jesus replies to them. In verse 13, he says, or Mark records, so Jesus gave them permission. Jesus gave them permission. Not even thousands of demons can act apart from God, permitting them to act. And frankly, if you sit and you think about this at all, then that then leads us to one of the deepest and most difficult truths to grasp in all of Scripture. That God has allowed evil to occur in the world It's very clear from this passage. He permits them to act. You think even about the book of Job when Satan came to God and presented himself before God and he said, Let me afflict your servant Job and God There you go. I'm going to give you a leash. There's only a leash that you can go so far on, but I will permit it. But how can a good God allow evil in the world? How can a good God allow evil in the world? I think the unsatisfying answer that we are left with is that God hasn't told us why. And so you think back to the Old Testament when the Lord told the people of Israel, the secret things are for the Lord, but the things that have been revealed are for you and for your children for all generations. God says that there are certain things about his operations in this world that he has chosen not to reveal to us, to provide his motives or whatever his rationale is for allowing things to be the way that they are. But rather than throw our fists up at heaven and declare that God doesn't exist, I would suggest a more humble approach for all of us. And that's to recognize that you and I are very, very finite creatures with very, very limited knowledge. Have you ever thought about the fact? Have you ever considered? Just I I thought about this from time to time. I've tried to sit and think of all the possible facts that exist in the world. Like How much dirt is beneath the flower bush outside? How much does it weigh? What's its exact composition? What's its chemical makeup? Now think of all the ways you can extrapolate all the possible facts that exist in the world. And then I thought about, how many of those facts do I know? Like none. Like what I do know, like it doesn't make a dry, it doesn't even like a drop in the bucket. You and I are so finite and our knowledge is so limited. Right? God's reason for allowing evil to exist in the world may not make sense to us, but we don't know everything he knows. So I think of an illustration that I heard once about uh this reality that captures its well and it had to do with a picture of Dwight Housen Dwight Eisenhower that was taken when he was commander of the Allied forces during World War II And it was a picture of Eisenhower standing over a gigantic map of the world. And on that map there were little uh soldier pieces that represented where all the different Allied troops were were in the world. And he's kind of looking at everything from above And he's thinking about, okay, when we take this position, I've got to do this with these troops, right? He's commanding the forces from above, looking at this gigantic Now I'm willing to bet that if you went down on the ground with those actual troops that were represented by those pieces on the map, you would find that some of those men did not understand what was going on from above them. They couldn't understand. Why on earth is our commander sending us into this town so that more people die? But what's it what's the rub there? They couldn't see the map. They have no idea what's going on in these battles around them. They can't see the whole picture like Dwight Eisenhower could. They were put in a position of needing to trust that their commander knew things That they didn't know. And I think that's a good picture of the position that we're in. Right? We can't see everything that God sees. Evil is horrific, but we we can't know. Everything that God knows. We don't know everything that God knows. And while things may not make sense to us, God has given us many other good reasons to trust Him. So while the existence of evil in the world is a terrible thing, we can trust that God is finally and fully going to bring an end to evil. And we even see that foreshadowed in the passage. So if you think about this Jesus permits the demons to enter the pigs, and when they do, the entire herd rushes down the steep bank into the sea and then drowns in the sea, right? So we've already said that pigs were viewed as unclean animals. It seems like they're showing how unclean they were by entering unclean pigs, and this herd rushes down into the sea to drown. So these unclean demons, full of unclean pigs, rush down into the sea and are destroyed. I don't know if the demons are destroyed, but I think it's it's certainly meant to picture their end. And where do we see that end? But we see it in the book of Revelation. That on the day of judgment, Jesus is going to cast all that is unclean into the lake of fire. So just as these pigs went down into the sea and were destroyed, so will all demons and all people who've chosen to rebel against God go into the lake of fire. Now, if you're here today and you think that you are safe from this judgment because you grew up going to church or because you know a lot about Jesus. I want to gently warn you that those things won't save you. And where am I getting that? Look at the demons. They know a lot about Jesus. Right, their theology is on point. Some would say their theology is orthodox They have correct theology. They probably have better theology than you and me. What is the difference between you and me if we follow Jesus and them? They don't worship Jesus. They know a lot about him, but they don't submit to him. They know that he is the Son of the Most High God. They know that He's God in the flesh. They know that Jesus has the power to torment them. And in Matthew's gospel, Matthew's gospel, he says, the demons say, Have you come to torment us? Is it the appointed time? They even know that there's going to be a judgment day. They have perfect theology, but they don't worship Jesus. You can know a lot about Jesus and not know Jesus at all. Knowing a lot about Jesus. Knowing a lot about Jesus won't save you. Only loving him and worshiping him will. So one of the things you might do today is spend some time considering the fact about whether your life reflects a true knowledge of Jesus or just a knowledge of a bunch of facts about him. A true knowledge of Jesus A true knowledge of Jesus leads to love for him, a desire to serve him, a putting to death sin in your life, and a taking up your cross to follow him If you see those things in your life, even if it's a small measure and increasing, you can be confident that you are following Christ, that you truly know him. But if you don't see those things in your life, you might consider the possibility that you don't actually know Jesus. Right? I don't say this to offend you. It may sound offensive to some of you, but I only say it because of how easily we humans can miss what is right in front of us. Why do I say that? Look at what happens in our passage. Notice what happens in the remainder of the passage. The men who were tending the pigs run and tell people what happened. And then those people come and see. Mark repeats multiple times. They came to see what had happened. That is, they saw Firsthand, the man who used to be a crazed demoniac now sitting at the feet of Jesus, a herd of pigs is down in the water. They see these things firsthand, and how do they respond? Verse 17. They beg Jesus to depart their region. If you have ever been tempted to think that you would be willing to follow Jesus if he would just prove it to you. Just show me a miracle. Then I will really believe. Why doesn't God show up to prove to me that He He can actually do these things? I hope this passage dispels that notion that you would believe if you actually saw a miracle. This is only one of numerous places in the Gospels where people saw miracles firsthand, and you know what they did? They didn't believe. Seeing miracles and seeing Jesus act right in front of you does not necessarily mean that you will believe. You can be staring the Son of God in the face when he calms a storm in front of you, and you can say Teacher. Right? You can just completely miss it. Faith is a gift of God. The eyes of faith are a gift of God. It takes God working in our hearts to show us that Jesus is the Son of God. To notice also the difference between the crowd of people and the formerly possessed man. The formerly possessed man begs To be with Jesus. Right, you even think back to when Jesus called his apostles up on the mountain and he gave them a mission. What was their mission? To be with him. And then to go out and preach the gospel. This man desired to be with him. He saw the one who had saved him, the one who had just so radically changed his life, and he wanted, he begged. to stay with Jesus. But Jesus had other plans for him. Jesus tells him to go and tell his family and his friends how much the Lord had done for him And how he had mercy on him. How he had mercy on him. That's an important verse to understand, important word to understand. Mercy. How the Lord had had mercy on him. We can be tempted to think that this man was the innocent victim of demonic possession and he was not guilty for anything that he did. But that is not true. If that was the case, Jesus would not tell him to go tell everyone how he had mercy on him, but how he was rightly freed from demons who shouldn't have been oppressing him. But Jesus says to him, go and tell everyone how I have had had mercy on you. And how did he have mercy on him? Because the man needed mercy, because he was also guilty. of sinning against God as all of us have been. And yet God could extend mercy to this man and to all who turn from their sin and trust to him because of what Jesus has done for us. You know, I said in the beginning that God's war against evil shared some similarities to the story of the Trojan horse, those Trojans who welcomed in the very gift that would spell their destruction. I think we see those similarities in Jesus' death on the cross, right? You see the Bible teaches that the whole world lies under the power of the evil one. This world is the kingdom of Satan, the kingdom of darkness. God has given him rulership over this world for a time. And all of us are captives in that world, yet willing captives, because we have chosen to side with Satan by our sins against God, and we need to be freed from the bondage to sin. And when Jesus goes to the cross in the kingdom of darkness, you gotta think, Satan, that prowling lion is looking at Jesus who is led to the cross like a lamb to the slaughter and saw him and thought, finally. I am going to destroy him once and for all. But what happens on the cross? When Jesus is nailed to the cross And those nails pierce his hands and his feet. It's as though the lion Satan is sinking his teeth into the Son of God, Jesus Christ. But as the blood flows, the blood that seemed like it spelled destruction for Christ actually brought freedom to the captives of the kingdom of darkness. So when Satan sinks his teeth into Christ, he's saying, I got you finally once and for all, but God says, no, you don't. You have just bit into the blood of the Son of God, and that blood poured out is the blood that will bring freedom to those who are held in captivity and to those who are held in darkness. If you are here today, you know that this blood was offered for you. Jesus Christ was pierced and died, bearing the punishment for the sins that we deserved, so that we could receive Mercy and that we could do just what this demonically possessed man did who was healed. That we could go and tell others how the Lord has had mercy on us And on the cross, Jesus and the Father dealt a mortal blow to the kingdom of darkness. And that mortal blow will come again when Christ returns, and he is shown as the true victor, and he casts all the demonic forces and all the evil in the world into the lake of fire, and he's finally victorious. That day is coming. Friends, if you're not following Christ today, let me beg you to consider following him. Because when Christ returns, there will not be any mercy left, but only judgment. But if you turn today, you can know the mercy of Christ and reconciliation with God, and you can know forgiveness for your sins and freedom from the power of evil. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you and thank you for the mercy that you have shown us in the Lord Jesus Christ. We do not deserve it. We all willingly chose to rebel against you and to sin against you, but you have followed and pursued us and saved us from our sins. We thank you for sending your son to die in our place and for causing him to be raised from the dead so that we could have confidence before you, knowing that we too will be forgiven and raised from the dead. Oh Lord, thank you for your mercy towards us. We pray that you would help us to behold that now as we go forward from this place. And help us also to consider your mercy as we consider the Lord's Supper and think about his body broken. And blood poured out for us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.