Well, as a teenager, Johnny loved life. She enjoyed riding horses, and she especially loved to swim. However, one summer in 1967, everything changed for Johnny. While swimming with some friends, she dove into a lake, not knowing how deep the water in the lake was and in doing that Johnny broke her neck as she paralyzed she was paralyzed from the neck down And for the next two years, during her rehabilitation, Johnny struggled in obvious ways. She struggled physically with a body that no longer worked. And she struggled spiritually. She struggled especially with life. She struggled with God as a believer in God at this time in her life She struggled with her paralysis and she spiraled downward into an abyss of depression and despaired even to live. She would even say that her faith in God after becoming paralyzed was shipwrecked, and the only emotion that she could feel towards God was anger. Anger. How could a God who loves me let this happen to me? How can he be both good and loving and powerful if he would allow this to happen? And to make matters worse, the Christians in her life, out of a desire to do good and out of a desire to encourage her, just rehearsed to her the same trite platitudes That never seemed to actually address the horrible tragedy that she had encountered And they offered her no true hope that God actually, really, and truly cared for her. And now it doesn't seem to me that anyone here is paralyzed this morning, but maybe you know someone who is. And even if you're not paralyzed, maybe there are people here who are suffering today. Whether through chronic illness in your own life or disease in your life, or you know others who are suffering, and you wonder the same thing that Johnny wondered. How can a good God allow this to happen to me? How could a good God allow this to happen to them? Is God good? Is he powerful? Right, if that's you this morning, I wonder if you've had those questions for God. And I bring that up because in our study this morning we do see that God does care for those who are suffering from chronic illness. and disease and we're going to learn about what he's doing to finally bring it to an end. So let me encourage you to go ahead and open your Bibles to Mark chapter 5. We're going to be looking at verses 21 to 43 this morning. If you don't have a Bible of your own, I want to encourage you to open up to in the Black Pew Bible that's next to you on the seats if you're going to use that Bible You can find our passage on page 840 and 841. And if you don't own a Bible, we really actually truly want you to take this Bible as a gift from us to you. We think there's nothing more important for you in your life than to have a copy of God's Word because we believe that the God who exists, who created all things, spoke through this word in his holy scriptures. Let me go ahead and read the passage for us. This is Mark 5, verses 21 to 43. And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him, and he was beside the sea. Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name. And seeing him, he fell at his feet and implored him earnestly, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well and live. And he went with him. And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse. She had heard the reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment, for she said, If I touch even his garments, I will be made well. And immediately the flow of blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her disease. And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned about in the crowd and said, Who touched my garments? And his disciples said to him, You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, Who touched me? And he looked around to see who had done it. But the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came in fear and trembling, and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your disease While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler's house some who said, Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the teacher any further? But overhearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not fear, only believe. And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John, the brother of James. They came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and Jesus saw a commotion, people weeping and wailing loudly. And when he had entered, he said to them, Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead, but sleeping. And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside, and took the child's father and mother and those who were with him and went in where the child was. Taking her by the hand, he said to her, Which means, little girl, I say to you, arise. And immediately the girl got up and began walking, for she was twelve years of age. And they were immediately overcome with amazement And he strictly charged them that no one should know this and told them to give her something to eat. The main point of this passage is clear to us this morning. Jesus Christ has the power. to heal all disease and even raise the dead. But as we look at this passage and that message is crystal clear to us, There are three specific things that I want us to draw out and meditate on and take away from our passage this morning And the first one is in line with what I've just shared with you. The first thing I want you to learn, and kids, if you're following along on those sheets that are given to you, this is the first thing I want you guys to learn this morning. God alone Has the power to heal. God alone has the power to heal. So look at the passage with me. In verse 21, Jesus returns to what is likely his hometown of Capernaum. If you hear the last week, you know that he had crossed to the other side. of the Sea of Galilee to the region of Garassah, but now he's come back because the people there said to him, Get out of our land, we don't want you here. So he returns to what is likely Capernaum, though it doesn't say it And right away we're introduced to a man named Jairus. And Mark tells us that Jairus was the ruler of a local. Synagogue. So this basically means that he was a lay person who was in charge of taking care of the building itself, but he was also responsible for managing the schedule of the synagogue and overseeing the worship services that were held weekly on the Sabbath. And we learn especially about Jairus in this passage. If you look there with me in verse 22 and 23, we learn that Jairus was desperate. Right? Jairus' daughter was on the brink of death, and so he comes to Jesus begging him to come and heal his daughter Right, and now this shouldn't be surprising to us, right, that Jairus comes to Jesus. A lot of the miracles that Jesus had been doing were in and around the synagogues. And reports about him have been going out throughout the area that people were coming to him to be healed and to see the things that he was doing. So it's not surprising us. That Jairus either saw firsthand a miracle that Jesus had done or had heard about the things that Jesus was doing. And so now he comes to him because his daughter is in a desperate situation. And he knows, based on what he says, that if he can just get Jesus to her before she dies and lay his hands on her, there's a chance that she will make it. He says to Jesus, he says to Jesus, Come and lay your hands on her so that she may be made well and live. He understands the power that Jesus has, but he thinks that power needs to be exercised while she is still living. While she is still alive, come lay your hands on her and make her well. And Jesus, ever ready to help those in need, agrees to go with her. And so they take off on the way to Jairus's. But you also notice that because of Jesus' popularity, there's a crowd that surrounds him. Mark uses the word throng. We don't really use that word throng throng all that often. But what that means is that the crowd was encompassing him. So as he's trying to walk with this man Jairus, who we should assume is desperate and wanting to move hastily to his home, there's a crowd around him that's slowing him down and impeding his movement. And in that crowd, we meet another person who was desperate for healing. Desperate to be made whole, who comes seeking healing from Jesus. Look with me at verses 25 and following. There's a woman there that comes up to him who had been suffering from some sort of chronic hemorrhaging that had caused her to bleed continually And this hemorrhaging had been going on for 12 years. 12 years of pain. Twelve years of illness. Twelve years. As a Jewish woman, we should we this is a Jewish area that she's in. There's a synagogue around that she is questioning why the Lord of the harvest, the Lord who has the power to make people whole. Is not hearing her prayers and hearing her pleas for mercy. Not only is she suffering physically and as she's been suffering for a long time, but look at what look what the details that Mark gives us. She'd suffered at the hands of numerous doctors who had tried to treat her. And it seems that some of the courses of treatment that they prescribed to her must have been painful because she's She suffered much under their care. So the things that they're telling her to do and the treatments they're prescribing are themselves causing her to suffer. And worse than that, let's just add insult to injury. She'd spent all the money she'd had, so she's gone broke now trying to heal herself. And then on top of that, Mark tells her, not only did she not get better, But she only grew worse. We just see how the Bible deals with real life head on It doesn't skirt around the issues that confront us in life. Are you suffering this morning? Are you a person who deals with chronic pain and illness? Do you know someone who is suffering from disease? Do you think God's word has something to teach you this morning? It does. It does, this woman was desperate. And whether we've personally suffered from chronic illness or pain or know someone who has The suffering can be so acute at times that the only thing we can think about is how to be relieved of that suffering. Everything else in life gets blocked out by the pain Everything else in life takes a back seat to just please God relieve me of this pain. And so you understand why this woman would do everything she could. She would see doctor after doctor, please. Someone, if anyone can help me, please do it. And that's what drove this woman to look for help from all those different doctors, none of which could help her. Now, I think it's possible that we might be saying, okay, is Mark trying to teach us that doctors are of no use to us? I don't think that is what he's trying to teach us. No, we as Christians and today should be very thankful for the gift of medicine and for the wisdom that God has given to researchers and to doctors who've developed treatments to cure various forms of sickness and anxiety. disease. That is a good thing. But as we look at the world around us, whether we are Christians or not, we should do so realistically. Realistically, there are certain diseases and illnesses that we simply have no answer for. But because there are no answers for certain diseases and illnesses doesn't mean that Christians should be anti-medicine or anti-research. We should be for those things and cheer those things on. Those things that bring a relief to those who are suffering, but we need to do that realistically, knowing that in a fallen world, only so much progress will be made in healing diseases. And the reason for that is because the primary cause of all disease and illness is not physical, but is spiritual. Now, I'm not saying that individual illnesses and sicknesses can't be traced to physical causes. They can I'm talking about big picture. Why do they even exist in the first place? And the reason they exist in the first place is because of a spiritual cause and not a physical cause. one and this is even clear in our passage. Look at the woman. What is she suffering from? A woman, a Jewish woman, who had had a discharge of blood for 12 years. According to Jewish law, the woman's condition made her ceremonially unclean. So the Jews had a what was known as a holiness code, and certain diseases or conditions made a person unclean. And the person would have to then be, when they were determined to be unclean, They would have to be separated from the rest of the people, lest their condition spread throughout the people of Israel. And this is a deeply Deeply significant and painful experience for a Jewish person because to be placed outside of the city of Jerusalem and to be separated from God's people symbolize being cut off from the presence of God Himself because God Dwelled in the temple in Israel in the heart of his people. So when you're outside of the city and you are unclean, you cannot come to worship and you can have no fellowship with God or any of his people. So there is a deep sense of shame. And abandonment and separation that comes with being considered unclean as this woman would have been considered And the Jews considered physical uncleanness that came from sickness and disease to be a living representation. And manifestation of the spiritual separation that exists between God and man. Even in the Old Testament, you see, illnesses are the result of a curse that has come for disobedience. In the Old Testament, that's what it taught. The Bible teaches that when the first man and woman chose to disobey God, sin came into the world and Death through sin. That includes spiritual death, our separation from God, and physical death. Right? And the presence of disease in this world, writ large, the presence of it, is rooted in the spiritual chasm that exists between God and man. God is life. God is life. And when we sinned against him, we were separated from that life. And now we live in bodies and minds and brains that are subject to decay. and disease and death. And according to scripture, the only way that physical and spiritual death that came through sin will be fully and finally healed is if God does something to heal it. It will take a divine intervention for all disease to be finally And this passage teaches the supremely joyous truth that God has done something to heal disease. And what has he done? Well, Jesus, the eternal son of God and second person of the Trinity, took on flesh and became a man and lived and walked among us. And he displayed his power as God in the flesh by healing people of incurable diseases. And we see that power on full display here. The woman, desperate for healing, having heard the reports about Jesus' power to heal, sneaks up in the crowd and remember she is. unclean, ceremonially unclean, coming up in a crowd. She's taking a risk that if the people around her find out who she is and how she is unclean, she'll be found out and then she's gonna have to suffer their wrath But like, how could you come around us and and possibly contaminate us and make us unclean? But she comes up anyway because she's so desperate. She knows that if she can just touch his garment, then she'll be healed. People during that day thought the power of a person to heal was contained in their clothes. You even see that in Acts 19, when the apostles, after Jesus was resurrected, people touched their garments and were able to be healed. She knows that if she can just touch him in his garments, she'll be healed. That's how great her trust in his power is. And so she touches him, and Mark says, immediately. Immediately, immediately she was healed. Twelve years. Twelve years of suffering. 12 years of chronic pain, 12 years of illness, 12 years of shame and separation from God that came through being considered unclean immediately. It was healed. If you're one of those people who is suffering today, can you imagine the joy that this woman would have felt after suffering for 12 years that she's immediately made clean and she knows it? She can feel it in her body. This is the power of Jesus Christ to bring healing The symbolized judgment of God on her and her separation from God was immediately healed by just touching the Lord of life. So no, it's not that Mark is trying to teach us that doctors can't help us. That's not what he's saying at all. By contrasting the failure of many doctors to bring healing to this girl with Jesus' power to immediately heal. He's emphasizing that only Jesus can provide the healing that we so desperately. But if Jesus has the power to heal, why do so many people continue to suffer If he has the power to heal, why does suffering and illness persist not only among his people, but in the whole world? I think the answer to that question is the second thing that this passage teaches us. And it's that God's timing doesn't always make sense to us. God's timing doesn't always make sense to us. We can't miss the truly baffling decision that Jesus Jesus has made here. Think about what is going on. Imagine being gyrus, right? Your daughter is on the brink of death. My daughter, he comes to her, my little daughter is at the point of death. She's on the cliff. Her body is sliding over it, and we need to get to her Imagine being gyrus and then the crowd surrounds Jesus. He's coming with you, but the crowd is surrounding Jesus, slowing him down, right? How many of you? have ever been late for an appointment that you must get to and you are stuck in traffic. Right? It you maybe it's 295, if any of you are familiar with the worst road in America, right? Right? The birthplace of road rage. All right, you you get stuck in traffic there. You look up, you try to lean over just because you think that clearly everyone else must be making a mistake. I I I can see the way Forward. There must be some mistake that everyone else is making. And then you look and you just see it's a long line of cars. And what happens? Blood pressure, like just like my my neck starts like throbbing, my head starts pulsating. You get panicky You get even angry, I'm not gonna make it there on time. You would understand then that the experience Jairus would have been having here. Let's go, let's go, get out of the way, people. My daughter is dying. I need to get him there before she dies. And then Jesus, Jesus stops He stops. He's been told that Jairus' daughter is dying, and yet he stops to help this woman A woman who isn't on the brink of death. She's been suffering for 12 years. She's gonna be fine. Like come heal my daughter and then come back to her. Right? Just why are you stopping to talk to this woman? Like she just had chronic illness. My daughter is dying Now imagine like if you took your child or a friend of yours to the emergency room and they're at the point of death and the doctor comes over and says, we will be right back. There's somebody with a broken bone. In the bed next to you. And we're going to take care of them first. Right? One pastor talked about this passage. This is medical malpractice on Jesus' part, right? In the case of triage, he's made the wrong decision Or has he made the wrong decision? We've got to imagine that Jairus' anxiety and frustration are at a fever pitch, and then he receives the devastating news. Look at verse 35. Look at verse 35. While he was still speaking, while Jesus, after he had stopped and was still speaking to the woman, there came from the ruler's house some who said, Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the teacher any further? You imagine the sorrow? Jaira, so I had the guy who could heal her Imagine the sorrow. Think you imagine the sorrow turning into anger? You could heal her and you stopped. What are you doing? This is your fault that she's dead. You could have made the decision to come first to see my daughter. Why have you made this decision to wait and cause us to wait and delay? And it's caused my daughter to die. This woman's been sick for years, but my daughter is on the brink of death. You needed to heal my daughter first. Your decision to wait makes no sense to me, Jesus. Have you ever thought that? And you're struggling? Why aren't you answering me? Why aren't you working according to my timetable? See, that's just it. God's timing doesn't always make sense to us. And God doesn't operate according to our timetable. And this reality becomes especially difficult to swallow in the midst of suffering. We naturally think that the sooner we're healed from a particular illness or disease or have relief from some other struggle, the better. The sooner, the better. And we can easily begin to think that because God isn't answering our prayers, that he doesn't exist, or he doesn't love us, or we're not actually one of his children. But nothing could be further from the truth. Nothing could be further from the truth. God's Timing is always perfect. His timing always aligns with what is best for you and what will most fully display his power and his glory. God knows things that we don't know. God knew things, Jesus knew things that Jairus didn't know. Do you think Jesus cares that the girl has died? He doesn't care. I mean he cares in one sense, but he obviously knows that he is the power and the life. He has the ability to raise her from the dead. And this is why he says to it, this is why he says to Jairus, don't fear. Only believe. Jesus knew the girl was on the brink of death, and he knew that she would die while he was talking to the woman. He's all-knowing. We've already seen this in Mark. Kids, if any of you have been sitting in here throughout any of the sermons, can you tell me one other place in Mark where you've seen that Jesus knows everything? When he met who? Dorian the insane man? Another any other ones? That's a good one. Any other ones where Jesus is all-knowing? Anyone else? Where has Jesus' omniscience been displayed in the Gospel of Mark? John? When he forgave the crippled man, he knew what the Pharisees were thinking, and he responded to the thoughts in their head. In chapter 2, he knows what people are thinking. Even in this account, he knows that power has gone out from him. He perceives that power has gone out from him, but Jesus also knew what Jairus didn't. He knew that his power isn't limited by death. You see, Jairus and the other people from his house thought Jesus could only help while the girl was living. But Jesus knows that not even death can stop him from healing. His delaying only serves to bring him more glory because he's able to show that his power has no limits. And what seems like unacceptable by the delays by God in answering your prayers for healing are delays that in the end will bring greater glory to Him. Because in the midst of our suffering He is doing more than we can possibly imagine to shape us into the image of his son, who also knew unanswered prayers and questions that never received an answer from God. And becoming like Christ should be our greatest desire. And that's not to say, that's not to trivialize your suffering. Suffering is Hard, it is bad, but you can know that there is a sympathetic high priest in heaven who understands your suffering and who can sympathize with your emotions, your anger, your questioning. You see, if we were to alter God's plan to fit our timetable, it would only serve to ruin what he's creating in us. There's a quote that I love from John Newton that I've shared before that captures this well. He said, if it were possible for me to alter any part of God's plan, I could only spoil it. His plan is perfect. So if you're struggling today with chronic illness or you're struggling, suffering from a disease of some sort, or in some other way, the first thing I want you to know is that illness and disease are not good things in and of themselves. And God does not view them as good. It may be obvious to some of us, and I think that it I trust that it is obvious, but I say that Because I do think Christians can make a crucial mistake when it comes to suffering and various types of suffering. And I think the mistake that we can make is that we think that because God uses all things for good. Then all things are good in and of themselves. But that's not what Romans 8 teaches. That's not what Joseph was teaching in Genesis. Some things are actually evil. Some things are not good, but God uses what is not good for your good. Suffering, illness, and disease are not good in and of themselves. And we really As Christians, as we think about interacting with those who are suffering, we really run the risk of insensitively dismissing the sufferings of others by too quickly saying to them things like, God has a plan for your life. Oh God, God works all things for good. Trust that God is sovereign. God's sovereignty feels like a smack in the face when you're in the middle of suffering. What you need to tell them about is that God understands your suffering. He took on flesh. He was nailed to the cross. He bore our infirmities, infirmities, and our diseases. Things about God's suffering may be true, but they land like hammer blows on hurting hearts without when they're spoken, without really knowing what the person is going through. And it strikes me even, think about this, as we think about God's suffering in the way that he uses evil for good, and the way that he uses all things, even that which is bad, for his servant's good. The great example of this from Scripture is Joseph. Right in Genesis, that after years of suffering evil, Joseph was able to say, God meant it for good. And you know what's striking about what he said? What's striking is that he is the one who had suffered. It is the sufferer who was able to say God took what was evil and made it for good. It wasn't the bystanders around him who were trying to encourage him. Can you imagine if the the cupbearer and the baker while Joseph was in imprisoned after wrongly being in prison and after being wrongly cast in a pit by his brothers that they said to him, Hey, trust that God is sovereign. It's gonna be good. Hey, I'm in prison. This isn't good. But after he was released and after he was redeemed and restored and came to the right hand of the Pharaoh, Joseph, after looking at everything that was done in his life, was able to say God meant it for evil, or it was meant for evil, but God meant it for good. It was the sufferer who was able to point to God's sovereignty. Those who are bystanders and those who are coming alongside the ones who are suffering should tell the sufferer about how God comforts those who are suffering. Remind them of the Psalms. You know that God takes all of your tears and He is storing them in a bottle He bottles up our tears. He draws near to the brokenhearted. He comes alongside the crushed in spirit. I just want you to remember that God comes alongside you when you're suffering. Yes, he is sovereign. He's imminent. He's in all places at all times, but he is also right next to you when you are sobbing in pain. The Lord draws near to the brokenhearted. The most important thing we can do to love those who are suffering is to show up Nancy Guthrie said this. If she could summarize, the best thing that people could do for those who are suffering is to just show up. Don't avoid them. Engage with them. Be patient and listen. Listen. Notice Jesus, even in this passage, how great an example of this he is. He stops, turns around, and wants to see the woman He allows her to come forward and she tells the whole story. When it says it, she she tells the whole truth. That means she came forward and told Jesus. Jesus, I've been suffering for 12 years with this chronic pain. And now I I came up and I know that I'm unclean and I shouldn't have come close to you and I shouldn't have touched you, but but I knew that you could heal and I and so I wanted to touch you. And so I did, and now that I now I'm healed. Jesus listens, and then what does he say to her? Oh, just the sovereignty of God is so good. But notice the tenderness of God. Daughter. Daughter. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed. Notice his tenderness. God is tender with his children, and we should seek to be tender with one another, especially when those who we're talking to. are experiencing suffering. Even in this woman's healing, we see the hope that all who follow Jesus have of being healed. Even if God's timing of your healing doesn't make sense to you And where do we see that? Let's keep looking at the passage. It's the final thing we learn is that God's power isn't limited by death. Not even death can prevent God from exercising his power. Look with me at verses 35 to 43, right? So in verse 35, the people come from Jairus' home and they let Jairus know your daughter has died. There's nothing else that Jesus can do for him or for her. They think that death is a problem for Jesus. They don't think he can do anything with a girl who's dead. They have no idea who this is. Which is given away when you see that they call him teacher. Same thing that his disciples called him in the middle of the storm. Teacher, we're perishing. They don't understand that Jesus has power that can't be limited by death. And it says in verse 36, Jesus overheard what they said, and he told Jairus, hey, don't pay attention. Attention to them. Do not fear. Only believe. Only believe. Believe what? Believe what, you might ask. Is Jesus telling him to have blind faith? Just take a look into the dark. Just I I know there's no reason to just just do it, because it'll be good for your soul. No, nowhere in the Bible do you find God ever, ever, ever calling people to anything like blind faith Faith and belief are always the expected response to witnessing displays of God's Power. And so Jesus is calling Jairus to believe in him. The power that you either have seen me display. Or you have heard me display or heard of me displaying throughout this area that power is true and that power is for you today, Jairus. Only believe in me. Believe in the power that he had to stop a storm in its tracks, to exercise a man possessed by thousands of demons, to believe that that power could be brought to bear on a girl who had even And so in verses 38 to 40, look down there with me. They arrive at Jairus' house and there's a huge commotion going on because all the people are weeping and wailing. The girl has died. Luke tells us. That the the crowd there knew that she had died. And Jesus said to them, Why are you weeping? The child is not dead. She's just sleeping. So some people, critics, are gonna look at this and say, she actually wasn't dead See, even Jesus, though she's just sleeping, you know, the sleeping is probably representative of some difficult condition that she's in, but she's actually got a beating heart and brain waves. But that's not the case. When you read Luke's gospel, it says that they they laugh at him in response to what he says because it's clear that the girl is dead. She has passed away. You see, Jesus is just using the language of sleep, and death is often described as sleep throughout the Old Testament. You see it especially in Job and in the Psalms, where death is described as sleeping. You'll also find it in Genesis in the book of Deuteronomy. And so the people respond to him when he says this, they mock him. And you notice where Jesus puts them. Look down there with him. This recalls Jesus' teaching on the family of God. Remember when his family comes to see him, his family is put outside. His actual biological family is placed outside, and those who do the will of God are brought inside. Those who are outside do not do the will of God, do not understand his teachings and his parables, and they mock his claims to bring this girl back to life. While those who are inside Do the will of God, understand his teaching, and believe. You see the difference starting to emerge in Mark between the people who don't believe, what characterizes him, and the people who do believe. And this belief is warranted. Jesus takes a few of his disciples into the room along with the parents, walks up to the girl, and because the girl is dead, she is unclean. According to Jewish law, the holiness code that we already talked about, if Jesus touches her, he becomes unclean himself. Even to come into the room with her is to is to threaten to make him unclean and to make those around him unclean. But does this stop Jesus? From approaching her? Does it stop him from touching her? No, because Jesus came to make unclean things clean again. He is captain clean. He will do it. And so he takes her by the hand. It's as though he's saying, I will take your uncleanness and your death, and I will give you my life. Then he says to her, Talitha, Kumi, which is Aramaic, which is the language Jesus spoke that means little girl. I say to you, arise. You could translate, little girl, you could say, honey, darling Notice the tenderness of Jesus towards those who are unclean. Arise. And immediately the girl got up and began walking. And the parents and the disciples were overcome with amazement for obvious reason. The dead girl had been brought back to life. Just remember already that the reading that Tracy gave at the beginning of the service from the book of 1 Kings. Did Elijah just walk in and pick the boy up by the hand and say, little boy arise? No, Elijah. had to stretch himself out on the boy three different times. He did something that seemed like this CPR type thing. What what you see there is that Elijah doesn't have the power in his word to just bring life It is God operating through Elijah's prophetic breath to bring the boy back to life. But Jesus Greater than Elijah, greater than Moses, greater than David, can come in, take the girl by the hand, not himself become unclean, make her clean, and bring hit bring her back to life. Because Jesus is God in the flesh. That's what Mark has been teaching us this whole time. His power is limitless. He can heal any disease. and any sickness, and his power extends to the grave to rescue those who are dead and bring them back to life. And we see even how clearly this scene foreshadows for us an even greater miracle that Jesus would work later in Mark's gospel. The mocking of the people at Jesus' claim to be able to save the girl from death for shadows, Jesus' mocking when he was on the cross. As the people walked by him and said, Hey, you said you could save yourself. Why don't you go ahead and do it? Bring yourself now down from the cross if you claim to be the Messiah. It seems you obviously aren't because you're hanging on the cross, but Jesus Wasn't interested in saving himself. Jesus came to save sinners And so he stayed on the cross and he remained there until he died. And the New Testament teaches us that it was on the cross. Jesus was taking the punishment that you and I deserve for our sins. The separation that we deserve from God for our uncleanness that has come through our sinning against God was taken by Jesus. on the cross as he was nailed to the tree, cursed, says the Old Testament, is anyone who is hung from a tree. Jesus took the curse of the holiness code upon himself. He took our disease. He took our death and he gave us his life. This is what Isaiah was saying in Isaiah 53. When he said, surely he took up our pain and he bore our suffering. Yet we considered him punished by God. Stricken by him and afflicted. Just stop and think about that. If you are suffering today and you think that God is punishing you, we considered the one who was hung from a tree, punished by God, stricken by him and afflicted. But was Jesus the most beloved of God? Yes, he was. So if you are suffering today, it is not a sign that you are not, God's not in hasn't chosen you or is afflicting you because he doesn't love you. Even the most beloved of God was considered punished by God. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. Healed. Healed friends. If you're suffering today, I want you to know that your physical suffering is hard. It is difficult. Physical suffering is awful, but it does not compare to spiritual and eternal suffering. And the physical suffering and disease that we experience in this life is, sadly to say, a taste of eternity in hell. It is the death and separation from God that awaits all who have not trusted in Him, who have not put their faith in Jesus, and who do not follow Him. But Jesus is offering to you today to heal your soul. He hands that out to you today. He says, I will touch you, I will say to you, child. Daughter, son, be clean. So how are you to respond to him today if that's you? If you are not following Jesus, we should respond like Jairus and this woman. Look at what they do They come up to Jesus and they fall on their knees and they say to Jesus, only you can help us. What does it look like to follow Jesus? It means giving up your life. It means saying, I can I know that I cannot do what I need to do to make myself right with God. Only you can. Only you can heal me. And if you come to Jesus with that posture and turn to him and ask him to heal you, he will say the same thing that he said to this girl. Daughter, arise. Come to life. And you can be confident that the healing he offers is true because the raising of the little girl foreshadows his own resurrection. You notice the response of the parents and the disciples, they were overcome with amazement The word that is used for amazement is used only one other time in the Gospel of Mark, and it is used to describe the women who come to the empty tomb after Jesus has risen from the dead, it says they fled from the tomb, and astonishment had seized them. Because Jesus actually got up Up from the dead. And his resurrection gives us confidence and hope that all who come to him in repentance and faith will truly be healed. Your healing may not come in this life. But the resurrection teaches us that no matter how long the delay, no matter how painful the wait, God, in his perfect timing, will heal you. He will restore your soul and he will restore your body. You will be made new, and that day will be glorious Johnny Erickson Tata, after she was paralyzed years later, told a story about her own physical suffering and how her anger had transformed into trust. And she describes the story this way. She was in her house one day and people were cleaning her house and they happened to knock over a vase of or a vase of roses. And a bunch of the petals fell off. And she, being in her wheelchair, couldn't pick them up. And she told the people who were cleaning the house, hey, can you pick up some of those petals and break them for me? Crush them. That I can smell them. And so they pick up the petals and they crush them and they bring them over to her. She smells that sweet fragrance. She can't pick roses. She's paralyzed. But do you know what she says? Those rose petals being crushed and the sweet fragrance they've given off are a picture of my life. I have been crushed by God But I trust that the fragrance it is giving off and the hope that I have in the eternal life to come is a fragrance of those who are It was the resurrection. And is the resurrection that helped Johnny through her despair. And it is the resurrection. That keeps her going every day because she knows that soon this life will pass and eternal life is coming. And that hope is for you today. Heavenly Father, this life is hard. We all suffer in various ways. We all struggle to believe. We're filled with fear and anxiety at times. We wonder if you love us. Lord, help us to believe. Help us to remember the tenderness and love of the Lord Jesus Christ. And your compassion as a compassionate Father who draws near to the brokenhearted. And Lord, would you take up our tears in a bottle for those of us who are suffering? Would you heal those physically, as you healed the woman and as you healed the girl, would you heal those who are suffering today? And would you cause us to have hope even in the midst of our sufferings That one day all things will be made new, and our bodies will be restored. And even greater than a restored body is a restored relationship with you, and we will be with you forever. Oh, help us to hold fast to that hope today we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen