The sermon passage this morning is Mark fourteen, fifty-three to seventy-two. And they led Jesus to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none. For many bore false witnesses about him, but their testimony did not agree. And some stood up and bore false witness about him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands. Yet, even about this, their testimony did not agree. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But he remained silent and made no answer Again the high priest asked him, Are you the Christ? The Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said I am, and you will see the Son of Man, seated at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven. And the high priest tore his garments and said, What further witnesses do we need? You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision? And they all condemned him as deserving death. And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to strike him, saying to him, Prophesy And the guards received him with blows. And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came And seeing Peter warming himself with she looked at him and said, You were with the Nazarene, Jesus But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you mean. And he went out into the gateway, and the rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him, and began again to say to the bystanders, This man is one of them. But again he denied it And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean But he began to inv invoke a curse on himself, and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak. And immediately the roaster the rooster crowed a second time And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And he broke down and wept. This is God's word. Well, friends, as we prepare to open God's word and to hear him speak to us, let's go to the Lord one more time and pray, asking him for help in this task of hearing his word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning and uh we're a prideful people. We think of ourselves more highly than we ought, but we also ask humbly, Lord, help us to hear your word. And we see in the parables in the Gospel of Mark how many how many heard Jesus' teaching, but didn't actually hear it. They didn't actually take it to heart. Lord, keep us from being a people like that this morning. Soften our hearts to be good soil, to receive your word, and to bear fruit that will last into eternity. And we pray this for us all. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, we're going to dive right into the text this morning. So if you have your Bible open, or if you don't have your Bible open, I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bible to Mark chapter 14. We're going to be looking this morning at verses 53 to 72. If you're using the Bible that we've provided there in the seats around you, you'll find the passage on page 851. And if you don't own a Bible, we want to encourage you by all means to take a copy that we have provided there as a gift from us to you As we are getting prepared to look more closely at the text, one of the things that I thought would be helpful for us this morning is just to see about how the way that Mark has presented uh Jesus Christ and has presented the faithlessness of those around him over the past few weeks. And what we've seen over the past few weeks on a number of occasions is what commentators like to call the Marken sandwich. This is a a literary technique. It's a way that Mark writes where he starts with one topic, then switches to another topic. And then returns back to the original topic, like a sandwich. The first and last topic is like the bread. What comes in the middle is like the meat. And the reason that he does this is to compare and contrast what happens in the original framing topics and what happens in the middle topic that he's addressing. So for instance, three weeks ago He sandwiched and contrasted the extravagant sacrifice of the woman who was willing to give all that she had for Jesus with Judas's unbelievable sacrifice of his own relationship with God for 30 pieces of silver. Then two weeks ago we saw how he sandwiched and contrasted the faithlessness of the disciples who were all around him at the Passover meal and then in the garden afterwards. with Jesus' faithfulness to give his body and his blood to his own disciples. He's comparing and contrasting their faithlessness with his faithfulness. And I bring that up because we have another one of these sandwiches this week. It's like sandwich after sandwich after sandwich. Mark is trying to feed us to help us see. How Jesus alone is the true and faithful witness, as Joel already prayed this morning. This week in our passage, we see that he sandwiches Jesus' trial inside of Peter's denial. To contrast Peter fearfully denying Jesus with Jesus truthfully testifying. to his own identity as the Son of God. And so what we're going to do this morning is we're going to look at our passage under two headings. So if you are taking notes The first point, the first heading is going to be Peter's Denial. We're going to look closely at that. So we're going to look at the beginning and the end of the passage because it teaches us one thing And then the second point, we're going to look at Jesus' trial. And through it all, I think what we're going to find is that Jesus is the true and faithful witness to God. And that you and I are not, and we desperately need his work in our place in order to come to God. So I hope that we see this by the end of our time together this morning. So let's look first at Peter's denial and what we can look learn from it. So why don't you look down at the text with me at verse 53? Now we see there that Jesus is led under guard to the high priest. And we also see in verse 53 that all of the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. If you have been reading Mark's gospel, then you know that this is a dark and ominous scene. Because one, because Jesus has just been betrayed and arrested by one of his own apostles, disciples, in the Garden of Gethsemane, and now is being led in the middle of the night, darkness. Shrouds the scene. He's being led in the middle of the night into the very hands of the men who have been plotting throughout Mark's gospel to murder him. And so what we find now is that that terrible moment that Jesus has been predicting when he would be condemned, mocked, and crucified has come. But, but when we look at this passage, we see that there is also an apparent glimmer of hope Look at verse 54. Look at verse 54. We see that Peter, Peter has followed Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest, Peter The apostle who just a couple hours earlier had declared that he would die before he ever denied Jesus Christ. And so we can look at the passage and think that Peter himself Has come to launch a counterattack against Jesus' captors, to hold true to his word, that he would give his life before he ever denied Jesus Christ. Yes, Peter has come to rescue his Lord. Kids, is that what Peter has come to do? You can just shout it out. Has Peter come to rescue his Lord? No, no, no. In fact, he hasn't come to rescue his Lord. And frankly, Mark doesn't waste any time at all making it clear that that Peter has no intention whatsoever of helping Jesus. Look again at verse 54. Peter might be following him, but notice that Peter follows Jesus at a distance. Doesn't want to get too close. If he gets too close, he might end up suffering the same fate as Jesus best in times like these to keep a distance from Jesus. But it gets worse. Look at verse 54 again. He follows Jesus right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he sat with the guards and warmed himself by the fire. Wait, what? The guards of the high priest. These are the very same men who would have just been responsible for arresting Jesus in the garden and transporting him to the high priest. And now Peter sits down with them. I'm just gonna sit down here with you guys, and I'm gonna warm myself by by your fire. Right? When faced with the choice of making himself known and standing with Jesus, not denying Jesus no matter the cost Peter instead chooses to keep his distance. And then he makes the unbelievable choice to sit with the very men who arrested Jesus and then warm himself by their fire. Mark then goes on to switch to the scene of Jesus' trial in verses 55 to 65, which we're going to come back to in a point two. But given what we've seen of Peter so far, what he does next is no surprise. Look there with me at verse 66 where Mark picks back up in focusing on Peter. All the while Jesus is standing trial, Peter. Still out in the courtyard warming himself by the fire, keeping himself comfortable, and a servant girl of the high priest sees him Sitting by the firelight, she can now see his face, and points out, Peter, you were one of his disciples. Now we need to stop here and just pause to appreciate what Mark is doing here It's a servant girl who says this. A servant girl. Servants were not regarded as important. or influential or powerful. They weren't to be feared. They were servants. Not only is it a servant, but it's a girl. And we just need to recognize we lived 2,000 years after a a different time in a different culture. In first century Israel, wim women simply weren't regarded with the same honor and as a and esteem as men. Whether we disagree with that today or not, is simply a fact that happened in that culture. Women weren't uh regarded with the same honor as or esteem as men. But here you have not a woman, but a a girl, a servant girl. Basically the last person on earth that Peter should be afraid of testifying before. But notice what happens in verse 68. She points him out and he says, no, I neither know nor understand what you mean. I neither know nor understand I have no clue what you are talking about. I don't know this man whatsoever. I neither know nor understand. And you also see that he not only denies having anything whatsoever to do with Jesus, notice how Peter also subtly moves to the gateway. Now he was in the courtyard. Keeping a distance from Jesus, now that I've been spotted, I'm going to increase that distance. I'm going to move to the gateway. Just moving further and further away from Jesus. Just from A servant girl. You're one of his disciples. No, I'm not. I neither know nor understand what you mean. I'm going to move away slowly. You see Peter's defection already taking place. In verse 69, Peter denies Jesus a second time. Then Peter is challenged a third time. Now the people standing around him are like, hey, you are one of his people. You're a Galilean. Not sure exactly what would have made them uh caused them to say to point out that he was a Galilean. It's possible he had an accent uh that made it clear that he was from Galilee. The people there would have known that Jesus' ministry because it was so well known that it was centered in and around Galilee, so they're connecting the dots. You are one of his disciples. And look at what uh what Peter then says in verse 71. Look down there with me. He invokes a curse on himself and swears. I do not know this man of whom you speak Right, you see the lengths there that that Peter will go to deny Jesus. He he calls down a curse on himself. I will be cursed if I actually know him. Let a curse fall upon me if I am lying. Which he is lying, and a curse will fall upon him, the curse of sin and death that comes with lying before God Almighty and lying about God Almighty But he calls down a curse on himself in order to prove I have nothing to do with this man. You must believe me, though you shouldn't believe me because I am lying. Right? I do not know this man of whom you speak. You just gotta, ugh. He can't even bring himself to say Jesus' name. I do not know Jesus of Nazareth. I do not even know this man of whom you speak. Distancing himself in word and in action. And immediately after his third denial of Jesus, the rooster crows a second time. And we know that Peter heard this rooster crow, and we know that the shrill sound pierced his heart and his conscience as he remembered the prediction that Jesus had made just a few hours earlier. After Peter said, AA, I will die before I ever deny you, Jesus says, incorrect. You will deny me three times tonight before the rooster crows twice. And lo and behold, Jesus' prophetic prediction came true perfectly. He denied him three times before the rooster crowed twice. And so Peter broke down and wept. The word that Mark uses here in the Greek communicates a bitter weeping and bawling kind of that that intense crying that happens when your whole body shakes and you're you're weeping terribly because you have betrayed a person who you love. I mean we we can imagine it may not have happened but you can imagine that that in this crying memories of the past three years flooded into his mind, right? All of the love and time and instruction that Jesus had poured into him. All of the grace That Jesus had shown him in his numerous missteps. All of the powerful works he had seen Jesus do. And all it took was being questioned by a servant girl. And Peter has denied him. Three times refusing to even say Jesus' name. Denied him in word. Three times He's moved from keeping a distance to I'm going out to the gateway. He wants nothing at all to do with Jesus. As I've been reading this passage this past week, well the question that keeps coming to my mind is, how do I see myself in Peter? How do I see Peter in myself? When you read a passage like this and you see what Peter did, not only denying Jesus, but keeping him at a distance. I'm gonna sit with the servants. I'm gonna act like I'm one of them. I'm gonna warm myself by their fire. Hey, if I'm called out, no. I'm just gonna back away. I have nothing to do with him, right? How do you see yourself in Peter? I'm a guess that most of you haven't outright denied Jesus like Peter does here But I wonder if you see yourself in the way that Peter keeps a distance between himself and Jesus and even goes on to side and sit down with the people who arrested Jesus, warming himself by their fire. I wonder how many of you this past week have have kept your distance from Jesus. At work. Or at the park. Or at the pool. Or on the metro. When you're out doing whatever it is that you do during the week, when you've had opportunities to either bring up a conversation about Jesus or respond to something that somebody has said in such a way that would turn the conversation towards Jesus, do you find yourself I'm gonna push away from this conversation. I'm gonna keep a distance. It's just gonna be too uncomfortable. It's something that I struggle with, something I am guilty of. Right? And I get done with these conversations where I'm like, I had a clear opportunity to talk about Jesus. Why did I not do it? Because I'm afraid. I'm afraid of being disliked. I'm afraid of discomfort. I'm afraid of persecution. I'm afraid. I'm like Peter. It's just a rustling leave will just kind of drive me away, right? I wonder if you see that in yourself as well. What do those conversations go like? Hey, what did you do this weekend? Oh, well, well, we washed the car. We we took the kids to the pool. We we went and watched a movie and Should I tell them should I tell them that I went to church? I don't want this to get awkward. Oh yeah, that was about it. That was about it. What about you? What did you do this weekend? Right? Kind of how these conversations go Oh, maybe you did tell them that you went to church, but you don't want to take the next step in the conversation to ask them, hey, do you go to church? Or what might your faith or religious background be? Right? We get afraid of how they might respond. afraid of what people will think of us or afraid that we don't know what to say and so we keep our distance. Maybe even you've been in group conversations in which the topic of conversation was clearly ungodly and everyone in the conversation is laughing and because you don't want to seem weird you you join in the laughing. I I don't agree with this at all, but I'm I just don't want to seem like the oddball here. I don't want to I don't want to share that my convictions in Jesus. Just don't let me shit don't let me laugh along with this. So I'm just gonna I'm gonna laugh out loud with you and pretend like I actually agree with this ungodly thing. And I'm gonna sit down with you and I'm gonna warm myself by your fire. You see how easily these conversations come up in our lives. Maybe you've been asked to do something unethical at work and you go along with it because you're afraid to speak up and say that, no, no, I can't do this thing. Because it goes against what I believe in Jesus Christ. That's how we show in these situations that we are sitting with the guards, denying the one who bought us. What we need to understand, and this is something that I am guilty of, as I've already said, what we need to understand is that if we're keeping our distance on a regular basis, If we're keeping our distance on a regular basis and not taking the easier opportunities that God gives us to talk about Jesus, then we can be certain that should intense persecution come, We will do exactly what Peter did. He showed that it was coming in his life anyway by what he was doing ahead of time, keeping his distance, sitting with the guards, and as soon as. It wasn't even an intense persecution game, but like a question, you, you're one of them. No, I'm not. Right? It's as simple as that. If you see these patterns in your life We need to be warned about what that might mean for what we'll do when persecution comes. And one of the ways that we can prepare, prepare for those times to testify about Jesus in the midst of difficult opposition Is by taking the common and regular opportunities God has given us to talk about Jesus It's like weight training in the weight room, right? When you take these common opportunities, you're building these muscles. This is a normal pattern of my life to talk about Jesus and to share with other people about what he's done for me and what he can do for you And kids, I want you all to think about this as well. It can be so easy to be afraid to talk about your faith in Jesus. I don't want to seem like the other kids. I don't want them not to like me, right? But what you can do is start practicing now, just having conversations about Jesus with your friends, and that will help to prepare you so that when opposition actually comes, you're like, no, I'm one of his people. Everyone knows it. I'm not going to deny it. Right? You build these muscles now so that you can prepare for opposition in the future. I want to encourage y'all, start building those patterns in your life now. When these opportunities come up to talk about Jesus, what we need to recognize is that these aren't random circumstances. Think about the book of Esther. It just so happened that this happened. It just so happened that this person said this. It just so happened that a rooster crowed. Oh no, Jesus had predicted it would happen. Right? These opportunities to have conversations about Jesus, even these easier ones, are not random circumstances, but God ordained events In order to help us strengthen our faith in Christ and to talk about Him, and they will show us the strength of our allegiance to Christ And what I find in my own life is that I am a lot like Peter. In this room, bold as a lion. I'll tell you all about Jesus because I'm surrounded by Christians. I go out there, I'm timid as a mouse. Right? This is what happens to us. It's easy like Peter. He's surrounded by the apostles. I will die before I ever deny you. There's no other apostles around. I am not one of his disciples, right? This is what happens. We want to be preparing for those times now by taking those opportunities that God gives us. And we can talk about our willingness to die for Jesus But sooner or later, God is going to put us in circumstances where he shows whether it is true or not. Right? Jesus did not say Whoever would come after me must talk about their willingness to take up their cross and follow me. He said, whoever should come after me or would come after me must take it up and follow me. And to take up the cross in this passage would have looked like Peter Standing with Jesus, sharing in the suffering that he himself was enduring. Right? When we fail to take opportunities to testify about Jesus, we find out that we're a lot more like Peter than we care to admit. We want to follow Jesus just at a distance. And if we see that in our lives, we need to be warned. Right? Remember what Peter, what Jesus has already said to Peter in chapter 8. Whoever is ashamed of me in this sinful generation of him will I be ashamed when I come in glory. I have to imagine that these words were ringing in Peter's ears as he was sitting there weeping bitterly. He was ashamed of Jesus. And now he's in danger of Jesus being ashamed of him on that last day. And friends, those words that Jesus spoke in chapter 8 are applicable to us here today. So, if we have been like Peter and kept our distance from Jesus, is there any hope for us? Does that mean that all is lost and Jesus will be ashamed of us on that final day? I think that we'll find the answer to that question when we look at Jesus' trial, which brings us to point two. We've looked at Peter's denial. Now let's look at what we learned from Jesus' trial. Go ahead and look with me at verse 53, 54, excuse me, 55, and we'll begin there The first thing that we learn if we're looking at verse 55 is that Jesus' trial is a sham. The council is looking for any shred of evidence or testimony against him that they can use to kill him. So In no way can this trial be understood as just or fair, right? We talk about the worst case of confirmation bias in history, right? This is what they do when they get to the trial, when Jesus is brought before them. Somebody Anybody tell us something anything that we can convict him by so that we can put him to death. That is essentially what is going on here at his trial. If they're not saying it out loud, that's what's going on in their hearts And in verses 56 to 59, we see that a bunch of members of the council are happy to oblige and give false testimony. Numerous Council members stand up to testify against him. Look at verse 58. We see one example of the testimony that was shared that night. We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands We know from John's gospel that Jesus did say something similar to this, but it's clear from Mark's description of the trial that they are distorting and lying about what he said. Let your eyes just scan over verses 56 to 59 again. You'll see that Mark repeats twice that all the testimony against him was false. and twice that their stories don't agree. Everyone around him is bearing false witness about him. Peter is bearing false witness by saying he doesn't know him. He's lying, and the chief counsel of Sanhed the Sanhedrin is Stan and Ariam. uh around him offering false witness. He is surrounded by a great cloud of false witnesses. He is the only true witness. But the high priest, as we see, doesn't care apparently that they're leveling false testimony against him. Even though none of their stories lines up in verse 60, he says, what do you have to say about these charges? These false charges that these men bring against you, right? He knows that they're false, and yet he's questioning Jesus. What do you have to say about this? But Jesus just stands there silently. So the high priest finally asks him: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? The word Christ there is a Greek word for Messiah, so he's asking him, are you the Messiah? Then he also asked him, are you the son of the blessed? What does that mean? Well, out of reverence for the divine name of God, Yahweh, the Jews would either refuse to say his name altogether or would replace it. If you're here this morning and you come from a Jewish background, I apologize if I have disrespected you by saying that name out loud. Just trying to understand what it means when they call him the son of the blessed. But in their culture, they would not say his name out loud, so they would replace it with another word Like the high priest does here, he calls him the son of the blessed. The blessed one refers to the God of Israel. So he's asking him, are you the Messiah, the Son of God? To which Jesus responds. I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven So the high priest tears his garments, says, what further witnesses do we need? You have heard his blasphemy. Right. Kids, here's something that you might hear as you follow Jesus about the Bible. You might hear that Jesus never claimed to be God. If anyone ever tells you that Jesus never claimed to be God, this is one of the numerous passages that you should take them to and help them understand. No, Jesus actually did claim to be God. Right? When the high priest asks him if he is the son of the blessed, meaning the son of God, he's asking, are you God in the flesh So in John chapter 5, verses 17 to 18, after Jesus calls God his father, the Jews try to kill him, because to call God your father was to make oneself equal with God. So the Jews plainly understood that to claim to be the Son of God was to claim to be God. And to the question, are you the Son of God? That is, are you God? Jesus says, I am. That would be an affirmative answer to the question. But it's not just that he answers, yes, I am God. It's that he answers yes in three different ways. First, he responds to the question, are you the son of God by saying, I am. We need to pause and just recognize that I am is The divine name of God. God's name in Hebrew, Yahweh, means I am. When Moses was sent to the people of Israel and was uncertain how they would receive him, he asked God Who should I say sent me? And God says to him, tell them, I am sent you. And here's Jesus answering the question, are you the Son of God? I am. He's taking the very divine name of God upon himself. But then he goes on to call himself the Son of Man who will come with the clouds of heaven. This comes straight out of Daniel chapter 7, where Daniel saw one like a son of man coming on the clouds of heaven, who was presented. to the ancient of days and was given all dominion and authority and power by God. The Son of Man was well understood to be a divine figure by the Jews. But you notice he also says that he's the one seated at the right hand of God. This is straight out of Psalm 110, verse 1. Jesus is saying, hey, look, I'm going to take the whole Old Testament right now and apply it to myself. I am God in every possible way. I am the one who in Psalm 110 the Lord said to me, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Psalm 110 is all about God's Messiah King who sits on an eternal throne who will judge the nations. Friends, just take a step back now and appreciate the contrast between Peter's cowardly lying and denying of Jesus and Jesus' courageously testifying. Peter can't even bring himself to say Jesus' name when he's threatened by a servant girl, but Jesus stands firm and declares to the very men he knows will kill him for it. I am who I am. I am Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. I am the messianic king who sits at the right hand of God on an eternal throne. I am great David's greater son, and I am the divine son of man who is given all authority in heaven and on earth. And you may have me in chains now. But you will one day see me coming in glory on the clouds of heaven, in judgment against all of my enemies It's no wonder that the high priest tears his robes. He is enraged. He is appalled. He cannot believe what he has just heard. come out of this man's mouth, this man. This can't be the God man, but it is the God man, and he can't believe what Jesus has just said to him. What further witnesses do we need? You have heard his blasphemy Right, they didn't need testimony from anyone else. Right? In their eyes, he had committed blasphemy by claiming to be God, and so they all condemn him to death. And the abuse begins immediately. Look at verse 65. They spit on him. They cover his face. They mock him and beat him. They cover his face. Why would you cover his face? Because in Hebrew culture to cover one's face was to deny the existence? of that person you were covering their face of there. We're gonna blot you out of existence. We do not believe in you one bit. And this is where we see the fullness of the portrait that Mark is painting here of Jesus. Not only is he the covenant Lord, not only is he the messianic king, not only is he the divine son of man, but he's also the suffering servant. One of the great mysteries of the Old Testament around the time that Jesus lived was how to reconcile the predictions and portraits in the Old Testament of the coming. Messiah. On the one hand, the Messiah was supposed to be a divine king who gave all his people victory over their enemies. But in the book of Isaiah, God predicted that the Messiah would also be a suffering servant who would be crushed for his people's sins. The question was, how could the coming Messiah be both a king who would judge and a servant who would suffer? And the answer that we find in Jesus Christ is that the Messiah would come twice. He would come first as the suffering servant to pay for the sins of his people, the God man, Jesus of Nazareth. The suffering servant in the flesh, coming to pay for the sins of his people, and then he would come a second time to judge his enemies. And we see plainly in our passage that Jesus' life in his incarnation, he had come as the suffering servant. We see this in the passage, right? In Isaiah 53, when predicting the coming of this suffering servant who would pay for the sins of his people, Isaiah said that he would be led like a lamb to the slaughter. Now look at verse 53. And they led Jesus to the high priest, the Lamb of God, being led to the one who would slaughter him, the high priest. Not only that, but Isaiah said that like a sheep before his shears is silent, though he opened not his mouth. Now look at verse 61. In response to the high priest, Jesus said, Nothing. He opened not his mouth. Then they condemn him to death, and in their spitting on him, mocking him, and beating him, the suffering of the suffering servant has begun. suffering that he would bear not for his own sins, but for ours who have repented of our sin and trusted in him. Unlike cowardly Peter, who would lie and deny Jesus in order to preserve his life, and unlike the false testifiers on the council, Jesus courageously and truthfully testified to his identity as the Son of God, knowing full well that it would lead him to the cross where he would die for a people like you and me. A people who lie and bear false witness. A people who, when faced with temptation, all too often choose to keep our distance from him. Yet even though we desire to keep our distance from him and hesitate to identify with him, he chose fully and completely to identify with us. Right, what did Isaiah say about the suffering servant? He came to bear our griefs and to carry our sorrows. He was stricken, smitten, and afflicted by God. He was pierced for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the punishment that brought us peace and by His wounds, we are healed. He took our sins and gave us his righteousness. He did not keep a distance from us. No, he closed the distance. He left the throne in heaven, came to earth, dwelled among us, and then took upon himself in his very flesh, Peter says in 1 Peter, he bore our sins in his body on the tree. so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, and live to righteousness by openly, courageously, and truthfully testifying about him, not keeping our distance from him. He identified with us so fully that he took our very sins upon himself. Here's what I find so remarkable about how that relates to our passage and us. One of the major themes of this passage is bearing false witness. The council bears false witness over and over against Jesus during his trial. And Peter bears false witness by denying that he knows Jesus. To bear false witness, to lie, was a violation of one of the Ten Commandments And in Deuteronomy chapter 19, the Lord says this about those who bear false witness He said that those who bear false witness, when a person brings charges, when a person who bears false witness brings charges against another person And they are found to be bearing false witness, that is lying, then the punishment that they sought should be administered to them. So what does that mean for our passage? It means that the Sanhedrin, because they're seeking Jesus' death, yet are found to be bearing false witness, should be put to death themselves And not only that, but because Peter is bearing false witness in denying Jesus, the punishment that Peter should receive is being denied by Jesus Whoever is ashamed of me, of him will I be ashamed. So, why wasn't Peter denied by Jesus and by the Father in heaven? And why aren't you and I denied by Jesus and by the Father in heaven? Because when Jesus hung upon the cross He took the punishment for our false witness in our place. He bore the curse that we deserved upon ourselves upon ourselves. Think about Peter's words. He called down a curse upon himself in order to prove that he wasn't a follower of Jesus's. But he lied in doing so. So he actually brought the fullness of the curse upon himself He should be cursed. He should be denied. We should be cursed. We should be denied. We should be denied by keep for keeping our distance from Jesus. We should be denied for sitting with the guards and warming ourselves by their fire But Jesus hung coldly on the cross and was denied by the Father in heaven, so that you and I who bear false witness who will keep our distance from Jesus could be reconciled to God and brought near to him. The only one who didn't deserve to be denied by God was denied so that you and I could be brought to God. Oh friends, this is unbelievable news for us today. If you've repented of your sins, And trusted in Christ and wondered, well, what it what happens to me now if I if I still struggle with keeping my distance? Look at what God does for those who are sorrowful, who bitterly weep over their sins. He forgives them. He gave to his spirit, he gave his spirit to Peter, brought him into his family, made him one who would be one, who would testify about Jesus' grace. When God gives us his spirit, he gives us a spirit of courage, not of fear. Right? We don't need to be afraid to testify about Jesus. We no longer need to keep our distance from Jesus, yet we also know that when we stumble and fall, we receive grace. and mercy in Jesus because God cannot deny us because he's already united us to his son by faith. Oh friends, what unbelievable news for you today. If you're here And you're not a Christian, friend. I'm so encouraged that you would take the time to be with us this morning. I want to just show you the mercy and grace of God in this passage. Friends, you and I have sinned against God. That we deserve to be cursed and denied by God for our sins. This is what Jesus taught. Jesus, who was full of love and compassion, also taught that there was judgment coming. But he said that he came to take the punishment for the sins of all who would turn from their sins and trust in him. And if you turn from your sins today and put your faith in Jesus Christ, he will not deny you. That's an encouragement to you today to turn and put your trust in him. And my Christian brothers and sisters, understand that Jesus was put to death because he truthfully testified to who he was. And we need to be clear about this so that we can be ready when it happens. Wherever people truthfully and courageously testify to Jesus' identity, Persecution usually follows. Thank God for the better part of our country's history that Christians, by and large, haven't experienced severe persecution, but that period of grace may be coming to an end. Right? In your lifetime, in your very lifetime, you may experience acute persecution for truthfully testifying about Jesus You may lose your job. You may become an outcast in your community. You may be disliked and mocked and harmed at some point by your peers You may even at some point in your life lose your life for testifying truthfully about Jesus. Protection from persecution isn't guaranteed to God's people because enduring persecution is one of the main ways that we share in Christ's suffering and identify with him and become more like him. And we learn that God is faithful and can protect us ultimately through it. So if you lose your job, that's okay. God provides for the sparrows of the field. How much more will he provide for you, his very child If you lose your family and friends, it will be hard, but it's okay. Everyone who has lost family or friends, brothers or sisters will inherit in this age more family and friends in the church and in the age to come, eternal life. If you're disliked, mocked, and harmed, and even lose your life for Jesus, that's okay. Do not fear those who have the power to kill the body. Fear instead the one who has the power to destroy both soul and body in hell. Jesus never promised that you and I wouldn't be hung on a cross. He promised that if you and I were hung on a cross, we would get up again from the dead. You do not need to fear truthfully testifying about Jesus. And you can know that his promises are true because if this passage teaches us anything, it's that Jesus is the true prophet. Throughout Mark's gospel, Jesus has predicted the future perfectly, time and time again. He predicted Peter's denial perfectly. Calling out the rooster crows two times up. Like, you know everything clearly, right? To try one of the things I do with my boys in the morning, we do a catechism. One of my favorite questions to ask him is, does God, I try to do it to like a beat so that they can remember it, does God know all things? Yes, nothing can be hidden from God. Nothing, not not one circumstance in all of creation. He knows everything that will come to pass and he will predict it perfectly. He predicted three times in the past year in Mark's gospel that he would be betrayed He would be arrested. He would be condemned. He would be mocked. He would be crucified. And he predicted that he would rise again. Friends, he can face the cross. He can truthfully testify about his own identity because he knows that God will raise him again from the dead. And when he rose again, he rose not as the suffering servant. but as the covenant Lord, the messianic king, and the divine son of man who would one day bring judgment on the nations. Friends, look at verse 65. That's why when they when they mock him in verse 65, telling him to prophesy, we should cringe at the irony He did just prophesy. He did just prophesy and they didn't listen. You will see me. Future tense coming on the clouds of heaven. He did just prophesy and they didn't listen. Oh, friend, if you're here and you're not a Christian, I just want to point this out again. I don't know how many times you have heard about what Jesus has done for this sinful world to pay for our sins if we would turn and trust in him. But a time is coming when that period of grace will come to an end. He would give these high priests, these elders, these scribes, these soldiers a chance to turn from their sins and trust in him. He has given us a period of grace. To repent and believe, but that period of grace is coming to an end. And one day we will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds in judgment and in glory. The question is Will we listen to him? To my brothers and sisters in Christ, listening to Jesus, listening to what he says about who he is, looks like truthfully testifying to Jesus. And his true identity, no matter the cost. Because if Jesus is the divine Son of God, we don't need to fearfully deny knowing him. We can truthfully testify at all times to his power and his glory and his grace, knowing that no matter what we face, his promises to come again will come true. That's right. Heavenly Father, we come to you and we have to admit that we do fail to truthfully testify about Jesus as we ought. We we do also do it at times, and we're thankful for your grace in our lives. And we want more of that grace. We want more of a spirit of boldness and of joy, just even a desire to tell others about Jesus. So provide that by your spirit, we pray, and forgive us. Forgive us, Lord, for the ways that we have chosen to keep our distance from Jesus, even though he rules and reigns in heaven and all dominion and authority and power is his. Lord Jesus, we love you. We love you and we want to be made more like you. Help us to share in suffering. Help us to truthfully testify about you as you did about yourself. And grant us grace so that we might, when we stumble and fall, we might remember that we are held fast, not by our own ability to testify about you, but your ability to testify about yourself. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.