The sermon passage this morning is Galatians 5, 1 through 12. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm therefore and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. You were running well, who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is. But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. This is God's word. It's a unique privilege to get to share God's word or get asked to share God's Word. with the very church that week in and week out shares it with you or with me. Um to get to come and think and consider what God has given us in his word with the very people who lead in singing and teaching and praying that I get to profit from. So I'm looking forward to the time together, but would ask recognizing that absolutely no fruit from this will come from this time if the Lord doesn't go. So if you would join me in prayer one more time and then we will dig into Galatians. Let's pray. Our Father, we come to you as a people who are in fact needy. We are dependent as we've already been considering this morning. Certainly for salvation, certainly for righteousness, but even for understanding your word and being able to apply it to our lives. And so, Father, we pray now that you would go before us, that you would lead us in understanding your word and help us to not be hearers only, but also doers of the word that you have so graciously given us. Keep me from error. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. One of my all-time favorite biographies is a book that I think many people in this room have read called Unbroken. It is an arresting I will confession, I didn't read it, I listened to it. I don't read lots of books, I try to listen to them. But it kept me awake through many hours of traveling because it's an arresting story of a pro of a former U. S. Olympian. named Luz Amparini, who becomes a prisoner of war in World War II. A prisoner who, like many of the other POWs, face torture over the course of multiple years. Who face mental abuse and even near starvation. And what's unique about his response in the book is this seemingly unbelievable determination to persevere. And yet the scene that captured my attention the most was as they were moving through what I think they termed the extermination march, or the march that inevitably led to each of the prisoners' termination. And as they were going, they were all considering what their fate, what their end would in fact be, when suddenly planes fly over the sky, and everyone scours to see who the planes are, who's in the cockpit. And as they circle back, if you've read the story, the most amazing part of it is they see there it is, an American symbol. What does that mean for them? It means the war is over. They are free. And as they look down, they see that in fact their captors have left With this newfound freedom, they have many obstacles still to face as they plan to leave Japan and get back to their homeland, and yet What Luz Amprini said ran through his mind over and over and over again were two words. I'm free. I'm free. Can you imagine the feeling? The sort of newfound life or liberty. But I want you also to imagine if I were to just kind of twist the story just a little bit, and we think of Luz Amparini now with this option of freedom suddenly saying, you know what? I don't think I want that anymore. No, I won't board that American plane. In fact, I think I'll just stay right here. I'll stay right in Japan as a prisoner. How would you respond to him What would you write to him if you were to write, let's say, a letter? Well, I ask, because I think if you have a sense of astonishment, even a sense of harshness that would characterize your words. Well, I think that kind of puts us in the emotion or the feeling of Paul as he's writing this letter to the Galatians that Heather just read for us. A feeling of astonishment that they would consider returning to slavery. See, the Galatians, much like the POWs, had experienced a life, transformative freedom. Except instead of it being a physical bondage, as we considered with the POWs, this was more of a spiritual bondage, a bondage under the weight of condemnation for their sin. A bondage that they felt themselves responsible for gaining their own righteousness before God that they could never keep And yet here suddenly they heard from Paul this message that no salvation is found through faith in Christ alone. And they found this newfound freedom. Only as we learn in our text this morning, they're considering returning to that former slavery. So go ahead and turn there if you haven't already, Galatians chapter 5, verses 1 to 12 And as we do, I'll give just a bit more context since we're jumping sort of right into the fifth chapter of the letter. It was a letter written by Paul to these churches in Galatia. uh which is kind of modern-day Turkey. The churches that were likely founded under Paul and Barnabas's ministry. There, if you if you read chap Acts chapter 14 and 15, you'll see their their missionary journey where they went to Galatia and likely founded these very churches. And was comprised of therefore probably mostly Gentile converts. But soon after, Paul and Barnabas go on to other cities to plant more churches, and these false teachers creep in and say, yeah, that that message that Paul taught you. That message of salvation, it is right, but it's not it's not right on its own. It's not satisfactory. Instead, you have to add to it You have to take faith and add to it the Mosaic Law, or in their case, what they were specifically focused on is circumcision, as we heard in the text. This was in effect grace and works. It was adding to faith. And so Paul pleads throughout this letter of Galatians. that they would reject these false teachers and instead stand firm in the freedom that they once knew That rather than look to themselves, they would instead await a righteousness, the hope of righteousness that is to come. And that they would, in doing so, finish the race And so those are going to be our three points this morning. Point number one, stand firm in freedom. Point number two, await the hope of righteousness. And point number three, finish the race. And we'll begin there in verse one with point one, stand firm in freedom. Paul writes, For freedom Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery Pause there. Question for the kids. In verse 1, what is the reason Jesus gives or Paul gives for Jesus setting Christians free? Somebody just shout it out. What is the reason Paul gives for Jesus setting us free? Anybody? The first two words for freedom. Right? Paul gives us his purpose statement right there in the first two words. It is for freedom that Christ has set you free. There is a purpose statement behind it. It was purposeful and it was deliberate. In other words, that you would not just be set free, but you would be set free to live in light of the freedom that you've been given. But then to truly understand freedom, we really need to understand what it was we were freed from and then how it was we were set free. And what we are freed from and how it was we were set free. Paul is clear that freedom does not mean that we are free to believe whatever we want or to live however it is we want. That's not what we are freed from. Or rather, what Paul is saying is it's a freedom from the yoke of the law, or what he calls the yoke of slavery. If you picture kind of two animals with the the wooden yoke over them, it's that kind of burden, that weight, that oppression that you're you're trying to carry. Well we are set free from that weight, which is in this sense the constant striving. to be righteous on your own strength or your own merit, and yet inevitably failing to do so As John Stott said, this freedom is a freedom to set our conscience free from the guilt of sin A freedom from the dreadful struggle to keep the law with a view toward winning God's favor. With a view toward winning God's favor. That is the motive or the impetus behind it. Like a picture that runs through my head, if you ever had a hamster growing up and you watch them running on one of those wheels, that's kind of the illustration of this kind of constant churn of pursuit of self-righteousness. You know, the hamster gets on and it sees at the end of the wheel this this exit to the for the cage. And so it runs and it runs and it runs. But no matter how hard it runs, or for that matter how weak it runs, it never gets an inch closer to that freedom. And in a similar way, no matter how hard we strive after self-righteousness, After our own innate ability to merit our freedom, we find ourselves falling short of God's perfect standard of keeping the law perfectly I mean, just consider in this last year. And when Jesus summarized the law, he said it was to love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. In the last year, in the last month, today? Friends, do you see the futility then of looking to it for your righteousness But it is that very guilt and condemnation that flows from coming up short that Christ has set us free from. Friends, do you know this freedom? Maybe you're here today and you're not a Christian, but your conscience cries out for this type of freedom because you know the weight of that guilt of failing to be the person that you want to be. Friends, as amazing as this freedom is, just as amazing is the way in which Christ has purchased it for us See, rather than leave us kind of yoked in that bondage that we considered, Jesus took our yoke He took those wooden yokes and placed it on his own shoulders and bore the condemnation in our place. That's what he says there in verse 1, that Christ has set us free. Well, it was Christ who did it In himself on the cross. And friends, God Almighty, as Jonathan was sharing at the start of this, created us to image him, to image him perfectly as he is, holy and righteous. And he called us to do that perfectly. And yet each of us have gone our own way. We've each failed to uphold that standard that He has given and yet and are by nature rebels. And though God would be perfectly just to leave us in that position and that slavery and sin's condemnation, he instead sent Jesus to live that perfect life for us. And when he died on the cross, what he was doing was purposely, deliberately bearing the weight of that sin in our place and for us. And three days later, rising again, he. He offers that now to us as the image of that robe that Jonathan shared at the beginning, that robe being offered to us, he offers that righteousness to be placed on us. And why? That's what we just considered. To free us. To liberate us, to deliver us, that we would no longer live under sin's condemnation And that we would no longer strive futily for self-righteousness. Brent, if you're here today and have not done this. I would plead with you to consider this offering of free grace that Christ holds out to you, and that you would turn to Him in faith. But if you are a Christian, you're here this morning, I want to ask if this is your experience. A sort of freedom, of rest. Jesus said in Matthew 11, come to me all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And yet I think that many of us end up viewing the Christian life almost like a sort of internship process. Now in one sense we we kind of come into the internship. It's this highly qualified program that we know we don't have the credentials to actually enter into. And yet we are offered it. And so in that sense, it was we kind of check the by grace through faith box to get into the internship, and we find ourselves there. And yet, as soon as we get into that program, Knowing that there's something on the other side, we now suddenly find ourselves feeling like we have to anxiously toil and strive to earn the job that's to come, to earn what comes after. And yet we and as we think that our performance is the basis of this kind of satisfactory offering in the end, and the gospel says that no, that job is it's guaranteed. And Christ not only brought you into the internship, he gave you his spirit as a down payment that the job is sure. Friends, how would that change your experience at work? If you were in that program, how would that change the way that you you labored? I think it would transform what would otherwise be a sort of ceaseless striving or earning into a more restful, yet zealous pursuit of honoring the one who purchased it for you. And preparing, seeking to prepare yourself for the job to come. It's a restful laboring. To live today, restfully laboring in light of what is guaranteed tomorrow. Are you living in light of this freedom this morning? Or are you weary under the yoke of striving to gain the approval of God What do you feel like you still need to do to gain God's acceptance? Friends, the source of God's pleasure in you. It is not rooted in how well you parent. It is not rooted in how much of the Bible you've memorized. It is not rooted in how many people you've shared the gospel with. If you are in Christ, you are loved. If you are in Christ, you are loved because of Christ And better than that, if you are in Christ, you are loved as the Father loves Christ. And there's no amount of law, no amount of good deeds. No amount of hard work that can cause God to love you more, because it is not in you that his love is ultimately rooted. It is in his Son, which you add nothing to. So then what does this mean for us tomorrow? What does this mean when we wake up tomorrow morning and we maybe we fail to spend that time with the Lord in his word and in prayer? Maybe we've been struggling with sin and we find ourselves failing to to fight against it once again. And friends, I think that means we do not respond with despair. We do not respond in condemnation. Rather, we respond with repentance. And then rejoicing. Turning away from the sin, but then rejoicing that your righteousness is not rooted in it, but it's rooted in Christ Or say conversely you do have that great quiet time in the morning. Or you do find yourself having victory over that sin Well then you respond, not in pride, not puffed up, or thinking that God's love for you is now more than it once was. But you respond in humility, giving all the glory to God, for it's his spirit at work in you that cause you to live faithfully And you rejoice that you were able to respond in a way that honors him. As Philip Reichen summarized, our salvation in Christ. Does not rest on a law that we inevitably break. It rests on a promise that God cannot break And it is this freedom, Paul says, in which we should stand firm. It was for freedom that you were set free And so he says, do not submit again to that yoke of slavery. But then what are we to do? You know, what does standing firm in freedom look like? Well, I think that's part of what he goes on to communicate in the remaining verses. So we'll turn now to point number two in verse two, await the hope of righteousness. Await the hope of righteousness. Follow along with me as I read verses 2 to 6. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything. But only faith working through love. Friends Paul presents two pursuits of righteousness in these verses The first, verses two to four, we can call the legalist, the one who attempts to earn righteousness. But as we've already considered, you cannot earn righteousness in the moment we try to add to grace or earn grace. We by definition forfeit grace. And we it is no longer free or unmerited. And if we forfeit grace, Paul says we forfeit Christ And we place our hope not in him, but in our own ability to be righteous now. But then the second pursuit there is the Christian in verses 5 and 6. In contrast with looking to themselves or their flesh for righteousness, and now they eagerly await the hope of righteousness that is to come, the righteousness That God is working in us through the process of sanctification and gradually conforming us more and more into the likeness of His Son. A righteousness that we are promised in Philippians 1 will be brought to completion at the day of Christ. And a righteousness that the legalist has no hope of ever attaining on their own. But, friends, even better, this hope of righteousness is not a righteousness that ends there. That's not the final state of that hope, but it's a righteousness that points to an end in which we stand before God in that righteousness, in Christ's righteousness. And we enter into his presence to enjoy him forever. It's that day that he says Christians eagerly wait for in which sin is gone, unrighteousness no more. When tears and pain and death are done away with, and we go from this ongoing process of sanctification to that final state of glorification. When the temptation to turn away from grace and strive for self-righteousness is done away with, and we enter God's courts with this untainted praise and thanksgiving in our hearts. And friends, that's what Christians eagerly wait for. Because eagerly, though, does that characterize the way that you wait for this hope? That you await it You know, as the world eagerly awaits that next job opportunity or the buildup to the next the first opening game for college football or the next sports season because your team was terrible. Or the next award or the next paycheck. The question is where our anticipation or our eagerness for this righteousness stacks up I think that would be a good question to consider maybe over lunch. As you look to the week ahead, what is it that you are most eager for? Is it this continued fulfillment of this hope of righteousness? Did you also see that this eager waiting is not lazy It's an active waiting. The Christian who waits, far from being lazy, is actually a Christian who works. Have you ever heard the term nesting for pregnant moms? I promise this will attempt to have a connection to the sermon. So I was entirely ignorant to this concept until about seven months into our first pregnancy when this almost involuntary hormonal overhaul of my wife kicked in and everything needed to be cleaned in preparation for that day that was coming. This excitement over this new life, this new gift, this this coming day that was sure. And so my wife went to work. She labored zealously. And yet it seemed not so much burdensome or tiresome. Though you could ask her afterwards, because I certainly didn't experience it. But what I am certain about is it it didn't do anything to further bring about the birth of the child. Or make birthing any easier, or any of those things. It was simply an involuntary response to this deep and abiding love and desire to be ready and be prepared for that day when the baby came. You see, I think this is something of what happens when the Spirit so convicts you and produces in you this sort of genuine faith that we've been considering. He produces in you a righteousness, a continued growing Christ-likeness, and produces in you this eager anticipation for its fulfillment And compels you then to go to work, to labor in preparation for that that day in which it is, that day that is sure to come, and to honor the one who has promised it to you. And it is this that Paul says is what counts. It's faith at work. It's a faith produced by the Spirit that is not idle. But a faith that works through love, empowered by the Spirit, a love for God and a love for neighbor. The very way Jesus summarized the law A love that 1 John 5 says shows itself, both in keeping God's commands and in growing righteousness. And obedience. Much like my daughter does not now obey me in order to earn my love. My love is guaranteed on the grounds that she is my daughter. But she listens to and obeys me in a response to her love for me and in a way that honors me. And shows the watching world whose daughter she in fact is. I think so it is for us. We love in response and in a way that honors our Heavenly Father, not to earn his that relationship But as an expression of the love we have. I want to ask if that's the way the faith you profess expresses itself. In this sort of working love. As we come here on Sunday morning, is your love for God expressed in the way that you sing to Him? In the way that you worship Him? And the way that you fellowship with his people. Is your love for neighbor present in the way you speak of, speak to your neighbors at home? Or the way that you speak to your colleagues at work. For instance, your love for God there, even when you're at home desperately crying to Him to answer that hundredth prayer you've made. And yet expressing your contentment to trust his plan, his will as good and faithful because of what he's demonstrated to you in Christ. Kids in school. Will your love for God and for your classmates be greater than your desire and love for popularity? But I think if you hear these sayings and you look at your life and you think, well, I'm not measuring up to this. This is certainly not the standard that I've kept. Well, I just want to point us back to that first point. This is a response to what is true. This is a reaction to the true working in our hearts by the Spirit, but it is not itself our source of righteousness. No, we don't depend on doing that rightly. We depend on Christ. And I think as we go back and meditate on Christ, who promised that hope of righteousness for which we look or eagerly await I trust that meditating on it actually is what flames the fire of love to go out and respond. And it is this hope that helps us finish the race, which is the final point that I want us to consider this morning to finish the race. If you would look back with me at verse 7. Paul writes. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens a whole lump. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is. But if I, brother, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves Friends, a clear concern for Paul in these verses is that his dear children in the faith would finish the race they began. But how are they to do that? How is CBC to finish the race that we began? I want to point out two instructions that I think we see in the example Paul gives. And the first is that we guard the truth. I think that's the most dominant example given in the text here, that we guard the truth. Now, Paul says these false teachers have come in with a persuasion that is not from God. And earlier in chapter 4, he described it as making much of the Galatians. It's this demonstrator, this flattering of the Galatians by saying that they have in themselves some ability to contribute to the salvation that God has offered freely in Christ. It's a leaven of man-centeredness. And if kept unstopped, Paul says it will rise to the point of eventually abandoning the truth. And so we are called to guard against such persuasion, and to prepare ourselves to guard against it, and to teach in ways that to prevent teaching that appeals to itching ears. So that we can stand firm in the truth of the gospel even in the face of persecution. Which is why Paul gets so animated here. I, if you know me, am not a naturally animated person. It is not my disposition to get overly excited. But if there is something that Christians are are and should get animated about It is about anything that would put at risk the purity of the gospel. If I possessed the Mona Lisa at home, there is not I would put safeguards and all the locks and everything around it to ensure that nobody could. Could tarnish that picture because it is of such great value and worth. How much more so the purity of the gospel, the message of salvation through faith in Christ that leads to eternal life And so if we are to guard it, we are to have as much and more zeal and animation and passion to ensure that nothing can hinder the truth. Paul was lashing out with that righteous anger, if you look back to chapter one that he had, when he called down curses on anyone who would preach a different gospel than he preached. He is protecting his children from slavery and from forfeiting grace, from forfeiting eternal life We have to see here that all man-centered religions, all of the tarnishing to this true gospel has at least one thing in common, which is Man at the core. There is a sense in which man is given a position of contribution, of ability or self-righteousness. And whether if you just ask your non-Christian friend to kind of explain what it is they believe, whether it's that they mix grace with works, as we've been considering this morning. Whether it's their ability to kind of complete the five pillars of faith as a way of contributing to their God's or Allah's mercy toward them, or their ability to deny themselves of everything desirable. Or to live such a good life now that they will be reincarnated better in the next life. You can see that they all share that same commonality of man working toward or contributing to this righteousness. They make much of man, as the Judaizers were trying to do with the law. But such flattery Abandons the cross by taking away its offense, as Paul puts there in verse 11. The cross eliminates human pride. It makes us utterly dependent on someone outside of ourselves. It makes us needy. But it's an offense that we must preach and a persecution we must be willing to endure with Paul if we are to guard the truth And I want to briefly mention a very tactical or tangible instrument God has actually given for us as a church to guard the truth, and one that I never really viewed in this way until the last couple of years. And one of the greatest tools God has given is is members members meetings. Something that I had always viewed as more or less a perfunctor rubber stamping of activities that somebody would bring up a person, we'd rubber stamp, and then we'd go on to the next But this is God's corporate authority, the gift he's given us to identify who is in and who is out, and to ensure that the folks who teach from the pulpit are teaching truth It is our activity to ensure that we are guarding the truth in this church for generations to come. And an act that we are responsible to uphold in order that our church would be able to finish the race. But I also want to highlight just the second encouragement I see in Paul's example here, and that is that we as a church have an unyielding confidence. that neither the church of God nor the people of God will finally be able to be snatched from the hand of God. You can see there in verse 10, Paul's saying, I am confident in the Lord that you will take no other view. How can Paul be confident in this? Well, he's confident because he knows what Jesus said in John 10 that his sheep will hear his voice and his sheep will follow him. His sheep will not perish and no one will snatch them from his hand. In Matthew 16, Jesus assures his disciples that even the gates of hell will not prevail against his church. There is an unyielding confidence that God will succeed and his people will prevail. And I trust you can see how that helps you endure in times of trial, that helps you persevere to the end. You know, if you've ever watched the end of a suspense movie before you actually watch the rest of it. And you get to that moment where you're unsure if the main character might die, and you remember he's at the end of the movie. Nothing can ultimately happen to him. I know what happens at the end, so I know how to kind of What will ultimately he will ultimately make it? I don't know how he's going to get through it. But I know he ultimately will get through this because he's there at the end of the story And friends, the church is there at the end of the story. They are there with the Lord in heaven. And so there is an ability for us as a church to know That come what may, we will persevere as a people, as a body, and as a church. And friends, this is honestly what carried me through many years of kind of painfully struggling with doubt. I remember being more or less tormented by fears or anxieties having kind of many panic attacks at my desk, thinking that I might not any longer, I'm struggling with the reliability or questions about God and Scripture. And as I was, I found myself clinging to the one truth that served as my assurance. And that is that God had promised not to leave or forsake. He had promised to cause his people to persevere. And he used many instruments. He used the church, he used my wife, he used his word, he used prayer. But he used all of those to uphold the promise I clinged to, which was that he would never leave nor forsake me. And I clung to it like a lifeline, as his means of grace. And that's ultimately what he did, proving faithful as he always does. And that's Paul's confidence of how and how we are to finish the race. Not pretending we're capable of doing it on our own. And we don't put on a mask that hides the fact that we're struggling. We instead throw ourselves at and cling to the promises of God. And we must see each other as his means of grace to do so. Whether you're an elderly saint who has seen God's faithfulness for decades, or you're a saint who just has seen lots of suffering in this life A God intends to use the comfort he's used to comfort you in order that you might serve and comfort others To come alongside your brother and sister that they might be able to stand firm in this freedom, be able to persevere in this faith as they march together to the finish line by the grace of God. Friends, praise God that the bride of Christ will not miss her wedding date. But we need one another to help us get there. And friends, we are confident that we will. If you think back to the confidence that those prisoners of war that Lou Zamperini had on that day when he saw the plane fly by. He knew the war was over and he knew his freedom was won, and yet his deliverance had not yet arrived. It would be a couple of weeks before they were all able to leave Japan. One plane and hundreds of men They would face continued conditions in enemy territory, harsh weather, minimal food. And yet over and over and over again, what caused them to persevere as they waited in enemy property, enemy territory. were those two words. I'm free. And friends, it is a far greater freedom for which Christ has set us free And right now we too remain in enemy territory. We too await that final deliverance. And yet the war has been won. At the cross of Jesus Christ, victory was assured. And by faith in him, you have been freed. And so may the Lord grant us grace to not return again to a yoke of slavery But to instead await his righteousness by faith through the Spirit, that we'd express this faith in love And that he would, by his spirit, enable us to finish the race by faith. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we do come to you and ask that you would bless us as a church in this way. Give us the joy of freedom the rest of freedom. And yet help us to labor in light of this freedom for that day that is to come with eager anticipation, awaiting that hope of righteousness. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.