It is a privilege to have this time with you. Before we dive in, I'm going to go ahead and pray for us one more time, and then we will begin. So would you join me in prayer? Pray. Heavenly Father, for from you and through you. To you for all things. Word has come from you The Spirit works in your word through you to work faith in us to draw us to you We pray that you would be glorified in this time as you do that now. We desire to grow in wisdom. And in knowledge, in faith, and hope and love, to better and more deeply understand your word and your plan of redemption. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, we are in week six of a topical series on the church Over the past five weeks, we've seen that the church is the fulfillment of God's plan to gather a people for himself to serve him as prophets, priests, and kings in his holy temple. That people is created and sustained by his word, and they are a people who call upon God to keep his promises. They call on the name of the Lord. And we also saw that the church is heaven's embassy, the people whom God has given authority to speak for him on earth As they gather together under his authority in his word to proclaim the gospel. That's what we've seen, really. That's a big picture overview of what we've seen in weeks one through five. And now in week six, we'll see how the church gathers not only to proclaim the gospel, but to rightly administer the ordinances of baptism which we're going to consider this week, and the Lord's Supper, which we'll consider next week as we close out the series. But before we come to understand the meaning and significance of baptism and the Lord's Supper, we need to understand the biblical idea of covenants. The simplest definition I could give of a covenant is that it is a relationship bound by oath between two or more parties. There are different types of covenants in Scripture, but the most important types are divine covenants. Divine covenants are ones in which God binds himself by his own promise, by his own oath. to keep his promises to his people. They are dependent upon God. In fact, if we pay attention to Scripture. We see that God's plan of redemption unfolds through specific divine covenants. These divine covenants are really like the backbone of the story of redemption. They are like the spine of the body of Redemption. And one thing that is very important for our purposes today is to recognize that when God makes a divine covenant with his people, he also provides a sign along with the covenant. To remind his people that he'll be faithful to the covenant he's made with them. So I just want to open this up for the kids. Pre-teens, teens, all of y'all want I want to ask you some questions. See if you guys can help me out here. Can any of you tell me the name of a divine covenant in the Old Testament? In the back got Abram there. Which one? The covenant of life? What are you thinking more specifically of, Abram? The one between Adam and God, we would call that one also a covenant of works, right? That's one. What's another covenant in the Old Testament? The Noaic covenant, who said that? Okay, so what with the Noaic covenant specifically? What sign did God give with the Noaiic covenant? So that when the people saw it in the sky, they would know that God would remember his promises to them. The rainbow. Okay, so you have the covenant with Adam, you have the covenant with Noah. We got two more. Three more that you could name. Lois. The Mosaic Covenant. Now the Mosaic Covenant has a couple different signs with it. Lois, can you think of any sign of the Mosaic Covenant? Close. That would be which one? So that we're gonna give you both of those. You get the Abrahamic covenant and the sign of circumcision. Which marks off the people of Israel. Hey, how can you tell an Israelite from the rest of the people on the on earth? They are circumcised. They are God's people by the Abrahamic covenant. Now the Mosaic covenant Does anyone know the sign that I'm thinking of here? You'd obviously have to know what I'm thinking, but there's only a couple of signs related to the Mosaic Covenant. Any of the kids, what sign is associated with the Mosaic Covenant? It's a meal, and it's called the Starts with a The Passover, yeah. Hey, so check this out. The Abrahamic covenant by which God marks off his people from the world through circumcision. Hey, these are my people. You can tell they're my people through circumcision. And through them the Messiah is come. And then he later makes the Mosaic covenant with those people and gives them a meal. By which they might remember that God delivered them out of slavery in Egypt. So those are the two covenants, the Mosaic and the Abraham, that I the Abrahamic that I have most in mind here. I said that the biblical story of redemption unfolds through covenants, and indeed it does, but neither the Abrahamic, nor the Mosaic, nor later the Davidic covenants are the fulfillment. Of God's plan of redemption. The fulfillment of God's plan of redemption comes in the new covenant. When God the Son came in the person of Jesus Christ to fulfill the demands of the law by living a perfect life, Than to bear the curse of the law by dying in his people's place on the cross and by rising again from the dead, proving that God accepted his sacrifice And he calls all people everywhere to repent, to believe in him for the forgiveness of sins, and to all who do, God binds himself to them by an oath, by a covenant. to keep his promises to them, which he has signed and sealed with the blood of his son. And like the other divine covenants in Scripture, God gives signs along with the new covenant. To remind his people that he'll be faithful to the covenant that he made with them. And through those signs, like with the people of Israel, to make his people visible on earth. And what are those signs of the new covenant? Baptism and the Lord's Supper. Baptism marks God's people out on earth as they declare publicly their faith in Jesus. Jesus Christ, our God is the triune God through faith in Jesus Christ. And the Lord's Supper reminds them weekly. Of their faith and of how God rescued them out of slavery to sin, the to uh uh slavery to sin to bring them to himself. Historically, Protestants have defined true churches by the right preaching of the Word of God and the right administration of the ordinances, baptism and the Lord's Supper So we're in a topical series on the church, so it makes sense that we take time to understand how these ordinances function in the life of the church. So Jonathan preached last week that the church is a gathering of people But not just any gathering like a barbecue or people hanging out at the pool, but a people who gather specifically and consciously under the authority of Christ. in his word through the preaching of the gospel, who gather to rightly proclaim God's word, and now we'll see that the church is a people who not only rightly proclaim God's word, but rightly practice the ordinances God has given to the church. And those ordinances are baptism and the Lord's Supper. And this week we'll consider baptism by answering three questions. First, we're going to ask and answer what is baptism? Then we're going to ask and answer who should be baptized. And finally, we'll ask and answer. How should we baptize? So first, what is baptism? What is baptism? Many of you'll remember a couple of years ago, uh Sabrina Carr, one of the members of CBC, was baptized. Uh this was the first baptism I had performed as a pastor where my two sons were old enough to really kind of engage with what was going on. Right? So they they asked questions after it was all over. Why did why is daddy getting into the water? And why is Miss Sabrina getting into the water with him? And why did Daddy dunk her under the water? Right? But in the days that followed, after we explained to them what was going on, they were so captivated by the idea of baptizing that they took it upon themselves to baptize each other. When they were taking their baths. I baptize you, right? They would do it in the bathtime and they would play around doing it outside of the bath. Frankly was amazing to watch, right? It was heartwarming. It was funny. But here's my question for you. Was what they did actually baptism? Or imagine you're at the pool or the beach. Wade out into the waves, right? You wait out there and a friend runs up. Tackles you into the water. And as they're tackling you into the water, they they proclaim that you've been baptized. Is that baptism according to Scripture? Is that what baptism is? Well scripture never lays out in one single passage what constitutes a baptism and what doesn't constitute a baptism, but it does provide a significant amount of teaching by instruction. And example, so much so that we can define what baptism is. So if you're the type of person who likes to take notes This would be a place where you'd want to take notes. Here's my definition. What is baptism? Here's my definition. It's a little long. I'm going to go slow one time through it. But then I'll repeat the phrases as I unpack it here in this first point. What is baptism? Baptism is a believer's public profession of faith in Christ, and a church's affirmation of that faith In which the believer is immersed in water, symbolizing his union with Christ and Christ's people So let's unpack that a bit. Baptism is a believer's public profession of faith. A person who has sincerely confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord then publicly declares that confession to the world by being baptized And I want to emphasize the public nature of our faith. There's a lot of talk today, especially among the political class, about how they have a personal faith, but private faith in Jesus. And that's almost to ensure assure their constituents that their faith won't interfere with their office. But in the Bible, there is no such thing as private faith. Our faith is deeply personal and intensely public. Jesus himself says in Matthew chapter 10, verse 32. Everyone who acknowledges me before men, in front of mankind, in front of other people, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven And the converse is also true. Whoever will not acknowledge me before men, I will not acknowledge before my father. Our whole life is intensely public. This is why Paul says in the book of Romans, offer your entire life. As a living sacrifice to God. In Paul's mind, in Christ's mind, there's no divide between the secular and the spiritual. Our faith is intensely public And we first enter into that public sphere as Christians through baptism, publicly declaring our faith in Christ. Baptism is one of the first commands of Jesus. We're called to obey as believers. And through it, we publicly declare our faith in Christ. It's how we tell the world without words, I'm on Team Jesus Right? Just think of other examples of visual declarations of solidarity that you might come across in our world. So think about after the Paris attacks. Facebook gave you the option, uh to Facebook gave users the option to use the French flag filter on their profile pick. in order to publicly display their solidarity with Parisians. It was a visual way to say without words, I stand with them. Baptism is how we publicly, visually, and powerfully tell the world, I stand with Jesus. Baptism is a believer's public profession of faith in Christ. But it's not just that, it's also a church's affirmation. Of that profession of faith. Baptism isn't something that someone does to themselves. Just imagine like John before he was a believer. I hear a sermon, I come to faith in Jesus, and then I decide to walk down to the Antacostia River and take a swim and call that my baptism. That's not what baptism is. Baptism in Scripture always, always involves two parties. The party being baptized. And the party doing the baptizing, and both are crucial. And the reason I'm saying baptism is a church's affirmation of a profession of faith is because. God has given the church the authority to speak for him on earth. Recall again the sermons that we've heard over the last two weeks. Who has been given authority on earth to speak for heaven? The church has been given that authority. Recall Matthew 16 and 18. Jesus gives the keys of the kingdom to the church. To bind and loose on his behalf, albeit imperfectly, but to do so really. In baptism, a believer publicly professes faith in Christ And then the second party, the church, affirms that profession of faith in Christ by baptizing them. In baptism, two parties are speaking: the person professing faith. And the church affirming that profession of faith. But we see that baptism is also or is carried out through an immersion in water, in which The believer is immersed in water. Not often that I use Greek terms from the pulpit, because it seems obviously condescending to most people, but the term baptize comes from the Greek term baptizo. Which means to dip or plunge with the connotation of fully submerging into water. We even see this assumed in a number of baptisms in the New Testament. You think about how John was baptizing in the Jordan River. That's a lot of water there. Why would you need so much water? Because we're going to put your whole body underneath of it. Jesus was then baptized in the Jordan River. You think about Philip and the Ethiopian eunuch, who they continued along the way until they came to a large enough body of water where he could then Luke says, go down into the water and then come up out of the water. Or you could think about the symbolism that Paul attaches to baptism Paul says in Romans 6, we are buried with Christ in baptism. Have you ever seen anyone buried just partially intentionally? You don't just bury half the body like whoa, that's a cemetery of half-buried bodies. Nobody would go to visit their loved one there. You bury the whole body in the ground. Now, I do recognize that there are some modern scholars who have rejected that parallel by saying that people weren't buried in the same way back then that they are today. Instead, they were placed in something akin to a crit. So they weren't They weren't buried under the ground, but that is a distinction without a difference. In ancient burial and modern burial, we are completely encapsulated by the earth. So then in baptism We are fully immersed into the water, being buried with Christ, and then being raised again the newness of life. And as we continue our definition, that immersion in water symbolizes the believer's union with Christ And Christ's people. Paul's description from Romans 6 provides the clearest explanation of the symbolism of baptism in the New Testament. Those who've made a sincere profession of faith in Christ are united to Christ by that faith. And then we are baptized, powerfully and dramatically displaying the union that has already occurred. We have Die together with him. The power of sin has been broken in your life if you have put your faith in Christ and been baptized. And we also have been raised To new life in Christ. By faith, we have been united to Christ. That's displayed powerfully in baptism, but not just united to Christ, but also Christ's people. Think again of Acts chapter 2. The Spirit comes. Peter preaches to the crowd. People in the crowd are convicted and they ask. What should we do? And Peter says to them, repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of sins. And after they are baptized 3,000 are added to the church, and then throughout the book of Acts, that pattern continues The people who are baptized are not only united to Christ, but come into the fellowship of the church. When I signed a scholarship to play baseball at VCU in Richmond, Virginia. I wasn't only displaying my commitment to represent VCU as a student athlete. I was also committing to lock arms with the other members of the team, most of whom I didn't even know at that point. In the same way, baptism displays both our commitment to Christ and our commitment to lock arms with his people in the church. Now, before we move on, I do think it's helpful to point out what baptism is not. Baptism is not necessary for salvation. Baptism is not necessary for salvation. Some groups hold to a doctrine known as baptismal regeneration, which essentially teaches that baptism is required for salvation. Now this teaching is usually based on 1 Peter 3. 21, where Peter says that baptism now saves you. But in that same verse, Peter then clarifies what he means when he says, not the removal of dirt from the flesh, the act of being baptized going down into the water. But an appeal to God for a good conscience. Peter is simply connecting baptism with belief It's not the getting wet part that saves. That just removes dirt from the body. What saves is the appeal to God for a clean conscience, which is signified by baptism. The appeal to God always comes first First belief, and then we are baptized to publicly identify with Christ and his people. You can even think about Paul in 1 Corinthians when he says, I didn't come to baptize. That would be weird if baptism caused salvation. Why would an apostle not come to baptize if that's what it was? But baptism always follows faith through which we are saved. saved. So, what is baptism? Baptism is a believer's public profession of faith in Christ And a church's affirmation of that faith, in which the believer is immersed in water, symbolizing his union with Christ and Christ's people. So, if that's what baptism is, then who should be baptized? That brings us to point two. Who should be baptized? I hope the answer to that question is clear by now. All Christians should be baptized. And only Christians should be baptized. Baptism is for Christians. It's for those who've heard God's word And upon hearing God's word in the gospel, have responded in faith, laying hold of Christ and receiving all of the glorious benefits that are found in him. Jesus indicates the centrality of baptism in the Great Commission when he tells the apostles to go and make disciples. These are. Big picture instructions for the church. What are Jesus's big picture instructions for the church? Go make disciples. When you make disciples, what's the first thing you do? Baptize them and then teach them all that Jesus has commanded. Go preach the gospel when people respond in faith, baptize them and then teach them. All that Jesus has commanded. If you have professed faith in Jesus Christ, and the genuineness of that profession can be discerned and affirmed by a church, then you should be baptized. I just want to pause real quick and say, if any of you understand yourself to be a Christian, that is, you've heard the gospel and repented and believed in Jesus, and you haven't been baptized, You need to be baptized. It's the first command we're called to obey as Christians Even if you've been a Christian for years, you've been walking with Jesus for a long time, and you haven't been baptized, you should embrace the principle, I don't think it's in scripture anywhere, but better late than never. I'm gonna apply it in this conversation, better late than never. Jesus calls you to obey his command, to be baptized. Not because it saves you, but because it's his command. And we'll see later in this sermon that it reminds us of something powerful and important in our own walk. as Christians. So if you haven't been baptized and you've been walking with Christ for a while, I want to encourage you strongly, get baptized. I'll even talk to you about uh talk with that about you, uh talk with you about that after the service today if you'd like But when we talk about who should be baptized, it's also important to remember that in baptism, two parties are speaking Right? The person who is professing faith and the church that is affirming that faith. So when a church brings somebody forward to be baptized, they're saying That is a genuine profession of faith. We're putting our our mark of approval upon it. As best we can tell, this person believes in Jesus Christ. It's what we also call a Credible profession of faith. Now, you won't find the phrase credible profession of faith anywhere in Scripture But historically, Protestants have recognized that a genuine profession of faith, a credible profession of faith, is more than just repeating words. It's more than just kind of empty, empty like saying something without any meaning. Just kind of, yeah, I'll say these words, but I don't actually mean them There's more to a profession of faith, and that's why they use the word a credible profession of faith. And a credible profession of faith is an informed and personal profession of faith. It's informed. Now think of somebody who comes to CBC. Maybe they're visiting for the first time and they're not coming from a Christian background and they they come, they hear a sermon, and they respond By professing faith in Jesus Christ, right? How are we going to respond? Praise God, right? But then after the service, you know, you get into a conversation with this person, and it becomes clear That they still don't understand things like who God is, what sin is, who Jesus is, and what responding to him entails. We would say to that person, We are so encouraged that you have professed faith. Hey, let's take some time and walk through one of the gospels. So that you can understand the gospel message better. That you can understand who God is, what what sin is, who we are, and how he calls us to live. And if after that you understand the gospel and want to follow Jesus in his fellowship, We'll move forward with baptism, right? It needs to be an informed profession. But not only does it need to be informed, it also needs to be personal. That is to say, it must be our profession of faith It can't be coerced. It can't be forced. It can't be manipulated into a genuine profession of faith, nor are we saved and baptized. On the merits of the faith of our family members, that we will all stand before God on our own two feet, and so we must all personally profess faith to be saved. A credible profession of faith is an informed and personal profession of faith. And determining whether a profession of faith is credible is often most difficult when it comes to the children of believers. Now I I want to make this so crystal clear up front. Kids, and I get your attention real quick. If you are under the age of 18, can I get your attention? You can follow Jesus today. You don't have to wait another minute, another moment, another day, week, month, or year to put your faith in Jesus Christ. To lay hold of him and receive all of his benefits. Christianity is not just for adults. Jesus says, bring the children to me. Come to Jesus Christ and be saved. Following him is not something you have to wait until later to do. If you understand the gospel, that God is your holy creator, that you have sinned against him and are under his judgment. But because God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him would have eternal life. That gospel, if you understand that and believe that today, then you follow Jesus. You can walk with him. You don't have to wait. Right? If you understand that message, I want to encourage you to believe that message Lay hold of Jesus by faith today, and you will be saved. That is God's promise to you in the new covenant. That He signed and sealed with the blood of His own Son. Yet, at the same time, the pastors of CBC may encourage you to wait to be baptized for a time. Why would we do that? Two reasons. First, because the Bible doesn't command that baptism happen within a certain time period, though we all your pastors fully admit that most baptisms happen not long after a profession of faith. We recognize that. But second, because we want to make sure that your profession of faith is informed And it's your own that you understand, really genuinely understand the gospel message and what following Jesus entails. We we love that God has placed the children in this church in Christian homes. We praise God for that and for the biblical instruction that the kids receive as a result of being raised in a Christian home and how God regularly uses that to bring the children of believers to faith. But we also recognize that. Children, out of God's good design, especially young children, will mimic the beliefs of their parents. Think about like Jack and Knox. I baptize you, I baptize you like they're just they're mimicking what daddy's doing. And that's a good thing But it doesn't necessarily mean that's it that's genuine faith, credible faith that we can affirm before the church. They'll mimic the beliefs of their parents before those beliefs become their beliefs. And we simply want to wait until children are able to understand more fully all that the gospel entails and how Jesus calls us to live. Kids, I want y'all to think about it this way, kids and parents even. Your parents, if they buy you Legos, are gonna buy you Legos that are probably appropriate for your age. Because those are the types of Legos that you will likely understand how to put all the pieces together, right? If they got you one that would like so let's say you are five years old and mom and dad come home with one like a Lego. set that is like the Millennium Falcon for like grown adults who still struggle to put it together. You're gonna but you're gonna be happy, but the thing ain't gonna look like a Millennium Falcon by the time you're done, right? We simply want you to know how to how how to put the pieces of Christianity together in a way that you can comprehend and that you understand what Jesus is calling you to do. And once we once we understand that you are able to do that as pastors and we're able to affirm that profession of faith. Uh we want to bring you forward for baptism. But because in baptism two parties speak, right? The one professing faith and the one affirming the profession of faith. Our elders want to be up front, as we were in our document on baptism, with the congregation, about where we collectively feel comfortable having those conversations. And that's going to be at the age of 13. Not to say that kids before the age of 13 can't be Christians. They absolutely can. But is this where we feel comfortable as a church affirming publicly the profession of faith and bringing them into the membership? That's not a scriptural law. We recognize it. The Bible nowhere says that you have to be a certain age, but that's where our elders feel collectively comfortable. have questions about that, you can find me after the service. We are want to be open with you and answer those questions. And I also want to be clear when it comes to delaying baptism for a time, we may be wrong. We're not infallible. It's possible we're wrongly encouraging genuine Christians to wait when God wouldn't have them wait. Yet it's also possible that we'll be wrong at some point in the other direction. By baptizing someone who isn't actually a believer in all of these situations. How am I encouraging you to live and walk? And how am I encouraging myself to live and walk? In all of these situations, We entrust ourselves to the goodness and sovereignty of God, who will shepherd all of his sheep, baptized or not, through the valley of the shadow of death. But I just I just want to say again to the kids, even if we encourage you to wait on baptism, we don't want to encourage you to wait on following Jesus. Lay hold of him today by faith. to save you to the uttermost. He needs completely, totally, totally save you. He's accomplished everything we need for life and salvation. But as we're discussing who should be baptized, I think it's right also to spend a few moments discussing the practice of infant baptism. Should infants Be baptized. I recognize this is a very sensitive subject for some. Some of you may have been baptized as infants. Some of you may have baptized your infants. I was baptized as an infant, and my parents were utterly sincere in bringing me forward to be baptized when I was a baby. But the question remains, do we have good reason from Scripture to baptize infants? And because we're a Baptist church, probably gives it away a little bit, but we answer the question, no. The infants shouldn't be baptized. Why is that? Well, because as we've already discussed, baptism is an outward sign of an already existing inward reality. That inward reality is that is in is in response to God's word A person has consciously laid hold of Christ by faith, and thus having been united to Christ by faith, has been united with him in his death and in his resurrection. Throughout the New Testament, you'll find that baptism is closely linked with faith, with belief, with repentance. Think again about what Paul says in Romans 6 Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. Baptism points to inward realities that have already taken place, not that we hope will one day take place. And this also impacts who we take into membership. Since we believe Scripture teaches that baptism is reserved for those who give a credible profession of faith, we ask those who were baptized as infants. If they are now believers to be baptized before joining the church. If that's you, and up to this point you've been interested in joining, but now might not be so sure, I want to repeat that I understand how sensitive this subject is. Subject is. Get it? Genuine, godly, extremely thoughtful Christians differ on this uh topic. Some of my heroes in the faith, people I read often, uh believe in infant. baptism, uh but I would want just also want to offer to you that I'd be happy to talk with you as much as would be helpful to share with you why we think baptism is for believers. Only. Who should be baptized? All believers and only believers. Which brings us to our third and very brief final point. How do we baptize? How do we baptize? First, we think of the mode of baptism, the way that it happens. We baptize people by immersing them in water. Does this mean that we won't accept the baptism of people who were believers but were sprinkled or poured over but not immersed? Normally, we would accept those baptisms. And the reason is because we take seriously Paul's instruction that there is one baptism And the meaning of that baptism is profound, symbolizing as it does, regeneration, cleansing, union with Christ and his people. Those things only happen once in a person's life. And so baptism should only happen once. In a person's life. But it is and will continue to be our practice to immerse individuals in water. Second, there's the question of who should do the baptism. And since the church is affirming a person's profession of faith, does that mean everyone in the church should gather around and take turns dunking a person into the water? That would be interesting to watch, right? Right? But we think it best to normally have an elder of the church conduct baptisms since they've been set apart to lead the church. So, if a church didn't have any elders or a pastor, which is possible at some point for some reason, and a person in that church came to faith, They could ask one of the members of that church, likely a mature member of the church, set them apart to do the baptism, to baptize on behalf of the congregation. Which leads directly into our third point, context. How do we baptize? Normally, baptism should be done in the context of the gathered church That most clearly displays the church's use of the keys to speak on behalf of Jesus and clearly displays the union between the person being baptized and the body of Christ into which they're being baptized. Now I fully recognize that baptism happens a lot of different ways in the United States. Does that mean if you were baptized at a camp or a college ministry or in a neighbor's pool, that what you experienced wasn't baptism? I'd say at least not necessarily, no. What we would want to know is if you were being baptized in response to the right preaching of the gospel and into the name of the Father, Son. in spirit. So if you were baptized at a college camp uh or uh at a college ministry or in a camp or potentially in a neighbor's pool, uh while we would normally encourage baptisms to happen in the gathered church. If that baptism was done in connection with the preaching of the gospel, the right preaching of God's word and into the name of the Father, Son, and Spirit, then we are going to regard it as A true and genuine baptism. But we do want to teach and preach from the front the importance of the church's role in baptism in order to recover the church's role in baptism. And teach and practice that baptism should normally be done in the context of the gathered church because of what it symbolizes: our union with Christ and with his people. That's a lot on baptism. And descending, as we've just done, into the particulars of baptism can easily divert our attention away. from its beauty and power as an emblem, a sign of God's faithfulness to us. And I don't want that to happen. So I want to close with this. I want you to remember that God has given us baptism as a sign of the new covenant. So that when we, when you remember your baptism, you would remember his faithfulness. And the certainty of his promises to you. So I want to close with a simple challenge today. If you are walking with Christ and have been baptized in obedience to the gospel, I want to challenge you to remember your baptism. Not necessarily the specifics of the event itself, but remember God's faithfulness. Remember his promises to you in the new covenant. That it's God who grants the faith that saves And all who lay hold of Christ by faith will be saved. Born again to newness of life The old has died and passed away. Behold, the new has come. The old man has died with Christ on the cross and the new man Rose with him from the dead and now walks by the power of the Spirit who dwells in us. As surely as you were buried with Christ in baptism You were also raised again with him in resurrection power. Those things have happened to you. Lay hold of Christ by faith Remember your baptism. Pray. Heavenly Father, as we think about the sign and seal of baptism and all that it symbolizes in the new covenant We are reminded that nothing in our hands do we bring to you. You have done it all You called us from eternity past. You sent your word. You sent your son, the living and true word. He fulfilled the law's demands that we could never fulfill for ourselves. He bore the curse of the law on our behalf. He rose again triumphantly from the dead and says, Come to me, all who are weary and burdened. We are weary and burdened and we bring nothing to you. We did not earn this salvation. Christ paid it all. Did it all. He is our all-in-all. Our justification, our redemption, our adoption, our glorification, our sanctification. It's all wrapped up in him. Thank you for the new covenant. Thank you for the baptism that you've given to us and all it symbolizes and represents. Help us to remember it now, to walk in the newness of life that you've called us to by the power of the Spirit who's in us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.