What do you do in difficult circumstances and what makes the difference when you face hard things? Let me give you an example. Wonder if you've ever been through a famine before. One of the worst famines recorded in history is the potato famine of Ireland. In the 1840s, the potato plants in Holland, France, and many other parts of Europe had begun to blacken and wither beneath the stems. Potatoes were literally rotting in the ground. Now you ask, why does this matter? Well, uh the Irish fed themselves off of potatoes, so when they heard that the potato famine was racing across Europe, there was actually great fear in Ireland Because they dreaded it actually hitting their own homeland. One author wrote, In 1845, an Irish farmer in his field pushed his hand into the ground to check on his potatoes and his fingers found only soft rotten mush. He desperately dug up the entire field only to find all of his potatoes had rotted away in the ground Several years thousands of upon hundreds of thousands of people died from the famine Travelers throughout Ireland found dead men and women in their homes, beside the roads, even lying in the fields And then by 1850 the famine was over, but over a million Irish people had died due to the famine. Well, unless you're a farmer, you probably haven't been through a five-year famine and haven't experienced this kind of difficult season. My question is, what is it for you this morning? What are you facing in your own life that you're struggling with? Unemployment? Struggling with depression? Are you struggling with the kids? Family relationships? Some kind of sickness? What is it that you're facing right now that you'd consider to be difficult and hard for your own life? Well, the author of 1 Kings wants to help us, and he wants to help us how to consider we work through difficult seasons, and he's going to offer two things. On the one hand, do we fear God and rely on Him? Or on the other hand, do we survive by relying on ourselves? The author of 1 Kings wants us to consider how the fear of the Lord matters as we fight for survival in difficult seasons. We want to look at 1 Kings chapter 18, and we're going to find in this text, in difficult seasons, that the fear of the Lord helps us to, number one, Be courageous. Number two, to obey, and number three, to fight self-reliance. And that's our outline. In a difficult season, the fear of the Lord helps us to, number one, be courageous, number two, obey, and number three, fight self-reliance. And my prayer for you is that in a difficult season you'll be able to fear the Lord Almighty and trust in His Son. The fear of the Lord is certainly the beginning of wisdom. And so to fight for survival, we need to fight not by relying on ourselves, but on the one who made us and redeemed us. So before we read chapter 18, I want to just give you a little bit of background because we're dropping in the middle of a book, and so we want to understand where we are within the book. So turn to chapter 16 in your Bibles 1 Kings 16, verse 29, you'll find that Ahab becomes king over Israel, and he does what is often condemned of kings. He married a foreign wife. Now, you know why that was a concern. It's not because of racial issues. It's not because of ethnicity or skin color. Foreign wives introduced foreign gods. That was the main reason why there was warning not to marry foreign wives. And often that foreign wife would then persuade their husband to turn away from the one true living God. and worship other god. So it was with Ahab. Look at chapter sixteen, starting in verse thirty-one. And as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, he took for his wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbile, the king of the Sidonians And went and served Baal and worshipped him. He erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he built in Samaria. And Ahab made an asherah. Ahab did more to provoke the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him. So Ahab's worship of a false god angered the Lord God Almighty. And as the king and queen go, so go the rest of the nation. The rest of the nation begin to be corrupted by the worship of Baal. And what we find is that God is going to do everything he can to rescue his own people. He's not going to let them run astray. He's going to go do everything he can to capture the hearts of his own people. And how's he going to do that? Well, the Lord does that, you see, at the beginning of chapter 17, by sending Elijah. Elijah's going to announce a famine at the start of chapter 17. Look at chapter 17, verse 1. Now Elijah the Tishbite of Tish in Gilead said to Ahab, As the Lord, the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall be neither dew nor rain these years except by my word Now the question is, why a famine? Of all things, why would God have Elisha come and announce a famine? Well, the most important fact that you're probably going to understand about Baal is that Baal is the god of rain. So what better way to show who is in charge than for God to take away the rain? And that'll set an important backdrop for the rest of our conversation as we look at 1 Kings 18. So now turn to chapter 18. And you should find that on page 299 in your Bibles. So in difficult season, point number one, the fear of the Lord helps me to be courageous. And let's read the first six verses. After many days, the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria, and Ahab called Obadiah, who was over the household. Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly, and when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, Obadiah took a hundred prophets, and hid them by fifties in the cave, and fed them with bread and water. And Ahab said to Obadiah, Go through the land to all the springs of water and to all the valleys. Perhaps we may find grass and save the horses and mules. save the horses and mules alive, and not lose some of the animals. So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went in one direction by himself, and Obadiah went in another direction by himself. Well, after three long years of famine, the word of the Lord comes to Elijah the prophet, who has been living in a land north of Sidon. And God commands Elijah in verse 1. He w to return to Israel and go to see Ahab for some unspecified purpose. The promise offered when Elijah does is that God will actually take away send the rain again. And Elijah did what the Lord told him to do, so he sets out to find Ahab. The news that God would once again bring the rain actually is welcome news after three long years of famine. Look at verse 2. It tells us that the famine was very severe in Samaria. And then verse 3. We're introduced to the character of Obadiah. Now, this is not Obadiah, the minor prophet, that we see in the Old Testament. This is a different Obadiah. He's in charge of the household for Ahab And you can think of Obadiah as Ahab's chief of staff. He's the right-hand man in all of his personal affairs, and he's in charge of running his household. So for those of you who watch Downton Abbey, you know, this is Mr. Carson and Miss Hughes combined together. But if you want to think of a biblical example, this is Joseph running Pharaoh's household, overseeing the work of Pharaoh's household. Now, for those of you who work in government, you may have never thought of Obadiah as an example to you, but realize that he's a secular servant. He's working for the king of the land. He is his right-hand man, helping to carry out all of the governmental affairs and actually watching over his household to facilitate the king. What an awkward position that is to be in. To be someone who fears the Lord and to yet to work for this specific king. What kind of ethical dilemmas that creates even in his position to work through that. But that's a good question to consider and think about. Like, what does it take to be faithful as you work for someone who you know actually is an evil king? You have questions about that? We can talk about that later after the service. As the famine continued to get severe, there was a threat to livestock. In agricultural society, your livestock, your cows, your horses, your chickens, your cattles, your sheep, and your goats were extremely important to your survival, and Obadiah was so important to the king that the king asked Obadiah to help him. keep all the animals alive. Look at verse five. King Ahab has a plan. He wants to go throughout the land and look for the water and the grass to save the animals. In verse six, he divided up the land and they headed in different directions. Now, in some of your Bibles, you'll notice halfway through verse 3 a parenthetical comment. Look at there verse 3. It says, Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly, and he went And when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in the cave and fed them with bread and water. So it begins with this comment, Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. Or as some of your translations say, he was a devout believer in the Lord. Now, do you fear God? Fear of the Lord is not what we think of. Fear of earthly things like fear of spiders or heights or other things. When we think of fear, we think of honor and reverence of God. Fear of the Lord has to be central to our life. If you fear God greatly, it should lead you to do great things for God. And that's what Obadiah did, at great risk to his own life. He courageously hid a hundred prophets of the Lord in the caves, and he fed them with bread and water, in order to preserve their life and to save them from the genocide of the queen, who was trying to eliminate all of the prophets. Of God throughout the land, because they're opposed to her own God. If you fear God greatly, it should actually lead you to do courageous things on his behalf. Courage is not just some noble act that describes some noble characteristic of you. Courage is a reflection of a heart of someone who greatly fears the Lord. Now I want you to picture. Here we are, we're all at Chevrolet Pool. I'm in the water, standing on the side, and my four-year-old son is actually on the edge. He's looking at me and he's wondering whether he should jump So as your kids often do, standing on the edge, contemplating whether this is a good risk for themselves, they're wondering whether they should do it. And what's going through his little mind? Well, on the one hand, he's got a trust and reverence for me. And so he's wondering whether he should jump, but he's also got a fear of the water. And what's going to make him actually jump? Well, not that he's a good swimmer. What's going to make him jump? Actually, if he trusts me, if he has an honor and reverence for me more than his fear of the water, he'll actually probably take the leap Well, actually, it's no different for us. You know, if you fear God more than everything else, that should help you face the pressures that this life is going to offer. If you fear God more than everything else, if you have a greater reverence and respect for God, it'll actually help you face the difficulties that Lith's life is going to offer. The fear of the Lord should actually matter for how you live. You know, I want you to think in terms of your own mind. If I fear God, then I should, and then fill in the blank. Just to take a moment and think about it If I fear God, I should then fill in the blank. What is that? Is it a hard conversation that you need to have, but actually even putting off? Maybe the Lord is asking you to give up something or do something that you've been reluctant to do. Is there responsibilities that you just haven't followed through with? And yet if you do, actually, it would change things around you. The hard thing is, as Christians, 2016, 2017, and even more so now, 2018, The pressures we face in this culture are just growing. The fear that we have actually has to be higher for God as the pressures of this life press into our lives. And the fear of the Lord can actually help us face the pressures that this culture is actually putting on Christians because as we continue to face these culture, this culture. As religious freedom is taken away, as it becomes more antagonistic towards Christians, the fear of the Lord will matter as you consider how you to face actually the pressures that this culture So Obadiah feared the Lord greatly, and that led him to do courageous things for God. But we see number two. In a difficult season, the fear of the Lord helps me, point number two, to obey even when things seem unjust. And that's verses seven. 16. And as Obadai was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. And Obadiah recognized him, and fell on his face, and said, Is that you, my lord, Elijah? And he answered him, It is I. Go tell the Lord. Behold, Elijah is here And he said, How have I sinned that you would give your servant into the hand of Ahab to kill me? As the Lord your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my Lord has not sent to seek you. And when they would say he's not here He would take an oath of the kingdom or nation that they had not found you. And now you say, go tell the Lord, behold, Elijah's here. And as soon as I have gone from you, the Spirit of the Lord will carry you, I know not where. And so when I come and tell Ahab, And he cannot find you, he will kill me, although I, your servant, have feared the Lord from my youth. Has it not been told, my Lord, what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the Lord? and how I hid a hundred men of the Lord's prophets by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water. And now you say, go tell Lor, go tell your Lord, behold Elijah's here, and he will kill me And Elijah said, As the Lord of hosts lives before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and he told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah. So verse 7, Obadiah was on his way to find water and grass for the animals, and when he suddenly runs into Elijah, he You have to think about this. Elijah was making a declaration as a prophet of God that there will be famine in the land, in the beginning of chapter 17. And then what does he do? He's gone for three years. He disappears. So Obadiah is surprised when Elijah suddenly shows up He falls to the ground and asks Elijah, is that you, Elijah? And verse 8, Elijah responds, It is I, go tell Ahab, I'm back. Go tell your Lord, behold, Elijah is here. Now, do you know who Elijah is? When you read this entire chapter, you you think of him as some super spectacular character. I mean, after all, in this next section, he's gonna call down fire from heaven. Against the prophets of Baal. I don't know how many friends are able to do that kind of thing. Just unusual the ability of this man and what he does. And yet, what we have to recognize is that Elijah fundamentally is the prophet of the Lord, which means he's anointed by God to speak on God's behalf to the people of Israel, but primarily also to the king. So Elijah, we see, has returned from Israel, and you look at verse 9. Obadai gets frustrated with Elijah because of his ridiculous plan. He says, How have I sinned? Interesting phrase. Or you can you could translate it, what have I done wrong? If Obadiah goes and tells Ahab, Elijah was back, what's Ahab going to do? Well, he's concerned that Ahab is actually going to kill Obadiah. And why is that? Well, consider what happened. Elijah had been away for three long years during the famine. And then verse 10 Ahab so desperately wanted to find Elijah. What did he do? He went to dozens of nations. He went to all kinds of countries. He put out an all-points bulletin to find this man throughout the world. Even when the country said they had not seen Elijah, Ahab made them take an oath that they had not seen him. And then look at verse 12. Because Elijah has been gone for so long. Obadiah was concerned if he told Ahab about Elijah, the spirit would carry Elijah away again. And so Ahab would get mad at Obadiah and kill him. Obadiah had been hiding the prophets, and now he thought it was unjust for him Who had not sinned against Elijah to actually die. Look at the logic in the text. Look at Obadiah's argument with Elijah. Verse 9. What have I done to you? How have I sinned against you? Verse 10. Ahab has been searching for you for three long years. Verse 12. If I tell Ahab, you'll disappear again and leave me hanging. And then look at verse 12. The key word there in the ESV is although, and this is the turn. Verse 12, I've feared the Lord since my youth. And verse 13, don't you know that I've been faithfully hiding the prophets? Elijah's plan sound ridiculous to Obadiah. Obadiah was disillusioned at Elijah's brilliant plan to send him waltzing into Ahab's court without Elijah only to face death. He felt it was unjust for him to have to die this kind of death, considering all that he had done for the Lord. I wonder if you've ever faced this same kind of juxtapositioning. So here it is. On the one hand, Lord, look at what I've done for you. And on the other hand, this seems so unfair. I don't like your plan. So you've you've tried to be a good spouse and yet your marriage isn't going well. Or you've parented faithfully and yet your kids don't seem to show your respect. They're not obeying. Or you've poured into your job. You've done everything you know you need to do, and yet your boss doesn't like you, or people gossip about you at work, or you you someone backstabs you at your job Or you've read your Bible, you come to church, you obey God, and yet your family and friends mock you for your faith. Or you've read your Bible, you come to church, you've done what God asks you, and yet you face some kind of sickness and you get into or get into some kind of bad accident. Have you ever looked at God and just said, hey, God, look, I'm doing the best I can. I'm trying to be faithful. I'm trying to follow what you ask me to do. I'm trying to do what you tell me to do. And yet, fill in the blank, I get sick. I get into a car accident. My kids rebel against me. My co-workers gossip about me. My parents or friends mock me. God This seems so unfair. Lord, why would you do this to me? Don't you know that I'm one of your faithful ones Don't you know how much I have been fighting to obey you and honor you? God, why would you do this? Sometimes you try so hard to do the right thing as a Christian, and yet you face hard circumstances in your life and you get dissolution. So sometimes you think, God Come on now. It just seems so unfair. Why would you do this to me? Verse 15 Elijah assures Obadiah that he will surely go show himself to Ahab that very day. And remarkably, verse 16, almost as if it's matter-of-fact, Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him Now think about this. After all the complaining, he went and did it. He went and actually saw Aham. The assurance of Elijah probably helped some. But you know what I think actually mattered more? The text tells us several times that Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. I think his fear of the Lord led him to obey the word of the Lord, despite the hard circumstances. In the end, Obadiah's fear of the Lord won out over his frustration with Elijah's plan. He did go face the king with the news of Elijah's return. Turn, even though he was convinced that Elijah would not show up and Ahab would then kill him. In the end, Obadiah didn't let his disillusionment with Elijah's plan get the best of him. He obeyed. He obeyed. He did what the word of the Lord told him to do. He did what God asked him to do. Think about that for your own circumstances. What do you feel like God is asking you to do? Do you feel like it's unfair If you're disillusioned by the hard circumstances, what God asks you to do is to fear Him and to obey. So if you if you're in a difficult marriage, don't give up. Trust the Lord. Do what He asks you to do within your marriage. If you're having a hard time with your kids, don't give up. Be faithful as a parent. Continue to parent no matter how the kids act. You know, having a hard time at work. Don't give up. Obey God and what he asks you to do at your job But be faithful at your job regardless of what's happening around you. And you know, the list goes on and on and on and on and on of the things, the hard things that we face in this life The difficulties that we have to consider, regardless of the difficult circumstances, what God asks you to do is to trust him, to fear him. To honor him and then be faithful with the task that he's assigned you. Difficult seasons are God-given opportunities to grow in your trust of the Lord and remain faithful to whatever God has called you to do. So we see in difficult seasons that number one, we're supposed to fear the Lord greatly, and if we do, we're to be courageous. And number two, we will obey even when things seem disillusioned. And we're struggling with the hard circumstances. But number three, if we fear the Lord greatly, we'll fight self-reliance. And that verses 17 to 19. When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, Is it you, you troubler of Israel? And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but you have, and your father's house, because you've abandoned the commandments of the Lord. And follow the Baal's. And now therefore send and gather all of Israel to me at Mount Carmel, the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, the four hundred prophets of Ashrah, who eat at Jezebel's table. Ahab, upon hearing the news of Elijah's arrival, immediately heads out to find him and to confront him. And the man Ahab had been searching for all over the globe. All of these nations had been putting out the all points bulletin is finally back. So what does he do? He he stops what he's doing and he goes and finds him And look at the question, verse 17. Is it you, O troubler of Israel? That can literally be translated, is it you, the one who brought a curse on Israel? Ahab had lived three long years under the famine, and he clearly blamed Elijah for the famine. And yet Ahab blames Elijah, and yet Elijah turns it right back around on Ahab. Verse 18, I have not troubled Israel, but you have, and your father's house. Because you abandoned the commandments of the Lord and you followed the Baals. Remember the first commandment of the Ten Commandments. Exodus chapter 20, verses 2 to 6. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any kind of likeness in water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them. For I, the Lord. Your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, and showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments So according to Elijah, Ahab was at fault for the famine because the king, the king had led them to follow Baal. It was the king who had led the nation to follow this false God. Ahab was trying to blame Elijah. Elijah knew who was really the troublemaker. Now you you listen to this story and you think about, okay, a king and a prophet, but is this really about what this story is about? You think a step back from this whole thing. What's the point of the story? The point of the story is to show who is really in charge. Who's really in charge of everything. The Lord God Almighty, who sent his son to die on the cross for us, is the Lord God Almighty who's in charge of this land. Who's the one who brought the famine? It's the Lord God Almighty who sent Elijah to declare the famine and also to rescue the Israelites. That's who is in charge, and that's who is sovereign You know what do we learn from this story? God is sovereign over everything. He can bring the famine and he can rescue the Israelites. There's nothing beyond God's hand. There's nothing that can stop him God is sovereign over your life, and it's easy for us to forget that, especially as we face hard circumstances. It's easiest to rely on ourselves. So hard circumstances come and human suffering come, and yet they're used by the Lord to reveal our hearts, to show what we're truly worshiping You know, what we learn from Ahab's life is that he actually didn't want to repent. You know, think about what happened in verses 5 to 6. He set out to save all of the animals by scouring through the whole land. Ahab wanted to persevere by his own strength. He wanted to survive by his own strength. And you know what served him much better? For Ahab to repent of his affront of following these false gods and turn back to the one and living God. Ahab would have served him better, much better, is to forget about the animals and turn back to the Lord God Almighty. All of Israel knew that Baal was dead because the supposed God of rain had brought no rain for three years. And what's Ahab doing? He's foolishly still scouring the land for food and water. He's following the God of Baal. What did he need to do? He needed to repent of his sins and turn back to the Lord God Almighty. Yet he continued to fight for survival by his own strength. Where's God asking you to stop relying on yourself to repent and turn back to Him? The gospel is the good news that we're all foolish. Every single one of us in this room is foolish. Every single one of us have turned away. And yet God sent his son to die on the cross for us. so that fools like you and me can actually become sons and daughters of the king. We can actually no longer have to survive on our own, but actually trust and follow him So the beauty of the gospel is that those who were once fools now actually become sons and daughters of the king. Apostle Paul says, and he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died. So do you struggle with self-reliance? You know, if you if you don't consider yourself a follower of Christ, well, you know, one of the things to consider is how much you rely on yourselves. And Actually, if God is real and he is, how foolish that is, build your life on yourself We're never meant to live this life on our own. We're meant to live for something greater than ourselves, which is the Lord God Almighty And you know, God won't take away the miseries of this life, but what he'll do is he'll walk through them with us. God does not save us from trials, but often what he does is he saves us through them. And you know, brothers and sisters, the same thing applies for each one of us. In what ways have you built your life around your own efforts rather than turning to God Think about Ahab. You know, what's easy to do is to look at Ahab and think, what a foolish guy. You know, what a foolish king. You know, he spent three years worshiping the supposed God of rain, and what was there? No rain. What was he doing? Why would he keep doing that? And then he comes up with this plan. To go find food and water for his animals on his own by his own strength. What was he doing? Well think about it. Most of us are just like Ahab. Most of us live every morning relying on ourselves. Most of us come up with our own plans. Most of us enter into the agenda of any particular day with our own plans Our own efforts, our own desires, our own hopes, our own joys, our own fears, we enter in Trying to scheme about how I'm going to get through the day and yet what's going to serve me much better. Rather than actually conspiring on how I'm going to actually take on this day. What would serve me is every morning to get on my knees and actually plead with God to help me. To just simply say to God, I can't do this on my own. Lord, just help me. Lord, show me the way. Lord, give me joy. Lord, give me your plan. Lord, help me to understand what it looks like to follow you this day. I don't know about you, but that that is a daily battle every single day Because I feel like a typical type A person in the Washington, D. C. area. You know, I'm organized, I'm diligent, I I I know what I could do to get through the day And yet, how that does such a poor job at serving myself and everyone else around me. And yet, if I could just every single day ornament myself to God and just say, God, help me. Good way to start the day. A good way as a Christian start the day. Well, we should conclude. In the end, what we find is this contrast between two men. On the one hand, it's Obadiah, a man who feared the Lord greatly, and because of his relationship with the Lord. With his lack of relationship with the Lord, he actually his relationship with the Lord, he did courageous things and he obeyed him. And then on the other hand, his King Ahab, who abandoned God for Baal and followed this false God, hoping he'd deliver the rain. Ahab relied on himself And as you look to the days ahead, you just got to consider for yourself, who am I? Am I this God-fearing man or woman who will rule Rely on the Lord, give my life to him, trust in him, or am I the fool who will stubbornly rely on myself? Now many of you know what I do typically Monday through Friday. You know, in helping people in their suffering, what you often find is that hard circumstances peel away the layers of the onions of our life. And it comes down to a core of who we really are. What you find is hard circumstances press in and you begin to see, what do I really worship? What really matters to me. And what you come to find as people face suffering, you come to see what really matters in their life, what they're really worshiping in their life. So what is it for you? You know, as you face the hard circumstances, what is your heart being revealed? How is it being revealed? What is it you're really worshiping? The contrast that this text gives us is between Obadiah, the man who feared the Lord greatly, and because of his relationship with the Lord, he was courageous and he obeyed and he feared the Lord. Could that be you? Or with Ahab, who abandoned God for Baal, who followed the false God and hoped to deliver the rich, and who was foolish with his life. So the choice is there for you today. Who will you be in your life? Who will you trust and follow? And how will the fear of the Lord matter for you as you go into Lord, there's lots of ways in which the fear that we have of this world, the fear of other people especially, the fear of this culture, the fear of what we're gonna get done. The fear of our our own agendas actually run our life. Again, Lord, we want you. We want you over and above everything else this life has to offer. We want to be able, in those hard circumstances, to turn to you and trust in you. And so we pray that you'd help us to do. Pray it in your son's name. Amen