Well he is risen. Amen to that. And because Jesus Christ has risen from the dead. This time together is not pointless. This is not a feudal gathering of people who just gathered around some dead lifeless book We have a living word from a living God who is in heaven, who delights to hear us sing songs of praise to him, who receives our prayers and answers them, and who speaks to us. Through his word. Even the author of Hebrews says, today, if you hear his voice, don't harden your hearts. We have the word of God coming to us, living, full of life today to speak to us. So what a privilege it is to open up God's word on this Easter Sunday afternoon to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. When he got up from the dead, right, the the the veil in the curtain uh in the temple was torn in two when he was crucified, the hound of heaven Broke free to gather for himself a people from every tribe and tongue and nation, and when Jesus walked forth from the grave, new life walked forth From the grave. So for if you're here today and you're not a Christian, this is like the most important thing you could be doing with your day. To hear about the fact that eternal life with God. is open to you today if you would receive it by faith through Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God. What an unbelievable message. I should just pray and close us in prayer, and we should sing some more. But we're actually going to open the word and look at it together. Let me pray briefly for our time in the Word, and then we'll begin. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a plan. We could never have come up with the Bible. We could never have conceived of a God like you who would rescue a lost people by giving your one and only beloved Son, who is perfect and righteous. To bear the punishment for our sins on the cross, to be buried in the grave, and then to be raised bodily from the dead. Oh, mankind thinks to himself, hey, nobody gets up from the dead. No man gets up from the dead. That is true. But the God man does get up from the dead. And we rejoice in the resurrection of Christ. We rejoice in the fact that He is seated at your right hand. We rejoice in the fact that you speak to us through your word. Give us ears to hear. You were the God who raises people from the dead. Give life to our hearts, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I wonder what you think of when you hear the phrase a new lease on life. What comes to mind when you hear that phrase, a new lease on life? I tend to think of people who've received news of a terminal illness only later to be cured of the disease. They have a new lease on life. They thought it was over, but now they have more time. Or I think of people who've been released from prison. Maybe perhaps a life sentence in prison who've been set free And now they have a new lease on life, an opportunity for a fresh start. I'm sure there are other examples as well that we could come up with. But the reason I bring it up is because new leases on life are almost always followed by new goals in life. New pursuits in life. The experience of receiving a new lease on life results in a profound change in direction. And in our passage on this Easter afternoon, the Apostle Paul is writing to a people who have experienced, received a new lease on life of sorts. And now, because of that new lease on life, he tells them about the pursuits they, and we'll see, we should have as a result of that new life. So I want to invite you to turn in your Bibles to Colossians chapter three, verses one to four, as we continue our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. It just so happens That this passage today lines up really well with Easter. So we've been going through the book of Colossians, Paul's letter to them for a while now, and we're just continuing, studying through the book. And chapter 3, verses 1 to 4 is a perfect passage for us to study on Easter. Up until this point in the letter, Paul has been focusing on The power of the gospel, right? The gospel is bearing fruit around the world, and at the center of the gospel is the preeminent Christ, right? Christ Jesus, who created all things and who sustains all things. And who died on the cross to pay the debt for the sins of all who would believe in him, who rose bodily from the dead, proving that God the Father accepted his sacrifice, and showing that everything he taught about himself is true. And when a person comes to believe that gospel and that good news, everything changes. Not only are they given a new lease on life, but the entire purpose of their life and the way that they live their life changes. So if you have your Bible with you, open with you, I want you to follow along as I read Colossians 3, verses 1 to 4 for us. This is God's word. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. If you're taking notes and you want a one-sentence summary of what this passage is teaching, it's this. If you've been raised with Christ. Seek Christ until you see Christ. If you've been raised with Christ, seek Christ until you see Christ And we're going to break that sentence up into three points. These will be the three points or headings for our sermon. Point one is raised with Christ. Point two is seek Christ and point three is see Christ. So first, raised with Christ. Look with me at verse 1 again. Paul begins his instruction saying, if then you have been raised with Christ, And then he goes on. By starting with the word if, it could sound like he's calling into question whether the Colossians had actually become Christians or not. Like, hey, I I'm actually not sure if you've become Christians or not. So If this applies to some of you, I've got some instruction for you. Right? That's actually not what Paul is saying here. The rest of this letter makes it clear that Paul, that Paul is confident that they had already become Christians. This is just his way of saying, hey, since you become Christians because this is true, then you should now seek Christ. But before we consider his instruction for them to seek Christ, have to slow down and think about the earth shattering, existentially upending reality that Paul says is true of the Colossians And is true of all who have repented, turned from their sins, and trusted in Christ's death and resurrection. And what is that reality? You have been raised. Past tense, it's already done. You have been raised. What Paul assumes is true about the Colossians. is at the heart of why Christians around the world celebrate Easter. Right? If you're a Christian, I want you to think about the different reasons we have to celebrate Easter. We celebrate Easter because Jesus' bodily resurrection from the dead proves that his debt his death has indeed paid the debt for all of our sins. So one pastor said this. He said, the resurrection is the Father's Amen. To the Son's, it is finished, right? So when Jesus was on the cross and he cried out, it is finished. He was talking about the once-for-all sacrifice needed to wash away your sins and mine forever. It is finished To which the Father responds, Amen, by raising him from the dead. But that's not the only reason we have to celebrate Easter We also celebrate Easter because Jesus' bodily resurrection from the dead proves once and for all that death itself has been conquered Everyone who has trusted in him can be confident that they also will be raised from the dead. But there's another reason, another final reason we celebrate Easter. For Christians, Easter is not just a celebration of Jesus' past resurrection from the dead and our future resurrection from the dead for Christians, Easter is also a celebration of the fact that in him we have already been raised. You are celebrating on Easter the fact that God raised you spiritually from the dead and have get has given you new life through his son, Jesus. Right? Raised from what? Raised from spiritual death. Raised from a spiritual tomb. We were dead in trespasses and sins, Paul says in Ephesians. separated from God and without hope in the world. And we were in that position because our first parents chose to sin against God And when they chose to reject God's rule and do things their own way, as Frank Sinatra famously put, and when they did that, they plunged the entire human race into sin. All mankind fell in Adam. Sin and death came into the world. So when Luke even prays about what's going on in Mozambique We mourn it, and that is a result of sin. We look at what's going on in our country and the sins and murders and robberies and rapes and all of it. It is a result of their destructive choice. and of our choice to follow in their path by which we prove they are our spiritual parents because all of us have also chosen to sin And in doing so, have fallen short of the glory of God and are dead in those trespasses and sins. But God, in his mercy, did not leave us without hope. He sent his one and only beloved Son into the world. The eternal Son of God took on flesh and became man. Can you can you can you just fathom this with me for a moment? The eternal Son of God, who has been God from God, light from light, true God from true God, eternally existent, full of life in himself, never sinned, no darkness within it within him, no death at all within him. He is life in himself. chose to come into the darkness. He chose to enter a world of death so that he could rescue a people who were dead, who had rebelled against him, who Paul says in Colossians were hostile in mind and doing evil deeds. That is what Jesus came to do to rescue you from the dead. So when he walks out of the grave, you can know that rescue is complete. That is what we are celebrating today in part. That is the glorious news of Easter, right? And to all who look to him for salvation, for life, for forgiveness, for peace. Do you want peace? For rest? Is your heart in turmoil? For new and true spiritual life? If you do that, you will be raised with Christ. Right? If you understand that you have sinned against God, if you. Understand that you can't save yourself. Lord, I I cannot do this. I have tried and tried and tried and I have failed. I've made a mess of life. I've made a mess of things, but you can do it if you will. If that's the posture you will take Before the Lord, He will save you. If you repent of your sins and put your trust in Him, He will show you mercy and you too will be raised. Now in this life. And for those who've already chosen to follow Jesus, just understand what Paul is saying to you. You have been raised. Right now, it's already happened if you've put your trust in him. You have been raised to resurrection life. Yes, the old self is still clinging to you. You are still struggling with sins. You still have doubts and questions and fears. You still fall short of the glory of God. But the power of the Spirit has given life to your mortal flesh. The Spirit dwells in you, and you have been raised. Good news for you today. You are no longer dwelling in the shadow of death. Darkness has been removed. Light has come into your grave. God has said, live, and you came out of the grave, and you lived. You have been raised. Praise God. You have been set free from the power of sin. Given a nude heart Freed from all condemnation, given the power of the Spirit to say no to sin and yes to righteousness, no longer dead in Adam But alive in Christ. You have been raised with Christ. And that new life results in new pursuits. Right? That's our second point. If you've been raised with Christ, what should you do now? You should seek Christ. Look at verse 1 again. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above. We are to seek Search out, strive after, and pursue the things that are above. When Paul talks about the things that are above, you see him, he mentions it twice in this passage. He's referring to the totality of God's kingdom summed up in Christ. We're to seek the kingdom of God. We're to seek for God's will to be done on earth just as it is in heaven. We're to seek to live according to his ways. by the power of his spirit. We're to make the spread of Christ's fame and name in all the earth our ultimate aim in life. And we're to do that with our entire selves. I want you to look at verse 2. Paul says, set your minds on things above. These are not two separate things. Seek Christ and set your mind on things. Seek the things above and set your mind on things above. He's basically saying the same thing twice, but he's also showing that as we seek Christ, we're to do this with our whole selves. I say that because in the New Testament. The mind and the heart symbolize the core of our desires and our will. It's the center of who we are. So he's saying, with your whole self, seek the things that are above. Since we've been raised with Christ, we're called to seek and set our minds entirely on the risen, ruling, and reigning Christ Now this passage doesn't mean we aren't to give thought to worldly affairs, things that we encounter in this life. He's not saying don't give thought to your jobs or your family or paying bills or any of the basic and necessary responsibilities of living in the world. What he means is that our whole lives Our relationships and responsibilities are to be oriented to Christ and how He calls us to live Christ then becomes the matrix through which we make decisions in life. He should be the goal for all that we think and do and say. That is, we should not only think about Christ. But in thinking upon him, take into careful consideration how he calls us to live, and then so live in that way. And notice, we're called to seek and set our minds on the things that are above, not on the things that are below or the things that are on earth. The things that are on earth or the things that are below are the world and its values and its desires and And it's goals, it it's the it's thinking the way that the world thinks, treating one another the way the world would encourage us to treat one another. I mean if you think about from a biblical perspective, thinking about stories in the Bible, accounts in the Bible. Think about the Tower of Babel and how the people, what was their desire? Let's found a city and let's build a gigantic tower to make a name for ourselves. To make a name for ourselves. That's what it looks like to seek the things that are on earth. That's the epitome of seeking things below. I just want us to see how seeking what is below, seeking what is on earth, pales in comparison to the glory of Christ and his kingdom. I think for the teens in here and even the youth who are just before those teen years, this is where I really want to encourage you all to soak up from Scripture, the picture. The the glorious picture it paints of Christ's coming kingdom and why you should seek after it, right? Because you are going to be tempted as your parents are also tempted. You're going to be tempted to seek after this world. It advertises a bright and shiny world. Do everything that you want. Buy what you want. Seek this, seek that. Build a kingdom here. Find your comfort. Find your peace. Find your rest here. Right? It's gonna call out to you to seek ultimate joy here and now, to pursue the fulfillment of all your heart's desires. But while that may result in momentary pleasure, It results ultimately in eternal pain and sorrow. You see, all the hopes that we have in the human heart, all the desires that we have for peace and joy and pleasure. will ultimately only be found with Christ in his kingdom. For the teens and the preteen youth here, this is what I want you to think about. His kingdom never ends. It expands infinitely into eternity. His kingdom, because he is the king, is a kingdom of Perfect righteousness and justice. Do you want to live in a world of perfect righteousness and justice? It will be in his world and in his kingdom finally. Think about what else is in his kingdom. There is no pain, no sorrow, no sin, no death. That sin that you are just struggling with, like, ah, mom and dad, I want to put this thing to death, but I'm just struggling with it That will happen in that kingdom. No sin, no sorrow, no pain, no death. There is also the visible presence of God. We are reunited with our Maker forever. There is the river of the tree of life. And the leaves of the tree of life, which give life to the nations. There are the saints from every generation and all tribes and tongues gathered in perfect peace. And unity, giving praise to our God, and in there, in that kingdom, is the presence of Christ Himself, the lion and the lamb, dwelling in his presence forever. That is the kingdom that you should seek after kids. And as you seek that kingdom, as you seek after that kingdom, I want to encourage you now to live under the rule of its good king. His ways bring life and joy and peace. Notice what Paul says about Jesus in verse 1. He says, if you have been raised with Christ, Seek the things that are above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God Don't you see how Paul is referring back to Psalm 110? Verse 1, the Lord said to my Lord Come up to my right hand and be seated at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Paul is saying that has now happened in Jesus' name His resurrection and ascension into heaven. When Jesus rose from the dead, he ascended into heaven, sat down as king over all creation at the right hand of God. And because he's seated as a king At the right hand of God seeking him also entails submitting to his rule. Right One of the ways that you can know whether you're really a Christian or not, that you that you've really been raised from the dead, that you're genuinely seeking Christ, is whether or not you've given up ruling and running your own life and have chosen to follow Christ's ways, right? In every human heart, there is a throne. Who is sitting on yours? Is it you? Or is it Christ? Are you seeking for the Father's name in heaven to be hallowed? If you think about the Lord's Prayer, hallowed be your name, or for your name to be hallowed. Do you want his kingdom to come on earth or for your kingdom to be built on earth? Are you seeking for his will to be done or for your will to be done Right? Do you fight against, because we're about to see in chapter three how Paul talks about just basic struggles with sin. Do you fight against the flesh to put off anger, to put off bitterness? To put off resentment or to put off gossip or slander or lust or sexual immorality or lend envy or lying. I I trust that if you haven't been in church in a long time, you're you're used to these Don't do lists. But I just want to hold out to you the fact that the things that you should not do, that the Bible is very clear that you should not do, you should not do them because they bring death. Because they bring sorrow, because they bring pain, and because Christ came to bring a kingdom of life, peace, and joy now and forever, eternally. That is why we're called to put off those things. I wonder if you're actively fighting against them or willingly giving in to them. And if so, what does that say about who and what you're seeking? Right? The Christian recognizes that it's far better for God's will to be done in our lives. Than for our will to be done. For Christ to rule our lives rather than us, because when we ruled our own lives, whether we knew it or not, we were like that evergreen ship. If you've seen the pictures of it stuck, run aground in the Suez Canal. That's a picture of all of our lives, right? And that little measly bulldozer. Beneath that towering ship, people have like put out me tons of memes about this. Our works, our attempts to get us out of that pit. We need God to reach down and rescue us. And that's what he does in Christ. And then after doing that for us, He calls us to see Christ. Right? The Christian recognizes it's far better for God's will to be done in our lives than our own. And so we seek Christ in his word. We let the Word of God do work on the desires of our hearts. We let the Word of God shape how we think about ourselves and the world around us. We seek Christ by putting on patience when we're tempted to be impatient. By putting on thankfulness when we're tempted to grumble, by putting on peacefulness when we're tempted to anger, by assuming the best in others when we might be inclined to mistrust their motives. Right? We seek Christ in times of suffering by not doubting God's goodness, by pleading with God to end the suffering and also praying for strength to endure if that's his will. That's what it looks like to seek Christ on this side of the new creation. We seek Christ in times of uncertainty, fear, and anxiety by not escaping to indulge the flesh, but by calling out to Jesus Who sympathizes with us in our weakness, and who calls all who are weary and heavy-laden and anxious and fearful to find rest in Him. Right? And we do these things only because of what he's already done for us. I think it was Tim Keller who said Christianity is not a religion of do, do, do, but of done, done, done. It is finished. And because it is finished. Seek Christ. Right? And when you fail and stumble and fall, as we all will, you seek Christ in forgiveness and be confident that He is faithful and just and will forgive us of our sins. And why do we do this? I want you to look at verse 3 real quick. Paul says, For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Christians have already died. There's a decisive break with our old way of living. Living for ourselves by our own strength and our own wisdom, right? Now we live for Christ by his strength, by his wisdom, by his power. He is our very life, as Paul says. And I want you to notice that he says, our life is hidden with Christ in God That is the source of sustained power, endurance, strength, hope, and joy in the Christian life is hidden It's not visible to human eyes. What the world sees instead are Christians and the church in a state of weakness. United as we are to the suffering servant, we also bear the marks of humiliation and shame, of persecution and opposition that he bore. And yet there is a day where that weakness will be replaced with strength. Where that shame will be replaced with glory, and where our seeking will be replaced by sight. Which brings me to my third point, see Christ. Since we have been raised with Christ, we should seek Christ until we see Christ. Look at verse 4. Paul says, when Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. I want you to notice how Paul has moved from the past, you have died and been raised, to the present. Now seek Christ to the future because Christ is coming again Right? Our seeking Christ is not an end in itself. You would hear some atheists talk about Christianity or religious people, they just need a crutch to get through life. Because they can't just deal with the bare facts of living in a meaningless world. Seeking Christ is not just a way some people in the history of the world have dealt with the seeming meaninglessness of life and given themselves purpose. Now Paul says, if Jesus didn't get up from the dead, then we are to be pitied. Pitied. Seeking Christ is pointless if Jesus didn't get up from the dead. But Jesus did get up from the dead. And so now we seek him so that we might see him. When he appears again. You see, history is not an endless and meaningless stream of events. It is a powerful and rushing river headed for this one cataclysmic event. When Jesus Christ, who we've already learned in Colossians, is the firstborn creator and sustainer of all, when he returns in glory to judge all who have Sought their own kingdom and their own glory and their own power, and he comes to also save all who have set their minds on him and sought after his kingdom and his glory by his power. And when he appears. we also will appear with him in glory. That is, we will come to share in that same glory. One author said, Jesus will come bathed in radiant splendor, enveloped within an atmosphere of indescribable brilliance, surrounded by the ear-piercing praise of angels and saints. Scintillating light shining from his eyes, irresistible power pouring forth from his hands, none will deny his beauty or escape its transforming energy. Or to put it more simply, John says in 1 John, when we see him, we will be made like him. Or we will see him as he is. Death is no more the final word for the Christian than it was for Christ. As surely as he got up from the dead, so you and I will too. The pain you feel now is passing. The death you are experiencing now, you will be delivered from. The resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead is the pattern of your resurrection from the dead The glorification of Christ in his immortal flesh is the pattern of the glorification you will experience. One author said the Bible is not a script for a funeral service, but it is the record of God always bringing life where we expected to find death. Everywhere it is the story of resurrection. And that ultimate and eternal resurrection is fast approaching. We are nearer now than when we first believed An exchange between Aslan and Lucy and C. S. Lewis's The Voyage of the Don Treader captures this well. If you're not familiar with it, Aslan is a lion. He's the Christ figure in the book, and Lucy would be a type of Christian. Aslan said to Lucy, do not look sad. We shall meet again soon. Please, Aslan, said Lucy, what do you call soon? Aslam replied, I call all times soon. And instantly he vanished from sight. He will appear soon. When is soon? Every moment of your life. He could come at any time. The time of taking up the cross is drawing to a close The time of dying to self is very short indeed. The time of seeking Christ Will soon give way to seeing Christ. And then our new lease on life will turn into a new and glorious eternal life With Christ. We pray for more of your spirit in our lives. We have all stumbled and fallen recently. None of us has sought Christ perfectly We ask you to forgive us. And we also are reminded of the fact that we're not saved by our perfect righteousness. But we're saved by the perfect righteousness of your Son Jesus, and that in Christ, you're already fully pleased with us We pray, Father, that you would open the hearts of all to hear and to receive this good news. Help us continue seeking, recognizing that soon and very soon, Christ will appear And then we also will appear with him in glory. Come, Lord Jesus, come. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.