Good morning. It's a pleasure and a joy to be here with you all today and have the honor and opportunity to open up God's Word. Uh and hear what the living God has to say to us today. Uh and as a people in desperate need of his spirit to help us uh understand his word Uh and to apply it in our lives, it's right for us to go now one more time briefly to pray and ask for God's blessing upon our time. So please uh pray with me now. Our Father in heaven, you are the creator of all, and we are your creatures. Now Lord, we are vessels, empty vessels, in desperate need of your spirit to fill us, to give us eyes to see your word, to give us ears to hear your word, to give us hearts of understanding, and to give us a desire to worship and believe in your Son Jesus Christ. We are completely dependent upon you for that. We confess that to you now, and we ask that in your mercy you would condescend to us through the Spirit, that you would grant Him now to open our eyes, to give understanding. Oh Lord, turn our hearts to you, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, you can go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 11. This morning we're going to be looking specifically at Mark chapter 11 verses 27 all the way through chapter 12 verse 12 If you're using one of the Bibles that we provided in the seat there, you'll find our passage on page 848. And if you don't have a Bible of your own, we want to encourage you. To go ahead and take a copy that we provided. There's nothing else that we would want in this world than for you to have a copy of God's word for yourself. So if you don't have one that you can read, please take a copy of ours. So just about a month ago now, we looked at Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem. We were actually studying Jesus' triumphal entry on Palm Sunday about a month ago. And what you find is that with Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem, we've entered into the final week of Jesus' life and what is also the home stretch of Mark's gospel. But not only does the triumphal entry serve as the opening scene of this final act of Jesus' life and the final act of Mark's gospel. It also introduces a new theme that really dominates the final chapters of the book, and that theme is the opposition of the religious authorities of Israel to the authority of Jesus, the true King of Israel The triumphal entry itself was really the beginning of Jesus' coronation ceremony as the true king of Israel It's where he established his authority as king. And you'll recall that even that account of the triumphal entry was the fulfillment of a prophecy from Zechariah that Israel's king would come riding to her on a donkey. Then after arriving in Jerusalem, we see his authority, Jesus' authority, on display as he arrives in the temple. That memorable scene where he flips over the tables of the money changers, he drives out those Selling pigeons, he drives out those who are buying and selling, selling in the temple. He's appalled by the greed and the extortion and the robbery that had come to characterize his very own temple and his very own people, leading him to pronounce judgment on the temple and all that it stood for, which was just another display of his authority as the true King of Israel. And that scene brought him into open conflict with the religious authorities. Go ahead and look at chapter 11, verse 18, which is. Where Jesus is bringing judgment on the temple. Chapter 11, verse 18. The chief priests and the scribes heard what he was doing, and they were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared him. Now they're doing this in secret. And why am I pointing this out? Well, their opposition to him that has been in secret in our passage this morning will burst out into the open So I'm going to go ahead and read our passage for us now. It's Mark Chapter 11, verse 27, all the way through chapter 12, verse 12. I'm going to read it for us, and then we'll dive in. Now this is God's word. And they came again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him. And they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? Or who gave you this authority to do them? Jesus said to them, I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me And they discussed it with one another, saying, If we save from heaven, he will say, why then did you not believe him? But shall we save from man? They were afraid of the people, for they all held that John really was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. And he began to speak to them in parables A man planted a vineyard, and put a fence around it, and dug a pit for the winepress, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed Again he sent to them another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully. And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others, some they beat, and some they killed He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally he sent him to them, saying, They will respect my son. But those tenants said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard. What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to others Have you not read this scripture? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes And they were seeking to arrest him, but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told the parable against them. So they left him and went away. If you're taking notes this morning, the purpose of this passage is to call all of us to recognize Jesus' authority. and to respond to God's sacrificial love. It's calling us to recognize Jesus' authority and to respond To God's sacrificial love. And those will be our two points this morning. If you're taking notes, the first point, point one, will be recognize And the second point, point two, will be respond. Recognize Jesus' authority and respond to God's sacrificial love. So first what you see here is that the passage is calling us to recognize Jesus' authority. Look down with me at verse 27. Notice it says, they came again to Jerusalem. So after Jesus cleansed the temple in the previous passage, his disciples and he returned to Bethany, a town right outside of Jerusalem where they were staying, and now it's the next day, and he's returned to Jerusalem. And again to the temple. And we see in verse 27, as he's walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders come up to him. Now, if we've been paying attention to Mark's gospel, we've been paying careful attention to Mark's gospel, this scene, the fact that the chief priests and the scribes and the elders come up to Jesus in the temple should sound off alarm bells in our minds. Because in chapters 8, 9, and 10, Jesus predicted three separate times that he was going to be arrested and killed by the chief priests the scribes and the elders. These were the specific groups named by Jesus as those who would be responsible for his own death And though we find here that this time hasn't yet come, their animosity towards Jesus that will lead to them arresting and killing him is already obvious. Look at the question down there that they ask him in verse 28. By what authority are you doing these things? Or who gave you authority to do them? And notice the key word. It's repeated twice right there in their question. Authority. And then it appears again. That word appears again in verse 29 and then again in verse 33. This passage is about authority. More specifically, it's about the refusal of the religious authorities to recognize the true authority that Jesus has. You see there that they ask him, by what authority are you doing these things? When they say these things, they're not just talking about the fact that he cleansed the temple the day before. He obviously came in there as he as if he owned the place, and which he did own the place. He came in there as though he owned the place, flipping over tables. They're not talking about these things. They're talking about everything that has happened in Jesus' ministry up to this point, right? They're talking about all that he's been doing, the teaching with authority. The healing the sick with authority, the cleansing of lepers, the driving out of demons, the forgiving of sins, the redefining of the Sabbath, and on and on. Throughout Jesus' ministry, Mark has gone to great pains to prove to us The authority of Jesus Christ. He is authority. He has authority unlike all others, and all other earthly authorities are subject to him and subordinate to him. He is the great authority. And they're saying to him, here, all of these things, all of your miracles and your teachings and your exorcisms, who gave you the power to do them? Who made you king over us? That's really the heart underneath their question. This isn't a sincere question as if Jesus is if Jesus answers it the right way, it'll change their minds. Like if Jesus says My authority comes from God and I am the Son of God and the Messiah. They're not going to fall down and worship him. That's clear from Mark's gospel up to this point We just have to look back to the beginning of uh in chapter 2. Remember in chapter 2 when Jesus Jesus claims to forgive sins, they internally accuse him of committing blasphemy, a crime punishable by death under Israelite law. Then in chapter 3, when Jesus heals a man on the Sabbath, what do they do in response to him healing a person of a disease? They go and they start to plot to murder him Their animosity has been clear throughout Mark's gospel, but now it's bursting out into the open. Mark was giving us insight into what was happening behind the scenes, but now in our passage, it comes out in the wide open And so what happens? Jesus here turns the tables on them. In response to their question, he answers their question with a question of his own. Look at verse 29. He says I will ask you one question. What you want to read here is Jesus is saying, no, no, no, no. I don't answer to you. You answer to me. I will ask you the questions, and you will answer my questions. And he says, I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? So can any of the kids here tell me that when he says the baptism of John, who's he talking about? You can just shout it out. Who's he talking about? John the Baptist, Rook, John the Baptist, that's right. Jesus is talking about John the Baptist. And he's asking them whether John the Baptist's ministry was from heaven. That is, was it ordained by God? Was it authorized by God? Or was it from man? Did John just claim his own authority to be a prophet? That's what he's asking them. And the reason he's asking them that question is to force them to connect. the dots to connect the dots. I want you to remember, how does Mark's gospel begin? Mark's gospel begins by showing how John the Baptist ministry fulfilled specific Old Testament prophecies, words by God predicting a messenger who would come and prepare the way for God Himself to show up and save his people. John the Baptist's ministry was clearly from God. Not only that, but John taught the very first words that come out of his mouth in Mark's gospel. John taught that someone was coming after him who was far greater than him, someone who would baptize with the Holy Spirit. And in chapter 1 of Mark's Gospel, we see that person is Jesus. Jesus appears immediately on the heels of that teaching. He arrives and he's baptized by John. And as he's baptized, what happens? The heavens part, the Spirit descends, and the Father says, this is my beloved son. So just as John's ministry clearly came from heaven, so Jesus' authority is clearly from God. And with the question that he's asking them, Jesus is giving them the opportunity to connect the dots. He's just saying, hey, just trace it out, and you will know where my authority comes from. But what do we find that they do in the passage? Because they so stubbornly refuse to recognize Jesus' authority, they refuse to connect the dots. Look at their scheming in verses 31 to 33, where we're welcomed into their little holy huddle where they figure out how to kind of Jesuitically answer Jesus' question to them, right? They immediately recognize they've been trapped. If they answer that John's ministry came from God, well, we can't do that because if we say that, then that obviously means he came from God. And we cannot accept that. But if we say that he came from man, that he's just a man, well, then the people will attack us because the people of Israel all held that John was really a prophet. John was a fan favorite. So what do they do? Look at verse 33. They claim ignorance. We don't know. And because of their stubborn refusal to recognize Jesus' authority, Jesus refuses to answer their question I think if this passage teaches us anything, it teaches us that God doesn't give in to our demands. God does not give in to our demands. And make no mistake, right? That is what is going on here. That's what these men are doing. They're demanding that Jesus answer to them. And we see how Jesus responds to them. He refuses to answer their question. He is God, and we are his creatures, and God Does not answer to his creatures. That's a lesson for all of us today. Now I do want to be really careful here when I talk about the fact that God doesn't answer to his creatures because there are Numerous examples in the Bible, especially in the Psalms, of God's people asking him questions. Questions about their suffering. Questions about their loneliness and their despair. Questions about his love for them. It is good and right to plead with God in prayer. and to ask him questions. So I don't want you to walk away thinking that you can't ask God any questions about what you may be experiencing in this life. What I am saying, and what this passage is teaching us by the illustration of the religious authorities is that God does not give in to the demands of those who approach him with an attitude of arrogance and pride. God does not give in to the demands of those who approach him with an attitude of arrogance and pride. So back when I was in the Coast Guard I left the Coast Guard in 2013. From 2008 to 28 uh 2013, excuse me, I left the Coast Guard in 2013. From 2008 to 2013, I worked at a station in Baltimore and I worked with a group of guys, pretty much the same group of guys for all five years that I was there, which is not all that common uh in the military. And I had a co-worker who would regularly say to me, John, you know what? I'll believe in God if and when God writes in the sky with the clouds as like a pen, I exist. Right? And he would say to me, nothing short of God doing that will convince me that he exists. Until then, I am not going to believe in him. What's he saying with that? He's not making a humble request of God for God to like use the clouds to write in the in the sky. He's demanding that God bow the knee to his standards of evidence. God, I don't care what you have said about your existence. I don't care that all of creation testifies to your power and to your wisdom. God, I don't care that you actually took on flesh and became a man and died on the cross for our sins and then rose from the dead. Three days later, I need you to do what I want. You need to show me according to my own standards for what is acceptable that you exist. Right? That's exactly what he's saying there. He's pridefully saying is that I refuse to bow down to God's authority until God bows to my authority and does what I want him to do. Now my coworker would never say that out loud with his own words. He's not going to be honest enough, and I doubt that anyone would honestly say that out loud. But I wonder if that kind of attitude describes you today. Right? I wonder if it describes you today. Maybe you wouldn't be so bold as to say God needs to bow to my authority. Not many people are going to say that out loud. But if your willingness to acknowledge Jesus' authority depends on his willingness to check all your boxes of the things that God needs to do before you believe in him Well then in essence you're sharing in the same attitude towards Jesus that these religious authorities had. And the reason that that's a dangerous attitude to share is that Jesus had already done everything necessary to prove to them where his authority came from. I mean you recognize that that their question itself shows that they understand that Jesus has authority that is unlike anyone else's authority. It's a dangerous attitude to share because Jesus has already done everything necessary to prove to them that his authority came from God. They had seen him do numerous miracles. Their demands for more answers simply revealed that they were settled in their refusal to acknowledge him. And when that's the case. We need only to look again to the passage to see how Jesus responds to people who approach him that way. He refuses to bow down to them. Jesus has already done enough to prove his authority to them and to us. And it's our responsibility today to recognize his authority. And there's so much here for us to consider for those of us who follow Jesus, right? We're not immune from adopting the same attitude as the men in this passage. And I would venture to say that all of us uh daily fail to recognize Jesus' authority. Right now I now I understand that if you follow Jesus, that does mean that you have repented of your sins and you've put your trust in him to save you from your sins. In this most important sense, You have recognized his authority and because of your repentance and faith, you have been fully justified and brought from a state of spiritual death and into a state of spiritual life. Praise be to God, right? That's a great recognition of Jesus' authority to repent and believe. But repentance and faith for the Christian are just the beginning. of a lifelong journey of coming to more fully recognize Jesus' authority as our Lord Elizabeth Elliott has a great quote on this. She said this, until the will and the affections are brought fully under the authority of Christ. We have not begun to understand, let alone to accept his lordship. So have your will and affections been brought fully under the lordship of Christ today? Well, if you're anything like me, absolutely not. You probably have proof from this this morning itself that your will and your affections have not been brought fully under the Lordship of Christ, which means that we still have not fully recognized Jesus as our Lord, his authority as our Lord. And think about this in our lives. Whenever we choose to complain, or to gossip, or to not forgive, or to foster bitterness, and a host of so many other things, we could go on and on, we are in fact rejecting his authority. Whether we recognize it or not, we are placing ourselves over God and asserting that we know better than God how our lives should be lived. It's what Paul Tripp describes as living for the kingdom of self rather than for the kingdom of God. To be members of God's kingdom is to say that we recognize that He's the King and we are not. Kings rule, subjects serve the king. So when we come into God's kingdom, we're accepting that he's the ruler of his kingdom. He determines how people should live in his kingdom, and we're called to agree with how he calls us to live in his kingdom. My question for you today is how are you doing with that? What voice inside of you controls how you should live? Is it your voice or his? Is it the voice of the kingdom of self that directs your actions and your thoughts and your desires But maybe you don't know. Here's a question that might help you kind of uncover whether you are actually living for the kingdom of self within God's kingdom When you're making decisions or you're in the midst of conflict or faced with temptation, are you stopping to consider what God's word has to say about the situation that you're in? That is, are you looking for direction from the king, or do you subconsciously assume that your attitudes, actions, thoughts, and words must be right because you're having them? If you're anything like me, that's what you do. I'm upset that you did that. I'm justified to be upset. Why are you justified to be upset, John? Because I had the thought Well wait, no, no, that's not actually how it works. What are you upset about? Is this sinful anger that's coming out of you Right when you're when you're displaying impatience. Hey, stop doing that. You're getting on my nerves. Why are you being impatient, John? Because they just did that and it got on my nerves. And so I'm justified to be impatient and upset. Do we just assume that the thoughts that we have and the words that come out of our mouth, just because we have them, agree with God's word? Or are we entering into every circumstance willing to say, what does God's word say about this? How is God calling me to respond to my kids right now, or my spouse right now, or my boss right now? Are my responses in this situation and my emotions consistent with how God would call me to live That's what it looks like to live under God's authority. Right? And kids, this is part of what it means to follow Jesus, right? Jesus isn't just our Savior. He is. Praise God. But for the Christian, Jesus is also our Lord. Which means that his words direct the course of our life. We submit to him, and submission to him is a good thing, because as we're going to see in this passage, he uses his authority perfectly But Jesus is our Lord. Now what I want you to know is what the world is going to tell you is that you know how best to rule yourself Hey, don't let anybody tell you how to live. You know how to live your own life. I mean, we just we just push the agenda of the autonomous individual in America. It's like our thing. W we don't we don't deal with people ruling over us. So if you are not uh originally from America, let me help Welcome you into our culture today. We don't like people ruling over us as Americans, right? We were our DNA was born out of revolt against leadership that we didn't like. And it's just kind of in us. It's part of our DNA. I know how to best rule myself. Freedom. Pursuit of happiness. I can do whatever I want. That's not how Jesus calls us to live, kids. No, he calls us to lay down our desires, to take up our cross, to follow him, to follow the true Lord. The king who came into this world. And while the world promises that ruling yourself is the path to freedom, the result is actually that we just become slaves to ourselves. We become slaves to our own desires. We don't do a good job of running our own lives. If you've ever just made a mistake and made a mess of a relationship or hurt your siblings or been rude to your parents, then you know You don't do a great job of ruling your own life. Neither do your parents. They can share examples with you of how they've failed in this way too. But what you need to see is that if you kind of take it upon yourself to say, no, I'm the ruler of my own life I'm the master of my own fate. You are going to end up in bondage to sin. Jesus calls us to submit to his authority, and his authority actually brings us freedom. His word brings life. Think about the images for God's word in the Bible. He's the tree of life. It's a tree of life. It's water for the soul. It's bread for the stomach. God's word brings us freedom. It brings us spiritual nourishment. So kids, I want to encourage you to recognize Jesus' authority in your own life. Now that may seem scary not only to the kids but to all of us. But what we're going to see in the rest of the passage is that God uses his authority for our good. We should recognize his authority because he uses his authority for our good, which brings us to our second point. We should respond to God's sacrificial Love. That's the point of chapter twelve, verses one to twelve. So when the religious authorities stubbornly refuse to recognize Jesus' authority, Jesus then tells him, hey, I'm not going to answer your question. I'm not going to bow my knee to you. And then what he does is he turns and he tells a parable. And the purpose of the parable is really to help explain the opposition of the religious authorities and to also subtly Tell them where his authority really comes from. That's the point of the parable there. God is the man who plants a vineyard. The vineyard, if you just want to let your eyes kind of follow down across the parable, God is the man who plants a vineyard. The vineyard is the nation of Israel. And the tenants that he leased the vineyard to represent the nation's leaders. The nation's leaders, both its priests and kings, were supposed to lead the nation, to keep the covenant that God had made with that they had made with God by being obedient to all of his laws. But even a cursory survey of the Old Testament, you just kind of open up to pretty much any page in the Old Testament and you'll find disobedience, rejection of God, just wherever you go in the Old Testament. They did not submit to his laws or keep his commands. They actually failed in epic ways. But not only did the leaders live in outright sin, but they led the rest of the nation of Israel into sin as well. So God Out of his love for them, sent them servants, the prophets, to call the nation and its leaders to repent and keep God's commands. They were sent to call the people, to remember the covenant, and bear good fruit. Bear good fruit through holy lives. God is concerned with how you live. But nearly all the prophets, like the servants in the parables, face terrible persecution. They were beaten, mocked, shamed, and even killed. Church tradition has it that Isaiah was sawn in two, cut in half by King Manasseh. Zechariah, Jesus says, was killed by his forefathers. Zechariah the prophet. Prophet after prophet was sent by God over the course of 500 years to call the people to obedience, but they never, ever listened. The leaders of Israel rejected God and rejected every prophet, every servant he sent to call them back to faithfulness until God has no more servants to send. He's looking around. He says, I have sent all of my servants. And they've all been beaten and mocked and killed and thrown out of the vineyard The only one I have left is my beloved son. Surely, surely, they will respect my son. So he sends them his son, but as soon as the tenants, the religious leaders of Israel, see the sun, they begin plotting his murder. This is the air. Come, let us kill him. Just go back to Mark chapter 3. They plotted to take his life right at the beginning of his ministry. And when he arrives, they take him and kill him and throw him out of the vineyard. I think what you're supposed to see here. I think what an Israelite would have seen. That that is that not only is it horrible that they beat the son and killed the son, but it's horrible that they threw him out of the vineyard. Because to throw a person out in the open was to mean they were going to be exposed to beasts and birds who would consume the body. It was a way to say, this person is being cast out. I mean, we we put our shame on him We're not even going to give him a proper burial. They ashamed the son of God. They are so opposed to God that they will kill his only beloved son. Even in the face of being warned by Jesus that their rejection of him will lead to their destruction Now you may be thinking, like John, that like that seems like a lot of allegory. How can you know that that's what the parable means? Are you just are we just coming up with that on our own? Are you the one like determining who the actors and characters are? Well, definitely not. Look at verse 12. Look at chapter 12, verse 12. Even the religious leaders recognized that Jesus was telling the parable about them. We're the tenants. We don't want to say like we are the tenants. We recognize this. Not only that, but in verse 6, the owner describes his son as the beloved son. Twice in Mark's gospel, we've seen the Father speak from heaven and call Jesus his beloved son. But even more than that, but even more than both those things, we could just take a step back and recognize that this isn't the first time that this parable has appeared in the Bible It appeared all the way back in Isaiah chapter 5 when Isaiah told a nearly identical parable about God planting Israel as his vineyard. So that they would produce good fruit, but they persistently rebelled against God and produced only bad fruit. And so what I want you to see here is what Jesus is doing with Isaiah chapter 5. The first five chapters of Isaiah form the introduction to the whole book. So chapters 1 to 4 of Isaiah recount the rampant wickedness that had come to characterize the entire nation. And in chapter 5 of Isaiah, the bell tolls. Chapter 5 is the dark and ominous prediction of certain judgment that is coming on Israel for their failure to repent. And that prediction of certain judgment begins with the parable of the vineyard. Why do I bring that up That's why Jesus uses this parable at this moment in his ministry. Just like Isaiah proclaimed the parable of the vineyard to a nation on the brink of judgment, So Jesus proclaims the parable of the vineyard to the religious leaders who are leading the nation of Israel onto the brink of judgment. If they continue in their plan to kill God's own son, Proof that Israel continues to produce only bad fruit, then they too will face certain judgment It's like he's saying to the religious leaders in front of them: nothing has ever changed. Just like Israel was corrupt and rebelled against God in Isaiah's day, so here we are, 600 years later, and Israel is still rebelling against God. But I also want you to see the way that Jesus drops in an illusion to let us know that the rebellion of the religious leaders has been going on a lot longer than 600 years. Where do we see that? Look with me at verse 7. Chapter 12, verse 7. The owner sends his beloved son, and as the tenants see him approaching, what do they say? This is the air. Come. Let us kill him. Come. Let us kill him Can anyone, kids or adults, tell me where those exact words appear in the Old Testament? Joseph and the coat of many colors. Well done. Great job. Joseph and the coat of many colors in the story of Joseph. Now what I want you to see here are these parallels. Joseph was Jacob's beloved son. And in Genesis 37, Jacob sends his beloved son Joseph to check on his brothers. His eleven brothers are the representatives, the patriarchs, the forefathers of Israel. They are the representatives of the entire Jewish nation. So you have the beloved son of his father being sent to the representatives of the Jewish nation. And when they see him coming, they say, Come, let us kill him. Rather than killing him, though, they throw him into a pit and then sell him into slavery in Egypt. But what they meant for evil, God intended for good, and instead of remaining a slave, God exalted Joseph to the right hand of Pharaoh, and he became both ruler and savior of the Gentiles because he provided food for them during a severe famine. Joseph, the beloved son, after being attacked and thrown into a pit by his brothers, was exalted to the right hand of Pharaoh and became Lord and Savior of the Gentiles, providing food for them during a famine. And here in our passage, Jesus is just like, just gonna drop this in here. See if anyone notices this. Just gonna drop this in here. Surely you religious authorities are familiar with the story of Joseph. And here you are saying to me, come. Let us kill him. Here you have not Jacob's beloved son, Joseph, but God's beloved son, Jesus, being sent to his brothers who have been plotting to take his life. Come, let us kill him. Yet rather than throwing him into a pit, they will actually kill him. Jesus' parabolic prediction of his own death will come true He will be handed over to the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death on a cross. But what they meant for evil, God meant for good. And three days after Jesus was murdered by his very own brothers. God raised him from the dead, exalted him to his right hand, and made him both Lord and Savior of the Gentiles. Look at verse 9 again. When God comes, Jesus says he does not destroy the vineyard, he destroys the tenants, but he gives the vineyard to others. And who are the others? Well we find out in the rest of the New Testament that the others are the Gentiles, the surrounding nations, the ones that the Jews would have said. did not belong to God's people and had no hope of salvation. This is even what the Apostle Paul says in his letter to the Ephesians. You were alienated from God and without hope in the world. You didn't have God's law. You didn't have God's presence. You didn't have God's temple. But God has been kind to you. And even though you were far off, he has brought you near by the blood of his son Jesus Christ. And are we Gentiles today? Raise your hand if you're a Gentile Put your hand up. Then you have known this salvation through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. God has kindly and mercifully given his vineyard to us Did we deserve it? No, we didn't. Neither did the Jews. It was all out of God's grace and mercy towards them. That's why Jesus cites Psalm 118 in verses 10 and 11. Look there. He cites Psalm 118. He is the stone that the builders rejected, that God has made the cornerstone of a new temple If you've ever wondered, what does that verse even mean? Because it's quoted a lot in the New Testament. What does it mean? Stone that's rejected has become the cornerstone. It's important to know that in the ancient Near East and in the The culture that Jesus lived in and even the cultures that came before him, whenever a building was being built, they had to use stone, or that's what they chose to use. And the most important block in that entire building was the cornerstone. So the builders of buildings would go to great pains to make sure the cornerstone had perfect 90-degree angles because every other stone would be laid off of it. And if you got a wonky cornerstone, you're gonna have a wonky building, leaning tower of Pisa, maybe. I don't know. But I'm just saying, right? You get the you get the picture The cornerstone was the most important stone in the entire building. And the perfect cornerstone comes to the people of Israel and they reject him. And God, they throw it out in the rock heap. We're not using this stone. And God takes that cornerstone, the Lord Jesus Christ, and makes him the cornerstone of a new temple. A temple not made with brick and mortar, but a temple made with living stones. You and me and every other person who has repented and believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the cornerstone of a spiritual temple that God is building even today and that one day he will come and inhabit forever The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and it is the Lord's doing. And this is marvelous in our eyes. Is it not marvelous in our eyes today, Saints? Praise be to God. That is why Jesus cites Psalm 118, a people who recognize Jesus' authority and respond to his sacrificial love. will be brought in and made living stones in this new temple of God. And my friends, if you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, I mean, we talked earlier a little bit about how we should all recognize Jesus' authority and also understand that God's authority is good His authority is not like the authorities in this world that unfortunately, because of sin, abuse their power. And I want you to see how this passage testifies specifically to God's goodness and how unlike earthly authorities he is. So I'm sure that you would agree with me that if you took some country in this world and you took the people of that country, you have the the rulers of a country and you have the people of the country. If the people of the country all decided to take up arms and wage war against the government, do you think that they would just stand by? Well, no, that's not how earthly authorities work. They will stamp out, they will stamp out the revolution. They will stamp out the rebellion, right? They're not just gonna let their people rebel against him, but I want you to see how different God is from earthly rulers. Did you notice in the parable how long suffering and patient God is with the nation of Israel You hear lots of people today, especially people who go about as like atheist apologists trying to say that the God of the Bible is capricious. He's crazy. He's wrathful. He's vengeful. Look at this parable and tell me if that is what you see. God created a vineyard He's the one who made it. It was his. He built the fence. He dug the pit for the wine press. He made the watchtower. He's the one who chose the tenants. And then they come in and they say, This thing's ours now. We're gonna rebel against him. And God's like, okay. Maybe they forgot, I'm gonna send them servants. And what do they do to the servants? They beat and kill and shame them. And does God say, that's it, I'm bringing judgment? No, that's not what he does. God is long-suffering and patient. He didn't just send one servant or two servants Or three servants, or four servants, or five servants. You look in the prophets in the Bible, there are 16 of them There's at least 16 servants, but the way that the Bible talks about prophets is Jesus took the prophets all the way back to Abel, who was killed by his brother. Another connection here. You just see the prophets, God sent servant after servant after servant. Friends, turn from your sinful ways. Turn, turn, turn. I will have patience with you. I am kind to you. I don't want to pour out my judgment on you. God's authority is full of patience and kindness. He is long-suffering towards us And the world that we live in, if you're not a follower of Jesus, what you need to understand is the world that we live in is like the vineyard in this parable. God created all of it. We weren't involved in the construction process. We're merely tenants. And like the tenants in this parable, Jesus taught that all of us have rebelled against God and rejected his good and gracious authority. We've sinned against God. That's what the Bible calls sin, rebelling against God, and we deserve his judgment. Yet God is kind And rather than punishing us immediately for our sins, he sent his son, his only beloved son, to take the punishment that you and I deserve. And now he patiently and kindly calls you to repent. Notice what Peter says in 2 Peter? It's God's kindness that leads us to repentance. Not God's wrath. God's kindness leads us to repentance. Notice his kindness toward the tenants of Israel and towards you today. He is patient with you. I'd encourage you to turn and trust in his good authority today and respond to his sacrificial love. God loves us, we also see here, enough to warn us. Just like the tenants had to be warned that if you continue, you will face judgment. That's the warning that Jesus holds out to all of us. If we continue to reject his authority, we too will face God's certain judgment But friend, let me encourage you today to wrestle with that. Think about what that means in your own life. And for those who follow Jesus, I think you should respond to God's sacrificial love in these verses with hope. With hope. Why do I say that? Because if there's anything that this parable testifies to and that this passage testifies to It's God's indomitable sovereignty and power to bring about his purposes. That is to say, God's plans for his people will never fail. God cannot be defeated, and neither can his church. What did Jesus say? I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it Where am I getting this from the passage? Do you see how God was able to perfectly, perfectly accomplish his plan? To send his son as an offering for sin over the course of thousands of years and in the face of constant rebellion You could go back to the story of Joseph and see how God was already pointing forward to the true and beloved son, who would suffer rejection from his brothers, but through their rejection will become both Lord and Savior of the world. God cannot be stopped. He will accomplish his purposes, both his big picture purposes to bring all things under the subjection of the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, but also his particular purposes in your life. So friend, if you are suffering in some way today, if you're discouraged in some way today, if you're fearful that God has forgotten about you in some way today, take heart. God was able to take the rejected stone and make him the cornerstone of a new temple. And in the same way, he will take you. A living stone and bring you into his heavenly temple, and as sure as Jesus rose from the dead, you too Who have ribbon risen to new life now will also be resurrected to eternal life when Christ, the cornerstone, returns. And why is that? Why is that? Why can we have hope? Because God has authority to accomplish all that He has promised. Friends, we should recognize Jesus' authority and respond to his sacrificial love. And what is keeping you from doing that today? Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we come to you and we we just come recognizing, Lord, that it is hard. To submit, to recognize your authority. It's hard to believe that your authority is good when there's so much abuse of authority in this world. We recognize that, Lord. We lament the way that authority and the way that it's abused in this world just cast doubt and judgment and shame upon your supposed authority, but we know that you are good. We confess that you are good. Your authority is perfect. Help us to trust in it today. Help us to turn and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and to recognize that you used your authority in a way unlike every other earthly authority by sending your Son. The one who had all authority to lay down his life for his people. We praise you, Father, as the one who has all authority in heaven and on earth. We praise you, Lord Jesus, as the one to whom all authority in heaven and on earth has been given. Help us to follow you today and grant us your spirit now, even as we come to your table to recognize and remember and rejoice in your sacrificial love. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.