Good morning. It's a joy to be with you all this morning and to have the opportunity to open up God's Word, to hear Him speak to us through His Word. But as a people who are in desperate need of his spirit to be at work among us, it's right for us to go and pray one more time briefly to ask that God would bless our time and his word. So would you pray with me now? Heavenly Father, you sent the Spirit into the world to convict the world of sin and to teach it of righteousness and to cause it to look to your Son Jesus Christ for salvation. We pray that you would grant the Spirit now to be powerfully at work among us. Cause Him to open our hearts, to receive your word with joy, to teach us all things, and to lead us Into the truth we pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles. You've already turned there once this morning. Turn there again to Mark chapter 11. Verses 12 to 25. And if you're using one of the Bibles that we provided, you'll find our passage this morning on page 847. If you're not all that familiar with using a Bible, what you're looking for is a big bold number 11. That's the chapter number, and then you're looking for the smaller verse numbers after that, verses 12 to 25. That'll be a helpful guide. We're going to be looking at the smaller numbers 12. And we continue today in our study through the Gospel of Mark after being off last week for Easter in the book of 1 Corinthians. And we've been working through Mark's gospel now slowly for the last year and are really just now coming to the climax of the entire book. as a whole. So beginning two weeks ago when we studied the triumphal entry, which we looked at, we've entered now into the week the last week of Jesus' life. And the events of this week are so important that really it is impossible to understand who Jesus is. and what he came to do apart from them. Which I think is why Mark slows down as much as he does. Think about this. The first three years of Jesus' ministry he covered in ten chapters, and now he's slowing down and giving six chapters to one week, just showing us, underscoring for us, how important this last week is and the events of that last week. And what has Jesus been teaching his disciples? Well we saw it three different times at the end of chapter eight and then through chapter nine He taught them three different times, predicting that he would be arrested, mocked, beaten, and then crucified. And those events are just now around the corner. The last time we were in Mark, we did see Jesus enter into Jerusalem in the passage known as the triumphal entry. And though there was great celebration on his way into the city in that passage We noted that at the end of the passage, look down with me, chapter 11, verse 11. Tons of people are celebrating Jesus' arrival outside of the city, but then Jesus comes into the temple and it's like the record scratches. No one's there. No one notices that God in the flesh has come into his very own home. There's no celebration going on. And we talked about how this is kind of an ominous note. It's showing us of the dark and difficult events that lie ahead. If this was a movie, Mark chapter 11, verse 11 would be where that subtle, dark, ominous music starts playing, and you're just like The tension's going up in the room, and I can't really figure out why, and it's just kind of that because that violin's just slowly playing underneath the surface, right? That's the dark ominous music starts playing in chapter 11, verse 11. The conflict between Jesus and the temple that verse 11 foreshadows now comes into full fruition in our passage this morning. And so I'm going to go ahead and read that for us and then we're going to study it more closely. This is Mark 11, verses 12 to 25, and this is God's word. On the following day, when they came from Bethany, he was hungry. And seeing a fig in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to see if he could find anything on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. And he said to it, May no one ever eat fruit from you again. And his disciples heard it. And they came to Jerusalem. And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold and those who bought in the temple. And he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple. And he was teaching them and saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations? But you have made it a den of robbers. And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and were seeking a way to destroy him. For they feared him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching. And when evening came, they went out of the city. As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots. And Peter remembered and said to him, Rabbi, look! The fig tree that you cursed has withered. And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God. Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. And whenever you stand praying, forgive. If you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also, who is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses. If you're taking notes this morning, the main point of our passage is this, since Jesus Will bring judgment on every individual on earth. We should all turn to him in faith. Since Jesus will bring judgment on every individual on earth, we should all turn to him in faith. And that really will be our two points for our sermon this morning. Point one Jesus will bring judgment on every individual on earth. Now listen, if if you're here this morning and you're not all that used to being in church, it really might sound unloving to you. Start a sermon off by saying that Jesus will judge every person on earth. And I get that. I honestly do. But I do hope that you'll you'll you'll stick with me and come to see how Jesus' warnings of a coming judgment are actually a really loving thing. A loving thing for us to be warned of. So imagine if you if you saw a child running out in the street and a car was coming. Would it be unloving of you to let the child go and to not warn them? Well, of course it is. So you want to yell, no, stop. That's the loving thing to do. And we're going to see in our passage this morning that this warning that we see about Jesus' coming judgment on earth is a loving thing for him to do. So let's look closer at the passage and see where this judgment is found. Look at me at verses 12 to 14. You can just let your eyes fall over those verses. Jesus is on his way into Jerusalem from the town of Bethany, and he sees a fig tree in the distance. And because he's hungry, he walks up to the foot to the fig tree to look for something to eat. But when he gets to the tree, he finds that there's no figs, just leaves. And so what does he do? Well he curses the tree. Verse 14. May no one ever eat fruit from you again. Now this seems like a harsh and frankly odd thing to do, right? I mean, especially Given the fact that Mark tells us that it wasn't the season for figs. Why would Jesus curse a tree for not having figs when it's not the season for figs? How do we understand this? Well, Jonathan already pointed it out this morning. What I want you to do, let your eyes fall down to verses 20 and 21. It's there that you see that the fig tree appears again in our passage after Jesus' visit to the temple. So you have the fig tree appearing before this visit to the temple, and you have the fig tree appearing again after Jesus' visit to the temple. And so what Mark wants us to understand, he's sandwiching the visit to the temple in between these two. Teachings on the fig tree. He's wanting us to understand the fur the cursing of the fig tree in light of what happens at the temple. So let's look at what happens at the temple, and I think we're gonna better understand why he curses the fig tree. And maybe some of those questions about the oddness of that cursing might be more clear to us. So in verse 15, if you look there with me, Jesus comes to Jerusalem and he enters the temple. And immediately we see Jesus starts flipping over tables and disrupting merchants who were selling in the temple. This is a little wild, right? Like, why is Jesus so angry? And who are these money changers? And why are there people selling pigeons? What is going on here? If those are questions that you have when you come to this passage, those are all good questions that And we need to understand a little bit of the background on so we can really understand the cursing of the fig tree and why Jesus is so angry in the temple. Right, if you're not familiar with the Bible, the temple was the most important place on earth for the Jewish people. But for any of the teenagers or kids who are here, can any of you tell me why the temple was the most important place on earth for the Jewish people? You can just raise your hand if you know. In the back. Exactly, because the temple was the dwelling place of God on earth. You go back to the Old Testament. God gives instructions to the nation of Israel to build him a temple. After the temple's done, what happens? His glory descends it. Descends upon it, fills it. The temple is the dwelling place of God, and it served, the temple building served as the focal point of the relationship with the people of Israel. Now, the original temple in the Old Testament was destroyed by God using the Babylonians to bring judgment on his people for their continuing in sin against them. But then he laid later allowed a second temple. to be built, and this is that second temple. And it had massive significance for the Jewish people. It symbolized, as we heard already, that God had chosen them out of all the people on earth. to live among. And because God so closely identified with the temple, the temple and all of the practices that went on around it, in effect, told the world what God was like. Right, you see where we're going now. The the temple and all of its practices, what went on at the temple, told the world what God was like And the temple building itself was surrounded by a gigantic complex of open-air courts. These courts were built to allow people to come closer to the temple building so that they could gather around the building and worship God. But what we see in verses 15 and 16 is that those temple courts had been turned into a gigantic marketplace. Look there with me again, verses 15 and 16. Notice there are people buying and selling. There are money changers and there are people selling pigeons. Here we go. Since offering sacrifices was an important aspect of living in relationship with God, an entire economy of selling sacrificial animals grew up at the temple. And this was so that the people who were traveling to Jerusalem to celebrate festivals didn't have to bring with them all the animals that they were going to sacrifice for sin and sacrifice as offerings to God. So people at the temple were like, you're good, leave them at home, you come here and you can buy them. from us. And this is not a small farmers market, right? This is like if you live in Chevrolet and you've been at the farmers market. This is not what we're talking about at the temple. This was big business So for instance, in the year 66 A. D. , a Jewish historian by the name of Josephus recorded that during the six-day-long celebration of Passover, a staggering Two hundred and fifty-five thousand lambs were sacrificed in six days. 255,000 lambs were sacrificed. This was a lucrative business. And as soon as Jesus enters the temple complex, he is immediately filled with righteous anger at what he sees. In verse 15, he starts driving out the buyers and sellers. He flips the tables of the money changers and the seats of people selling pigeons. In verse 16, he's not going to allow anyone to carry any merchandise. through the temple, just underscoring his opposition to what he sees going on around him. And what is it that he sees? He sees God's name being defamed and dragged through the mud by the greed, extortion, and corruption going on at the temple. Remind r remember, God identified so closely with the temple that its practices and what it what went on around it proclaimed to the world what God was like. And so when the people of the nations came to God's house of prayer for all nations They walk in and they realize this ain't a house of prayer for all nations. This is a place of corruption. People are getting taken advantage of. They're getting ripped off buying these animals. They're being charged exorbitant amounts for them. That's why Jesus says he strings together these two quotes, one from Isaiah 56, and then another one alluding to Jeremiah 7. He says, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations. All of Isaiah 56 is proclaiming that God's temple isn't just for the people of Israel, but it was also a place for people from every nation to come and learn about Yahweh and to worship him. But rather than being a place of worship for Yahweh, it had become a den of robbers. Straight out of Jeremiah 7. Where When you turn to Jeremiah 7, you find that God condemns the people of Israel for saying, hey, we got the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. Therefore, it's all good with us in the Lord. But the Lord is like, no, it's not. You go about your week ripping people off, oppressing the needy, doing violence, your hands are covered in blood, and then you come to worship me at the temple. The temple is not going to save you You need to be living holy lives to show that you actually have faith in me and believe in me. And Jeremiah 7 is a prediction of judgment. If you do not turn from your sinful ways, judgment is going to come upon the temple. Right? It's a fitting passage for Jesus to quote, because of the thie and robbery going on at the temple. Just like tax collectors would extort people, think of Levi, right? He had to pay back 400fold. Was it 400? 400 times? Four times? Can you think of it? 400? Four. I'm a payback fourfold. There's a great difference between those two numbers. But just like Levi and tax collectors would extort people for money, money changers could charge exorbitant interest when people came to convert their money into the currency that could be used at the temple. They use the temple shekel. And they say, hey, oh, you you want 500 temple shekels? Well I'm going to charge you interest on top of that. Right? And not only that But the poor were being taken advantage of. I want you to notice this. Notice that Jesus turned over the seats of those who sold pigeons. This is an important detail that I think informs Jesus' anger. Because when you go back to the Old Testament in the book of Leviticus, when God gave instructions about what animals could be offered as sacrifices He listed pigeons as animals that could be offered by the poor. They couldn't afford a bull. They couldn't afford a lamb. So God says. Because you're poor, that doesn't mean you can't worship me, you can just bring a pigeon. And here are people selling pigeons, taking advantage of the poor They're coming here, they're buying these sacrifices at prices that I'm sure are jacked up. This is a den of robbers. They're committing thievery against the poor, and there are people selling to the poor these very pigeons that they need to offer sacrifices to God. They're standing in the way of the poor people's ability to worship the Lord. And He's the Lord who welcomes all people into His very presence. This is why Jesus is so angry as He is It's like when you go, right, if you've ever been to the airport, you want to buy something, bottle of water, five dollars. Hamburger, twenty dollars. iPhone charger, $50, right? You get to the store like this is a this entire store is a ripoff. But why do they not care? Because you're trapped You're not going anywhere. There's no competition for them. This is the same thing. When these people are showing up in the temple, the money changers like, say, you want to offer sacrifices to get right with God? You're going to have to change money with us Oh, you want your pigeons? You want to offer sacrifices to God? This is the price. Sorry. Right? This is why Jesus is as angry as he is. This place is a den of robbers. They're all thieves. Corruption, greed, and extortion had come to characterize the temple. But not only that, we see that there's a wholesale rejection of God going on, right? Look at verse 18. Notice how the religious authorities respond to Jesus. They want to destroy him. This isn't like to take him out back and beat him up. They want to kill him. They want him dead He is messing up their business that their pockets are being lined by. Right? They want to destroy Jesus, the Son of God, in the flesh The one in whom the fullness of God was pleased to dwell is standing among them in his own temple. And they want to destroy him. This is why Jesus curses the fig tree. Don't get stuck on questions about what season it is and when the tree was supposed to produce figs. It's simply a tree with no fruit. That's the point. There's a tree, doesn't have fruit on it. Doesn't matter what season it is. The point is the tree with no fruit. Why? The tree is the temple Just like the tree should have fruit on it, the temple being the place of God should be producing fruit in the lives of the people around him. But worse than no fruit in the temple is that there's rotten fruit in the temple. The place is full of rotten fruit. Fruit. And when Jesus curses the fig tree, he's in fact pronouncing certain judgment on the temple. And we even see that subtly in the quote from Jeremiah 7 when he calls it a den of robbers But also we see it again in this fact that after Jesus leaves the temple in verse 21, the tree had withered So Jesus curses the tree, and what happens to that pronouncement of cursing upon the tree? It comes to pass. The judgment that he's predicting will come upon the temple through cursing the fig tree. will come to pass. It's as certain as is cursing of the fig tree. So if you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, I am really glad that you're here. And I want you to see what this passage has to teach you today. That you see Jesus' judgment on the temple and the corruption that was going on around it. is really a microcosm of another judgment that is coming on another temple. What am I talking about? Well you see the temple in Israel was a miniature version of another temple that God had created earlier in history. What temple is that? The universe. The universe was God's first temple. He created the heavens and the earth to be a st a temple of sorts, right? A place where he could dwell and a place that would be filled with his glory. And he created humans, man and woman To live in his universal temple with him. And as his creatures, he gave us his laws to live by. But our first parents rejected his laws and rebelled against him. That rejection plunged humanity into sin, and now through all of our sins, collective, God's original temple is full of corruption. You need only to turn on the news to see this, right? I mean if you if you look at the news at all every day, it's all over the news, political corruption. here and abroad, bribery, here and abroad, extortion, here and abroad, mass murder, here and abroad, adultery, every form of immorality We as a people, all of us in Adam, have sinned against God and have corrupted his holy and heavenly temple, his universal temple. We have defamed it And God has promised to return to judge all of us individually. Did you notice this? That when Jesus saw the fig tree from a distance, He didn't curse it from a distance, but he went to it to personally inspect it, to be sure that it had no fruit. And God has appointed a day when Jesus, as the judge of all the earth, will arrive on the earth to personally and individually inspect all of our lives. And friends, if you're familiar with the Bible at all, you see that this personal inspection, this going to to see for himself if there's fruit or not is present throughout the Bible. What happened at the Temple of uh or the Tower of Babel? God saw what was going on, but then came down to see for himself what was going on. Think about the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah. He heard the outcry against them, and what did he do? Did he just judge Sodom and Gomorrah? No. He came down and he went to see for himself. What is the incarnation? Other than God taking on flesh, the eternal Son of God, and coming down and seeing for himself the corruption that is going on in his temple And Jesus is going to appear again to personally and individually inspect all of our lives someday. I'm going to help you understand a little bit about what this might be like. I used to be in the Coast Guard, and when I was in boot camp, our uniforms always needed to be inspection Ready. Right. So that meant, at least in the Coast Guard, I don't know what other services are like, that meant there couldn't be any little loose strings off the sides of your pockets Or your buttons, there could be no no loose strings, your your sleeves, as they were folded, they had to have perfect creases. Your pants had to be at a certain length below your boots. But but what they would do, what the drill instructors would do, is they would let a week or so pass before they actually called uh a uniform inspection. And why do they do that? Because they know that you're just gonna start You're just gonna start getting sloppy, get a little bit lax. I'm not gonna pay attention as much. Hey, maybe they won't call an inspection uh today. So we would start getting lax in how we took care of care of our uniforms. We wouldn't pay close attention to them. We wouldn't make sure that they were in perfect shape. We give them a quick glance. Yeah, I look good. But as soon as the drill instructor called inspection And if you've ever seen a drill inspector with those big brimmed hats, they come charging at you. They bore down on you with their eyes underneath of that brim. They get right up in your face. And you start looking down at your uniform and you realize, I'm covered in strings. Oh my gosh, how did I not see this? Right? But what made me see the strings more clearly? The fact that the inspection was now taking place. The instructor was right in front of me. I looked at him, stricken with fear, and I look down and I see wrinkles, wrinkles, strings. I am in trouble. Friends, maybe it's just like a small, kind of playful way to deal with a serious subject. What will your life look like? When Jesus in all his glory stands in front of you and starts inspecting all of your motives, all of your thoughts, all of your words, all of your actions. Maybe it maybe what you see is a life that looks like that's pretty good on the surface right now when he stands in front of you. I don't want you to get to that point and say, oh my gosh. There is sin everywhere in my life because the reality is, friends, that's what's going to happen for all of us when Jesus stands in front of us. You're in a room full of sinners. We are not here because we're perfect and holy. We're here because we need Jesus' perfect righteousness. Friends, his judgment is coming. What will Jesus find when he inspects your life? Jesus has promised that he will return to cleanse his universal temple of these things, and he will cleanse it of the people who commit them. But he's also promised to forgive and to save those who turn to him in faith. So if you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, this is what I want to hold out to you, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we have all sinned against a holy God. And that holy God would be perfectly right to judge us for our sins. But because he's merciful and loving He sent his one and only Son, Jesus, to live the perfect life on our behalf. He fulfilled the law of God that we could never fulfill. And then Jesus gave his life willingly as an offering for sin. He took the punishment we deserved. Right, it's like the judge coming down off the bench saying, You're guilty, but I'm gonna take your place. Right, how thankful would you be That's what Jesus has done for us. He stood in the gap for us. He's taken the punishment we deserve so that if we turn to him in faith, he will forgive us for our sins. So I want to encourage you today to turn from your sins and put your trust in him. But this passage also has much to say to the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church as well, friends. Right? It's not just those who don't follow Jesus who need to learn from this. Just as Jesus' judgment started with the temple that bore his name in Israel. When he returns, his judgment will begin with the church. 1 Peter 4. 17 says that the judgment will begin with the household of God. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 3, we are the temple of the living God. Does not God's Spirit dwell in you? And do not our actions tell the world what Yahweh is like, what the Lord Jesus is like? They certainly do. And in the same way that Jesus came personally to the temple in Israel, he will come to the church and he will begin his judgment with the church. Now my job as a past as a pastor is to hold out to you every week. Every week the amazing grace of God But we need to remember when we think about the grace of God that saved us from eternal judgment, right? His judgment will just burn away the remaining sin in our life, and he will bring us into his kingdom. That's grace that he's extending to us, but we need to remember the high cost at which that grace came. And throughout the New Testament, the call is to respond to God's grace, not with license. Not with legalism, but with genuine faith and sanctification, pursuing holiness, holding fast to that grace. How are you doing pursuing holiness? How's that going in your life? Do you find yourself looking at how the New Testament calls Christians to live and find yourself just saying, oh no, there's grace for that. I don't have to do that. But friend, that's not what grace is for. The grace that comes to us is to cause us to go, oh my gosh, I have received something that I have not deserved, and I will give my whole life to follow you. That's the response to God's grace that we should strive for in our own lives. So what will Jesus find when he comes to inspect your life? What will Jesus find when he comes to inspect his church? Lord willing, what he'll find is faith. Imperfect, right? Fallen, but faith. Because we see in our text that since Jesus will judge every person on earth We should turn to him in faith. And that's point two of our passage. Right? So we're going to look now at verses 22 to 25. After Peter sees that the fig tree that Jesus cursed has withered symbolizing the certainty of God's judgment on the temple. And if you have any questions about whether that temple that judgment on the temple ever came to pass, it did. In the year 70 A. D. , the Romans came in and destroyed the temple, and in Israel, it's still broken down. Right? The temple was finally and fully destroyed in the year 70 That certainty of God's judgment on the temple came. And so Jesus tells his disciples what they should do in light of the judgment to come. Look at verse 22. We see very clearly the first thing he tells the disciples to do is Have faith in God. I think it's important for us to stop here and consider this simple command because of how misunderstood the biblical concept of faith is. in our culture today. So the well-known atheist Sam Harris said that faith is generally nothing more than the permission religious people give one another to believe things strongly without evidence. So what Sam Harris is basically saying is that faith is a blind leap into the dark that has no relationship to evidence, reason, or logic. And that really is a common view of faith in our world today, but that view of faith does not bear any resemblance to the biblical picture of faith. Why do I say that? Well, because in the Bible, faith is always, always, always grounded in the evidence of God's work in the past. which produces trust that he will make good on his promises for the future. Think of the countless number of psalms in which the psalmist says We remember that you did this, and then you did this and you did this and you did this and you saved us and now faith and praise and we believe that you will do this again. It's we remember, we remember, we remember. Why does God command people in the Old Testament to build up Ebenezer stones, stones of remembrance, memorializing. Well he does it because how prone we are to forget. That our faith isn't just rooted in ourselves or just this, I'm going to convince myself that I believe for no reason. No, our faith is to look to the past. to see what God has done, to see him answering promises, and then to have faith and trust that he will do it again in the present and in the future. That is biblical faith. It's not a blind leap into the dark for From it. Now think about what God has done in the past for you today. In the past, God kept his promise and sent his son Jesus. In the past, God offered his son Jesus to bear the punishment for our sins. In the past, God raised his son from the dead. showing that his sacrifice was effective and that Jesus was in fact the Son of God and is in fact the Son of God. All that he's done in the past. But not only that, in your own life, if you were a follower of Jesus, in the past, God rescued you from the dominion of darkness and brought you into the kingdom of his beloved Son. In the past. He gave you a new heart, causing you to turn from sin and start loving his commandments and his laws, taking out your heart of stone and giving you a heart of flesh. In the past, he sanctified you and continues to sanctify you. For all of you here who are following Jesus, if you've been following for five years, consider who you were five years ago and who you are today. Consider who you were ten years ago. and who you are today. Consider who you were fifteen years ago and who you are today. Your growth as a Christian is testimony To God's work in your life in the past, so that you would have confidence and belief in the presence and the future that He will continue on that perfect work until He carries out to completion in the day of Christ Jesus. When our Lord will descend from the heavens and reveal Himself as the God of all the earth to all the nations. Faith is believing what God has done in the past, so that in the present and the future we would believe that He would carry out those promises again. Right? That's what we're talking about. It's not a blind leap into the dark. It's staking your future on the rock solid promises of God because God has shown himself faithful from the beginning of time to bring about his plan of redemption through his son Jesus. This is one of the reasons it's so important for us as his followers to be so steeped in the scriptures. Right? Why do we want to be steeped in the scriptures so that we can read about how God has been faithful to every one of his promises in the past I don't know about you, but this is my experience. Whenever I'm around people who are just kind of immersed in the word all the time, I find myself wondering, why is their faith so strong? And the answer is right there. That is the invisible connection. I'm not saying this as a rule, but I think the reality is the more we are in the Word, and the more we see what God has done in the past, and the way that He's kept his promises The more we have faith for the present and the future. And that's why when I'm around saints who are always in the word, I'm always like, man, that faith, their faith is so encouraging. Right? That's why we want to be steeped in the word. And kids Kids, I hope you guys, even the teenagers also, as you are coming to the Bible, I want you to come to the Bible in a posture of faith. Right? You come to God's word asking him to give you the Spirit to help you understand it. Right? You have to ask for the Spirit to understand his word and to give you eyes to see his faithfulness to every one of his promises in the past. Now I'm sure your mom and dad are guilty of this, I'm certainly guilty of this. There's so many times where I open the word and I read it and I walk away and I forget exactly what I read But there are times where God is gracious, he gives the Spirit, and He opens my eyes, and I could say that in those times, I see how He's calling me to live, and by His Spirit, I could feel Him encouraging me towards holiness and just giving me a desire for it. I want to encourage y'all when you come to God's word, come to it in faith, believing what God has done in the past, that he will do again in the present, and he will do again in the future. And commit yourself to following his ways. But it's not just faith that we see us, Jesus call us to respond with. That faith should manifest itself in God in two different ways in our lives. The first is prayer. Faith should manifest itself in prayer. Look at verses 23 and 24. Jesus says there in verses 23 and 24 Truly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. Right? It will be yours. We're gonna look at briefly real quick. We're gonna look at two common mistakes that people make when they come to these verses But before we do that, I just want to say outright that the main point of these verses is that we should be praying big prayers because we serve a God that can move mountains. So we can think about like, what about praying according to his will? He hasn't answered. Those are all good questions. But the point of what Jesus is saying is that his people should be praying big prayers. God moves mountains, right? That's what he's able to do. But what are those two mistakes that people often make when they come to this passage? First Is thinking that we can ask for whatever we want and we'll get it. Right? Jesus says, whatever you ask for, if you believe it, you'll get it, right? Well, not exactly. God is not a genie in a bottle. Right, it's true that he calls us to come to him with our requests, but he also calls us to align our requests with his will. Right? 1 John 5. 14 says, if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have what we asked of him. Now, I recognize, like I said, that this can produce so many questions when you start to consider The particulars of what you should pray for and what you shouldn't pray for, and you feel like you're praying for good things that should be in line with God's will, but He doesn't seem to be answering them If you have questions about that today or in the weeks to come, I want to encourage you to come to talk to me or Jonathan after the service. We would love to talk to you about those questions. The second danger that people make or mistake that people make when they come to this passage is thinking that it's the strength of our belief that gets us what we pray for, because in verse 24 he says, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it. And it will be yours. It's saying like he's saying it sounds like he's saying that whether or not our pra our prayers will be answered depends on the strength of our belief. And there's even an entire system of false teaching built around this idea sometimes called name it and claim it theology or the word faith movement. They teach that if we aren't getting the things that we want in prayer, the problem isn't with God. It's with us. If we just believe enough, we'll get what we're praying for. And this is a terrible system of false teaching. It does terrible things. to people's lives. If you have been caught up in it in any way, please come talk to us so that we can help you think more clearly about what the Bible teaches about prayer. Let's be clear. If our prayers depended on the strength of our faith, none of our prayers would be answered. If our prayers depended on the strength of our faith, Not one of our prayers would be answered because all of us are weak in faith in various ways. You go back to chapter 9 of Mark. We are the Father who says, I believe, help my unbelief. All of us are in intermixture. It's like a washing machine of Faith and unbelief. It's just all going on at the same time. It's not the strength of our faith by which our prayers are answered. Remember, Jesus has even just said, have faith In God. Not have faith in your belief or faith in your strength of your faith. Have faith in God. Our faith is in God. Our confidence in prayer has nothing to do with the strength of our faith. but the strength of the great God that we serve. And that is the point of verses 23 and 24. We are supposed to read these verses and walk away thinking, I need to pray bigger prayers because God can move mountains. Now, Jesus is using a turn phrase, kind of a hyperbole illustration. Say to that mountain, pick up and go into the ocean. Did you notice that Jesus actually never does that in his own ministry? He's saying, this is the type of thing that God can do for you. He can move mountains in your life. What does it mean when somebody can move mountains? You just shouted out. What does it mean? Does it actually mean that they can walk up to it and push it out of the way? Does it mean that? No, it just means that they can do amazing things. God, Jesus is saying, God can move mountains. Paul says in Ephesians, he is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think. God can do impossible things. The things that seem like they are impossible for us to overcome are nothing for God to answer. Those are the things that God has the power to act on and change. What are the impossible circumstances that you might be facing in your life today? Now, I'm not talking about kind of like, you know, just God parting the the skies and you know like causing the sun to stop, like to prove that he's God. Are you struggling with patience? Because for me, sometimes that seems like an impossible circumstance to overcome. Like I am really struggling with patience and I don't know how to grow in it. That is the type of thing that Jesus is saying. Hey, pray for that Pray for that always. Pray for that we'll pray for that without ceasing. You think it's too hard for God to sanctify you and give you more patience? No, God can move mountains. What are the impossible circumstances in your life that are seem like they are impossible to overcome? And how often are you praying about them? How often are you just are you praying about them? Jesus teaches that we should be like the woman who comes to the house and just knocks on the door constantly because we want what we ask for. That's the type of way we should be praying to God. We should be praying without ceasing. Knocking, God, hey, I'm still here. I'm not going anywhere. I've been asking you for patience for the last five years. I'm going to keep asking you for the next 50 until you answer. Give me what I ask for because I know my patience is in line with your will. And whatever we pray for in line with your will, you will answer. What are the things going on in your life that you've just like stopped praying for because you think God can't do it or he won't answer? Look at what he says here. God is able to move mountains. And how are you doing setting aside time to regularly pray? Are you setting aside time to regularly pray? The way that I do it is I take walks around the neighborhood. So I have to get out and I walk around the neighborhood to pray Now it may look different for you, but the question we need to ask is, are we doing that? Are we doing that? And if it's difficult for you to get time alone because of the season of life you're in. Consider trying to simply pray as you go about your day more often. Right? Maybe you don't need set aside time because of the season that you're in, but you can commit to just praying as you go about your day more often. One of my favorite books on this topic is a book called A Praying Life by Paul Miller. If you've never read it, I would highly encourage you to read it if you want to grow not just in prayer, but in a life of prayer, a life that's characterized by prayer. Miller says this. He says, prayer is where I do my best work as a husband, father, and friend. And I've seen that in my own life. That is where my best work gets done. And if I'm not praying regularly, I'm basically failing at the task that God has put in front of me. Like we will never regret making time to pray or praying as we go. And so I want it to be said of CVC that we are a people that pray without ceasing and that pray big prayers. Let's encourage one another in that. But there is also a second way that faith manifests itself in our lives, and that's in forgiveness. Look at verse 25. Jesus says, if you have anything against anyone, forgive them, so that your Father also, who is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses. Now it might sound like because of the way that it's worded that Jesus is saying that our ability to forgive others is what saves us. But I think we know from the New Testament that that's not the case. It's Christ who saves us, and it's through our faith in him. I think what he's saying here is that a forgiving spirit is to be so characteristic of believers that not having a forgiving spirit should call into question whether we have actually grasped what God has done for us. We even see this in the parable of the wicked servant, right? Unforgiveness in the parable of the wicked servant leads the man to be cast into prison forever. He's foreshadowing the judgment to come. Forgiveness is to be so characteristic of God's people that a lack of forgiveness in our spirit should call into question whether we have grasped the gospel at all. What is forgiveness? Forgiveness is a decision to not hold something against another person despite what they have done to you. Forgiveness is not forgetting. God hasn't forgotten our sins. Yes, it does say he will remember them no more, but God knows that we have sinned. He's just choosing not to treat us according to them. And forgiveness Doesn't mean that relationships necessarily return to normal. Some sins are so bad that they require relationships to change, even if forgiveness has been extended. What this does mean is that forgiveness, forgiveness does mean that we will fight with all that is in us to forgive small sins and big sins because the call to forgiveness is unequivocal. If you have anything against anyone, forgive them. If you have questions about things that are going on in your life, this is a passage that I think I think would kind of provoke questions in your life about what does this mean for a particular situation you might be facing. Please come talk with me or Jonathan after the service or one of the other elders. The call to unequivocal forgiveness may sound unfair to you, but we must remember why Jesus calls us to forgive. And the reason that we're called to forgive is because of the unbelievable forgiveness that we have received. And what is that forgiveness? Well, think about it. Think about what we've seen in the passage already this morning. That forgiveness is that we were no different from the people in the temple. We were no different from the ones who were defaming God's temple. All of us have sinned against God. Some of us have extorted others. Some of us have oppressed others. Some of us have taken advantage, others Some of us were liars, thieves, immoral, corrupt, full of all types of sins, and yet God, rather than cursing us as we deserved chose to extend us mercy and forgiveness. Now how could he do that and still remain just? Because a just judge needs to punish sin. Well, how did he do that? Well, he did that by sending his son, the one who never sinned, to bear the curse that we deserved. We were like the barren fig tree. But rather than cursing us, Christ became the barren fig tree for us. He was uprooted from the land of the living and cast off. He bore the judgment that the temple deserved when his body was pierced and nailed to the tree. Though we deserve to be withered down to our roots He instead took the punishment of death for us, was withered in our place, so that you and I could be made fruitful trees. And three days after he died, he rose from the dead, proclaiming to all that judgment was coming, and so all should repent and turn to him for forgiveness. How can you do that today? Look at what the passage teaches us. It's right there. You put your faith in him. And how do you put your faith in him? You pray. You speak to God. You say to God, and you say to God, Lord, I recognize that I've sinned against you. I recognize that my sins were not just kind of. merely bad things that I have done that hurt other people, but I have offended a holy God, and I'm coming to you, asking you to forgive me completely for all of my sins. . . And God promises that if you do that, you can have confidence that He will forgive you of your sins because As one pastor said this so well, we know God will answer us when we call, because one terrible day, he did not answer when Jesus called. Jesus' prayers were given the rejection that we sinners merit, so that our prayers could have the reception that He merited Oh friends, Christ did not deserve to become the wither tree. Not for us. But he's chosen to because he's gracious and merciful. He has uprooted our dead root systems and placed them in fertile ground so that now we produce a fruit for him. A day is coming when Jesus will judge every person on earth. Yet he offers forgiveness and pardon to all. Will you turn to him in faith today? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you in the name of your Son Jesus. And we confess that we have fallen short this past week, but we rejoice that Christ bore the punishment for us. Lord Jesus, we thank you for becoming a withered tree so that we who were withered could could become fruitful trees. We pray that you would grant now the Spirit to empower us this week to bear fruit for you. So fill us with the fruit of the Spirit. Help us to increase in gentleness and peace and patience and love and kindness in every way. Help us to bring glory to you, we pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.