Uh in in 2016, Johnny Brownlee of England Along with about one hundred other elite triathletes competed in the World Triathlon Series Now, the World Triathlon Series consists of nine races in nine different countries over a span of only five months. This is a staggering feat of endurance. In the first eight races, Brownlee finished in the top three five different times. And headed into the final race, he was in position to win the World Triathlon Series Crown. After the starting gun, Brownley, as usual, was in or near the front of the pack. He completed the mile-long swim. the twenty-six mile bike ride, and then on the six mile run to close out the race, Brownley pushed the pace, stretching out his lead over the field, and seemingly securing the series title. Until he began to falter a half mile from the finish line With a commanding lead over the field, the crown, just beyond his fingertips, Brownlee began to physically stagger. He winced in pain. He struggled to continue. And then, well, we'll come back to that story in a bit. But I begin with Brownlee's story because it's a story of struggling to continue. And much like Johnny Brownley, the Colossian church was struggling to continue. Struggling to continue in the faith. Though they had started strong, And doubtless some of them were approaching the finish line of life and faith. They were in danger of not continuing in the race of faith And the main reason they were struggling to continue in the faith is because they were hearing a lot of competing claims about what type of life pleases God. As some religious teachers were pushing the need for strict observance of the Jewish law, saying the gospel of Jesus Christ isn't enough. You need to add on to it. Others were pushing the need for asceticism, getting rid of every worldly comfort. They were pushing the need for having visions and worshiping angels And in response to this danger and to help the Colossians continue in the faith, the Apostle Paul writes to them. To continue in the faith, and to clearly describe the type of life that pleases God. I want to encourage you to open to Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 to 14. I'm gonna go ahead and read those verses for us now. This is God's word And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled With the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him Bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might for all endurance And patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Over the last four sermons in Colossians, in these verses, we've looked at one specific aspect of the type of life that pleases God each week Last week we saw that it looks like increasing in the knowledge of God. And this week we see That the type of life that pleases God is a life of endurance and patience with joy. Because of how important endurance is in the Christian life, and because of how much 2020 has tested our endurance. I'm going to separate the two of those, endurance and patience, and deal specifically and squarely with what it looks like to endure with joy this week. So we see that the type of life that pleases God is a life of enduring with joy. Well, where do we see that? Look again with me at verse 11. Paul says. Being strengthened with all power according to God's glorious might. For what purpose, Paul? What do we need to be strengthened with God's glorious might for? For All endurance and patience with joy. The type of life that pleases God is a life of enduring with joy. Now, endurance and patience are very similar, though not identical. I don't think Paul is saying the exact same thing two different ways. While there is certainly overlap, I want to make a simple and yet crucial distinction that will affect how we approach this passage. And what is that distinction? It's this. It's that endurance refers primarily to enduring difficult circumstances And patience refers primarily to being patient with difficult people. So what Paul is saying is that the type of life that pleases God is one of enduring difficult circumstances and being patient with difficult people and doing both of those with joy Now, if you're if you're thinking about your life this past week and you're kind of internally cringing and shrinking back because you did not endure and you were not patient and there was no joy, I want to say to you, you and me both, right? You and me both, but my hope is that by the time we're done, you're renewed in your desire to press on and endure with joy. So let's consider this week that the type of life that pleases God is a life of endurance, a life of enduring difficult circumstances. A life of forbearing through trials, a life of facing suffering and continuing to press on in the faith And the reason that endurance is needed is because we live in a fallen world. You and I will experience difficult circumstances, trials, and suffering. Right? The the suffering and trials that we experience are not the result of the blind forces of time and chance. They are the direct and immediate result of the rebellion of Adam and Eve against God. When our first parents chose to disobey God and to become their own gods by breaking his commands, sin entered the world and death through sin. All of the physical decay and sickness and suffering we experience in our bodies is a direct result of their sin and our sins with them. But their sin didn't only usher in physical sickness and suffering into the world. It resulted in the cursing of work The cursing of childbearing and the cursing on relationships. Sin caused difficulty to taint every aspect of the human experience. When uh I uh for lunch each day I I like to make a smoothie. And when I make smoothies, one of my kids, knocks usually or Grace will inevitably ask. to help and they especially like to pour the for the frozen blueberries into the smoothie. And what happens to my vanilla looking smoothie when we pour in the blueberries and turn the blender on? Well, it turns purple. The blueberries are ground up and dispersed throughout the whole so that no part of the smoothie remains untouched by the blueberries Right? That is the completeness with which sin has permeated and cursed this world, which means. That you and I will inevitably experience difficult circumstances, suffering, and trials. And those trials and difficult circumstances Don't go away when you put your faith in Jesus. You see, there's a false teaching that calls itself Christian, but in no way can be reconciled with the Bible that teaches that God only wants his people to be healthy, wealthy, and happy. And that if you just believe enough, you will be protected against suffering and trials. And that if you are suffering, it is the result of something being defective in your own faith. And that's a completely false teaching that has destroyed countless lives. The Bible never says that Christians won't suffer or endure difficult circumstances. In fact, it says the complete opposite. What does Paul say in his letter? to the Philippians. It has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. Endurance is necessary because suffering is guaranteed Endurance is necessary because suffering is guaranteed. You'll experience caustic work environments You will experience the loss of loved ones. You'll experience prayers that have not been answered in the way that you would like. For residents of Chevrolet, you will experience flooded basements and ruined belongings. You will feel the constant pull of sin and temptation. And in our world, you will likely face increasing hatred and opposition for following Jesus. And the reality is, because you and I are weak. Just one of those things can be enough to make us want to give up, let alone experiencing trials in different areas of life all at one time. Yet the call to Christians who are experiencing difficult circumstances, trials, and suffering is to endure. Keep going. Press on. If you're in a season of experiencing difficult circumstances, my encouragement to you today My loving admonition for you is to keep going. Don't stop. In her book, Suffering is Never for Nothing, Elizabeth Elliott writes this: Do the next thing. I don't know any simpler formula for peace, for relief from stress and anxiety than that. Very practical. Bury down-to-earth word of wisdom. Do the next thing. That has gotten me through more agonies than anything else I could recommend. Friend, if you're enduring difficult circumstances today, do the next thing. Keep going. Put one foot in front of the other, and then do it again and again. And again. And know that your endurance pleases God. And why does it please him? Because when weak people endure through difficulty, it shows that their power comes not from them, but from the God that they worship Right? Notice what what Paul is not saying here when he prays for endurance. Paul isn't saying, pick yourselves up by your bootstraps. Nor is he saying, as some of us are tempted to do, suck it up, buttercup, right? The call to endure Is simultaneously a call to cast yourself upon God's strength as you actively do the next thing. It is a moment by moment living in and living on The strength that God provides. Which is why, if you're looking at your trials and you're thinking to yourself, John, there is no way that I can continue to endure the circumstances I'm in, I would say, you're right. There is no way that you can endure. You and I would never endure if it was dependent on us. But look at the glory and power of what Paul is saying in these verses. Look back at the verse. You and I endure not by continuing in our own strength, but by being strengthened with all power according to God's glorious might God is pleased when his people endure by relying not on their own power, but on his infinite and inexhaustible power. Which is why, when you're in the midst of difficult circumstances, don't just stare at the circumstances. They will only look worse and worse and worse And enduring will seem more and more and more unlikely. Stare at God and His strength and His power and look at your circumstances against the backdrop of His inexhaustible strength and never-ending power. His might is a glorious might. And there is no circumstance, no circumstance that we will face in this life. That he cannot grant us strength to endure. And accessing God's power So that we can endure is something that you and I, weak individuals, need to do daily, regularly, throughout the day We see this even in Paul's prayer life, right? He always encourages constant prayer, right? He regularly asks God for help. He says to the Thessalonians, in everything by prayer and supplication, in everything by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known to God. Our basement's flooded, we lost all our belongings. Lord, strengthen us. What are we going to do to replace this stuff? Lord, have mercy. It's a daily, throughout the day, regularly asking God for help. That is how you are strengthened by His power according to His glorious might. You, weak creatures, come to me, the source of all strength, and ask me. Prayerlessness is a sign that you don't think God is powerful enough to strengthen you for your circumstances. Right? We know enough to plug in our iPhone each night so that it's ready to go the next day, but we fail to plug into, for lack of a better description, God's power each day. Because we live under the delusion that we have enough strength in ourselves to endure. Friend, you don't. I don't. Only God can cause us to endure. The enduring life is the praying life. This is why Paul is praying for God's strength for them He doesn't just assume that they have the strength to get by. He knows they don't. So he asks the only one who does have the strength. To grant them the strength they'll need to continue in the faith and to endure. But we endure not only through constant dependence on God's strength in prayer, We also endure insofar as we remain connected to God's people and the church The church is the body of Christ. And to think that you can endure on your own without being meaningfully connected to a particular church body is to think that you can endure while being cut off from Christ's body. Right? If I were to cut off my hand, would it continue to live? No, in short order, it would die. It would shrivel up No more can my hand continue to live while being separated from my body than a Christian can continue to live while being separated from Christ's body in the church. Mark Dever is fond of calling the church an assurance of salvation co-op. And for our purposes this morning, I'll modify it by calling it an assurance of endurance co-op. That's what we're helping one another to do, to encourage one another to endure, says the author of Hebrews. You can go back to the Old Testament. Think about the picture of Moses. When the Israelites were in battle, as long as he had his arms held up, they had the victory, and as soon as his arms fell. That they started losing. And so what did Moses? Moses didn't have strength in himself to gain the victory. He needed Aaron and her to hold up his arms. Right? He needed the help of others. What a great picture of our weakness and need for other Christians in the church to help us endure in the midst of trials and suffering. We need the church to endure. Literally. The idea of a Christian enduring apart from the fellowship of a local church is a concept that is foreign to the New Testament. Even nature teaches us this. Nature teaches us that there is safety in numbers. My kids, I want you to think about the herds of wildebeests. In Africa or water buffalo. How do lions, leopards, and cheetah attack them? Do they just run after the whole herd? Well, they do run after the whole herd, but why do they run after the whole herd, kids? To break it up, to separate the weak, to separate the animals that are stumbling, and then they scatter, and they scatter and isolate the weak and then attack. In the same way, Satan attacks Christians. It's for no not for no reason that scripture calls him a lion. He is looking for the weak the hobbled, the stumbling, and the suffering Christian to devour. And his attacks are most effective. when struggling Christians are separated and disconnected from the fellowship of the local church, which means. The safest place to be if you are experiencing difficult circumstances, if you are struggling to endure, the safest place to be is in the heart of the herd. to be surrounded by the rest of the body for protection and for encouragement in enduring. And how desperately we all need to be leaning into the church in our present circumstances. I can't think of a year in my lifetime that would have tested Christians and the local church the way that 2020 is testing us. The racial tension and unrest afflicting our country, the continuing presence of riots The polarization of the political landscape, the open hatred and animosity thrown back and forth between political parties, and the upcoming elections, all of which are layered on top of the coronavirus. Which already had Christians in a weakened state because of our inability to gather for worship for months, and then since beginning to gather. The services are shorter, the singing is masked, the fellowship is socially distanced and cut short, and the result is that there is a spiritual thinness. A spiritual weakness and depletion that many of us feel. The novelty of the coronavirus wore off a long time ago, and many of us have been running on spiritual fumes Which makes relying on God in prayer and participation in the church body all the more important if we're going to endure. That's why I want to gently encourage those of you watching at home who are not in a high-risk category to consider coming on Sundays. Christ's power is present in a unique way in the gathered assembly that it isn't when you're watching from home. If you're not able to join, prioritize being awake to tune in at 8 a. m. Sunday morning begins on Saturday night It is far better to be physically tired and spiritually refreshed than physically refreshed and spiritually dying. Now, if you're not attending the service or connecting online, you need to be doing everything you can to listen to the sermon later, as well as doing everything you can to connect with your small groups Right? For the foreseeable future, all of us need to view our active engagement with the local church as a matter of life and death because it is. When we choose not to come to church, not to connect on Zoom in the mornings, not to join with our small groups, and not to connect with members of the church on a regular basis, we are cutting ourselves off from major arteries of God's grace. towards us. The spiritual death that follows is never sudden, but it's always certain The very few times in my life where I have been put under anesthesia, I've had the exact same experience. Uh it happened when I had my wisdom teeth taken out in high school. And then when I had surgery on my eye about 10 years ago, the doctors told me, they said, hey, we're going to begin administering anesthesia now. We're going to put this mask on you. And we want you to count backwards from 10. Right, that's their way of like it. Just start counting backwards, you'll be out before you know. And each time, I foolishly thought to myself I'm gonna make it to one. You can't stop me, right? And then what happened each time? The last thing I remember is saying the number 10. I was out in an instant, and I had no idea that it was happening. If you're not making a point to be at church, Or to connect from home, to join with your small group, or to do whatever you can to remain in fellowship with members from your church, you are like a person being administered anesthesia You will fall out spiritually and you will have no idea that it's happening. Fellowship in a local church is a primary means That God has given us for enduring the difficulties of life. Now, when we think about endurance, we also need to think about what the experience of endurance is like. When Paul calls for endurance, he's not calling them to a life of stoicism. He's not calling them to a life of gritting your teeth. Just get through it. He's not calling them to a life of endurance void of emotion. God has made us as emotional creatures, and you can see the endurance of the saints captured in the Psalms, full of emotion. Cries of anguish, please with God to know. God, where are you in the midst of this? That is what endurance looks like Paul is not calling them to endure and to refuse to acknowledge the difficulties of the circumstances that you're in. We are emotional beings. Emotions are part of bearing the image of God And yet they've been tainted by sin. Right? We need to think about this. We think about Jesus in his perfection, even he experienced anguish in the midst of his difficult circumstances in the garden. Paul despaired of life itself. He had anxiety for all the churches. The endurance that Paul is praying for is not an endurance void of emotional turmoil But it is an endurance that subjects our feelings to the facts that we know about God and his purposes in our lives. You may feel like God is giving you more than you can handle, but you can know That God will not burden you beyond what you can bear. And if He is bringing you to your knees, you can know that as Isaiah says, the Lord can strengthen your weak and feeble knees and lift you up on wings like eagles. You may feel like your difficult circumstances are an expression of God's displeasure with you, but you can know that God disciplines the ones he loves. You may feel like God is withholding something that will be good for you, but you can know that God does not withhold any good thing from His beloved. You may feel like your sufferings and trials will be the end of you, but you can know that neither death nor life nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation Will be able to separate you, not even your difficult circumstances, from the love of God in Christ Jesus for you. And that, my friends, is why you and I can endure. With joy. Nothing in this life that you will experience Can ever separate you from God's love for you and Jesus Christ. Not the worst trial in the world, not the worst suffering in the world. Nothing in all creation can separate you and I if you have put your faith in Jesus from God's love for us in his son Christ Jesus. That is the source of all joy in the Christian life, and that empowers not only endurance through difficult circumstances, but endurance. With joy. Friends, set your mind and your eyes on what awaits. Paul says that the sufferings of this life cannot even compare. If the sufferings of life are as great as they are, and they are, how much more glorious is what awaits the children of God? That, friends, is where your joy with endurance in the midst of difficult circumstances will come from Friends, if you're here this morning and you don't follow Jesus, I want to offer you this morning, because God has offered it to all, a joy That can outlast the most difficult of circumstances in this life. And that is the joy of being reconciled to God, forgiven of your sins, and completely redeemed. And God promises that to all who would turn from their sins and trust in Him. And that brings us back to Johnny Brownlee With a commanding lead and only half a mile to go to win the series crown, Johnny Brownlee couldn't continue. He stumbled into the water station in evident pain and suffering from severe dehydration, but then appearing behind Brownlee was his brother. Alistair Brownlee. Alistair was in an all-out battle for second place, but pulled over. Took his brother by the arm and basically carried him to the finish line, pushing his brother Johnny over ahead of himself. Friends, you and I are like Johnny Brownlee. We're in a long race, and enduring is hard. Really hard And by our own strength, we wouldn't make it. But we can know that when we feel like we are about to collapse, The Lord will strengthen us with his infinite power, taking the weight of our frail bodies upon himself. And in the end, Jesus, our brother, will carry us over the finish line. You just look down at your passage, you see what's about to come. We're going to see in a couple weeks that we give thanks to the Father. Why? Because he has already qualified us. He has already, in Christ, brought us across the finish line, and he will carry us home in glory Our friend, rely on him today. Rely on his glorious might and his infinite power. And do the next thing. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, and we confess that we are weak. But you are strong. We desire to endure. We don't have the strength in ourselves to do it. And we cast ourselves upon you. Provide us strength and power, infinite strength, in the midst of our weakness, that we might continue to endure in the faith And though we are prone to wander, we pray that you would bring us back to the flock whenever we are prone to wander, and that you would hold us fast until the end. And we pray this all in the Lord Jesus' name. Amen.