Well, please go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 2, verses 13 to 22, which you can find on Page 837 of the Black Pew Bibles around you. If you're here and you don't own a Bible, please do take one of these Bibles that's uh on the seats next to you. That's a gift from us to you. We don't think there's anything more valuable in this world than the word of God. And so if you don't have a copy of God's Word, please take it. We want you to take it up and read it. This morning we continue in our study of the Gospel of Mark. And we've said in weeks past that the Gospel of Mark was written to correctly identify Jesus Christ as the Son of God. And even though we're only in chapter 2 of Mark's Gospel, we've already seen this taught in numerous ways, right? So think about weeks past. In chapter one, we saw Jesus identified as the Son of God at his supernatural baptism where the heavens parted, the Father spoke from heaven, and the Spirit descended on him. None of us that have been baptized in the Lord Jesus Christ in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit have experienced that. It was a one-of-a-kind baptism Declaring him to be the Son of God. And then we saw that he went on from that baptism and displayed his authority by defeating Satan in the wilderness And then healing a man who was possessed by demons. And then preaching and teaching with an evident authority that was different from the religious authorities of his day. And then we also saw him in chapter one display his authority as a son of God by healing sickness and then cleansing a leper, being able to take uncleanness away from other people and replace that with cleanness and not become contaminated. himself. Then at the beginning of chapter 2, we saw Jesus prove his authority to forgive sins. Something that only God could do. So when we look to the Old Testament, we see that the only one who has authority to forgive sins is God Himself And Jesus proves that he is the Son of God, God in the flesh, by forgiving sins. And it's that account at the beginning of chapter 2 that brings Jesus into conflict. with the religious authorities of the day. And that conflict is going to be the theme that carries throughout chapter two. And so in our passage this morning, we find Jesus Butting heads again with the scribes and the Pharisees. And when I preached last in the Gospel of Mark, they were butting heads over how Jesus could claim to have the authority to forgive sins. Well, what are they in conflict about this morning? Let me go ahead and read the passage for us. This is God's word. He went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them. And as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, Follow me. And he rose and followed him. And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many who followed him. And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with tax collectors and sinners, said to his disciples, Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners? And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting, and people came and said to him, Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh wineskins. What do we learn about Jesus in our passage this morning Well, you see, in each of those accounts, with him reclining with tax collectors and sinners, and then the account about him fasting, both of those accounts are wrapped around a question about why. Why do your disciples do this and why do you do this? Which means that Jesus was defying the expectations of appropriate behavior. He was defying the standards of the religious authorities of the day. And that's what we learn about Jesus Christ in our passage this morning, that Jesus defies everyone's expectations about who the Son of God is and how he would act. And the first way that he does that That we see, point one, is that he does it by befriending sinners. Look at me at verses 13 and 14, right? Jesus returns to the Sea of Galilee. And as we've seen in the past weeks, right, the crowds are flocking to him. He's a magnet for people. People want to know what he's talking about. They want to be around him to see to see him do the amazing works that he's been doing. And the crowds are flocking to him, and he's teaching them. And we've seen in weeks past already in Mark's gospel how Jesus is teaching and preaching to the crowds. Jesus' ministry of teaching was his priority. His preaching and teaching ministry allowed others to understand the miraculous works that he was doing properly. And then Mark says that Jesus passed by a man named Levi, who was sitting at a tax booth. If we turn over to the Gospel of Matthew, we find out that Matthew calls this man Levi. He calls him Matthew. And in fact, the Matthew of Gos the Gospel of Matthew, this Levi, is the one who wrote the Gospel of Matthew. And it was common in that day for people to have a Greek name and a Hebrew name. So you see how already we've seen Simon, who is also called Peter. You have Paul, who is also called Saul. And so Matthew has a Hebrew name, Levi, and a Greek name, Matthew. And this uh Jesus commands this Levi to follow him And he does. Right? Notice the striking similarity. If you've been here throughout our series in the Gospel of Mark, you notice the striking similarity. Between this account of Jesus' and Jesus' call of the first disciples in chapter 1, where he says to them, Follow me And they drop what they're doing and follow him. This underscores yet again Jesus' authority to command a person to follow him. And they do his effectual call on their life. No one can stop Jesus from commanding them to do something. If he desires it to happen, it will happen. But more importantly than that, in this passage, Mark wants to draw our attention to Levi's job. Notice that Levi is sitting at a tax booth. He's a tax collector. He's part of this massive system of Roman taxation of lands that were under their rule. Right? And there were three types of taxes in ancient Rome. First, there was a land tax, so if you owed land very simply, you had to pay a tax on it. Then there was also something called a poll tax that people of a certain age, not Roman citizens, but the people who were lands uh in lands that were under their rule had to pay a head tax. So if you were a certain age, you just you had to pay a denarii because you were alive. It was like a census tax. And then finally, there was a tax on sold goods. And so these tax booths would be set up along regular trading routes and at commercial ports, and they were manned by tax collectors, tax collectors like Levi here in this passage. And what we need to understand about this passage and this group of people is that no one was more hated in Jerusalem and in Israel. No one was more despised by the Jews than tax collectors. Right? Why would a Jewish person enlist to help ancient Rome keep their own people under Roman rule, right? So Rome couldn't possibly supply enough of its own citizens to collect taxes in all the lands that it rules, so it used natives. of those lands who were willing to sell out and to make money for Rome to keep their own people oppressed. Right, so tax collectors are seen as traitors helping to prop up Roman rule of Jerusalem and Judea. But not only that. They were despised because they were generally corrupt individuals. So we need to we need to just be very clear here in the United States that this passage does not say anything about the IRS or people who work for the IRS. of the system of taxation and the corruption of that system is wholly unlike what we experience in this country, right? These tax collectors had almost complete freedom to extort their people for their own gain. Right? So what would happen is that Rome didn't want the hassle of collecting all the taxes on their own. They didn't want the bot to bother with it. And so people would form investment companies. And they would go and pay Rome up front. Here are the taxes that you're owed. Rome would determine how many taxes they would be owed by a particular country. And these investment firms would come forward and say, we're going to pay you up front. If you're owed a million dollars, say Rome is owed a million dollars in taxes, a collection of tax farmers come together, tax farmers like Zacchaeus, who was called a chief tax collector. They gather together, they put their money together, they front-roam the money that Rome's own, and now they have the freedom to go collect taxes This is a system begging to be abused because then when they go back to their lands, they can collect whatever they want. Rome doesn't care As long as Rome gets their gets their money, as long as Rome gets paid, they're going to turn a blind eye to what tax collectors did in their own countries, and tax collectors went crazy with it. They extorted people for their own gain. They defrauded people and imposed ridiculous collect uh taxes upon them. So not only were they traitors, but they robbed their own people. They extorted them for their own gain. They were loathed and hated and despised. And Jesus calls this man. Jesus calls this man to follow him. Right? And Jesus' shocking actions don't end there. Luke tells us that Levi In Luke's gospel, it tells us that Levi went and threw Jesus a great feast, and Jesus went to his house. And that's what we see in our passage. If you look at verse 15, it says, and as he reclined at table in his house I think you can just reinterpret that verse as saying, and as Jesus reclined at table in Levi's house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with him. This is crazy. To recline is to take a celebratory posture at a table in first century Israel. It was a posture that you took when you were just kicking it with people and enjoying fellowship, and Jesus is reclining. with tax collectors and sinners. And this is actually tax collectors and sinners is like a formal category used in ancient Jewish writings. It it included people like gamblers and moneylenders, people who traded on the Sabbath. thieves and criminals and of course tax collectors. Right? But not all sinners, not all quote-unquote sinners were criminals. Many were people who were just simply common people who were too busy or too tort too poor to live up to the rules set by the religious authorities of the day, which is why those very same authorities The scribes of the Pharisees, the best of the best. Right? The the Pharisees are the set apart ones. They're the holy ones. And the scribes of the Pharisees are like They're like the PhD level, like we know the law. We know what true godliness looks like. And you don't look like a godly person, Jesus, because you are fellowshipping with tax collectors and sinners. Their question in verse 16, we need to read it as being full of self-righteous smugness. And I don't think that's inappropriate because when you turn to Luke's gospel, You find that Luke describes them as asking the question as grumbling. Why do you eat with tax collectors and sinners? This is a self-righteous smugness. And what would cause this in the scribes of the Pharisees? Well, why would they act this way? Well, it's because their concern for religious purity, to keep themselves clean according to the law, drove them to keep sinners at a distance out of a fear of becoming contaminated with them or by them, right? But Jesus Jesus defies these expectations because Jesus surrounds himself with sinners In fact, when we look at the passage, he tells us that sinners are the very reason he came. Look at his response in verse 17 to their question. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners Now Jesus isn't saying that there are actually some people who are righteous and who don't need God's help. No, the Bible is crystal clear that all people have sinned. What he's saying is that he didn't come for people who don't think they need his help. He didn't come for the self-assured person. Maybe you're sitting here this morning. You don't think I don't need to be forgiven by God. You're the type of person he didn't come for because he can't help you if you don't know that you are sick. Jesus did not come for the person who has nothing to confess to God. He came for those who know that they've sinned. He came for those who know that they need a spiritual doctor. Friends, let's not miss this. Let's not miss these simple words that Jesus is saying. Let's marvel at for a moment and rejoice over this truth. So I'm going to ask you to say amen to some seemingly odd questions, but I think it's going to make sense once you hear them. So if you have sinned against God and you're here today and you have sinned against God, say amen. If you have fallen short of God's holy standard, say amen. If you know that you're sick and need a savior, say amen. Look at what Jesus says. I came for sinners. I came I came. God came. Messiah came. Our Savior came for us. He came for sinners. Praise be to God who is the good shepherd, who did not stay in heaven above, but he left his dwelling place to seek out his lost Wandering and straying sheep, and he found them in a ditch left for dead, and he picked them up Put them on his shoulders and carried them to salvation. I came for sinners. Amen. Jesus came for sinners. And think about that, friends, if you're here and you're a Christian. Jesus came for sinners. Not just any sinner, but he came for the worst. He came for the most hated, the most despised, the most loathed sinners like Levi, the tax collector. We have to think we've got to piece this together. Think about this. Think about what this means for you today. Levi was a tax collector who manned a tax booth along the Sea of Galilee. And so if Levi is making a job out of collecting taxes on sold goods along the Sea of Galilee, then he almost certainly collected taxes from and extorted fishermen. Let's see where I'm going with this. What did Jesus' first four disciples do for a living? They were fishermen. It is completely within the realm of possibility that Levi Had extorted them from money. It is totally within the repo- the realm of possibility that he had defrauded them. And if he hadn't done it, then they had surely had interactions with other tax collectors. So think about this. Like other Jews, Simon and Andrew, James and John would have been appalled by Jesus calling Levi. Whoa, whoa, whoa, Jesus, Jesus, right? You've gone too far. Don't you know what this man has done? Don't you know what types of sins he's committed? Don't you know that he's extorted us? And you're calling him to be your disciple? They would have been appalled that Jesus was calling a tax collector into their fellowship. You expect us to love him? They would have been appalled that Jesus was calling a tax collector into their fellowship. But you see, that's just it, isn't it, right? It's not their fellowship. It's Jesus' fellowship, and he graciously and mercifully calls whoever he desires into it. Regardless of whether or not we agree with his choice, we are called to love those the Lord calls to himself because we are those who have been called. We don't pass judgment on those whom the Lord saves. We don't raise our hands to God and say, How could you save him? How could you save her? Because God looks at us and says, How could I save you? We are all dead in trespasses and sins. We were all dead in trespasses and sins. The Lord saved us and was gracious to us. So I wonder just a question for you this morning. Are there people you find yourself looking down on? There are people you find yourself looking down your nose at. People who you think are beyond God's grace. Whether or not you would ever say it, I trust as a Christian, you probably wouldn't say it out loud. But Jesus has already proved that he knows what's in our hearts. I'm preaching to myself here. Are there people that you look down on? Right? Maybe it's the gangbanger or the drug dealer or the prostitute. Confession, your pastor was a drug dealer. The Lord saves all types. Is it the liberal progressive? Or the Republican. Or the Trump supporter. Maybe it's not you judging non-Christians, but just looking down on other Christians who make different decisions about what they do for schooling for their kids. or how they spend their time or how they engage with non-Christians. Do you find yourself looking down on other people? To look down on anyone, Christian or non-Christian, is to become like these scribes. So one of the one of the great things about these narratives in the Gospels is they teach us How Jesus responds to certain behaviors and attitudes. And so how would Jesus respond to us if we share those self-righteous looking down on other views? He would look at us and say, I didn't come to call the righteous. I came to call the sick. I came for sinners. And so hear this encouragement today, too, if you're here. If you're the type of person who feels like they've committed too many sins and lived too wayward of a life for God to love you, then I want you to know that you're in good company. This church is full of people just like you. In fact, the only people who can join this church as members are sinners. There is no room for righteous people among us. We have no room for those who think they are right before God. This church is for people who know that they've sinned and who know they need a savior. And kids, I want to encourage y'all as you think about this, as you grow up, that you're gonna inevitably have other friends, not just friends in this church. And it can be very easy to look down on other kids to make fun of them to think you're that you're better than them. And the reason why it's easy to do this is because all humans share the same problems with our heart. We all have hard hearts and we all need God to transform us. And one of the ways that our hard-heartedness comes out in this life is by looking down on other people and being self-righteous and thinking that we're better than them. One of the things I want to encourage you to do today is just consider that Jesus loves people that you might look down on. Jesus loves you, right? Jesus came for sinners. And not only should we welcome sinners into our church, but we should welcome them into our lives. Look at Jesus. He surrounds himself with people in need. Right, so since we've started meeting as a church, so if you're here as a visitor, we've only been meeting for a few months now. And we had core group meetings before we started meeting formally. And we've talked a lot about reaching our neighbors with the gospel and about spending time with them. And I just want to say to the members of this church, I am so encouraged by how well you guys do this. I am so encouraged by the time that you take to get to know the members of your community and spend time with them. And I want to encourage you all to keep doing that. And don't stop praying and thinking about how the Lord might use you to save some of your neighbors. Nobody is too far gone for the long arm of salvation, the strong arm of salvation of the Lord. He can save anyone. And it's actually telling if we think about this, right? It's telling that Jesus' statement, his mission statement. He said, I I came. This is my mission. I came to save sinners. That statement comes in the context Of sharing a meal with them. It's like he's saying, if you want to see people come to know me, then you're going to need to spend time with them And I want you to notice this also, Christian, if you're here. Jesus isn't making their repentance a precondition for his love. Jesus isn't making their repentance a precondition of his love. We have no idea how many of these people actually came to faith, but Jesus spends time with them anyways. In other words, Jesus does more than preach repentance to sinners. He befriends them. He befriends them. But we need to be careful here. When we think about following Jesus, we are thinking about trying to follow in the footsteps of the Son. of God, who had all wisdom and all knowledge, and who knew how to live out the book of Proverbs perfectly in his life, something that neither you nor I do. The fact that Jesus befriended sinners doesn't mean he was tolerant of sin. And this is perhaps one of the more difficult aspects of following him And we as Christians inevitably fall into one of two camps, right? Some of us love the Jesus love the Jesus who goes into the temple and flips over tables, right? Who rebukes the Pharisees? He preaches judgment. Some of us love judgment Jesus, right? The only thing that we know how to do when we're around non-Christians is like I don't know what else to say other than repent. Like you, that's all I know how to say to you is to repent. And understand that that's not how Jesus operated. But there's another danger. There's another ditch to fall into. Others of us think Christians who focus too much on repentance are getting it all wrong. And so we only and always ever just try to befriend Christians without ever calling them to repent. And both groups. Both groups get Jesus wrong. Both groups get Jesus wrong. If you turn over to the Gospel of Luke and read his account. of this passage, which is nearly identical, one of the very few differences that you'll find about it is that Jesus wasn't just befriending these sinners. He called them So he was neither just preaching the wrath of the God nor befriending them. He loved them. He listened to them. But he also told them the truth. And he did so unapologetically. So in your relationships with non-Christians in your lives, How concerned are you to actually know them and love them? I can almost guarantee that if you are not showing a concern for that They are picking up on it. And whenever you talk to them about the gospel, they are probably shutting it down internally. But I'll tell you what, if you love your non-Christian neighbor and friend and you actually show a concern for them. and their life and their well-being, when you share the gospel with with them, which you should do, I can almost guarantee that they will actually listen. Doesn't mean they might repent, but they will actually listen. Love opens the doors of the spiritual heart. Love opens the doors of the spiritual heart. And that's why Jesus had so many sinners and tax collectors surrounding them. Jesus doesn't fit into a neat little box. We like simple Jesus We like one one type of Jesus. Just don't don't make it complex for me. But that's not Jesus. He doesn't fit into a box. He's gonna love non-Christians and tell them the truth. He's gonna lay down his life for them, even though they don't want anything to do with him. And that's the type of love that he's calling you and I to. So he defies everyone's expectations by befriending sinners. But there's a second way that he does it in our passage this morning. And the second way that he does it is by Feasting instead of fasting. Look at me at verse verses 18 to 22. In verse 18. We learn that John's disciples, that's John the Baptist, even though he was arrested, even though he was arrested in chapter 1, we learned that John the Baptist is arrested in chapter 1, he was so influential that many Continued to follow him. And so these are called John's disciples. His teaching was ministry was very strong, and he had many disciples who were baptized into his baptism And so these disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees were fasting. And I think one of the things that's going on here is Mark wants us to get a sense for the universality of the practice of fasting among the religious community of Israel. And I say that because if you turn to the Gospel of John, you find that John the Baptist, when Pharisees were coming to him, he called them brood of vipers. Right? You need to flee from the wrath of God to come. So they were not friends. They didn't like fist bump one another, right? John was preaching to them, flee from the wrath to come. So when Mark grabs their disciples, John's disciples who are fasting, and the Pharisees' disciples and their fasting, he's basically saying, Everyone in the religious communities in Israel is fasting. So why aren't you? What gives? What gives? That's what happens. Someone comes to Jesus and asks him why his disciples aren't fasting, which is to ask Jesus why he isn't fasting. because disciples would do what their teachers did. And like I said, fasting was a nearly universal practice among the religious community of Israel. But before we go on, if you are a child in here and you are between the ages of six to eight, I have a question for you. This is limited. I may ask you how old you are if you answer this question. So can you give me a brief definition of what fasting is? Abram. You don't eat food for a long time. Well done, Abram. Well done. That's a great definition of what fasting is. Fasting is intentionally and I think Abram violated the law. He is five years old, isn't he? Or is he six? Ah, well done. See, he's a lawkeeper, and I am I am shown to be wrong Uh sorry about that, Abram. I'm accusing in my heart. Scribe. All right, so fasting in Scripture Is intentionally going without food or water or sometimes both. Now, when we look to the Old Testament background for fasting, we find out that the only time that fasting was commanded in the Old Testament was in the book of Leviticus, chapter sixteen, right in the middle, on the Day of Atonement. That was the only day that Israelites were commanded to fast. And the Day of Atonement was the one day a year. It was like one of the most important days. In all of Israel. It's what we call Yom Kippur to Kippur today. Israelites, uh Jewish people still celebrate it. It was the Day of Atonement when the high priest of Israel would go one time into the Holy of Holies inside the temple to make atonement for the people of Israel. This is when all the people confessed their sins. and their guilt before God that they had transgressed his law, and the high priest went in and made atonement for them. And then you remember that there were two goats offered. One goat was offered as a sacrifice, and then the sins of the people were symbolically placed upon the head of the other goat, and he was sent off into the wilderness, not to live, but to be killed by wild So this day was extremely important. And so the fasting done on the Day of Atonement was meant to communicate repentance for sin. And though it was only commanded on the Day of Atonement, what we find when we turn to the Old Testament is that there are numerous examples of voluntary fasting throughout the Old Testament. There are numerous examples. So think of David fasts when his child is sick. All of Israel fasts in the book of Esther when they're threatened by Haman with being exterminated at his hands. So fasting, the voluntary fasts were done throughout the Old Testament. And most often these fasts were associated with times of distress. with sickness, with mourning, with impending danger and with calamities. But most importantly And what's most important for our passage this morning is that fasting was done as an outward expression. Of one's hunger for the presence of God. It was done as an outward expression of one's hunger for the presence of God. So even think about the language of the psalmists. There's so many psalms that you can find where the psalmist says, I I thirst for you in a dry and weary land I long for you. My soul hungers for you. That is the outward expression of hungering for the presence of God. And it was this understanding of fasting as an outward expression of longing for the presence of God that informs Jesus' response. So look at how he answers in verses 19 and 20. He says Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast So Jesus uses the metaphor of a wedding feast to tell why he and his disciples didn't fast. And so weddings in Israel during the first century were typically a seven-day affair full of feasting, full of celebrations, full of joy. People partied for seven days. And so Jesus is saying that fasting is completely inappropriate for a wedding because fasting symbolizes sorrow and longing, and weddings symbolize joy, and feasting and fullness. They're completely inappropriate. with one another. But he's also saying more than that. Notice he calls himself the bridegroom. The wedding guests are his disciples And he is the bridegroom. And this is a subtle claim to divinity that I'm sure none of them picked up on Because you see in the Old Testament, nowhere is the Messiah ever described as a bridegroom. That description is reserved for Yahweh alone, who is a husband to his people. And it's here that we see the great incompatibility of fasting in the presence of Jesus. Right, since fasting symbolizes sorrow and longing for the presence of God, Jesus and his disciples don't fast because God has come in Jesus Christ. When God comes on the earth, it is a time for feasting and for celebration, not a time for fasting The hungering and thirsting for God expressed in fasting was unnecessary in the presence of one who is water from heaven, who is living water Who's like bread from heaven, who feeds us. The old ways of fasting and longing for the presence of God are no longer compatible with the newness that comes in Jesus' presence. And that's the point of the two many parables that come after the whole bridegroom and wedding guest thing. So look at verses 21 and 22. Fasting in Jesus' presence is as incompatible as sewing a new patch on an old piece of clothing. Why? Well, because the new patch has not shrunk and the old garment has shrunk, so when you put the new patch on top of the old garment and then you wash it, the new patch is going to shrink and it's going to tear away from the old garment, and now the pants of the shirt are going to be totally useless Not only that, but fasting is like putting new wine in new in old wineskins. Right? So when new wine ferments It expands and releases gases as it's fermenting, and the wineskins need to hold it in. But old wineskins that have already had other new wine in them that have already expanded and become brittle now cannot handle being put under the same type of pressure again by another batch of new wine So when the new wine begins to expand and release gases, it bursts and it cannot hold the new wine. It makes them totally useless So useless garment, useless wineskins, new old new, old, new, old Jesus is driving home the point that the sorrow and mourning and longing symbolized in fasting of the old way are completely incompatible with the newness that Jesus brings So if you're here and you're thinking about what it means to follow Jesus, I want to press one point on you. Right? I'm really thankful that you're here. There's nowhere else that I'd want you to be than here listening to the Word of God. But here's what I think this passage is teaching you. You cannot simply add Jesus on to your old way of living. He is not an add-on. He's not a system update. He is an entirely new operating system. They do not work together, right? Or maybe you're here and you understand yourself to be a Christian, but you look back at your life And you can't see any real discernible change from old to new. If that's you, I might ask in love, have you ever really started following Jesus? When Jesus comes into your life, he does not redecorate. He tears the house down. He lays a new foundation. He's not just going to move some things around your life. He's going to make the old way of living completely incompatible with the new way of living. The old way of living is incompatible with the newness that Jesus brings. But we also need to look at the obvious question that this passage provokes. And that question is, does fasting have any role in the Christian life? today. If Jesus says fasting is incompatible with his presence, then should we fast? And I think the unequivocal answer that Jesus gives in this passage is yes. Christians should fast today. Why do I say that? Look at verse 20. Jesus continues with this metaphor of the bridegroom, and he says, the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them. And then they will fast in that day, that they there is are his disciples. So when Jesus, the bridegroom, is taken away, then his disciples will fast in that day. What is this period of time that Jesus is referring to when he's taken away from his disciples? Well, I think the context teaches us, if Jesus' argument is that fasting is obsolete because he is bodily present among his disciples. then the period of time that he's referring to when his disciples will fast is when he's no longer bodily present among them. And so Jesus, I think, here is clearly pointing forward to his ascension into heaven when, the book of Acts says, he was taken away from them. He went up into the clouds. And it's interest interesting too when you when you look at this image of a bridegroom, it's a rare one that Jesus uses And one of the only other times he uses it in the Gospels is in the Gospel of Matthew, when he's teaching a parable about his second coming and people waiting for his second coming. And so the days when he's taken away from his disciples when they will fast are the days between his ascension into heaven and his. Second coming, which means that we as his disciples are living in those days. Now there are Christians who I have great love and respect for who use the fact that fasting is never commanded. as a grounds for not needing to include it in their lives or in other people's lives. And that's true. It's never literally commanded, not like pray without ceasing, as the Apostle Paul would say. And because it's not commanded, I am not standing here giving you a command about what you need to go home and start doing. But I am giving you a strong encouragement. to consider making fasting part of your walk with the Lord Jesus. And the reason for that is simple. When the Lord over all the earth and the creator of all things says that a particular spiritual discipline will mark his disciples' lives, then I'm not sure a command is necessary. You can think about other places in the Gospels when he says, when you fast. Right alongside when he says when you pray. He doesn't say if you fast. And we should consider the history of the church with this also. I don't want to make this seem like you have to do this. This was a grace. that the Christians in the past, they employed this means of grace in order to come closer to God. Think of the history of the church in Acts 13, before sending out disciples on a missionary journey. They were worshiping the Lord and fasting. In Acts 14, when Paul and Barnabas were appointing elders, they were praying and fasting. Documents from the early church in the second century reveal that Christians fasted regularly And then when you look at Christians throughout the history of the church, from Augustine and Ignatius to Calvin and Luther to Jonathan Edwards and John Piper, you find that Christians who don't fast are the exception rather than the rule. But when we talk about fasting, we need to understand why we don't fast. Why we don't fast. First, we shouldn't fast to be seen by others. Right? Jesus is clear that doing any spiritually good thing for the purpose of being seen by others is useless in God's sight. So if you choose to fast I would not get on Facebook or Instagram and post up, about to start fasting, y'all pray for me. I think that's probably what Jesus is getting at. We don't want to do that. Right? No, we should fast, and the reason that we fast is as an expression, as an expression for our deep longing for the appearing of Christ and the arrival of the fullness of his kingdom when we will feast with him again. We should fast also as a sign of repentance. Fast in times of mourning. Fast in the wake of tragedy. When you feel a keen sense, an acute sense of your need for God's help. Spend a little bit of time fasting. Denying ourselves a basic necessity of life like food reveals to us our creaturliness. It reveals to us that we are creatures and it shows us that we are dependent on God for our sustenance. And so, real quick, how do we do it? This is going to be pared down. I would encourage you, if you have more interest in learning about fasting, to pick up Don Whitney's book uh spiritual disciplines for the Christian life, or John Piper's book, A Hunger for God. Those would be excellent resources. In the time that I have, I just want to point out a few things. How do we do it? Well most fasts in scripture were either from sun up to sundown or they were for an entire twenty-four hour period. Now but if you haven't fasted before, I'd encourage you to start with a single meal, and then as you get used to it, you can adapt or increase over time. If you have concerns about possible health risks, then I would totally encourage you to check with your doctor first. This is not something like that you must do this regardless of what the impact on your health is. So check with a doctor first. If you're a pregnant woman or a nursing mom, please don't fast. From food especially and from water. But you could think about consider abstaining from things like electronics or social media or some other thing that you normally turn to for comfort. Right? Use that time that you would have spent cooking or surfing the web or scrolling through social media to pray, to ask God for help, to lean on him I want to reiterate here that the goal of fasting is not fasting itself. It's not just to deny yourself something to prove that you can do it. The goal of fasting is God. It's to know Him. To feel your dependence upon him, to display your hunger and your thirst, your yearning for the appearing of his kingdom by going without food. And while this passage does provide important teaching for us on fasting, we need to zoom back out at the main point. And the main point is that Jesus defies the expectations for how he should live, the expectations of the religious authorities. He does it by feasting instead of fasting, and he does it by befriending sinners. And you'll notice one thing that when he's at the feast at Levi's house, Mark says Jesus was reclining at table He was reclining at table with tax collectors and sinners. This is actually one of only three times in the Gospel of Mark that you find Jesus reclining at table. with tax collectors and sinners. And the final time he's described as reclining at table is at the Lord Supper. When he's surrounded by sinners and tax collectors. What an appropriate passage for us to meditate on. As we prepare for the Lord's Supper. And as we reflect on the fact that Jesus calls sinners into his fellowship. And when we believe what God says about us, that we are sinners, then that means that we have sinned against God. And as we prepare to go to the Lord's table, it's right for us to spend some time confessing sin. How many of us have been like the scribes looking down on others? How many of us have become so comfortable in this life that we've ceased hungering for God? So as we prepare to take the Lord's Supper Let's go first now to confess to the Lord our sins. And David Orme is going to come and lead us in confessing our sins.