Good afternoon. It's a pleasure to be here with you all and have this opportunity to open up God's Word with you. I'm going to pray one more time briefly and then we will dive in. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the good shepherd. And you are our shepherd. We pray that you would shepherd us now into your holy and glorious presence by the power of the Spirit through your Son Jesus Christ. And as a good shepherd, We pray that you would prepare a table before us, a table set with the riches and treasures and delights of the Lord Jesus Christ. That we might see how all of your plan of redemption comes to fulfillment in Him. And that united by faith to Him We also come to share in your glorious purposes for mankind. Open our eyes now that we might see. Open our ears that we might hear. Oh, grant us taste buds to taste and see that you are good. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. If a person ate a diet of just one type of food, uh in all likelihood they would end up with some sort of nutrient deficiency, right? The bet the best meal plans? Don't just have one type of food. There's a healthy balance of proteins and fats and carbs, and that balance helps to provide all the nutrients that a body needs to function well I want you to think about the teaching ministry of a church kind of like a meal plan. There's not a one-to-one correspondence, but we can at least say that a church will benefit from it from different types of sermons and different types of sermon series. Broadly speaking, there are two types of sermons. You have expositional sermons and topical sermons. Expositional sermons are sermons where the preacher takes a passage of scripture and aims to make the main point of his sermon the main point of the text. Or whatever the main point of the text is becomes the main point of the sermon. We believe here at CBC that the best kind of spiritual food to feed a congregation is Expositional preaching through entire books of the Bible in both the Old and New Testaments, because that way we're exposed to all of God's word. We can't hide from the hard parts. We can't just preach the parts that we like, right? All of God's word is brought to bear on our lives. But from time to time, we also think it's helpful to preach topical sermons. To take a particular topic that we think our congregation will benefit from and synthesize what Scripture has to say about that particular topic. Right? We're still relying on God's word. But aiming to unpack a particular topic. Today, I bring all that up because today we're taking a break from our expositional series through Paul's letter to the Colossians. to begin a six-week topical series on the church. Now I chose this topic because this last year. . has been really hard on the church. I'm speaking broadly here of the universal church, but manifested as it is in local churches. I've talked with many pastors over the last year, almost all of whom have seen a number of members of their churches stop attending and who show no signs of returning to the church. Pastors who've had to work overtime to teach their member that a live stream, as helpful as a technology that it is, isn't a church. And pastors who found themselves answering all sorts of basic questions about the nature of the church. Now, pandemic or not, it's very important for pastors to teach the church about the church But given that we seem to be coming towards the end of restrictions on gathering and masking, praise God, I thought it would be a good time for us to consider together what the Bible says about the church. To be reminded of how central the church is to God's plan of redemption. So in the first three weeks of this six-week series. We're going to be taking a biblical theological approach. We're going to be showing how from the beginning, God intended, from the very beginning, to create a people for himself. By his word, and whose lives individually and corporately are marked by prayerful dependence on God. Then in weeks four to six, we're gonna look more specifically at what the New Testament says about the local church. We're gonna focus in those weeks on the fact that the church gathers bodily weekly to then scatter and proclaim the good news. We're going to think about how baptism and the Lord's Supper function in the local church, and then finally consider what the New Testament says about how the church should be governed or led. All of this, in all of this, it's our hope just to help us all better understand what the church is and how central it is. To God's plan of redemption and how he's glorifying himself and making his glory known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places, Paul says in Ephesians 2. So today We're going to begin our study of the church at the beginning. Oftentimes when I preach in a sermon, because it's it most sermons are expositional, we have a passage of scripture that we're looking at and we're unpacking it. This is going to be a little bit different This is going to be a little bit more like a classroom lesson for the kids who are here, the teens, preteens. I want to encourage y'all not to check out. There is a lot of good, dense stuff here. And insofar as your classes in school merit your your deepest and highest attention, because they're teaching you subjects that will help you get along in this world, no subject is more important for you than this one to give your attention to, to understand God's purpose in and for the church. So I want to encourage you all to follow along as well. We're going to be starting our study, as I said at the beginning. So if you're taking notes, what I want to encourage you to do is kind of latch on to the key verses that I'll cite throughout the sermon. You can go back and look at them later and see how I've tied them into this message on the church. But to start off, I have an admittedly long But I think meaningful summary of today's lesson that we're gonna unpack. It's this if you're taking notes. The church united by faith to Jesus. Is the fulfillment of God's plan to create a people to serve Him as kings, priests, and prophets? In his holy temple. Every part of that sentence is meaningful. It's long, but it's all meaningful. So here it is again. The church United by faith to Jesus is the fulfillment of God's plan to create a people to serve Him as kings. Priests and prophets in his holy temple. What we're going to do is we're going to work through that statement in four stages showing how it develops and unfolds throughout scripture. So stage one will be Adam and Eve. That will be like point one. Stage two will be the nation of Israel. Stage three will be Jesus. And stage four will be the church. So first, stage one, Adam and Eve. God's intention to make a people to serve him as kings priests and prophets in his holy temple is evident from the very beginning of Scripture. Right in Genesis 1 we read of God create God's creation of the heavens And the earth, kids, teens, what are some of the things that he creates in Genesis 1 from the beginning? What do you guys think of? Light? You have light. What else does he create? The sky, he creates the land and the earth, and then what does he do? He fills those things. So he creates the sky Then he fills it with the sun, moon, and stars. He creates the land. And then he fills it with plants and animals and creeping and crawling things, all the fun stuff that you kids like to play with in the backyard. He creates the seas. And he fills it with fish and all sorts of sea creatures. But then as his crowning act of creation, he creates who or what? Man, that's right. The crown jewel of it all was his creation of man and woman. They alone are made in the image of God And theologians have long discussed what it means for a man to be made in the image of God. Given our constraints on time, we're not going to be able to dive into that topic in its entirety. But there is broad agreement that it means in part that mankind is created to rule as king, mediate God's presence as priest, and embody his law as Prophet. Mankind was created to be king, priest, and prophet. We see these roles appear in various places in the creation narrative, right? We see that they were to be kings. rulers over creation. So think of Genesis chapter 1, verse 28. God said to them, be fruitful and multiply. And fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Right, so the language of subduing And exercising dominion over the creature kingdom indicates that Adam and Eve were created to rule. They were created to be kings or king and queen over creation. They were ruling as God's Vice regents over the created order, God being the ultimate and true king. Yet we also see that they were created to be priests. In Genesis chapter 2, verse 15, we learn that God creates Adam and then places him in the garden. for the specific task of working and keeping the garden. These words are elsewhere translated as serving and guarding. And those twin duties are really significant in understanding Adam's priestly role because those same exact words In Hebrew are later used to define the job description of priests in Israel's temple. They were placed there to work and keep the temple, to serve and guard the temple. Adam is a proto-priest. He is the very first of the priests. But not only are Adam and Eve kings and priests before God, there are also hints in this opening, these opening chapters of Genesis that they should be understood as prophets. We often think of prophets merely as those who predict the future. But if you're thinking in terms of biblical prophets, that actually comprises a really small part of what prophets Do. The better part of the ministry of all biblical prophets was to receive God's word from God and then rightly communicate it to others. calling them to obey it as well. And in that s in that sense, Adam and Eve both functioned as prophets Adam received God's word from God, right? God told him in Genesis chapter 2, verse 16: You may surely eat of every tree in the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, You shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. As a prophet, it was Adam's responsibility to communicate God's word rightly to Eve Not only that, but the instruction God gave them in Genesis 1, verse 28, to multiply and be fruitful and fill the earth assumes they would have also been expected to have children, and then to teach God's word to their children as well. We see in the very first chapters of the Bible that God creates a people to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets, and all of that service is to take place in God's holy temple. Commentators have long noted how Eden, the garden, and Eden specifically within the garden, was a type of temple. Throughout Scripture, the temple was the place where God dwelled with his people on earth. And in the opening chapters of Genesis, that place is none other than Eden. Right? And you see a fascinating connection here between Eden and the garden and the rest of the earth, and then the later architecture of the temple in Israel. What's the connection? Well, the later architecture of the temple in Israel was very specific. You had the outer courts where the Israelites could congregate. Then be inside of that you had the holy place where the priests could go, and then in the innermost part you had the most holy place where only the high priest Could go. In the garden, you have a very similar structure. You have the world outside the garden that needs to be subdued. Then you have the garden itself, which is like the holy place. And then within the garden, there is Eden. Where God's presence would be and where God would walk in the cool of the day alongside his people. Adam and Eve were like kings with God at their right hand. They ministered and guarded Eden like high priest in the presence of God, and they did it all in dependence on God's word like prophets. God creates a people to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy garden temple. But We all know that they failed at their task. They failed as kings to exercise dominion over the serpent. They failed as priests to guard the garden from his evil presence. And they failed as prophets to recall God's word and live by it. And yet, even though they failed, God doesn't abandon his original intention. for mankind. He will gather a people to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy temple And so God promises Adam and Eve to send a seed, an offspring of the woman who would come and crush the serpent's head. And that brings us to stage two in this plan of redemption, this developing plan that involves the church. And that stage two is the nation of Israel. Adam and Eve are cast out of the garden. Evil increases on the earth. And what happens as evil increases? How does God judge the earth, kids? He sends a what on the earth? A flood on the earth, right? He judges the world with a flood, but he saves one man, Noah, along with his family. Following the flood? God gives to Noah the same commission he gave to Adam and Eve, showing that God's purposes to create a people to serve him as king, priest, and prophet would still be accomplished. But like Adam, Noah fails. And so God calls one of Noah's descendants, a man named Abraham, and he makes a covenant with Abraham, a strikingly similar one to the one that's made with Noah and Adam. But this time, there's a crucial difference. No longer will Adam and Noah or mankind be dependent on or be the ones being fruitful and multiplying. God is now going to accomplish his covenant with Abraham. Rather than telling Abraham to be fruitful and multiply. like he did with Adam and Noah, God says to Abraham, I will make you fruitful. I will make you into a great nation. Kings will come from you and all the nations will be blessed through you, right? What is God saying to Abraham? No longer will the fulfillment of my purposes to create a people to serve me as kings, priests, and prophets be dependent on mankind. I will accomplish my own purposes, and I will do it through Abraham. And from Abraham comes the nation of Israel, right? All eyes are fixed on them. This must be the people through whom God will finally accomplish his purposes. Divine providence leads Abraham's grandchildren and great-grandchildren to take up residence in Egypt where they multiply. They become fruitful. We start to think, oh, this this must be them, right? Over the course of hundreds of years that they live in Egypt, but then later they're enslaved by the Egyptians. And in response to their groaning for help, God responds by delivering them mightily out of Egypt through the Exodus and eventually bringing them into the promised land. A land. That sounds a lot like Eden because it flowed with what? Milk and honey. Oh, that's a really rich. Vibrant, succulent land. Sounds a lot like Eden. God must be bringing them back to the promised land, and these must be the people who God's gonna accomplish his purposes through. And now here we need to note the similarities between Adam and Israel. Just as Adam was formed outside of the garden and then placed inside of it to serve God as King, priest, and prophet, so also Israel was formed outside of the promised land. Land in Egypt, and then placed inside of it by God for the same purpose, to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets. Not only does God give to the nation of Israel actual kings, actual priests, and actual prophets, but all of the Israelites, the entire nation, are to embody and live out these roles in their lives. As kings, the nation as a whole is called to exercise dominion over the land of Canaan, the promised land. They were to bring everything in Canaan under Yahweh's rule so that the entire promised land. Would be filled with his glory. Furthermore, the nation of Israel was to serve him as priests. In Exodus chapter 19, verses 5 and 6, before bringing them into the promised land, God says to them, Now therefore If you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. All of them. All of you will be a kingdom of priests if you obey my word. Israel takes up the mantle of priesthood originally filled by Adam They were to discern between the clean and the unclean. They were to distinguish between the holy and the unholy Just as the priests of Israel at the temple were called to work and keep the temple, the entire nation was called to work and keep the promised land, to expel all that was unholy. And to be set apart as his holy people. And they were to do all of this as prophets by learning, meditating on, and instructing one another in God's Word. Just think about Exodus chapter. Chapter 24, verse 7. After Moses reads the book of the covenant to the people, they respond, We will do everything the Lord has said. We will obey. In order to do everything the Lord has said, they are going to have to learn all that He has said. Meditate on all that he has said, and walk in God's ways in all that he has said, and call others to do the same as well. And they were called to serve God as king, priest, and prophet in his holy temple. Just like Adam and Eve served in the presence of God in Eden within the greater sanctuary of the garden, so the people of Israel dwelled in the presence of God in the temple within the greater sanctuary of the promised land. And just like Adam and Eve, they were called to mediate God's presence to the world so that the whole earth would be filled with his glory. so that the whole earth would become a gigantic temple of God. But just like Adam and Eve Israel fails. They fail miserably and repeatedly. Sinning against God by not ruling as kings as they ought to. By not serving as priest and by not walking in God's ways as prophets. And so, like Adam and Eve, the nation of Israel was cast out of God's sanctuary Exiled out of the promised land. And yet, God's purpose is to create a people, to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy temple Had still not failed. Why do I say that? Because neither Adam nor Israel were intended by God to be the fulfillment of his purposes to create such a people. Just remember the two crucial promises that God has given thus far. The first to Adam and Eve about sending someone to crush the head of the serpent and the second to Abraham about an offspring coming through whom the nations would be blessed, right? Remember these two promises. He promised to Adam and Eve. to send a seed of the woman to crush the serpent's head. He would send a seed, a person, one person, to conquer the serpent. And in the second promise to Abraham that God would make him fruitful, and that through Abraham's offspring all the nations would be blessed. The offspring through whom the nations would be blessed is singular. It's one offspring, one person who would conquer Satan and bring God's blessings to the nations. Furthermore, throughout the Old Testament, there are predictions of a coming individual. A man, a messiah, who would rule as king over his people, serve as priest in God's presence, and speak as the true prophet. This would be the man who fulfills God's purposes for all mankind and rescues us from our sins. And that brings us to stage three, Jesus. As the New Testament opens, the gospel writers go to great pains to ensure the reader knows that Jesus is the fulfillment of God's purpose is to create a people who serve him as king, priest, and prophet. Right? Matthew tells us that Jesus is the son of Abraham. He is the offspring through whom the nations would be blessed. Luke then tells us, and not only is he the son of Abraham, but he's the son of Adam and the true son of God, the one who would come to crush the head of the serpent. And the details of his life make it evident that he is the true Adam and the true Israel. Just think about Israel's own history and escape from Egypt. Right? Just as Pharaoh put to death the firstborn children of Israel, so when Jesus is born, Herod commands that all the children to and under be killed in the hopes of killing Jesus. Who he had heard had been born king of the Jews. Like Israel, Jesus' parents escaped to Egypt. And then like Israel, he later came up out of Egypt. Just as Israel passed through the waters of the Red Sea and into the wilderness, so Jesus passed through the waters of baptism in the Jordan and immediately went out into the wilderness. But where Israel failed and where Adam failed by giving in to the Satan the serpent's lies, Jesus was victorious Successfully fending off Satan's lies by relying on God's words. He is the true Adam and the true Israel. And as such, he perfectly fulfilled and continues to fulfill the roles of king, priest, and prophet. He is the true king. Just think about everything that happens in Jesus' ministry, even the things that he he teaches in his ministry in the gospels Right? He made as much clear that he was the true king in his own teaching when he told the Pharisees that David, hundreds of years earlier, was talking about him in Psalm 110, verse 1. He said, I am the Lord. David said to my Lord, that's me. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Who sits at the right hand of God, kids? What type of person sits on a throne? A king! Jesus is the true king. He showed that he was Israel's true king when he fulfilled Zechariah's prophecy by riding into Jerusalem on a donkey In Mark 14, he told the Pharisees of his kingly rule when they asked him at his trial if he was the Messiah king, to which he responded by applying Daniel 7 to himself. Telling them that they would see him seated as a king at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. To which they respond, like this man is blaspheming. You're claiming to be the Messiah, the true king of Israel. And he's like, yeah, yes, that is what I'm claiming. But I'm not blaspheming, because it's true. I am the true king, right? And then they unwittingly, after they crucify him on the cross, they unwittingly declare that he is king by hanging a sign over his head that reads, King of the Jews. And there Jesus is just showing that true kings don't ask their subjects to die for them. True kings die so that their subjects can live. And he is the true king. He rose victorious from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sat down at God's right hand. And he's also the true priest He also always discerned perfectly between the clean and unclean, the holy and the sinful, never giving in to sin, expelling all forms of sin from his heart, never letting any of them in, not expelling them as though they already existed, but keeping them out. In his ministry, he filled the priestly role of offering ceremonial cleansing to the unclean. Just think about how he would touch lepers. Remember that that was the role of priests was to offer ceremonial cleansing for the lepers, but they would never touch lepers because they would be they would come unclean themselves. But Jesus touches lepers, and instead of becoming unclean himself, they become clean. He is the true priest. And after his death and resurrection, he showed himself to be the true high priest when he ascended into heaven, bringing the blood of his perfect sacrifice into the true Holy of Holies. And God accepted his sacrifice of atonement so that you and I could be cleansed. And when he sat down as king, he also sat down as priest, where he now lives to intercede on our behalf. And he's the true prophet. He's the one who learned, meditated on, and walked in God's word. He is the blessed man of Psalm 1 who meditated on God's word day and night. He's the prophet who responded to Satan's temptations by telling him that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. What God's word says to me I say to you, I do not turn to the left or the right. He is the true prophet. The true prophet who says in John 12. For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak Not only did he perfectly understand, speak, and live out God's word, he is the true prophet who is God's word. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. The author of Hebrews makes it plain that Jesus is the true prophet by opening his letter by saying, long ago. At many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days, he has spoken to us by his son, the true prophet of God. And he lived and ministered as the true king, priest, and prophet, not in the presence of God in the temple, but as the very presence of God, the true temple. He is the true temple. John tells us that Jesus tabernacled among us. He is the image of the invisible God and the exact imprint of his nature. In him, Paul says in Colossians, in him, the true temple. All the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. Jesus is the true King The true priest, the true prophet, the true temple, the one who came to crush Satan and redeem God's people so that through faith in him we could be reconciled to God and restored to God's original purposes for mankind. Which brings us finally to the payoff, our fourth and final stage. The church. Us today, the church, united by faith to Jesus. Is the fulfillment of God's plan to create a people to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy temple. The New Testament authors go to great pains to show that Jesus' ministry was not an end in itself, as though Jesus just came to like show off as the true Adam and to say, yes, sorry, I'm not sharing any of these blessings with y'all. No, no. Jesus came to share his blessings, his image, who he is with his people, the church. They make it plain that Jesus came as the true Adam to be the head of a new humanity. Benjamin Glad says, and this is in the book that's out on the book giveaway table: the church is, through union with Christ, Little last Adams and true Israelites, we reap the benefits of Jesus' work. We are what he is. Gotta let that sink in. We are what he is. Since he is the perfected image of God, the church is the perfected image. Image of God. There's already not yet going on there. Perfected in Christ, justified, sanctified, completely. God is still working out, sanctifying us, but we are the perfected image of God in Christ. You even see how we're like Adam and Israel, right? Think about this. And the fact that they were both formed outside of the garden and then brought into God's presence in the promised land. Land, faith read to us already today, we who were far off, side, away from the presence of God Having no right to be in his presence, having no right to share in his privileges Having no right to hear his word, having no right to know the glorious power of his presence in our lives. We were far off. God has brought us near by the blood price. Peace be to God We are what he is. Since he is the perfected image of God, the church is a perfected image of God. How does that tie in? Because to be part of the, to be the image of God is to be a king, a priest, and a prophet and to serve in God's holy temple. Since we share in his perfected image, and we're empowered by the Spirit's indwelling presence We're able to live out in a greater way God's original purposes for mankind. That is, we're empowered to live individually and corporately As kings, priests, and prophets in God's holy temple. This also is clear throughout the New Testament Throughout the New Testament, the church is described as reigning with Christ. Reigning as kings with Christ. Reigning how? As kings, united to Christ by faith, Satan will be crushed also under our royal feet, the church's royal feet, because we are united to Christ by faith. Throughout the New Testament, the church is also described as priests. Peter calls the church a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. And as priests Paul calls Christians everywhere to offer our entire lives as living sacrifices to God. And the church is also called to a prophetic office, not predicting the future, but learning. Meditating on, instructing one another in God's ways and living them out ourselves. We let the word of Christ dwell in us richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in our hearts to God. And we do this all in the presence of God in his holy temple. because we are individually and corporately as a church, the temple of the living God. God's original intentions for mankind are now, right here, right now, in this place, being worked out, in this church, and in all churches where God is worshipped through his son by his spirit. I'm willing to bet that if you were given the opportunity to serve in the president's cabinet or in some prominent role, you would take it seriously. You would take pains to understand the role. You would study the tasks that you've been assigned. You would go out of your way to produce the best results possible. You wouldn't slack off or be lazy or be haphazard about your work. Friends, how much more distinguished is the role we've been given in God's kingdom God has called us to serve as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy temple. Roles that require the utmost diligence in carrying out. And there are so many ways that we can apply these roles in our individual lives. Right, so I want you the the kids here, not only the young kids, but the preteens and teens. What you think? What does it look like for you to live as a king? Well, the first thing it means is you don't have to wait to come to Jesus. You can come to him now. He offers himself to you by faith. If you would repent of your sins and put your trust in him, you will have all of him. And he will welcome you into his kingdom. And he will call you. You now live as a king, a priest, and a prophet in my kingdom. What does it look like for you kids to live as kings? It looks like to rule over sin in your life. Put to death the lust of the flesh. It looks like you not lording it over others as the Gentile kings do. They're harsh with their subjects. You Seek to serve and love. You rule as priest by driving out sin, putting sin to death in your own life. You live as a prophet by learning God's word and speaking God's word to your to your classmates and and your siblings. There's so many ways that you can do this in your individual lives, but with the remaining time left, I want to focus on what these roles mean for us corporately as a church. Right? Adam and Eve were called to exercise dominion and subdue the earth. That is, they were to extend God's rule in the garden so that his glory would eventually fill the whole earth. In Christ, that commission has been moved into the spiritual realm. In order for God's glory to fill the earth People now need to be reconciled to God and restored and renewed in his image. And that happens by preaching the gospel. As corporate kings, we're exercising dominion and filling the earth with the glory of God by preaching the only message that can cause mankind to reflect rightly the glory of God in his life. We don't wrestle against flesh and blood, right? As rulers and kings, we're not carrying physical swords. We wrestle against rulers and principalities in the heavenly places. And so we don't fight with sword or spear, the weapons of this world. We fight with the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, the Bible. That's exactly right. We carry out our corporate commission as kings by preaching the gospel. And seeing God extend the boundaries of his kingdom in the hearts of men, women, and children around the world. That's why everything that we do in our services revolves around the gospel. We sing the good news of the gospel in our songs. We read from the Old and New Testaments, focusing on how all of it is fulfilled in Christ We preach the gospel in sermons, calling Christians to continue relying on the gospel and non-Christians to repent and believe the good news of the gospel. If you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, I want you to think about this. How many books are out there about like how to find purpose for your life, how to live a meaningful life? I'm sure all of those books do have helpful things to say. I've read a number of them, and there's uh there's lots of common grace stuff in there But I want to hold out to you that you're hearing today about what can truly be and should truly be the meaning and purpose of your life That is to repent of your sins, be reconciled to God, and serve him as a king, priest, and prophet in his kingdom. Now, and as we'll see in the future to come. Right? We confess sins, knowing that because of Christ's work and the gospel we're forgiven. We celebrate the Lord's Supper where we see the gospel visually portrayed. In all of this, we're carrying out our role as corporate kings. But we also serve as corporate priests, right? Just as the priests of Israel served in God's presence in the temple, so where two or three are gathered under the authority of Christ, there he is with us. We are serving as priests in the church temple that God is building for himself. And just as Adam and Eve were called to work and Keep the garden, and the priests of Israel were called to serve and guard the temple, all by discerning between the clean and unclean, the holy and the sinful. So we, as the temple of the living God, are called as priests to do the same. We do that as we live in community with one another. When a member of the church is living in open, unrepentant sin, believing the lies of Satan, we go to them in love and call them to turn away from their sin. To be holy as God is holy. None of us is going to do that perfectly. Only Christ is our holiness, only Christ is our righteousness, but he calls us by faith to live holy lives. We strive to put sin to death in our lives and corporately to remove open, unrepentant sin from our assembly. Just as Adam and Eve were called to protect the garden and the priests in Israel were called to protect the temple from being defiled by sin, the church is also called to protect the assembly from being defiled by sin. This is why Jesus gave those instructions in Matthew 18, right? If a brother or sister is living in sin, go to them. Appeal to them in the hopes that they would turn from their sin. If they don't, go to them in love with some friends and appeal to them again again to turn from their sin. If they still don't listen, Jesus says, take it to the church. And if they don't listen to the church, what does he say? You gotta remove them from the membership. Because their their sin is like leaven, spreads throughout the body. They're dishonoring my name, and they're proving by continuing to live in open unrepentant sin in the face of other saints going to them in love. That they aren't actually one of my true followers, right? That's what this is what we historically have called church discipline. We see it even illustrated in 1 Corinthians 5, where a man is openly sleeping with his stepmother. Paul says, not even the pagans would do this, and yet you're allowing it. Paul says, hey, in love. Need to remove that man from membership. Remove him from the church. Now that may seem like a a really judgmental thing to our modern sensibilities, but it is an absolutely loving thing to do. Because living in unrepentant sin is a sign that a person hasn't actually believed the gospel. And removing them from the church lets them know that So that they might actually repent and believe the gospel, which is what happens to that man in 1 Corinthians 5 and his corporate priests. We protect the temple of God by walking alongside one another, encouraging one another to put sin to death, and if a person chooses to continue living in unrepentant sin, Loving them, lovingly removing them from the membership of the church and continuing to preach the gospel to them so that they would turn and be saved. Finally, we live as corporate prophets, not predicting the future, but as a people whose lives are founded on and formed around the Word of God. We're going to consider this at length next week, but we can point out again how we want the word to saturate all that we do so that what we so that what so that we hear God's word and then go away and do God's word. in our lives. We want your appetites to be completely satisfied every Sunday by overloading the service with God's word. You can't have too much of it. And this is important in the case that you eventually move on from CBC, whether you decide that another church will be a better fit for you, or if work or family cause you to move away or some other reason, you need to make it a point to find a church whose services Are saturated with the Word of God. We don't live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. The church united by faith to Jesus. Is the fulfillment of God's plan to create a people to serve him as kings, priests, and prophets in his holy temple. And here's the great news that I want to finish with. with, that is, there's another stage coming. Not in this sermon. I'll spare you of that. There is another stage coming in God's plan. The final fulfillment is yet to come. The consummation of all things. When Christ returns in glory, he will gather his people together to inhabit a new heavens and a new earth Then Eden and Jerusalem will be joined. And then all of God's people throughout all time will reign with God as kings. Serve God as priests And live in the presence of the Word of God as prophets. And we will do so in the very presence of God, in his holy temple, forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, help us to observe and appreciate the fact that we live at the end of the age. according to the New Testament. We live in the latter days. Your coming kingdom is right around the corner. Help us to carry out with great diligence these roles in our lives. To see the holy position you've called us to, to serve you in your temple. To put sin to death. To reign with Christ. To lay down our lives as Christ laid down his life for the service of others To continue believing in and trusting your word and living it out in our lives. And help us to do that until Christ returns. Lord, we look forward to it. We can't wait the day, wait for the day when we are together with you in your temple forever. Preserve us until that day we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.