Good morning. Chevroly Baptist Church. So I was just telling Pastor John that I wish this was here when we lived in Chevrolet. We might not have left. We might might still be here. What a blessing. This this church is the as many of you know the fruit of many years of of prayer and labor and what a blessing to be able to see God's people here in Chevrolet together. This is This is awesome. And please please know that you have a group of saints in Philly at Risen Christ Fellowship who pray for you regularly. uh are very very interested to see what God does in this particular work. So I'm very thankful to to be here. Thank you for having me and uh it's just a a blessing to see so many familiar faces So one question that I would ask concerning Chevroly Baptist Church, CHBC, is if the Lord Jesus were right here and you could ask him Lord, what is it that you desire for Chevrolet Baptist Church? What do you think he would say? Well the good news is that we don't have to guess about what he would say because he's laid it out for us in his word. And that's what we're going to talk about this morning, Jesus' desire for the church. So if you have your Bibles, I want to encourage you to open up to the Gospel of John, chapter 17. And today we're going to be looking at verses 20 to 26. John chapter 17. Verse 20 to 26. I'm gonna read beginning at verse 20 At the end of the reading, I will say this is God's word, and if you agree with that, I would encourage you to respond. Thanks be to God Verse 20, I do not ask, this is the Lord Jesus speaking, I do not ask for these only. but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them that they may be one, even as we are one I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father Even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me. I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known That the love with which you have loved me may be in them and I in them. This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Our Father in Heaven, we thank you for your word, which is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. The grass withers, the flowers fade, but the word of the Lord endures forever. As a Father, we pray that you would instruct us by your Spirit through your word this morning. We pray that you would be glorified and And that as your word is proclaimed, the Spirit of God would use the Word of God to reveal the Son of God. And we pray that you would do this for the glory of your beautiful name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. And so for the sake of context, we are at the night just before Jesus' death. So the Lord Jesus has been given his final discourse with his disciples just before he heads to the cross. And we come to the end of this glorious passage that's known as Jesus' high priestly prayer. And so what we have here in John 17 is a chance to peek into the prayer closet of the Lord Jesus Christ. And what we get to see is what was on his mind as he faced his imminent death. Now he's prayed for himself in verses 1 to 5 of John 17. He's prayed for his disciples in verses 6 And in the section that we're looking at today, we find Jesus' prayer for the church who would come after the apostles. In verse 20, he says, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. And so in this prayer, the Lord Jesus is interceding for the church. And before we look at the specific things that Jesus desires for the church, I want to focus our attention on how Jesus identifies the church here. Notice that Jesus refers to the church as those who believe in Christ through the word of the apostles. And what is the word of the apostles? Well in verse 14, the Lord Jesus says that he gave the apostles the Father's word And so the Father gave the word to Jesus. Jesus gave it to the disciples, and then it was preserved by those who came after them and handed down to the church Until the end of the age when Jesus returns. And that word is the message of the gospel. And so this is a good reminder that faith comes by hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. People become believers through the word. It's not through gimmicks. It's not through marketing schemes. It's not through man's wisdom, but through The word. And if you're a Christian this morning, it's because you heard the message of the gospel that God is holy and that he must punish sin. That we've all sinned and gone astray, that our sin has separated us from a holy God. That the day is coming when God is going to judge the world in righteousness. And that judgment, that means the wrath of God for all eternity, for those who stand before God without having. their sins forgiven. Also, we learn in the gospel that in his love, God sent his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to come into the world to save sinners. That Jesus lived a perfect life of obedience to God's law. That he died on the cross, that he paid the full payment, the full punishment for the sins of all who would trust in him. That he rose from the grave on the third day, and that the only way to be reconciled to God is through turning from your sins and trusting. In the Savior. That is the word that's being referred to in verse 20. It's the word of the cross, that foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it's the power of God. And that is the message that has saved you if you are a Christian this morning. And it's the message that can save you if you are not. And so as we look at what Jesus desires for the church, there's three things that I want us to observe in the text: three prayer requests, each one connected to a single word. Number one is oneness. Number two is love. And number three is glory. Number one, oneness. Number two, love. And number three, glory. First. Oneness. Oneness is a theme that runs through this passage. In this short passage, Jesus makes ten references to oneness. When it says one explicitly, or when you see the language of in you or in them, that's referring to oneness. So follow along again in the passage just to see these references. Verse 21, that they may all be one, that's one, just as you, Father, are in me, that's two, and I in you, that's three, that they may also be in us, that's four. so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them that they may be one. That's five. Even as we are one, that's six, I in them, seven, and you in me, eight, that they may become perfectly one, nine. And then down at the end of verse 26, I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them and I in them. So you see these continuous references to oneness. Jesus is concerned about oneness. And I just want to just give four brief observations about this oneness. And Pastor John alluded to this. uh earlier even in this prayer. Number one, the oneness of the church is based on the oneness of God. The oneness of the church is based on the oneness of God. Look again at verse 21, that they may be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you. At the end of verse 22, that they may be one, even as we are one. And so the Lord Jesus is pointing back to the oneness or unity within God as the basis for the oneness or unity of God. the church. And here is where we must remember the doctrine of the Trinity, which we just went over in the Nicene Creed, that there's one God, and that within that one being that is God, there eternally exists Three co-equal, co-eternal persons. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit. The Bible clearly teaches that the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Spirit is God. They're distinct from one another, and yet those three persons are so united that it can truly be said that God is one. There's one God, and that oneness is the basis for the oneness that Jesus speaks of concerning the church. And this is why unity in the church is so important because it communicates something about God. Second observation, Christians are in spiritual union with Jesus Christ. Christians are in spiritual union with Jesus Christ. Again, verse 23. I in them. In the end of verse 26, I in them. I cannot overstate the importance of this doctrine. Union with Christ, the believers union with Christ. This is a central theme throughout the New Testament, especially in the epistles. Written by the Apostle Paul. It's so important that it's referenced in many different ways. So it was referenced earlier in the Gospel of John 15, 5, when the Lord Jesus said, I am the vine, you are the branches. It's referenced in passages like 1 Corinthians 12. 27 where we see that the church is the body of Christ and Christ is the head. It's referenced in passages like Ephesians 5. 32 where the church is the bride of Christ and Christ is the husband Or Ephesians 2. 20, where the church is the temple of God and Christ is the cornerstone. All of these images are pictures of our union with Christ And the Bible not only uses illustrations, but it describes each aspect of our salvation in these terms. And so believers were chosen in Christ. Ephesians 1, 4, and 5. Believers are made alive in Christ, Ephesians 2. 5. Believers are new creations in Christ, 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Christians are adopted in Christ, Galatians 3. 26. Christians are crucified with Christ, Galatians 2. 20. We're buried with him, Colossians 2. 12. We're seated with him in the heavenly places, Ephesians 2. 6. We're justified in Christ. Romans 8. 1. We're sanctified in Christ, 1 Corinthians 1. 2. And we're glorified with Christ. Romans 8. 17, just as we sang earlier in complete in thee. And so every aspect of our salvation is connected to this union, this vital spiritual union that we have with Jesus Christ. Consider baptism, right? Baptism. What is baptism? But a visible picture of our union with Christ. We're baptized into Christ and into his death, and we're united with him in his resurrection. What is the Lord's Supper, which we're going to take later? What is that? But a tangible experience that points to our union with Christ as we eat the bread, which represents Jesus' body, and drink the cup, which represents Jesus' blood. This is why Ephesians 1 verse 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. So every blessing that the Christian receives comes as a result of our union with Jesus Christ. I like this quote by John Newton on this idea. He says, by nature We are separated from the divine life as branches broken off, withered, and fruitless. But grace through faith unites us to Christ, the living vine from whom, as the root of all fullness, a constant supply of sap and influence is derived into each of his mystical branches. enabling them to bring forth fruit unto God and to persevere and abound therein. Our Redeemer is our husband, our debts are paid, our settlements secured, and our names changed By nature, we are hateful and abominable in the sight of a holy God, and full of enmity and hatred towards each other. By faith, uniting us to Christ, we have fellowship with the Father and the Son, and joint communion among ourselves, even as the members of the same body have each of them union, communion, and sympathy with the head and with their fellow members. End quote. So much more can be said about that, but we need to move on. A third thing that we see about oneness in this passage is that the church is one. The church is one, verse 21, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us. The glory, verse 22, the glory that you have given to me, I have given to them that they may be one, even as we are one. These prayers by the Lord Jesus for oneness in his church do not go answered or unanswered. The Father will answer every prayer request that the Son has, and this prayer is answered. The oneness that Jesus is praying for was purchased at the cross. The church is united to Christ and united to one another across all generations. So then the question comes, well, why are we to pursue unity if we already have it? And the answer is that when we pursue unity, we're simply living out the oneness that is already ours in Christ. So it's similar to passages like Romans 6 verse 8, which says, Now if we have died with Christ, and then Romans 6 11 says that because of that, you must also consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ. Paul is saying you are dead. That's an objective fact. That has happened. That happened when we were joined with Christ in his death. We died to sin. You are dead, but now walk that out practically in your life. In the same way, it's the same thing. The Lord Jesus says, you are one. We are one as a church in Christ. Now we're called to walk out that oneness practically. We are to pursue it here, and it will be perfected in ultimately in eternity. So the church is one. And then the final observation about oneness here is that oneness has an evangelistic aim. The church's oneness has an evangelistic aim. Verse 21, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you. That they also may be in us. Why? So that the world may believe that you have sent me. Verse 23 I and them, and you and me, that's oneness, that they may become perfectly one. Why? So that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you love me, that the world may believe and know. And so the oneness of the church is meant to be seen, not hidden. One commentator says this about this. He says, the church's manifest oneness in love gives public confirmation both of their relationship with Jesus and his relationship with. the Father. And so we can see why the unity of the church is so crucial. It's a reflection on the character of God and it points to the reality of the believers union with Christ and It's what God will use to bring others from darkness to light. And so a divided church works against God's evangelistic aim to convert sinners. This is why God takes division so seriously. Titus 3 verse 10 says, As for a person who stirs up division after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 10 says, I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you. But that you be united in the same mind in the same judgment. So when there's division in the church, it says something false about our God. Now, with that said, we have to be clear on what division is and what it's not. Because Satan is crafty, one of his tactics is to confuse people about what division is and what it isn't And the way we understand this is to see what is in view when unity is commanded. And so I want you to hold your finger in John 17 and turn over to Ephesians chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4, where we get a clear command concerning the unity of the church. Ephesians four, beginning at verse one It says, I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness. With patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. And so we see here a similar idea that Uh Paul is communicating that there's one body. So so so there we are one, right? It's that same idea. There's one body, one spirit We are one, and yet we're called to pursue this unity of the Spirit, to maintain the unity of the Spirit. Now this things that are the these things are objectively true. So so part of pursuing unity is contending for the faith. Right? This one faith being spoken of in verse 5. The faith that was handed down once for all. And so therefore, if Teachers, false teachers, come in and teach things that are contrary to the faith, they are the ones who are being divisive. So heresy is divisive. False teaching is divisive. False teachers are divisive. There can be no true unity apart from truth. And I think this passage speaks very clearly to our current division over things like race, ethnicity, and politics even. Notice in verse 2, he says, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. And then he says, eager to maintain the unity of the spirit. So it's as though he's saying that if if we're going to pursue, if we're going to maintain this unity of the spirit, These other things, this humility, right? This gentleness, this patience, this bearing with one another, those things are going to be necessary if we're going to truly be unified. or pursue that that unity. And so the path to unity is a path of humility. It's a path of gentleness It's a path of patience. It's a path of bearing with one another in love. And the fact that it says bearing with one another in love, it assumes disagreement, right? So you don't have to bear with those with whom you agree. You have to bear with those with whom you have disagreements, right? You don't have the same position on things. That's where you have to bear. Also, each one of these things implies a temptation to the opposite, right? So if we're if we if we're called to walk with humility, that means we're going to be tempted towards pride. If we're called to walk with gentleness, that means we're going to be tempted towards harshness. If we're called to walk with patience, we're going to be tempted towards impatience and if we're called to bear with one another in love, that means we're gonna be tempted to give up, right? To not bear, but to just just take our ball and go home and just say just just forget y'all it's over we're I'm just we're just going to completely separate from you guys How much of this kind of thing, this humility, this this gentleness, this patience, this bearing with one another in love, how much of that do you see on Facebook? Or social media, right? It's very rare that we see those things. If anything, what we see on social media is often uh uh a fueling of the fires of division Why is that? I think part of it is just because of the impersonal nature of it, right? You don't really think about bearing with words on a screen. Right? It's when you have a person actually in your life that you're walking with them and you're able to see them as a whole person that these things can can can really kick in So one question I have for you is think about the the Christian or Christians whose positions you completely disagree with. So you believe that they're Christians, right? So you're not you're not going so far to say it's like if they're in a different different political party, they ain't even saved, right? I hope you're not saying that. Right. But rather, you believe that they're Christian, that they love Jesus, and yet they're on a completely different side of an issue than you are. One question I have for you, if you have a person or a group of people like that in your mind, is how often do you pray for them? Because because prayer is one very practical way that one we can have God work in our own hearts love towards that person or group of people, right? Because it it's it's it's very difficult to to be bitter and angry or maintain that against someone that you're diligently praying for. So when that you're going going to the throne of grace regularly before God on that person's behalf. And I'm not just talking about prayers like, oh God, just change their minds and make them think the way that I think. But I'm talking about prayers of actually, Lord, would you would you bless this person? Would you care for this person and his family and anywhere where he's wrong or she's wrong? Will you change their minds and anywhere where I'm wrong? Like have that humility to say any places where I'm wrong, would you change my mind on these issues? These are practical steps that we can take to pursue this unity. What are we doing as Christians to walk in a path of humility, gentleness, patience, and bearing with one another in love with those whom we disagree? And so that's oneness. Let's move on to another observation, which is love. Notice the references to love in this passage. Love is mentioned five times. In verse verse 23 and following, it's mentioned over and over that uh verse 23, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you love me Verse 24, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. We see it in verse 26 that the love with which you have loved me may be in them. And I and them. And the emphasis here in terms of love is actually on the love of the Father, right? So as Jesus refers to to love, he's he's he's He's speaking on the love that the Father first and foremost has for the Son. The Father loves the Son. And again, this is what everything can be traced. back to. But then the astounding thing is in verse 23 where it says that the Father has loved us Love them speaking of us even as you loved me. Some of the most astounding words we could ever lay our eyes on Now it makes sense that the Father would love his perfect son, right? His spotless son with whom he's been in communion for all eternity. And we can understand that God is love and we can, yeah, we can see that the Father loves us. But that the Father loves us as he loves his son What kind of love is that? That he would love a sinner just as he loves his son. How is that even possible? Well, it's possible because we are in Christ. The believer is united with Christ. And so the Father loves the body just as much as he loves the head Praise God that He's united us with the Lord Jesus Christ. And the same author in 1 John 3. 1, he just marvels as he as he considers this when he says Behold, what manner or what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called the children of God, and so we are. So Brother Carl just just prayed about that. It's phenomenal the love that the Father has for us It's a choosing, electing love that chooses us before time began. It's a sacrificial, dying love that sends his son to lay down his life. For sinners. It's a sanctifying love that by the Spirit changes us incrementally into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a redeeming love. It's a restoring love. Children, all my children in the building Hi kids. Understand something. Mommy loves you. Daddy loves you But no one loves you like God loves you There's no love imaginable that is as good, as deep, as big as the love of God. And you can know this love by believing in him, by trusting in him, and by giving your life to him, believing what he did and sending Jesus to die. For your sins. You can know this love personally. And I know if your mommy and daddy are Christians, the thing that they want for you more than anything else is that you would know this love of God. And that you would love God. And if you have any questions about that, ask mommy or daddy afterwards. There's no love. What kind of love is this? God says to us what he says to Israel in Jeremiah 31, verse 3, I've loved you with an everlasting love. Therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. You know, as we as human beings, we're we're flaky with our love. We're sometimey with our love. You know, we we live in a culture where it's popular to say, you know, I I love you, but I'm not I'm not in love with you, whatever that means, right? But God's love is a permanent love. Isaiah 54:10. For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed But my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed, says the Lord who has compassion on you. Believer, have you just considered, especially particularly those of us who've been walking with the Lord for a long time, have you just considered how patient God has been with us? You just think about our early days as believers when we had so much zeal, but maybe not according to knowledge Just think about as we continue to walk with the Lord and and maybe think that you know after we've been walking for so long that I know I I know I think this that man like I've been walking with the Lord for 19 years and If you had told me like 19 years ago that I would be in Christ 19 years later, I would have thought that I would be further along than I am right now. I look back at this like, man, has it been that long But I just think just think about God's patience and his love towards us. His love towards us. It doesn't waver. It doesn't go up and down. The love that he had for us in eternity past when he chose us is the same love that he had had for us when He regenerated us and and changed us and opened our eyes and gave us new new hearts and new affections, same love. And it's the same love that will one day completely glorify us, which is our next point, glory. His love has remained through all the ups and downs Through all the failures, through all of our mess, God, his love remains consistent Praise God. Praise God. And this love, this love of the Father is the basis of our love for one another. John 13, 34, a new commandment I give you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this, all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love with one another. And just think about, again, that idea of bearing with one another in love, right? If we're tempted to say, man, I just I just give up. This person just does not get it, right? Imagine if God said that to us. I just give up. She just doesn't get it. Right? Where would we be if God dealt with us in that way? We're called to extend that same love to others, particularly those who disagree with us. Finally, let's consider glory. Verse 24, Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am To see my glory that you have given me because you love me before the foundation of the world So here the Lord Jesus is looking forward or ahead to the new age, the consummation of all things after the final judgment when Christ takes his people to be with himself and we're perfectly conformed to the image of Christ, which is also known as glorification. Again, 1 John 3 verse 2 picks up on this idea when it says, beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him because we shall see him as he is So Jesus requests that we be with him to see his glory according to John in 1 John 3. That is a request of us to be made like him. So it's the seeing of Christ itself that will transform us into his image. The sight of Christ will transform us. Philippians 3. 20, our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. Talk about an upgrade. You ever been in a situation where you thought you were getting one thing, but then you got the upgrade and you were like, whoa, this is much better than I thought it was gonna be, right? So so I've there's been times when I've rented a car and usually when I rent a car it's the it's the like small economy joint, right? And one time I got to the to the agency to rent it and they didn't have the economy and she's like, well We have a free upgrade and we're gonna give you the upgrade to this like decked out SUV with all kinds of buttons and gadgets and the sound system was just like, oh my goodness, like this is like this is a serious upgrade, right? Children, you ever get uh uh have some old clothes that maybe you don't like those clothes so much, but then you get a brand new outfit Or brand new sneakers and they're just fresh, right? That's just that that's that's an upgrade from what you had. So you had something and it was okay, maybe, or maybe you didn't even like, but then then you got the new upgrade. Well, brothers and sisters At the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are going to get the upgrade of all upgrades. Because our but our lowly bodies are going to be transformed to be like his glorious body. And I don't even know what that means fully at all, but I know that it's going to be amazing. It's going to be amazing. As much as redeemed and glorified humanity can be like Christ, we will be like him. You know, towards the end of his life, Puritan author John Owen wrote a book on this verse, this one verse, verse 24, called The Glory of Christ. And the thesis of that book is that the primary duty of the Christian is to behold the glory of Christ by faith in this world and by sight in the next world. And so as we bring this to a close, one question we can ask is so how how how is that? So Jesus desires that that the believer would ultimately be with him. to to see his glory and through seeing his glory be be transformed completely. Now how is it that we behold his glory by faith now? And I just want to give a few examples. So, for instance, when we see someone come to Christ for the first time, someone that we've been sharing the gospel with, or we see uh uh you know some some a new member has come into the church and is baptized. What we're seeing there is we're seeing the glory of Christ as Savior and Redeemer. When we as believers, when we sin and when we confess our sin and repent and turn, what what do we see? We're seeing the glory of Christ as our advocate with the Father. When we are in need and God supplies what it is that we need, we call on him humbly, Lord, would you please provide whatever it is that we that we need. He's told us that that we can do that. And when he answers that prayer, what we're seeing is the glory of Christ as the provider of all of our needs. When we're down and melancholy and some of us struggle with depression and and when when when those times come where the clouds lift and there's moments of sunshine and and and we We see that in answer to prayer. What are we seeing? But the glory of Christ as the one who gives us joy, our joy giver. When we study God's word and gain understanding, we're seeing the glory of Christ as our teacher. And so let us in all things seek the glory of Christ. Part of that means let us remove hindrances to seeing his glory. The greatest hindrance is sin, obviously. But another hindrance to seeing the glory of Christ is is good things, things that may be good in and of themselves, but we have inordinate affections towards those things. Those things can be hindrances to us beholding the glory of Christ. And what we're called to do is to put everything in its proper place by seeing all things as as ultimately windows, not walls, but but windows through which we can by faith behold the glory of our Savior. 2 Corinthians 3 verse 18 says, we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image. from one degree of glory to another, for this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. So the Lord Jesus desires for the church, he desires oneness. He desires love, love from God to us, and then from us to one another And then ultimately he desires glory for us, that we would see him and be made like him. And let us, as brothers and sisters in Christ Lock arms together to help each other fight to see the glory of Christ and to fight for the unity and the love, the oneness that God has given us in Christ. Let's pray Our Father in Heaven, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the cross. We thank you for the oneness that was purchased there. We thank you for your indescribable love. And we thank you that by your grace, through faith in Christ, we have in us Christ the hope of glory. Would you would you help us help us to love one another? Help us to be eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. And help us to fight to behold your glory by faith in this world. And may we cling to the hope that we will behold it by sight in the next world. For the glory of your name we ask all of these things in Jesus' name, Amen.