Such a joy to get to look at God's Word with you this morning. And so let's go ahead and turn to 2 Chronicles chapter 18 verses 1 through 27. 2 Chronicles 18. 1 through 27, and that's on page 370 in the Bibles provided on the chairs. If you don't have a Bible of your own, or one that's perhaps in modern English, we would love for you to take that. Home with you. Take that Bible. We don't think there's anything more important that you could have in your home than a Bible that you can read so that you can discover God's truth on your own, apart from us looking at it together this morning. And so let me read this passage that we're going to look at this morning. Now Jehoshaphat had great riches and honor. And he made a marriage alliance with Ahab. After some years he went down to Ahab in Samaria, and Ahab killed an abundance of sheep and oxen for him and for the people who were with him. and induced him to go up against Ramoth Gilead. Ahab, king of Israel, said to Jehoshaphat, King of Judah, Will you go with me to Ramoth Gilead? He answered him, I am as you are, my people as your people. We will be with you in the war. Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Inquire first of the word of the Lord. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, Shall we go to battle against Ramoth Gilead, or shall I refrain? And they said, Go up, for God will give it into the hand of the king. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here another prophet of the Lord, of whom we may inquire? And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the Lord, Micaiah, the son of Imlah, but I hate him. For he never prophesies good concerning me, but always evil. And Jehoshaphat said, let not the king say so. Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, Bring quickly Micah, the son of Imlah. Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their robes, and they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them. And Zedekiah, the son of Cenea, made for himself horns of iron and said, Thus says the Lord, with these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed. And all the prophets prophesied so and said, Go up to Ramoth Gilead and triumph. The Lord will give it into the hand of the king. And the messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, Behold, the words of the prophets with one accord are favorable to the king. Let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably. But Micaiah said As the Lord lives, what my God says, that I will speak And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I refrain? And he answered, Go up in triumph, they will be given into your hand. But the king said to him, How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the Lord? He said, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master. Let each return to his home in peace. And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil? And Micaiah said, Therefore hear the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left. And the Lord said, Who will entice Ahab, the king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead? And one said one thing, and another said another. Then a spirit came forward and stood before the Lord, saying, I will entice him. And the Lord said to him, By what means? And he said, I will go out and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, You are to entice him, and you shall succeed. Go out and do so Now therefore, behold, the Lord has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets. The Lord has declared disaster concerning you Then Zedekiah the son of Caneah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way did the Spirit of the Lord go from me to speak to you? And Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself. And the king of Israel said, Seize Micaiah, and take him back to Amon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, and the king's son And say, Thus says the king, put this fellow in prison and feed him with meagre rations of bread and water until I return in peace. And Micaiah said, If you return in peace, the Lord is not spoken by me. He said, Hear all you peoples Let's pray. Father, we cannot understand your word without you You say in your scripture that we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given to us by God. Lord, please give light to your scripture now. Give us wisdom and give us the humility to submit to your truth as we hear it. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Well, in the book The Silver Chair, one of the Chronicles of Narnia books, there's a particularly intense scene. For the main characters go into a place called the underworld, which is governed by a queen there, that seems to be nice. And they go there, and the queen takes care of them and shows them great hospitality, and there's great feasts and banquets in their honor. And then they meet a prince there. And this prince seems to love and adore this queen. And so one night the friends are asked to watch over the prince And they're told that a very bizarre thing happens to this prince every night. Because for a period of time, a short period of time, the prince is overcome. He's he becomes under a spell. And so that he becomes a crazy person and tries to break loose and he would harm himself and anyone near him if he would be free. And so they tie him to a chair and they lock him in a room every night during this time So that he can't hurt himself or others. These four friends are in this room when this happens one night. And these friends have been sent on a mission. To rescue a prince called Rillian. And so they're in this room and they say, no matter what happens, we cannot free the prince They were told by the queen and her soldiers that he would be very convincing. He would tell them lies. He would make them feel like they have to release him. And so they made a bond together that said, we cannot listen to the prince, no matter how convincing or persuasive he is, we can't untie him. So sure enough, the prince starts stirring and then he starts raving about. He starts struggling with the bonds on his chair. Then he sees the people and he says, Let me out of this chair. He starts pleading with them, begging them to let him free. And they're holding their ground. And then he starts to Play with their mind a little bit. He says, No, you've actually been lied to. I'm telling the truth. Saying it's actually in this time, this is the only time I'm in my right mind. The rest of the time, I'm under a spell. And the French are still holding their ground, they're saying, nope, we we can't be persuaded, until the prince says a phrase that catches their attention. He says, Release me from these bonds in the name of Aslan Well Aslan, of course, was the king of Nornia. He had sent them on this mission, and he told them, if anyone asks in my name, that's the sign. That's how you know that they're telling the truth. So now these friends were in quite a predicament. Do they listen to the queen and continue enjoying the comforts of her kingdom and her hospitality? Or do they listen to Hazlan, the one they had found to be endlessly faithful, but potentially suffer the wrath of the queen? Who would they listen to? Whose word would they trust? Well, in this book here, in this passage, we're actually faced with the same question. Who will we trust? Whose word will we listen to So 2 Chronicles is a book that was written in uh around the fourth um in the 400s BC. It was written about 150 years after the uh Babylonian captivity. So the The kingdom of Israel was divided. The northern kingdom was Israel. The southern was Judah. Israel was exiled into Assyria. And then later, Judah was exiled into Babylon. And then about 70 years later, they returned to Jerusalem, to their homeland, under the king Cyrus. And so this book, 2 Chronicles, is a historical book. It's meant to tell the history of Israel. But it also has a very specific aim. The author, which many people believe is Ezra, is really trying to write this book to the leaders of Israel They've come back from exile and they're expecting blessing, and yet instead they've actually faced great uh persecution and struggle economically. They faced foreign powers And so Ezra is, or the author of Chronicles, is writing to the leaders of Israel saying, look, this is what you have to do. He's trying to use history to teach them this is what the former kings and leaders of Israel did, and this is why we went into exile. So don't do that And so one of the main exhortations he has for them in this book is that the leaders of Israel, the kings of Israel, should trust in God alone and hold to his truth. Trust in God alone and hold to his truth. That's something the former kings of Israel did not do. And so, the main point of this passage is actually very simple. Trust in God alone and hold to his truth. So for you note takers, that's our main point. Trust in God alone and hold to His truth. And just to give you an idea of where we're going, uh the first point's gonna be turning away from God's truth. Second point's going to be facing God's truth. And then the last point we're going to look at is living in God's truth. And so first, turning away from God's truth. We see in the first 11 verses of this chapter that basically everyone rejects God's truth. So first you have Jehoshaphat, who seems kind of like a a good character at first. You think, well, he's inquiring of the Lord. He's asking for a prophet of the Lord. But when you look closer, you realize that Jehoshaphat was the king of Judah, in many ways, a righteous king, and followed God, and yet here he's making a marriage alliance with Ahab. Ahab was arguably the most evil king in the history of Israel. In 1 Kings, it says that Ahab did more to provoke the Lord to anger than all the kings that had come before him. And then he he married his wife Jezebel, who was notoriously evil, hunted God's prophets. And so you think if Jehoshaphat is righteous and following the Lord, what on earth is he doing making an alliance with Ahab? And so he's turning away from God and his truth there. But also you see that he's turning from trusting in God to trusting in political alliances. He's clearly doing well. The first verse of this passage, now Jehoshaphat, had great riches and honor. He had good reason to believe God was going to take care of him. And yet he trusted in the power that can come from political alliances rather than trusting in God. And then lastly, although he does inquire of the prophets, we'll see at the end of this passage and beyond, he doesn't listen to God's word. He hears it. But he doesn't submit to it. So Jehoshaphat turns away from God and his truth. And then there's Ahab. Ahab, as I tur as I said earlier, is one of the most wicked kings of Israel. In fact, uh in in one story in First Kings Ahab pits 450 prophets of Baal against one prophet of the Lord, Elijah. And before Ahab's eyes, God rains down fire and consumes the sacrifice of Elijah while the 450 prophets of Baal can do nothing. And this happens right in front of Ahab's eyes. He sees it. He sees God rain down fire and burn up a sacrifice that had been doused with water three times over, while his prophets, 450 of them, could do nothing. And yet. Here Ahab is inquiring of some more false prophets turning from God and his truth So Ahab rejects God and his truth. And then lastly, the prophets. Every single one, down to the last one, says, Go up against Ramoth Gilead, you will be victorious. But it's very clear that they're just trying to be favorable to the king. Later, when the message uh the messenger c goes to Micaiah, he says, Behold, the words of the prophets with one accord are favorable to the king. Let your word Be like the word of one of them. That's telling about their motivation. And so all of these people in this passage turn away from God's truth But turning away from God and His truth is not something that is exclusive to Old Testament Israel, is it? We live today in what many have described as a post-truth culture. It is it has never been more common to for people to say things that feel true and yet have no basis in fact. One of the mantras of our culture today is something called expressive individualism, as it's been coined. Jacquel Crow defines this expressive individualism this way. This is the follow your heart, believe in yourself, chase your dreams, Disney, Hallmark, MTV Gospel. It is the catechism of our culture. It is what our youth are learning. You are the creator of your identity. You are free, even obligated To be whomever or whatever makes you feel good, no matter what anyone says. I don't think I have to argue how prevalent this is. You are the creator of your identity. You are free, even obligated, to be true to that no matter what anyone else says. Of course, the Bible says the opposite. The Bible tells us that we are uniquely made as individuals. He knitted us in our mother's womb. Yet it also tells us that our identity is that we are made in God's image, that we are children of God. That we've been made for his glory. And so, because that is the truth, we submit to God and his word, his truth. Regardless if that disagrees with what we define as reality, or how we define ourselves. Not only is there expressive individualism, there's post-truth, but there's also cultural hostility toward certain teachings of the Bible. Think about the teaching of sexuality especially. Right now it's very controversial. So much so that many people, uh pastors or Christians, would argue around or just disregard certain passages in the Bible altogether. There's one story of a famous actor Who every time he's in a hotel will actually take the Bible out of the drawer and rip pages that contain explicit teachings on sexuality or other controversial passages, rip them out of the Bible. is if that makes them less true. And so, in one way, I sympathize with people trying to argue against or disregard teachings like that I mean, who wants to be hateful as it's described? Who wants to be unpopular? And yet Either God's word is authoritative or we are. But it can't be both If we say, well, I like this part of God's truth and God's word, but these things I I don't really care for. I don't like those things. I don't think they're true. Well, maybe it's unintentional, but what you've just done is set yourself up as God. You're saying in that statement that you are the guardian of truth You decide what is important and not God. And so if we accept God's word as authoritative, There certainly will be confrontation. There will be things in Scripture that challenge us because God is perfect He is holy, he is unchanging, and we are sinful and imperfect. And so because of those two realities, there must be collision So Tim Keller says that if your view of God or of God in your mind never ruffles your feathers If you never read anything in God's Word or think anything about God that challenges you or confronts your worldview, That's actually how you know that you may be worshiping a God of your own creation. Not necessarily the word, the God of the Bible. Because God is unchanging and holy, and we are imperfect, there must be collision. And by saying God's word is authoritative, by accepting all God's word is authoritative, we're saying we're submitting to God as God. And we're saying, and it doesn't mean that things will not be challenging. It doesn't mean that things will not be hard. And doesn't mean there won't be things in Scripture we have to genuinely wrestle with. And I get that. Yeah, at the same time we come in humility and we submit to God's word and we say, Lord, I get that this is true. Help me understand If God's if all of God's word is not authoritative, then it is simply all relevant. And so Micaiah is approached by this messenger. And this messenger comes to him and he says, If you if you make your words like the other prophets Then you will be blessed. Basically, this prophet is making Micaiah choose between the comforts of the king's palace and God's truth. It's really such a great representation in many ways of our culture. Our culture might say, hey, this is what people are saying. This is what's popular. This is what the important people think. Hey, if you say this Then you will have comforts and pleasures and followers and influence. You just have to give up God and the truth. And so Micaiah is faced with this choice between the temporal, the pleasures of this world, and God's truth. And isn't it true that our culture, our world, emphasizes the trivial, the temporal, and minimizes the eternal? The things that don't last tend to be treasured in our culture, while the things that are eternal tend to be minimized or even suppressed. So much of what we do as Christians, we don't see immediate results. Right? Christ told us to store up treasures for ourselves in heaven. Well, that means that we might not see a lot of the things that we're laboring for now. And so for moms in the congregation, of which there are many here. I just want to encourage you that when you're changing that tenth diaper of the day, when you're cleaning up that mess, the same mess you just cleaned up an hour ago. Just remember that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Even though you might not see immediate results You're doing a good work. And you're being pleasing to God, the work that the Lord has called you to You can be encouraged in that. You can run your race with endurance, looking to Jesus, the author and perfector of our faith. Knowing that when we're faithful, you will receive the words, Well done, my good and faithful servant. And so for kids here, there might be time Uh times in your life, kids, where you're asked to obey God's word or your parents, and it might not make sense to you. You might think, why am I doing this? What what's the benefit that comes from this? And I get it. I like to ask the why questions a lot. I've gained a reputation for being a question asker. I like to say, oh, okay, we're doing this, but but why are we doing it? And I get that. But I love what Micaiah says. As the Lord lives, what my God says, that I will speak. Sometimes we just have to obey God. We just have to say, this is what God has asked me to do, and we can trust him because he's trustworthy and he loves us. Well Micaiah's response is so wonderful, isn't it? As the Lord lives, what my God says, that I will speak. What great words to live by as a Christian. We're tempted every day to choose popularity over sharing God's truth And so some of us might be in situations right now with friends or coworkers or family members where we have to face a decision between maintaining the status quo. And sharing God's truth. And to be fair, every situation is unique and requires wisdom. And thought, and every conversation should be clothed in grace and kindness and compassion. But if we're not willing to share God's truth with people, We're not loving people. If we're not loving people, then we're not Christians. This is especially true in evangelism, isn't it? Will we risk the awkwardness of maybe sharing the truth of the gospel? This wonderful news that we know and have At times we shy away from sharing it because we don't want to be awkward or make things weird. His book, The Gospel and Personal Evangelism, Mark Dever writes this. We are called to love others. We share the gospel because we love people. And we don't share the gospel because we don't love people. Instead, we wrongly fear them. We don't want to cause awkwardness. We want their respect. And if we share the gospel with them, we'll look foolish. And so we are quiet. We protect our pride at the cost of their souls How many times have we protected our pride at the cost of people's souls? How many times have we protected our pride at the cost of loving someone and sharing a kind or compassionate but true hard word with them? Friends, it is better to be faithful in the eyes of the Lord than popular in the eyes of the whole world. When we reject God's truth, we also reject Him. You might be thinking, well, that doesn't make sense, Mike. What do you mean? Well, God and his truth are inextricably linked. You can't reject God's truth without rejecting God Think about it this way. Imagine a husband says to his wife, Um, Honey, sweetie Sugar, whatever. I love you so much. You are so wonderful. I'm so thankful for you, and I'm I'm so glad to be married to you. You probably think, well, pretty good husband. Doing doing pretty well. Maybe you've said something similar, minus the nicknames. But then imagine that he followed that up with this. But I just don't care about anything you say. That would burst the honeymoon bubble pretty quickly. I probably said dumber things, honestly. But you can't have a relationship when you reject someone's word. You don't look at, or if you don't listen to them, you don't obey them on some level A loving functional relationship can't survive. And it's the same with God and His truth If we reject God, it's as if we're rejecting, or so if we reject God's truth, it's as if we're rejecting God Himself And that's why in John 14, 21, Jesus says, Whoever has my commands, he is the one, and uh whoever has my commands and obeys them, he is the one who loves me. God's love language is when we listen to him and obey his word. That's what he wants us to do. So we can't reject God's truth without rejecting him. God's truth is unchanging, and yet we're all tempted to turn away from it. We all have, haven't we? But thankfully, God confronts us and seeks us out with his truth. So let's look next at facing God's truth Well Micaiah comes and he has three prophecies. He's enticed to try to turn away from God's truth. But he resists and he comes and he gives these three prophecies. So we're going to look at the second prophecy because the first and the third are actually related. And so let's look at the second prophecy first. After Micaiah says somewhat of an uh arguably an insincere prophecy, he describes this really sad scene. It says, all Israel, in verse 16, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains as sheep that have no shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master, let each return to his home in peace. Micaiah here, through this prophecy, is showing that God is actually indicting the leaders and the kings and the prophets of Israel for failing to shepherd his people. They haven't been truthful to God and his word, and so the result is confusion and helplessness. Sheep scattered on a hill with no leader It's hard not to think of Jesus when he sees the crowds and he says to them, it says he had compassion on them because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. And that is the result when we turn away from God and his truth. Confusion. Brokenness. Helplessness. And yet the assumption of our culture, and sometimes the assumption of us, is that without God and without his word, we're actually better off We're gonna be okay. And this prophecy comes and tells us otherwise. Apart from God's word, we can't live. And we see that, right? We know that by experience Have you ever listened to sin's lies and sinned and thought to yourself, that was worth it? That was really life-giving. It's never it never crosses our minds because sin always leads to destruction and brokenness. And so we've heard stories about sins, lies destroying the lives of people. And we, of all people, should be compassionate because we know all too well. The temptation of sins lies. We've believed them many, many, many times. And so as we pray for the lost sheep that are scattered, and everyone who might not trust in Christ, we should also pray for those people. Who have been particularly hurt by the destruction destructive power of sin's lies Think about single moms. Think about the homeless. Those trapped in addiction. People who have alienated their families after idolizing work and the promises it brings. No one was ever socially so low that they were not welcomed by Christ our Savior. And so that should be the case with us. We are a church, and the church is for sinners. Sinners who have repented and trusted in Christ. But the church is for sinners That's why we sing. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. Wouldn't it be great? That if someone asked in this community, where do all the most hopeless or broken and helpless people congregate? Wouldn't it be great if people said Chevrolet Baptist Church. Because they welcome sinners. Because that's all we are. We're a group of sinners who worship a great Savior. Without God's truth, we're scattered and helpless. And that's the first truth we face. But look at these other prophecies in the first and third. The first is puzzling. I mean, it seems like Micaiah is going along with the false prophets. But what's actually happening here is that Micaiah is going along with what he knows is Ahab's fate. We see in the third prophecy that Ahab has been sovereignly ordained by God to follow his false prophets to destruction. And so Ahab, foreseeing, knowing Ahab's fate, comes in and says. Go up and triumph. He'll be given into your hand. And you can tell the sort of facetious tone he has. Ahab picks up on it real quick. And so Ahab's basically saying, I know what your end is going to be, and I'm simply going to go along with them. Notice that it's not necessarily a prophecy of the Lord. He does not say, the Lord said. He's just simply parroting the false prophets. But Ahab presses him. He says, How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the Lord? So Ahab gets his truth. And Micaiah shares another vision. In this vision, he sees God in heaven, in a heavenly council. And he asks, Who will go up and entice Ahab to go to destruction? And a spirit comes forward and says, I will go. And he says, How? And I'll be a lying spirit in the mouths of his prophets. And he says, So be it. And so we see here that this vision isn't meant to communicate details and specifics about how heaven works and spirits. and the intricacies of God's sovereignty, what this vision is meant to be is a poetic way Of communicating that God is sovereign over all things, even allowing false prophets to lead Ahab astray. And so you might say, well, so God led Ahab astray? Well, no. Ahab rejected God and his truth repeatedly. And God graciously confronted Ahab again and again with his truth. I said earlier, Elijah came and confronted Ahab. And that's when he threw 450 prophets of Baal against Elijah. His prophets were defeated, and then Ahab kept rejecting his truth. I mean, is uh putting yourself in the shoes of God, which is probably not a great idea all the time, but thinking about how like Ahab, are you I don't I don't know how I can make it any more clear I am the only God. Trust in me. And yet Ahab continually rejected God and his truth. And so God gives him over to his desires. In Romans chapter one, Paul writes about those who reject God Let me read to you from Romans 1, 22 through 25. Tell me if this doesn't exactly describe Ahab Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds, and animals, and creeping things. Therefore, God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity To the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator. Who is blessed forever? God gives Ahab over to his desires. And this Is actually the worst thing that could ever happen to us. And that might not seem so, but because we're sinful and imperfect, Actually, the worst thing that God could ever do, the worst thing that we that could ever befall us, is actually to be given over to our own desires. And that's what happens to Ahab. Forget Losing loved ones Forget losing a job. Forget suffering health. Being given over to our own sinful desires is the worst possible thing. That we could experience. God must intercept us. He must seek us out. He must confront us with his truth. And so if you're here today and you are doubting Maybe you only feel like 10% of you desires God and the rest of you desires the world and sin. Friend, cling to that 10%. Resist your sinful desires. The worst thing that could ever happen is for you to be given over to them. Resist them. Pray for God to give you faith. Share that with a brother or sister here and ask for prayer. Every single person here in this church can identify with doubt. But resist those desires. Sin only wants to destroy you. Satan wants nothing else But destroyed you, but to destroy you. And that's why one theologian, John Owen, said, be killing sin, or it will be killing you. Fights in. Fights in with everything you have. Well, if you're here, and if you would not call yourself a Christian, I want you to see how gracious God is here. He confronts Ahab yet again with his truth. But Ahab doesn't believe it. He rejects it again. To his destruction. So if you're here and you're not a Christian, you wouldn't call yourself a Christian. I would urge you to look at this passage and to see what Ahab couldn't see. That we are sinful and we need a Savior. Let the blow of God's truth land on your heart. Humble yourself. Confess your sins Scripture says if we confess our sins in 1 John 1:9, if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Jesus said, Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. If you have doubts, if you have questions, ask them. Grab someone after the service and talk. We would love to talk with you, engage, grab coffee with you. But friend, I would encourage you to humble yourself. As we all have had to do many times, and say, God's truth is what I'm going to submit to And trust in Christ and in Him find peace and perfect rest. The only rest and peace that we truly can have in this world. Well, we see that we all turn from God's truth. We see the harsh reality Of what happens when we turn from God's truth? We're giving over to our own desires, and the result is helplessness. And the sheep being scattered and brokenness. But there is hope. Because God, by his mercy, allows us to live in his truth. And so lastly, let's talk about living in the truth. Well, the first thing we see about those who walk in God's truth is that they will suffer. The first thing that happens after Zedekiah or uh after Micaiah prophesies is Zedekiah strikes him in the face. Ahab then throws him in prison. And so we have to be prepared in many times that as Christians, if we're going to share God's truth, there may be persecution and suffering that comes along with that. Many people might dislike you for sharing truth, particularly when that truth confronts or exposes some kind of sin in their life. And so, as Christians, we do have to be bold. We always should share the gospel, share truth in grace and in compassion. And so kids, there might be times when some friends of yours, or people that you consider friends We'll be mean to you or not like you. Because you chose to share the truth. Or because you believe in Jesus. And I just want to encourage you guys to always stand by God and listen to Him. God is always better than anything else that is being offered to you. Even if it seems harder in the short term, it is always better to trust in God and obey Him. Well, with this persecution with truth-telling and with the destructive power and temptation of sin's lies, how can we do this? Right? That's the big question. How can we be faithful to God and his word? Well, this is the most important thing in this entire sermon. The only way that we can be faithful to God and His Word is by seeing that He has been faithful to us. God became flesh. The word became flesh. In the person of Jesus Christ. And in Isaiah 53. 6 it says, we all like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. We have all turned away. We've all sinned against God. And yet listen to this glorious Part of the second half of this verse. We all like sheep have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Jesus came and he did the unthinkable. He bore our sins. Jesus, like Micaiah, was also questioned, as Cassid read earlier. Except by the high the the high priests. And Jesus, like Micaiah, could have also avoided persecution and suffering by abandoning God's will and God's people. And yet He held true to his confession. He held true to the truth. And when it cost God more than anything, when it couldn't have cost him more, he was faithful to us. He spoke the truth and he was struck in the face. And he was spit on. And he was beaten, and he was made to wear a crown of thorns. Friends, we don't find courage to be faithful to God and His truth by looking within us. We find courage to be faithful to God and his truth by looking to Jesus, who was slain for us. You could say the word became flesh, was faithful to us, so that we could be faithful to his word. I want to point out one last thing in this passage. Right there in the middle, you see this scene of these 400 prophets prophesying. And it says in verse nine, Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their robes. And they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them. Notice the pomp and grandeur of this scene. Look who's not there. Micaiah. He's a prophet. Why wasn't he invited? I think the author of Chronicles here is painting this scene to show us that those who hold faithful to God's truth. will be denied certain comforts and maybe pleasures in this world. And so Micaiah didn't get to go to this party. He didn't get to partake in seeing the king adorned with his robes, sitting on the throne at the city gate. He didn't get to taste the delicious food of this party. He didn't get to hear the music. But he was faithful. And because he was faithful, eventually Micaiah passed from this earth, and he did go to a party In fact, in that party, the king's son himself came and he took him by the hand And he led him into the presence of the king. There he heard angels singing Praises and music more beautiful than he'd ever heard, all in praise to God, the King, who is on the throne. His robe filled the heavens and his glory filled the earth and his reign is eternal. Friends, which king do you want your words to be favorable to? The kings of this earth, whose reign and whose life is like a breath, but the king who died for you The King whose reign is eternal. The King who will usher you into heaven with his wounded hand Well, were those friends trust in Aslam? But the queen of the underworld. They would trust it aslan. They untied the king, or they untied the prince And the prince turned out to be telling the truth, he was in his right mind. And they escaped the underworld, and I won't ruin any more of that book. But we also have to see that For those who are faithful to God's word, it might not be so easy as untying the prince and riding off out of the underworld. I want to tell you about one sister in Christ that I cannot wait to meet in glory. Blandina was a Christian slave girl in the year 177 A. D. She lived in southern France, which is where one of the worst persecutions against Christians broke out under the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. And Blandina was captured, and she was treated cruelly, as cruelly as you can imagine. She was subjected to the gladiator games, as many Christians were for show. And yet through all the pain and through all the shame, Blandina held to her good confession The Romans would press her every time. Renounce Christ. Reject Him and His truth. And she wouldn't. She remained faithful. So much so that other Christians that were being persecuted Actually drew great courage from Blandina. They would come in and they would be afraid. And Blandina, like a spiritual mother, would encourage all of them And in fact, she saw many other Christians pass on into glory before her. Until finally She was resolved to stand and be faithful to Christ. And Blandina had suffered so much that even the pagans said that a woman had never suffered so great for so long. And then Blade and Dina did pass from this life to the next, remaining faithful to Christ Firmly holding to Christ's faithfulness to her, she remained faithful to Christ. And that is what we must do Get a clear picture of what Christ has done for you. Of him hanging on the cross in your place. And when you do that, Not all the blessings and comforts of this world could tempt us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that you are true. I change, he changes not. The Christ can never die His love, not mine, the resting place. His truth, not mine, the tie. You are faithful, and you were faithful even when it cost you everything. Lord, help us to be faithful to you and to your word. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.