Last week, I read a tweet from someone named James arguing for President Trump's reelection bid. This is our last stand, folks. And here's your last defender. If they take him down, America is gone forever. Vote for Donald Trump like your life depends on it. James believes that the other side is an existential threat. The fancy way of saying a threat against One's existence, existential threat. Vote like your life depends on it. America will be gone forever And I think James speaks for many people on the right. Meanwhile, people on the left feel similar Sure, I could search for tweets, take a few minutes to find something that says something like vote against Trump like your life depended on it. Just think of the Phrase that's prominent on the left these days, Black Lives Matter. What does that mean? Well, it means people of color feel like their lives are treated as if they don't matter. There is a kind of threat against their existence. Or just last week I was on a Zoom call with a church in Dallas. There are all the leaders in a church in Dallas, and I was talking about these kinds of things, and I was talking specifically about Christian liberty and One man towards the end of the Zoom call during a Q<unk>A said, Jonathan, I hear you talking about Christian liberty. You know, but the thing is, and this this man is an elder in the church. He's he's an Hispanic man He said to me, I believe that the president's rhetoric incites and empowers racist actions that have the genuine potential to cause harm to me and to my Family, will my parents be safe from physical harm when they go to the grocery store? Will someone see my father as dangerous because he's an immigrant? In short, friends, people on both sides these days look across the aisle at the other side and they feel an existential threat, a threat, some manner of speaking Against their existence. And as a result, both sides increasingly occupy a posture of fear. Resentment, rage. After all, we fear Present and rage against those who we think are a threat to our some sense of the word existence People are quick on social media and elsewhere to rage against anyone who doesn't perfectly follow the script of their side, even Christians against Christians. So, what do we do? Well, one way is just to sort of deny the existence of an existential threat. And to say, oh, people on the other side are being hysterical. The problem is politics is very much the realm of existential threats. It's the realm of preserving lives. Some of these threats are real. And people on both sides see it and feel it. Again, what do we do? Well, my goal this morning is to preach a text, Psalm 2. This is going to be something in between an expositional and a topical sermon. I'm going to use Psalm 2. And apply it specifically to our present political landscape. You might say Psalm 2 is a pair of X-ray vision eyes that let us See what's actually going on among the nations, among our nation, and the rage. That people feel each for the other side as they feel that threat. And ultimately what we're going to learn is not That the existential threats aren't real, we are going to learn that there is actually a far scarier threat. And that's the not existential threat, but eternal threat of the Lord God Almighty. Please turn to Psalm 2. Acts 13 tells us it's a psalm of David, who certainly was no stranger to existential threats. You can follow along as I read. Verse 1. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fear, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son, today I've begotten you Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel Thou, therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. Psalm two Offers us a cosmic picture of the nations, our nation, and God's plan for the entire earth. It is a royal psalm. And it's one of the most explicit messianic, pointing to the Messiah Psalms in the entire Psalter. And it divides fairly easy easily into four sections, each of which Will provide us with a lesson this morning. Lessons one, verses one to three, is that every nation rebels against the Lord And it's an utterly vain exercise. Lesson one. Every nation rebels against the Lord, and it's an utterly vain exercise. Verse 1: Why do the nations rage? A people's plot in vain. It's a rhetorical question. You guys are doing this. Why would you doing it? Don't you see it's going to get you nowhere? And notice how it takes in all the earth. It's not just Israel, it's nations, its peoples raging against the Lord And then he focuses his indictment even more politically. Kings and rulers rage against him, Jewish and Gentile. Herod and Pontius Pilate would. rage against him. And who are the kings in a democracy? Are we voters, not the kings? Do the voters of the nations not rage against the Lord? Yet notice it's not just the Lord they rage against. They rage against the Lord and against his Well in Hebrew it says his Meshiach, his Messiah. The nations and their kings, the voters, rage against the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. And notice how political all of this is. This is not just, well, I have a religious objection to the Lord. I have an epistemological, philosophical objection to the idea of God. That's not what it says here. Instead it says you have the nations wanting to rule themselves, wanting to rule their own way of life, and therefore opposing the rule of God. It says, let us burst their bonds apart. And cast away their cords. This is not philosophical, political. From the standpoint of the nations and their governments, God's rule is perceived as yoke-like, enslaving, oppressing, binding. The politics of the nations oppose King Jesus and his rule Very plain point from the first three verses of our text. Why? Why do they oppose King Jesus and his rule? Well, because the nations have other gods. Other things they worship. Write this down. Our worship determines our politics Our worship determines our politics. Governments serve their gods The judge judging, voter voting, the president presiding All nations, all governments, ever since God established governments, have served what they worship, have served their gods. Now, if you are here this morning and you would not understand yourself to be a Christian, first of all, thank you for being here. Second of all, what is Psalm 2 teaching you? This morning. Well, it's saying that you and I both, in our natural fallen selves, rage against the Lord and against the Lord Jesus Christ. It's saying that China rages against the Lord, Kenya, Russia, America rage against the Lord It's saying that Republicans rage against the Lord and Democrats rage against the Lord and independents rage against the Lord. It says all of us rage against the Lord in our natural fallen selves. Am I saying the volume on that rage is just as loud, the evil just as bad among all nations, among all parties? No, I'm not saying that But I am saying that all of us in our own selves want to rule. The Lord Jesus Christ comes and says, no, I'm king, I rule. They oppose that. They rage against that. If you're here this morning listening as a Christian, these first few verses tell us what? Well they Tell us that our faith is a political threat. Because we believe that Jesus is King. And every nation conspires against Jesus. People talk about the culture of wars. What are they really? Well, we know from Psalm 2, they're wars of religion. The biggest political divide in the Bible. It's not finally right versus left, globalist versus naturalist. The biggest threat in the Bible is for King Jesus, against King Jesus Christ, anti-Christ. Why? Well, Jesus says he possesses all rule in heaven and on earth, and people are opposed to that. The fact that Jesus' claim on our lives is total Means that he cares about how we spend our money, who we sleep with, and who we vote for And everything we say and do. He has all authority in heaven and on earth. Of course, the nations rage against him And friends, it's always been that way. You think of the Caesars and governors of ancient Rome opposed to the Christians because in ancient Rome they believed The favor of the gods is what gave blessing to Rome. These Christians here opposed Roman gods, and therefore they feared that these Christians here would hurt the prosperity of Rome. On whose favor Rome depended, the pleasure of the gods. So we oppose the Christians, we throw them to the lines because we like Rome and we like what Rome means. They're opposed to that. America, too, has many gods. We have the God of material comfort, God of progress, the God of my rights, the God of self-definition, the God of sex, the God of technology, the God of safety, the God of my skin color. Oppose one of these gods, and I will oppose you. I will rage against you. Because I worship that thing. It's of greatest worth to me. Friends, if you would most love America You would oppose its false gods. Faithful are the wounds of a friend So point one, every nation rebels against the Lord. Point two, God has no, tolerates no challengers. Point two, God has no, tolerates no challengers. Verse 4. He who sits in heaven laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Was God threatened by Pharaoh? By Nebuchadnezzar? Even by Pilate? When I read verses 4 to 6, I can't help but think of the episode in C. S. Lewis's book, The Silver Chair, where Jill Pohl, you might remember if you've read it, finds herself waking up Thirsty, seeing the stream, but in between her and the stream is this mighty lion It lay with its head raised and its two forepaws out in front of it. She knew at once that it had seen her, for its eyes looked straight into hers for a moment, and then turned away as if it knew her quite well and didn't think much of her. If I run, it'll be after me in a moment, thought Jill. And if I go on, I shall run straight into its mouth Anyway, she couldn't have moved if she had tried, and she couldn't take her eyes off it. How long this lasted, she could not be sure it seemed like hours And the thirst became so bad that she almost felt she would not mind being eaten by lion if only she could have a mouthful of water first. If you are thirsty, you may drink For a second she stared here and there, wondering who had spoken. Then the voice said again, If you are thirsty, come and drink. And she realized that it was the lion speaking. Anyway, she had seen its lips move this time, and its voice was not like a man's, it was deeper, wilder, and stronger, a sort of heavy, golden voice. It did not make her any less frightened than she had been before, but it made her frightened in a rather different way Are you not thirsty? said the lion. I'm dying of thirst, said Jill. Then drink, said the lion. May I could I would you mind going away while I do? said Jill. The lion answered this only by a look and a very low growl. And as Jill gazed at its motionless bulk, she realized that she might have well have asked the whole mountain to move aside for her convenience. The delicious rippling noise of the stream was driving her nearly frantic. Will you promise not to do anything to me if I do come? said Jill. I make no promise, said the lion. Jill was so thirsty now that, without noticing it, she had come a step closer. Do you eat girls? she said. I have swallowed up girls and boys, women and men, kings and emperors, cities and realms, said the lion. It didn't say this as if it were boasting, nor as if it were sorry, nor as if it were angry. It just said it. I daren't come and drink, said Jill. Then you will die of thirst, said the lion. Oh, dear, said Jill, coming another step nearer. I suppose I must go and look for another stream, then. There is no other stream, said the lion. It never occurred to Jill to disbelieve the lion. No one who had seen its stern face could do that And her mind suddenly made itself off. It was the worst thing she ever had to do. But she went forward to the stream, knelt down, and began scooping up water in her hand. It was the coldest, most refreshing water she had ever tasted. Friends Our God is awesome, mighty, majestic The lion is a faint glimpse. He has swallowed Girls and boys, men and women, kingdoms and realms. He holds the rulers of this earth in derision. He laughs at them. Again, Nebuchadnezzar, Pilate, think you're a threat to me Says this mighty lion. Fear, resentment, rage have no place in a Christian's heart and life. It says we do not know the one we are serving. Think of Daniel emerging from the lion's den. Talk about an existential threat, and there King Darius, and Daniel says, O king, live forever. This pagan king. No fear, resentment, rage in Daniel's heart. Why Because Daniel knew those lions were no threat, that King Darius no threat. He knew that the Lord Almighty is the lion. He knew the one he serves. Earlier this year, the National Religious Affairs Administration of China released a set of regulations on the management of religious group. Here's Article 17 from that. those regulations, religious organizations must spread the principles and policies of the Chinese Communist Party. They must educate Religious personnel and religious citizens. So so my job right now, according to this, my job is to educate religious personnel and religious citizens to support the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party, to support my job, John's job, the elders' job, to support the socialist system to adhere to and follow the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The Chinese Communist Party insists on total submission to The party just a couple of weeks ago my friend, my pastor friend in China, Victor, emailed me and a few other brothers. My friend Victor had just spent two weeks in prison because his church had reached the number 200, which is when the Police start to pay attention to all of these illegal house churches. They won't bother you, but when you get to 200 or so, they'll start paying attention. They showed up victor's meeting, they took him and the other four elders, put him in prison for two weeks. Now he's out. He's emailing several of us. He's saying, what should we do? Should we continue to gather the 200? Or or should we maybe divide up into groups of five with an elder over each? And I'm thinking, well And he's kind of leaning towards the 200. I'm like, well, you know, maybe break it up. I, you know, I don't know, but Victor knows the one he serves. He knows the Lord Almighty is a lion. He's not afraid of the Chinese Communist Party European and American judges, more and more, have been making decisions to limit the freedom of Christians to live and worship according to Scripture. Do we fear them? Do we rage? Friends, we should oppose that. Yes. God established government to provide a platform of freedom and to preserve lives. We should engage politically, but what is our posture? Who is the lion here? One in heaven laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. There's a third thing I want us to learn from Psalm 2, specifically from verses 7 to 9. God has granted all rule and dominion to his son Lesson 3. God has granted all rule and dominion to his son. Verse 7, you are my son. Today I have begotten you The king of Israel, David, and then David's son, is referred to throughout scripture as God's son, pointing, of course, to the capital S son. Verse 8. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. So God commissions this king to make his rule and dominion over the whole earth. And so of course we know this king came and told us to go into all nations. Declaring he has all authority in heaven on earth. And what are we this morning? But a visible manifestation of Christ's rule And down the street and around the city and around the country and around the world, visible manifestations, around the nations, visible manifestations of Christ's rule. He is fulfilling what the Father commanded here in verse 8. And then verse 9: You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Did you know the book of Revelation quotes this verse three times? Here's just one: Revelation 19, from his mouth, speaking of Jesus, from his mouth comes a sharp sword. with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. Because of the promise of Christ's dreadful judgment, this assurance that we don't need to live in fear, resentment, rage. The principalities And powers want us to get worked up into a feverish pitch, whether we're watching Fox News or CNN. They want us to be overwrought and scared about this coming election. But friends, the Son possesses all rule and authority When all the world wants to talk about politics, sometimes the most powerful thing we can do is talk about something else Because we know it's not finally determinative. It's finally not the most important thing in the world. Again, the principalities and powers want our worship. And so determine our politics. Friends, we can't give it to them. Now, am I saying we should therefore disengage from politics? No, that's the first wrong path. We're not called to disengage. Call that the Jonah option. Jonah's like, I'm not going to Nineveh. I'm out of here The second wrong path, there's three. The second wrong path, call it capitulation, go along with the world. The German Evangelical Church, established in 1933, aligned itself With the Nazi parley, that party, that was capitulation. Liberal Christianity is accommodating itself to the sexual ethic of our day That's capitulation. Call this the Judas option. Wrong path number three is worldliness or what you might call utopianism, as if we could bring heaven to earth now. And in some ways I would say this is the biggest threat for evangelical churches. You give earthly political outcomes, a vote on a law, an election Supreme Court case an outsized importance. As if this is the most important thing in the world We're gone forever. Vote as if your life depended on it. In this, you're pursuing good things. You're standing up for right things and just things. But the problem is, you have forgotten that your own, our own political judgments are prone to error. And that Supreme Court justice doesn't always vote like we expect him to. We forget that only the judgments of God are perfect and eternal. We adopt a worldly strategy, a worldly tone. We despise those who disagree with us, even fellow Christians, along the way. We tell the world that, hey, Christianity is basically a branch of that party. Call this the Peter picking up the sword in the garden and slicing off the ear option. What's the right way to gauge? If those are three wrong ways to gauge, what's the right way to gauge? That brings us to our last point. Fourth and finally, we learn from Psalm 2: take refuge in the sun and represent him. Take refuge in the sun and represent him. That's verses 10 to 11. Verse 10 asks us to represent the sun. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, all rulers of the earth. Be warned, Donald Trump. Be warned, Joe Biden. Be warned, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and John Roberts. Be warned, Mr. Mayor, and President of the PTA, be warned, O voters of the earth. The Lord comes with judgment. He is a lion. Verse 11, serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling. Verse 12, in fact, kiss the sun Kiss the son, lest he be angry, lest you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in this lion. Okay, so if if withdrawal and capitulation and utopianism are three wrong paths, what is the right path of Christian political engagement? Well, we take Refuge in him so that we might represent him. Take refuge in, represent. That's our job. That's how we engage. We represent. After all, there is no rep refuge from him, said one political commentator. Only er Bible commentator, no refuge from him, only refuge in him Now, the question that this psalm leaves unanswered is, how can we take refuge in him? Won't he destroy us after all for having raged against him, as I talked about earlier? Well, one day. Christ will come, we are promised, with a rod of iron to dash the nation in pieces. But earlier in the New Testament, it tells us that Christ came a first time to warn us Even as this psalm does. This psalm isn't the act of judgment. This psalm is the act of warning, and Christ came a first time. To warn us. And Christ came a first time to establish his kingdom, but he established it in a way that nobody expected, nobody anticipated as a suffering servant. And so he invited his enemies to put a crown on his head. Well, there's a crown of thorns. And he offered his shoulders to receive a royal purple robe. Only he had them beat his shoulders first. And he asked his enemies to lift him up on a throne. That throne was a cross. And of course, there on the cross, what did he do? He defeated not just his enemies, but the two greatest enemies of all humanity: sin and death. Taking the punishment that we deserve for sin. And then rising from the grave, defeating the penalty of sin, death. So that all who turn from their sin and put their trust in this king, this strange on a cross king Might have eternal life with him as we rise with him from the grave and follow after him All authority on heaven and on earth have been given to me, he said. So friend, are you on the political left and you fear the existential threat of the right? Are you on the right and you feel and fear the existential threat of the left? I'm not going to deny or downplay either threat, yet there is a far greater threat. And that is the threat of God's own wrath against your sin. And what did Jesus do on the cross? He received the existential threat. His own body from Herod and Pontius Pilate. But not only that, he received in his own person the eternal threat of God Almighty And he vanquished it. He ended it again for all those who repent and believe. Friend, if you are a Christian, well. What left do you have to fear? Do you fear Nebuchadnezzar? Do you fear the Chinese Communist Party? Do you fear this or that candidate? Do you who is there to fear when the lion is there? Again, to my non-Christian friend here this morning, everything we do in our lives is subject to the scrutiny and judgment of God Especially in our politics, this psalm would say. The good news of Christianity Is that this king we read about in Psalm 2 paid the penalty for our rage? And now this Gracious, loving King, this mighty King, says, be warned, be wise, take refuge in me And to the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church, Psalm 2 reminds us that we are first and foremost kingdoms, citizens of another kingdom. We're not first and foremost Americans. Are members of this party or that movement? It tells us that the nations rage against the Lord, but the one in heaven laughs because he's a lion. It tells us that he swallows up boys and girls, men and women, kings and emperors, cities and realms. And it tells us that in our politics and in all of life, we're to take refuge in Him and represent Him Because he's the lion. Let's pray. Father God, we confess that we too easily are consumed by and live beholden to and in panic and in Fear and resentment and rage because of the forces of this world. Lord, help us not to worship them. Help us not to worship any other thing but you Help us to have confidence in you. No matter what happens in the coming months. You promise to build your church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it Give us confidence in that we ask. In Christ's name, amen