John twelve, forty four through forty six. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. This is God's word. It's a pleasure to be here with all of you to open up God's Word and to hear Him speak today and to hear and see His light shining in his word and in his son, Jesus Christ. Before we open up God's word and dive in, we should pray one more time and ask for God's blessing. So would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we are completely dependent upon you to give us light. We know that you are a good God who answers the prayers of your people, and so we pray that you would make your light powerfully known among us this morning. That you would open the eyes of our heart. Father, you are the God of light and of life, and it's in your light that we see light So bless our time in your word this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name. And all God's people said, Amen. Well friends, we continue today in our Advent series in and through, or in the Gospel of John, not all the way through it. Our focus for this four-week series has been to consider four reasons that Jesus said he came into the world. Last week we considered what it meant that Jesus came into the world to bear witness to the truth. And this week We will consider what it means for what it meant that Jesus came into the world as light. If you haven't already, I want to encourage you to turn with me in your Bible to the Gospel of John. We'll be looking at John chapter 12, specifically at verse 46, though inevitably we'll look at some of the verses around it. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you can find John 12 on page 899. And if you don't have a Bible of your own at home to read, we want to encourage you to take one of the copies that we provided as a gift from us. to you. And so that's uh that is a Bible that we would like you to have if you don't have one. And so in the broader context of the verse that we're studying, we find that Jesus is really near the end of his earthly ministry and his life. At the beginning of chapter 12, he's anointed by Mary in the town of Bethany, just outside of Jerusalem. Uh then we learn in chapter twelve of the plot to kill Lazarus because after Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, the religious authorities were upset that many people were turning to believe in Jesus because of that, so they wanted to find a way to kill Lazarus. Just showing their opposition to Jesus. Then Jesus enters into Jerusalem in the well-known passage, uh, the triumphal entry After which time John records accounts of Jesus teaching different groups of people who ultimately Did not understand the things that he taught about himself. And it's after, it's kind of at the end of these teaching opportunities that Jesus cries out in John chapter 12, verses 44 to 46, and it's a passage that Jess just read us. Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me, and whoever sees me Sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness Light and darkness, as I'm sure you're well aware, are powerful images. Powerful images that are present in our passage this morning. And really it's no surprise that light and darkness are such powerful images given that the very first recorded words of God in the book of Genesis are let there be light. God spoke light into the darkness. He pierced the primordial darkness with light, and then God set up boundaries between light and darkness. And so from the beginning there was and still is a very clear division between the light and the darkness. I just want to pause real quick though if we have any Star Wars fans, though, this is not the type of tension between light and darkness that's held out as like the battle between the forces of good and evil in Star Wars and you're just there's this constant battle going on. It's is it's never clear whether the light's gonna win or the evil's gonna eventually win. The Bible is very clear, as Mike has already prayed, and as we'll see in our passage this morning, the darkness does not overcome the light in the Bible, right? So we're not talking about this kind of random force that can't be understood. From Genesis on, light and darkness in the Bible take on a whole host of meanings as images. Light may be used to convey things like purity, holiness, transparency, understanding, security, life, joy, among other things. And darkness may be used to convey ideas of evil, wickedness, hiding, ignorance, fear, judgment, and death, among other things. So the question we want to consider this morning as we look at our passage, a passage in which Jesus says that he came into the world as light, so that whoever believes in him will not remain in darkness The question we want to ask this morning is, what did he mean when he said he came into the world as light? What does he mean by that? What do the images of light and darkness mean in this passage? And we want to ask that question so that we can better understand what it meant that Jesus came into the world as light, so that those who believe in him Would not remain in darkness. And my goal for this morning is to provide three answers to that question. What did it mean? Three things that I think Jesus meant. That are important for us to understand today. So if you're taking notes, we're going to see first that as the light Jesus brings understanding. As the light, Jesus brings understanding. That'll be point one, point two. As the light, Jesus brings life. And then point three, as the light, Jesus brings the very presence of God. Those are going to be our three points this morning So if you're taking notes, first, as the light, Jesus came to bring understanding. And he came to bring understanding to those who lacked it to those who were in the darkness, so that they would not remain in the darkness of not having understanding. I want you to briefly look back with me in your Bible at John chapter 12 Verse 35, just before our verses, where you'll see this aspect of understanding of the light and the darkness brought out clearly. Chapter 12, verse 35. So Jesus said to them. The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. Throughout the Gospel of John, Jesus is the light. So he's telling them in John chapter 12, verse 35, to walk in the light, to live and believe as he's calling them to live and believe. And then he says, the one who does not do this walks in darkness. and does not know where he is going. You see, the light of Jesus brings understanding while denying Rejecting or dismissing Jesus leaves one in darkness, without understanding, in a state of ignorance about ultimate spiritual realities. And we see the image of darkness used this way often in Scripture. One such example is Psalm 82 verse 5. While speaking to unjust rulers of nations, the writer Asaph of Psalm eighty two says, They have neither knowledge nor understanding. They walk about in darkness. Now I think it's important for us to stop here and understand what Asaph isn't saying, nor what Jesus isn't saying in our passage. possess no knowledge or no understanding whatsoever, right? Asaph is talking to rulers of nations when he says this. These people are extremely bright, and they both know and understand lots of things. So how can he possibly say that they walk about in darkness, that they don't possess knowledge or understanding? Well, it's because Asaph is saying the same thing that Jesus is saying in our passage. Regardless of how many facts a person knows. how much understanding they have, no matter how bright they are, or what their SAT score is, or their LSAT, or their MCAT scores were, if our knowledge and our understanding of the world around us does not lead us to conclude the right things about God, about ourselves, and about what this world really is and where we're really headed, then we Don't actually understand ultimate realities. And according to Jesus, we are walking around in darkness. And I recognize that that may sound offensive to some, but I think when you look at the world around us, it's clear that we are a people who intuitively understand that we're in darkness. And why do I say that? Well, because of the endless stream of self-help books, of mindfulness techniques. personality tests, dietary programs, all these things floated to floating around today, all of which are offered as a means to illuminate the people about the truth of their problems or of their stress or of their personality or of their diets and all of which claim to illuminate the path to correcting these things to bring true understanding I want to bring this down another level and just unpack a couple examples for you. It might sound silly, but it's not. Let's unpack two of these so you see what I mean. Let's take a diet, for instance. The paleo diet. The paleo diet has a metaphysical belief bound up in it. There is no God. We are the product of evolution. We are the product of evolution and our original sin is lack of understanding the way to properly eat and the path to salvation Is returning to eat like our ancestors. And the rules, the commandments of the paleo diet are to eat meat, veggies, nuts, and seeds, some fruit, no processed food, little oils. Metaphysic, right? There you go. There's a metaphysic, right? There's a belief about the world around us. There's an original sin. There's a path to understanding. There are commandments to live to live by, not just diets. Let's take a personality test, right? The Enneagram is wildly popular today, and I am not, I am not bashing anyone who uses it. I'm a nine with a one wing. Let the hearer understand, right? But the Enneagram has a metaphysic. It's that we are spiritual beings, but God is just vaguely undefined. The original sin is not knowing what motivates you to do what you do. The path to salvation is knowing your number and your wing. And the rules to live by are to understand your strengths. and to live within them, to move more towards the number that is your strength and away from your weakness, to grow accordingly. And like I said, like look, we we can laugh and chuckle at these things, and there are things to laugh and chuckle about, but this shouldn't seem silly to us. In an article entitled The Self-Help Movement That's Upending American Christianity, we meet a woman named Sarah Jane Case who walked away from Christianity She walked away from Christianity after growing enthusiastic about the Enneagram because of how the Enneagram gave her true light. to understand herself. It helped her to connect with herself more fully than Jesus did. And because of how she thought the Enneagram provided true light. Now Sarah Jane Case, I don't just Don't want to speak badly about her at all, right? She's just an example. And she now runs Enneagram and Coffee on Instagram, has like 500,000 followers. Right? She thought the Enneagram and thinks the Enneagram is the path to true life And I want to say again, I'm not bashing the Enneagram or the Myers-Briggs or the Paleo dietet, keto diet, any other wellness program. All of these things have true things to say about reality. But many, if not all, also lead to conclusions that are at odds with Jesus and his understanding of the world. So I want you to listen to what the author of the article on the Enneagram concluded. This is the conclusion she came to, to embrace the Enneagram Is to embrace that what awaits you as you tunnel deeper inside yourself is not sin, but a beautiful perfection, which has only been clothed in a flawed personality. Right, so as much as a personality test might help you understand things about yourself and about the world around you, as much as they put truth on just realities that we observe, when they lead you to conclusions that are at odds with Jesus and his understanding of human nature, you should take notice. Right? You should take notice. We don't tunnel to we don't come to the light by tunneling deeper within ourselves. We don't come to the light by changing our diets. We don't come to the light by becoming more mindful of our surroundings. We come to the light. We come to understand ultimate spiritual realities only by looking to, coming to, and listening to Jesus. And so for those of you who are here seeking to know God, who are seeking to understand yourself better, who are seeking to know that is there a light at the end of the tunnel of this life, I want you to know that you don't need to seek any longer. Nor do you have to wait until you get to the under the tunnel to find out if there is a light, because the light exists. The light is a person, the light has a name, and his name is Jesus. And he came into this world to teach us who God is, who we are, what's wrong with the world, and how we can be made right with God. He came into the world as a light to lead us out of the darkness of not understanding the world around us. And his light is the true light. It's the light that shows the way things really are. Right? And for those of us who follow Jesus, we have this light preserved in the scriptures. You see how closely the scriptures are identified with the light of Christ as the Word of God. Psalm 119, 105. Your word, O Lord, is a lamp for my feet and a light to my path. You go to the New Testament, 2 Peter 1, verse 19. We have the prophetic word more fully confirmed, to which you would do well to pay attention as to a lamp in a shining, a lamp shining in a dark. Oh friends, going about your life without regularly opening up God's word to better understand Who he is, who we are, how he calls us to live is like trying to navigate your house in the middle of the night with the lights off, right? What are you gonna do? You're gonna stumble around the house, you're gonna bump into furniture If you have little kids, you're gonna step on Legos and it's gonna feel like your foot has exploded, right? They need to put a warning on the box of those things. It's like unbelievable. But that's what happens when we walk around in the darkness. We hurt ourselves The light of God's word illuminates the spiritual landscape around us and helps us to navigate the complexities of the world around us so that we're not Stumbling around in darkness. So friends, I want you, I want to encourage you to dive into this means of grace that God has given to you. Immerse your mind and your heart and your soul in God's word. Like a bag of tea steeping in freshly poured hot water. Let his word steep in your heart. Right? A question you can consider today. Are you being wooed to things like self-help techniques or wellness programs or other ways to improve your life? Are you being woo wooed more by those things than by God and his word. Friends, those things they can be helpful. They can be helpful. But not ultimately so Only the light of God's word provides us with an understanding of the world that will bring us out of the darkness of not having spiritual understanding. Right. But it's not only that Jesus came to bring understanding, we see second that Jesus, as the light, also came to bring life. Life. Jesus says in John chapter 12, verse 46, I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. A second aspect of that light that Jesus brings is life. And you really do see this throughout the course of John's Gospel. There is a close connection between Jesus light and life. And I think in the Gospel of John we see these three connections made most clearly in John chapter 8 verse 12 where Jesus said I am, that's Jesus, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light. Of life. Jesus, light, life altogether. Now the life that Jesus brings as the light isn't physical life, right? He's speaking to people who are already living. The life that Jesus is saying that he brings as the light is spiritual life. Right? I think it's important for us to recognize this that in a world in which Humans are increasingly portrayed as nothing more than biological machines. We need to remind ourselves regularly that humans are not just body. We're not just biological machines. We are body and soul. We are physical and spiritual beings. The body and the soul are united in a way that is beyond human comprehension, but they are united nonetheless. And just as our bodies have life, so also may our souls have life. But it's important to understand, according to Jesus, just because our bodies are alive doesn't necessarily mean that our souls are alive. At least not in the way that they should be, which is why Jesus, as the light, came to bring life to those who are in darkness. Throughout Scripture, darkness is not only associated with lack of understanding, it's also closely associated with and symbolic of death Spiritual death. So when Jesus says he came into the world as light, so that whoever believes in him would not remain in darkness, he is in effect saying to you and to me, I have come into the world as spiritual life so that whoever believes in me would not remain in a state of spiritual death. Right, we have to admit that this is one of the difficult aspects of Jesus' teaching, but it is central to his message. All mankind is spiritually dead We are born spiritually dead because our first parents rejected God's rule. We are spiritually dead because, like our first parents, we too have chosen to reject God's rule. We're spiritually dead because we've willfully chosen the chosen the darkness over the light. We're spiritually dead because we've suppressed the truth about God in unrighteousness. In short We're spiritually dead because we've all sinned against God. And in this, in this reality, that all of us are spiritually dead, that all of us have personally willfully rejected God's rule, we must stand amazed at the mercy and loving kindness of God that even though we willfully rejected him and chose the darkness over the light, we said to God, not your light. We do not want your light. We want to be our own lights and we want the darkness rather than your light Even though we did that, and God would have been completely justified in leaving us in our self-created dungeon, the Son of God, the pure light of the world, willfully chose to enter into the darkness to bring us the true light. People who had already rejected him. He willfully chose, as in, I looked down from heaven and I had pity on those who were held captive by the chains of sin and by the darkness of the spiritual death it brings. In love, I came as the light to bring light and life to those who need it. And the life that Jesus brings is the life that we're all desperately in search of but cannot find because we're trapped in our own darkness. The life that Jesus brings consists of true joy, true hope, true peace True confidence, comfort, assurance, and true security. Friends, are you are you looking for those things? Of course you are. Who isn't, right? That's what we are all looking for Right? That's what we're all looking for. But my question to you is where are you looking for those things Where are you looking for those things? Where are you trying to find them? Are you looking for life and joy and happiness in personal or professional accolades? It's good to work hard and to seek to do great things, but those things will never provide the life that we actually need. If any of you follow sports and you're you're you're surely familiar with Tom Brady, the the quarterback of the New England Patriots, he was interviewed after his third third Super Bowl win. He has six now, and in the interview he said Why do I have three Super Bowl rings and feel like there's still something greater out there for me? I think to myself, there's gotta be more to life than this. Three Super Bowls. Like, well, I would do anything to have those rings and those trophies and the accolades that Tom Brady has. And Tom Brady's like, nah, John, there, there's more to life than this. I just don't know what it is And the interviewer asked him, like, what do you think it is? He says, I don't know what it is. Apparently, a bunch of people sending Bibles in the in the wake of that interview. Like, praise God for For wonderful Christians pointing pointing Tom Brady to the light. He needs the light. We all need the light. It doesn't matter if you're Tom Brady or like Joe Schmoe on the street. We all need the light. And everybody's looking for the light in different things You trying to find it in applause or approval from people? People are fickle. The same people who applaud you one moment will curse you the next moment. You're trying to find life in your work or your spouse or your children? While those are good gifts, they're only gifts. And they're gifts that are meant to direct our attention to the giver of those gifts. Who is also the light of the world, who is God Himself, and is the source of the life that we're all looking for. I want to talk to the kids for a moment. Kids, as y'all grow up As you grow up, you are going to be presented with all types of role models to follow, and so many different people are going to try to tell you where to find happiness and joy and peace in this life. But I want to encourage you. And I trust that many of those role models can teach you good things about this world. I want to encourage you, though, to entrust your understanding of ultimate spiritual realities about who God is. About who you are, about what's wrong with the world, about how Jesus, who Jesus is and what he came to do. I want you to entrust yourself to Jesus as your light To be the one who guides you and tells you the way that the world really is in regards to those questions. Because Jesus alone can provide the life and the light that we're all in search of. And we all also need to recognize the way that the world, the flesh, and the devil are constantly, constantly vying for our ultimate affection and attention. to keep us from seeing that Jesus is our light and our life. A wonderful illustration of this uh that I read about uh a pastor visited St. Paul's Cathedral in London uh and as he was visiting there he saw in the distance Holman Hunt's painting of Jesus, which is entitled The Light of the World. It's a moving painting of Jesus as the light of the world. And it was hanging in the distance on one of the great columns. Uh and uh this pastor recalls being at St. Paul's with a friend of his, and as they were approaching, walking towards the painting to get a closer uh look at it, they came to a place in the building where the light from the window behind them in in the uh cathedral was casting a glare on the painting so that they could no longer see Jesus. So they're stuck in this place where the light is hitting the painting. They can no longer see the light of the world because the light from the window behind them is hitting Jesus and blinding them from seeing him. And the pastor tried to move, and his friend grabbed him Held him there, kept him from moving for a moment, and said, I want you to realize that the light of the street often blots out the light of the world Just beyond that window was a world bustling whose light cast a glare over the light of the world. How might the bustling of your life, that noise coming in through the window, be casting a glare over the light of the world in your life? How might the world and the cares of the world and the lust of the life and the desires of our sinful flesh and the philosophies of this world be keeping you from seeing Jesus' light? And this life, this spiritual, eternal life, I also want us to know is something that we can know for certain that we have. Jesus is quite clear about this in John's gospel. In John chapter 13, verse 35, he says, by this all people will know that you are my disciples. if you have love for one another. Later when John wrote 1 John, a letter that he wrote to help believers know that they had indeed passed from darkness. And into the light. John wrote this: whoever hates his brother, that's fellow Christian, whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded his eyes. Right? Love for fellow Christians and for all people, but for fellow Christians is one way that you can know that you have eternal life. So how are you doing loving other believers? How are you doing, especially loving other believers in this congregation where you kind of rub against more frequently? Here's some questions to consider. How are you doing praying with and for other members of the church? One of the most loving things that you can do is take the needs of others. to God who can answer all of our prayers and provide all that we need. You can take the needs of others when you know that they are weak spiritually, you can ask God to bless them. Strengthen them, lift them up on wings like eagles, be the God who sustains those who feel like they are stumbling. That is one of the most loving things that you can do. How are you doing praying for others in this congregation? How are you doing showing concern for others, right? Do you tend to focus on tasks to get done when you come to church or do you focus on showing concern and caring for others by stopping to have meaningful conversations with people? I want to give a caveat there. I know that we are can in a church plant, there's lots of setup, things that need to be done. If you are serving on any of those teams, I want to thank you for the display of love that you have for this church by being willing to serve. When you are serving and you're doing things. To get ready for the Sunday service, you should keep doing those things. I'm not telling you to stop doing that. But in your general course of how you're going about your Sundays, how are you showing concern for others in the congregation by stopping to have meaningful conversations with them? What does your speech tell you about how well you're loving others? What do the words coming out of your mouth about other people tell you about how you're loving other people? Right? How are you doing speaking up when you know something not something that's not true is is maybe spreading throughout the congregation, right? Love stands for the truth Love binds one another together in the truth, right? We could unpack ways to love one another for hours. These are just a few ways that show that we love others. I want you to think about how you can take time today to consider just one way, one way you can work by God's grace in your life to grow in love for others. Start small. Love for fellow believers is one of the ways we know that we have eternal life. It's that eternal life that Jesus came into the world to bring. But there is also one other thing that Jesus as the light of the world came to bring. And that brings me to point three. Jesus brings the presence of God. When Jesus came into the world as light, he was not only bringing spiritual understanding and spiritual life to those who were in darkness, he was bringing the very presence of God. Himself. You see, throughout the Old Testament, the presence of God was often manifested in the presence of light So if you think about God's covenant with Abraham, Abraham laid down to sleep. A thick darkness fell over the land. And how did God appear? He appeared as a firepot and a torch. As light in the darkness. During the Exodus, God appeared among the people of Israel as a pillar of fire in the darkness of night to light the way in the darkness for the people of Israel. When God met with Moses on Mount Sinai, God's glory and light was so radiant that when Moses came down, his own face was shining and reflecting the glorious power of God. And the people of Israel, like, hey, put a veil over that thing. It is too bright for us. And he was just reflecting the light of God. In Psalm 36, David writes about God, for with you is the fountain of life. In your light do we see light. So when Jesus repeatedly tells the Israelites that he is the light, he is expecting them to understand the radical claim that he is making. When Jesus says, I have come into the world as light, he expects him to recognize that he's not only claiming to bring spiritual understanding and spiritual life, He's claiming to be God incarnate. The God who created light has come as the light. I'll just show you this real quick. If you have your bulletin, go back to page four. I don't think I have my bulletin anymore. But I know what's there. Isaiah, right? The call to worship, Isaiah 60, verses 1 to 3. Isaiah is looking forward to the day, predicting the day, prophesying the day. when God himself, Yahweh, would appear. And what images does he use? Arise. Shine For your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples. But the Lord Yahweh will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. Friends, do you see how Isaiah is looking forward to the day when the light of God, Yahweh Himself, would appear as the light for the people of Israel. And now you have Jesus of Nazareth saying to people in Israel, I have come as the light. He wants them to re remember Isaiah 60 and all the other passages in the Old Testament That look forward to when the light of God would appear on the land. This is why Jesus so closely identifies himself with the Father. Look at verses 44 and 45 in chapter 12. John 12, 44 and 45. Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me, sees him who sent me. He's saying, so closely united are I and the Father that to believe in me is to believe in him, and to see me is to see him. And this is everywhere in the Gospel of John. John chapter 10 verse 30. I and the Father are one. John 14, verse 7. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. John 14, 11. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me. What does that even mean? I have no clue. But they're united as one, right? Like that Jesus is God incarnate. To believe in Jesus is to believe in the Father. To see Jesus is to see the Father. To know Jesus is to know the Father. Jesus w us to know that he is God in the flesh He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. Right? He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And since God is light, Jesus also is light. And as God in the flesh, as light, Jesus came so that we would not remain in darkness. Now, friends, I hope you see how different Christianity is from the other religions of the world. I shared this illustration at our carol service on Friday night, but it's just so helpful that I thought I'd share it again. A pastor friend of mine who travels overseas regularly, interacts with people of different faiths, was recently in another country, and he was sitting outside of a temple with two other guys, and each of those guys was from a different religion. And they were sitting there talking, and those two men were talking amongst themselves about how all the religions of the world were essentially the same and just superficially different. And finally the pastor spoke up and he said, hey, it's almost like you guys picture God or whatever it is that you want to call him at the at the top of a mountain. And we're all just at the the bottom of the mountain. And you know, you may take that path up, and I may take this path up, and someone else may take another path up, but in the end we all make it to the the same place. And they They smiled and they said, Exactly, you understand. And he responded to them and said, What if I told you that the God at the top of the mountain didn't wait for us to come up? He actually came down to where we are. And they said, understandably, that would be great. Right? Who wouldn't want God to come down to us and to show us the way up to lead us up the mountain? Right? And he said to them. This is the difference. What we find in the Bible is the story of a God who has not left us alone in darkness to try to find him on our own. He has come down to us from the top of the mountain and has made the way to himself known through his son, Jesus Christ. Friends, you see that we live in a spiritually dark world. But even though we live in a spiritually dark world and darkness lives inside us, God hasn't abandoned us to the darkness. Right? God pierced the darkness of this world by sending his son Jesus to be the true light. God incarnate, God in the flesh. Entered into the darkness of this world to rescue lost and ruined sinners and to restore them to a right relationship with himself. In short He came to bring us out of the darkness and into the light. And how did he do this? And we should consider in Scripture that darkness not only symbolizes spiritual ignorance and spiritual death, it also represents the judgment of God. Don't you think about the plague of darkness that God sent over Egypt just prior to leading the people of Israel in the Exodus out of Egypt. And it was that darkness that foreshadows for us. How Jesus would bring us out of the darkness and into the light, right? During his life, Jesus obeyed God perfectly He kept all of God's laws and commandments. He never broke any of them. He walked in the light perfectly. And he did this to satisfy the demands of God's law on our behalf, to satisfy the demands of the law that we have broken. And then he went to the cross to offer himself as a sacrifice for our sins. On the cross, he took upon himself our ignorance. Our sins, our darkness, right? Jesus on the cross stood in the gap for us. God in the flesh, God incarnate, the light of the world Took on the cross the just judgment that we deserve. As the light of the world, he entered into darkness. And while he hung there on the cross, what happened to the land during the middle of the day? Darkness fell over the land during the middle of the day for three hours. Proof that God's judgment was being poured out once and for all for those who believe on the light of the world. And he ultimately died on that cross. The light of the world was snuffed out. He entered fully into the darkness of death, but only for a time. Because three days after he was buried, Jesus, the light of the world, rose from the dead. His resurrection was Proof that God had accepted his sacrifice and proof that he is the true light of the world who would not be overcome by the darkness. And his resurrection is also proof to you that if you turn to him in faith, you would receive complete forgiveness of sins. and you would also share in God's light. Jesus' light, friends, on the cross was snuffed out for a time so that our wicks could be lit. The Apostle Paul in his letter to the Colossians, he gave thanks to God. And why did he give thanks to God He gave thanks to God for qualifying his people to share in the inheritance of the saints and light by Delivering us from the domain of darkness and transferring us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. But you notice what Paul is saying there? God has qualified you to share in that light. We don't have to qualify ourselves. God has qualified us fully to share in that light. And you may be discouraged that the light doesn't seem to be shining brightly in your own heart You may be discouraged by the lingering darkness you see in your own soul and life. And you think to yourself, How brightly is this light shining, friends? It is not your light that God sees when he looks at your life. He sees the perfect. pure and true light of his son Jesus Christ, who entered into darkness on your behalf and says to God the Father, I give to them my light. So when God Looks at your life and you see failings and weaknesses and dimness and the light seems to be flickering and fading. God sees pure light. He sees the righteousness of the Son of Light, His Son, Jesus Christ. And that light is yours. And friends, listen, listen. You will continue the rest of your days depending on the light of Christ Because God knows that if we trust in our own light, if we flourish and there's no more darkness remaining in us, we would think to ourselves, well, I've done this. I've qualified myself to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. God allows us to feel our darkness so that we might cast ourselves on the light of Christ throughout the rest of our days. And here's a great encouragement to you: that darkness will one day flee away. When will that happen? When the light of the world appears again and he brings us into his heavenly kingdom where there will be no more need of the sun or the moon. Why? Because God will be our light. Pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice, overwhelmed, that you would send your Son, the light of the world, into the darkness. To light the path back into your presence for us. We rejoice and are overwhelmed by the fact that you would allow the light of the world to be snuffed out for us. And we rejoice that the light of the world did not remain in darkness, but rose again, and we now share in his light if we've trusted in him and repented of our sins. Oh, help us to walk by that light. Help us to walk in the light, to be children, to be sons and daughters of the light. And we pray, Lord, that you would cause that light to shine brightly in us and that we would be like lights in the darkness of this world and tell others about the light of Jesus Christ. The light of the world. We pray, Father, that you would help us to behold all the mystery and the glory of the incarnation of the Son of God who Luke reminded us died in our place. So that we might be raised again to newness of life. Help us to walk in that life and that light. Today we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.