So I want to encourage you to go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 1. We're continuing our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. This is a letter that he wrote to a church that was hearing a lot of competing claims about the type of life that pleases God. Some religious teachers were pushing the need for strict observance of the law, the Jewish law that is While others were pushing the need for asceticism, that is to get rid of every worldly comfort, to make your life physically uncomfortable. They were pushing the need for that type of asceticism. And they were also pushing the need to have visions and spiritual experiences and to worship angels. But Paul wants the Colossians to know that there is no adding to the gospel of Jesus Christ. God saves us by faith through his Son. And so Paul writes to this, writes his letter to cut through the noise, to dispel all the competing claims about what type of life pleases God, and to clearly describe to the Colossians and to us. The type of life that pleases God. So follow along as I read verses 9 to 14 of chapter 1 for us now. This is God's word And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy. Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints and light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Well, in our first study of these verses a few weeks ago, we saw a description of the type of life that pleases God in verses 9 and 10. I want you to look again there with me. We see there that the type of life that pleases God is a life of being filled with the knowledge of God's will, so that We can walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. So a life that pleases God is a life of growing and knowing God's will and growing in doing it. But it's as though Paul knows that the Colossians will ask What specifically do you mean by walking in a manner worthy of the Lord? How do we do God's will? And so in verses 10 to 12, Paul goes on to describe specifically what he means. Walking in a manner worthy of the Lord, a life fully pleasing to God, looks like bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. It also looks like being strengthened with all power according to God's glorious might for all endurance and patience with joy, and it also looks like giving thanks to God, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. And so we're in the middle of a series through these verses. So if you're visiting with us this morning, you're kind of dropping in to the middle of a series of verses on a series of sermons on these verses. Last week we looked at what it looks like to bear fruit in every good work, which you see in the second half of verse 10. And this week. We're going to see that the type of life that pleases God is one of increasing in the knowledge of God. What is the main point for you this morning? The type of life that pleases God is a life of growing in knowing God. I want you to look again at the second half of verse 10. Paul, specifically, what do you mean by walking in a manner worthy of the Lord? Here's what I mean, Paul says. It looks like bearing fruit in every good work and Increasing in the knowledge of God. The type of life that pleases God is a life of growing in knowing God. Now it's really important for us to note that when Paul prays that the Colossians would increase in the knowledge of God, He is not praying that they would simply grow in knowing facts about God, but rather that they would grow in knowing God as a person. This is an important distinction for us to make because there is always a temptation to confuse knowing facts about God with actually knowing God. When Leah and I first started dating, the first five to ten dates we went on were basically a fact-binding mission, right? I was learning facts about Leah I learned that she went to school for piano performance, but she got terrible tendonitis, and so she had to switch to becoming a voice major. I learned that she went to become on to become a choral director and then she developed an interest in counseling and got a degree in counseling. I learned that she had three brothers who would go on to uh mock me mercilessly in our dating relationship. I learned about her mom and her dad. I learned about her upbringing and how wildly different it was From mind. You can say that during the early stage in our relationship, I knew a lot of facts about Leah. But I didn't know Leah. To know Leah was to know her heart, her tenderness, her patience. Her kindness, her magnetic personality, her love of Jesus. And do you know how I knew that I was growing to know Leah and not just knowing facts about Leah? Because I started to change. She made me a better person. Her gentleness made me more gentle Her kindness made me more kind, and so on. That is the type of knowledge of God that Paul is praying for us. That we would know God in such a way that moves beyond mere facts and propositions into knowing Him as a person. Merely knowing facts about God will not change you. All knowing facts about God will do is turn you into an insufferable hypocrite who spews facts about God, but clearly does not know God. That's why the Pharisees are the Pharisees, right? They knew all about God. They knew tons of facts about God, but they did not know God They had a whole lot of head knowledge, but they had no heart knowledge. What they knew about God hadn't changed their hearts. True knowledge of God, knowing God, will unquestionably change you as a person. Knowing God, knowing his glorious power, knowing his transcendent majesty. You think of Isaiah 6. When Isaiah sees the train of his robe filling the temple and he looks upon the Lord, he says, Woe is me, I have seen the Holy One, his transcendent majesty Knowing the perfection of his justice and righteousness. What does God say about his throne? The foundation of my throne is justice and righteousness. Yet this transcendent and majestic God also delights to draw near to the weak, knowing his gentleness. Knowing his love, that will change you as a person. It will inevitably cause you to love what God loves, hate what God hates, and show concern about what God is concerned about. So friends, if you say that you know God, but you have not seen these changes in your life You should consider whether you really know God. It may sound like an offensive thing to say, but this is why the Apostle Paul tells professing Christians to examine themselves. To see if they are in the faith. Genuine faith, genuine knowledge of God brings us into a relationship with God that changes who we are. Not perfectly, not by any means, right? But there is a change. Do you have a desire to know? Truly know God. Is that desire there When you discover that a pattern of thinking or acting is at odds with how God calls you to think or act in life, do you begin working to align your thinking and your acting with what God's Word says? Are you attracted to and even excited by sin? Or are you actively fighting against temptations to sin? How you answer those questions will shed light on whether you know God or just know about God. And notice what Paul is saying, genuine Christians won't just settle for. They won't just settle for knowing God a little and then getting on with the rest of their lives. I kind of like the person who says, yeah, I I I I I professed faith a long time. I was even even baptized at a young age, but I just haven't really bothered growing to know God. I've just gotten on with my life, you know That's not what Paul is talking about. Paul says that we should not only know God a little and then get on with the rest of our lives, but genuine Christians will seek to grow in knowing God throughout the course of their lives. And the tools, think about this, what tools or resources has God given us to grow in knowing Him? Well, the tools and resources that God has given us to grow in knowing him are strikingly similar to the way that you get to know anyone else Think about the people that you know really well in your life. I'm betting that three things are true of all those relationships. To get to know them well, you had to listen to them, to learn about them, you had to talk to them, and you did a lot of life with them. I'm guessing those three things are true of all of your closest relationships. You had to listen to them to get to know them. You had to talk with them, and you had to do life with them. In the same way, the more we listen to God in His Word, Talk to him in prayer and walk with him day in and day out, being obedient to his commands, the more we will grow in knowing him. If you want to grow in knowing God, you need to listen to Him and His Word. Think of the Word, friends The word is not dry crackers like kind of saltines. The word is a repository of spiritual riches for God's people. In his word, God tells us of his perfections, his goodness, his righteousness, his justice, love, mercy, grace, and patience. He tells us of his devotion to his people and his power to sustain us through every storm and trial. In his word, he tells us the purpose and meaning of our lives. He shares divine wisdom for navigating the complexities of life. Think of the book of Proverbs. He discloses his plan of redemption to set forth in his son Jesus that we see promised in Genesis 3, and that he fulfilled thousands of years later perfectly according to his word, even down to the most seemingly trivial of circumstances, like His bones will not be broken, and they will divide his garments. We he tells us these things in it in his words so that we can be convinced that every circumstance That comes to pass in our lives is for a purpose and will ultimately work for our good. Oh, friends, listen to God speak in his word if you want to grow in knowing him. And one of the great things about technology is that God has made his word available to us in so many different formats I remember a few weeks ago mentioning the Dwell Audio Bible app. Oh friends, get yourself an Audio Bible app if you want to be in the Word more. So I worked on the I was working on our yard yesterday for about three hours. I just threw on the Dwell Audio Bible app and listened to it. I was working and I Knocked out about 40 chapters of the Old and New Testament in three hours. And it was super encouraging. Just being reminded of God's work in the past in Israel, of how awesome he is, how sovereign he is, how good he is, how righteous he is, is super encouraging. God sanctifies his people through his word. But we don't also want to just listen to God speak in his word. If we want to grow in knowing him, we also need to talk to God. That means we need to pray, right? You might be thinking, but John, when I when I pray, it's just me talking to God. That doesn't help me to know God But if you're if that's if that's what you're thinking, you would be wrong, right? What does Paul say in 1 Corinthians 2? The Spirit of God knows the mind of God. And God has given us his Spirit so that we might understand God. And in prayer, the Spirit works as we pray to intercede for us and to share with us the mind of Christ. And what does he primarily share with us in prayer? A reminder of his undying love for us through his son, Jesus. Now, friends, I want you to think about this if you're struggling to go to the Lord in prayer. In his book, Gentle and Lowly, Dane Ortland gives the following illustration. He says, Imagine that a compassionate doctor has traveled deep into the jungle to provide medical care to a primitive tribe afflicted with a contagious disease. He has in his medical equipment flown in. He has correctly diagnosed the problem, and the antibiotics are prepared and available. He is independently wealthy and has no need of any kind of financial compensation. But as he seeks to provide care, the afflicted refuse They want to take care of themselves. They want to heal on their own terms. Finally, a few brave young men step forward to receive the care being freely provided What does the doctor feel? Joy. His joy increases to the degree that the sick come to him for help and healing. It's the whole reason he came How much more if the diseased are not strangers, but his own family? So with us and so with Christ. He does not get flustered and frustrated when we come to him for fresh forgiveness, for renewed pardon with distress and need and emptiness. That's the whole point. It's what he came to heal. He went down into the horror of death and plunged out through the other side in order to provide a limitless supply of mercy and grace to his people. And we access that mercy and grace in prayer with God. God is not frustrated when we come to Him in prayer. Ortland says it's the reason God gets out of bed in the morning, to draw near to us, so that He can answer our prayers and hear from us and share with us a knowledge of Him. Spend time with the Lord in prayer. Go and speak to him. Grow in knowing him. And likewise do life with him. Walk with him. As you walk with the Lord, you will inevitably grow in knowing him. There is a connection here between bearing fruit in every good work. And knowing God, which is why I think Paul couples these two things together. He says, bear fruit in every good work and increase in the knowledge of God. Don Carson said this: As you get busy in the business of obedience, you get to know God better. And that in turn impels you to more obedience, which in turn opens up new vistas in the knowledge of God. As we walk in a manner worthy of the Lord and bear fruit in every good work, we are getting to know. And as we get to know God and are changed by Him, we in turn bear more and more fruit, right? It's the opposite of a vicious cycle. It is a virtuous cycle. Right? We can grow in knowing God by listening to him in his word, talking to him in prayer, and walking with him throughout the course of our lives. And I want you to see how Growing in knowing God is a never-ending pursuit. Growing up, I wasn't the best student. I wasn't the worst either. I just didn't try very hard. And so when report cards came, I wasn't very surprised to find average grades with comments like, room for improvement. Lots of potential could could try harder. If I had to guess, most of us, if we're honest, would expect a report card like that from God. Right? Though it's within our power to spend more time knowing God in His Word and in prayer, we tend to spend that time knowing current headlines Or knowing what other people are doing through social media and so on. And because we spend our time knowing those things. We bear the fruit of jealousy, sinful judging of others, covetousness, fear, anger, and anxiety Whereas if we systematically began to replace the time we spend on social media and staying up to date with news headlines with getting to know God, we would grow in bearing the fruit of hope, confidence, peacefulness, unity, and love. Now, I don't share the report card illustration to shame you. I'm as guilty as anyone else, but instead to woo you by showing you that what you're missing, by showing you what you're missing when you choose to spend time getting to know this world over getting to know God. The reason that there is always room for growth and getting to know God is not only because we struggle against the flesh and often choose to know things. Over and above God instead of knowing God, there's also room for growth in knowing God because the perfections of God are infinite. His love is unsearchable. His mercy is a land that cannot be crossed. His righteousness is a cavern that cannot be plumbed. But you cannot stop getting to know God because He is infinite, boundless, and free. I've been reading the Chronicles of Narnia to our boys before bed, and we are reading Prince Caspian. We just got through chapter 12. And there is just the most glorious illustration of this reality that we just will always continue growing to know God because He is infinite. in Prince Caspian in chapter 12. That chapter is the return of the lion. Lucy comes into the presence of Aslan for the first time since returning to Narnia. And Lucy says to Aslan, Aslan, Aslan, dear Aslan, at last. The great beast rolled over on his side so that Lucy fell, half sitting and half lying between his front paws. He bent forward and just touched her nose with his tongue. His warm breath came all around her. She gazed up into his large, wise face. Welcome, child, he said. Aslan, said Lucy. Door bigger That is because you are older, little one. Not because you are I am not. But every year you grow, you will find me bigger. And notice what Aslan is saying The more Lucy grows, the bigger and bigger she will find him to be. In the same way, a sure sign that we are growing in knowing God. Is that he is bigger to us today than he was yesterday? God seems little to those who think little of him But those who set their minds to knowing God will find that each passing year, he grows only larger and larger. What else would we expect of a God who is boundless, infinite, and eternal That's why one theologian, when he was reflecting on heaven and our future in heaven, said it would be a place of ever-increasing joy. Why is that? Because in heaven, we will always be increasing in knowing God The source of all joy. And because God is infinite, our growth in knowing Him will also be infinite, and so will our growth in joy But we shouldn't wait until heaven to get to know God. His desire is for his people to grow in knowing him now. And what a joy is reserved to those who give themselves to knowing him now. When I think about my relationship with Leah, I didn't meet her until I was 30 years old. And so often I have wished for more time. I just wish I could have met her when I was 25 or 20 or 15. Why? Because then I would have the joy of knowing her more than I do now. Oh, kids and teenagers, don't wait to get to know God. Turn to him now through faith in his son, Jesus Christ. God is greater than TikTok He's greater than Snapchat. He's greater than sports. He's greater than any of your friends. He's greater than any famous person. Sarah Rezu, a Capital Baptist Church for the Little Kids, says God is greater than trucks for the little ones He's awesome. He's infinite. He's boundless, free, and he's the greatest person you could give yourself to knowing in this life. And knowing him will produce fruit now and into eternity. And friends, if you want to know God, you need to begin by knowing Jesus. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. He Is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And in him, all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. If you want to know God, know Jesus. He is the way. He is the truth about God. And he is the life of God. God made it possible for sinful and fallen people to know him by sending his son in the likeness of human flesh and to dwell among us. All of the perfections of God are found in Jesus. And the character and nature of God was on display perfectly in his life and death and resurrection. There is no other way to know God apart from Jesus. There is no other path to God except through Jesus. There is no one else who embody perfectly the character of God and in whom God dwelled perfectly than Jesus. If you want to know God, know Jesus. T. F. Torrance put it this way. There is, in fact, no God behind the back of Jesus. No act of God other than the act of Jesus No God but the God we see and meet in Jesus. Jesus Christ is the open heart of God, the very love and life of God poured out to redeem humankind, the mighty hand and power of God stretched out to heal and save sinners. All things are in God's hands, but the hands of God and the hands of Jesus in life and death are the same. If you want to grow in knowing God, grow in knowing Jesus This past week in the newsletter, I gave two books away that I thought would be helpful in growing and knowing God through Jesus. Those books are gentle and lowly. and Rejoicing in Christ by Michael Michael Reeves. I'm going to make those two books available again in the newsletter this week, two free copies of each For those of you who want to grow in knowing God through growing and knowing Jesus, I would highly encourage those books. One brief word, gentle and lowly. It's like the super trendiest book in the world right now. And it is amazing. It is absolutely worth your time. But don't sleep on Rejoicing in Christ by Michael Reeves. If you want an amazing book that will help you grow in knowing Jesus, read Rejoicing in Christ by Michael Reeves. And those two books will be available in the newsletter again this week. But we need to remember the main point of this passage, and that is that growing and doing good works and growing and knowing God pleases God. Why do these things please him? Because as we bear fruit in every good work and increase in the knowledge of God, We are fulfilling God's ultimate and original purposes for mankind I want you to notice, you have your Bible. I want you to notice, look down with me, how Paul repeats this idea of bearing fruit and increasing in the first two sections of his letter. Look back at verse 6. Paul tells the Colossians that the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing all over the world, just as it is bearing fruit and increasing among them. Now look at verse 10. It is God's will that his people, after believing the gospel, bear fruit in every good work and increase in the knowledge of God. Why do I point out that repetition? Because I think Paul is using these words intentionally to help us see how through Jesus Christ. In the gospel, God is creating a people who fulfill his original purposes for mankind. When God created Adam and Eve, his mandate to them was what? Be fruitful and increase. Be fruitful and fill the earth. Increase But Adam and Eve sinned, and all humanity fell in Adam. And because of our sinful nature that has separated us from God, None of us knows God, and none of us can please God. We all stand condemned by our sins against God, yet in inexplicable mercy and stupendous Grace, God made a way for us to be forgiven. He sent his son Jesus, the true Adam, to live a perfect life in our place. To die the death that we deserved and to be raised from the dead, so that all who repent and believe in him would be forgiven of their sins. given a new nature through the Holy Spirit, and would be adopted into God's family so that we might know God. And in knowing God we would bear fruit in every good work. And Continue to increase in the knowledge of God. It is in relationship to Jesus and Jesus alone that we can bear fruit. It is in relationship and through Jesus and Jesus alone that we can know God. It is through Jesus and Jesus alone that God is accomplishing His ultimate purposes for humanity. When the gospel comes, Jesus comes as a true Adam, lives a perfect life, dies in our place, and rises from the dead. That is the gospel that is now bearing fruit. And increasing throughout all the world. When people repent and believe, there are image bearers who are now reflecting the image of God in salvation, the way God intended for his people through Adam and Eve. They were supposed to spread image bearers all over the earth, but now through Jesus. Through faith in Jesus, God is accomplishing those purposes as people repent and believe, and that gospel spreads around the earth. And that pleases God when he sees people conformed to the image of his son, Jesus, and to see those gospel-believing Christians spread around the world as is happening all over the earth today. Friends, it is in relationship to Jesus that we bear fruit. He is the true vine. It is through Jesus that we can know God. He is the truth of God, the path to God, and the life of God. And it is through Jesus that God is accomplishing his ultimate purposes for humanity And as we grow in bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God, God is pleased. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we give you thanks for your work of redemption. We could not redeem ourselves. We were dead in trespasses and sins. But you, by your grace, fully and completely apart from our choice, made us alive together with Christ. We rejoice in the grace that you have shown us and rejoice that we are now seated with Christ in the heavenly places. I pray, Father, that you would grant us all your spirit To walk in a manner worthy of you, that we would bear fruit in every good work, and that you would grant us the gift of increasing in the knowledge of you. And we pray this all in the Lord Jesus' name. Amen