Good morning. That's wonderful to be here with you today and to have the opportunity and honor to open up God's word with you and to hear Him speak to us this morning. Before we do that, I'm going to pray again briefly for us, and then we will look more closely at God's word. So let's pray together one more time Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning as the sheep of your pasture. And Lord, we are your flock. It is you who has called us. It is you who has ransomed us by the blood of your son Jesus. And so we ask now that you would grant your spirit to serve us, to minister to us. That you by your spirit would open up to us your word and would share with us the treasures of wisdom and knowledge that are found only in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. On May 4th of 1897, the Duchess of Bavaria, Duchess Sophie Charlotte Alencon, was presiding over a charity bazaar, a charity event in Paris, France. But during the course of the event, the hall where the bazaar was being held, where all the booths for the charity event uh were set up, the hall that they were in accidentally caught fire. And because of the construction of not only the room, but the numerous booths that were inside of the room, uh the flames spread rapidly. uh and uh quickly uh engulf the room in flames. Uh people obviously in in the panic began rushing for the exits Uh i it was a a a terrible scene by all accounts. Uh and and very surprisingly, workmen from a nearby construction site saw what was happening uh in this building and in this hall, and they began rushing into the building uh to rescue people. They were rescuing women and children first, trying to get them out alive. And some of the rescuers made it into the hall where the bazaar was being held. And some of the rescuers reached the Duchess. who was still seated at her booth, calmly, in the midst of the panic. And when they arrived at her booth and found her sitting there, they pleaded with her Come, let us rescue you. There are the flames are engulfing the room. Let us let us take you out. And she responded to her rescuers by saying, Because of my title And because of who I am, I was the first to enter here. And so I will be the last to leave She recognized that her title, her place of prominence as the Duchess of Bavaria, and in this Bizarre where all these people were who had a lower place than her in society. She recognized that because of her prominence in society, it was incumbent upon her to use her place of prominence to serve others. She came in first, and she would leave last. She recognized that her place included a duty and responsibility to serve others even to the point of giving her own life, which she did. She passed away in that fire, letting others leave before her I find stories like this so remarkable because it's like, you know, you read a story like this, you're like, what would I do if I was in that place? I would I would want to say I was gonna I would do what what the Duchess did, but I don't know that I'm I'm strong enough. I think I have plenty of evidence in my life to say I don't I don't think I'd actually do that, but I pray that God would give me grace to to be able to do that. I find stories like this so remarkable because it's so rare that you find people in such positions of leadership who are willing to use their position of leadership to lower themselves to the point of serving and sacrificing others, even if that means giving their very own life for the people that they are serving and sacrificing for. And I think what we're gonna find in our passage this morning is that all such acts, just like the Duchess, And everyone else throughout history, who has used their positions of leadership and power to serve others and to sacrifice themselves for the good of others, all of those acts, as heroic as they are, are faint shadows. Beautiful reflections of the type of service and sacrifice that we find Jesus extending to his disciples this morning. So I want to encourage you to go ahead and open in your Bibles to Mark chapter 10. We're going to be looking specifically this morning at verses 32 to 45. If you're using the Bible that we've provided, you'll find the passage on page 846. And if you're here this morning and you're not all that familiar with reading a Bible or using a Bible We're in Mark chapter 10, so you're looking for the big bold number 10, and then the smaller numbers that you see on the page after that are the verse numbers. We're going to be looking at verses 32 to 45. And if you don't own a Bible, you don't have a copy at home that you can read for yourself, please take a copy of ours as a gift from us to you. We have been in a study of Mark's gospel for some time now. And as we've seen, Mark's gospel can really be divided into two Large halves. Chapters 1 to 8 are dominated by the theme of Jesus proving that he is the Son of God. So there's display after display, example after example, of Jesus' supernatural power. All meant to prove. Mark is just offering all these examples to prove that Jesus is the Son of God. And that really is the theme of the whole book, but it's the dominant theme of the first eight chapters. And in chapter 9 The theme of Mark's gospel turns. After Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, the dominant theme that comes to the forefront of Mark's gospel is what that means: that Jesus is the Son of God. For everyone who follows him. The dominant theme of the second half of Mark's Gospel is on discipleship. Jesus is teaching his followers what it means that they would follow him, what that means for their lives. So we've been in the second half of Mark's gospel for a couple weeks, and I just want to open up to all of you, whether youth, kids, adults, can anyone tell me some of the things that we've seen Jesus teach his people so far? You can just shout it out Adam. They will have to suffer. Adam says they will have to suffer. He's exactly right. Anything else? Caleb, they will have to serve. Well done, guys. They will have to serve and suffer. Two S's. Anything else? We can add a third S onto that. They will have to cut off sin, right? He said, do everything you can to cut off temptations to sin in this life. Take up your cross. Die to self. Live in constant dependence upon God. Have a prayer-filled life of faith in constant dependence on God. Stop competing with one another and give up. What you cherish most. This is really, this entire section has been about shifting paradigms. Jesus is trying to explode our paradigms for what we think it means to follow Him and replace it with what it truly means to follow Him. We need to do drastic things in our lives. Not for the sake of being drastic. He's trying to show us how much we need to change our thinking and our way of living if we're going to follow him. I think if you're familiar with the scene, if you're familiar with the gospels. If you're familiar with the scene of Jesus coming into the ta uh temple and flipping tables over, right, because he's appalled at what's going on in God's temple. That's a great picture. Of what his teaching has been doing to his disciples' ideas of what following him actually means. Jesus intends to come into our lives and flip tables. in our lives on our preconceived notions of what following him actually entails. And as we'll see in our passage This morning, he's at it again, teaching them about the radical redefinition of greatness in his kingdom. So I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now, and then we will look more closely at it. Mark chapter 10, verses 32 to 45. This is God's word. And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what was to happen to him. Saying, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him over to the Gentiles. And they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him. And after three days, he will rise. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory. Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink you will drink. And with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized. But to sit at my right hand or my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared. And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John And Jesus called them to him and said to them, You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. If you're taking notes this morning, the main point of the passage is this. If you want to be great in God's kingdom, You cannot serve yourself, but must give yourself in service to others. If you want to be great in God's kingdom, you cannot serve yourself. But must give yourself in service to others. And that will really form the outline of our time together this morning, of the message this morning. If you want to be great in God's kingdom, first you cannot serve yourself, and second You must give yourself in service to others. So, first, if you want to be great in God's kingdom, you cannot serve yourself. Look at me at verses 32 to 35. Jesus is again on the road with his disciples. So throughout most of his ministry, they've been traveling all over the region of Galilee. But we saw back in chapter 10 that they moved south into the region of Judea, which was south of Galilee. And now we see that Jesus is leading his disciples to the heart of Judea, to Jerusalem. the capital of Judea and really the center and home of Jewish life. But what we also see in the passage is that this trip to Jerusalem will have a terrible end. Notice what Jesus says in verses three thirty-three and thirty-four. He's going to be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes. These are the religious authorities of Israel. He's going to be condemned to death He'll then be handed over to the Gentiles or the Romans. The Romans were part of what would have been considered as Gentiles. The Romans will then mock him, spit on him, flog, or whip him, and then kill him. And then after three days, he will rise. If you've been following along in our study of the Gospel of Mark, this isn't the first time that we've seen this prediction in Mark's Gospel. Can any of the youth tell me how many times Jesus has made this specific prediction. You can take a guess. It's less than five. Three, three times. Good job, Adam. This is actually the third time that we've seen him make this prediction. This is a third and final time that he makes his prediction. in Mark. And each one of these predictions about his coming death upon the cross and his coming resurrection is followed by a radical, life-altering lesson on what it means to be his disciple. And so what's going on here is the reason why he Predicts his death and then follows it with such a radical lesson on what it means to be his disciple is Jesus is pressing home the point that discipleship begins at the cross Discipleship begins at the cross. Jesus' atoning sacrifice reorders, reorients, and reshapes Our lives. The cross confronts all of our misconceptions about what it means to follow Jesus and then provides the pattern for how we're to live as his disciples. So, what misconception do we see in our passage that the cross confronts? Well, it's the misconception that serving ourselves is compatible with following Jesus. It's not. Look at verse 36. James and John come up to Jesus and they say to him, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. It's a bold request, not subtle. Some of you, if you're involved in politics, you're like, this is not political. That's not how you go about making requests like this of somebody that you want to get something from. Right? But I think we've already actually seen where this boldness comes from. Back in chapter 3, when Jesus called the 12 apostles, the 12 disciples, he called James and John and he gave them a nickname. What was their nickname? The Sons of Thunder. These dudes are bold, right? They're not trying to master their intentions. James and John say, hey, we're just coming, we're going to come out in the open and let you know Lord, we want you to do for us whatever we ask. Jesus is just a genie in a bottle for them. Are they just going to rub him and maybe they're going to he's going to grant their wish? This is what we want for our ourselves. They've seen his power, and they want that power to be used for their benefit. And look at what they they say in verses 36 and 37. Jesus responds to them, Well, what do you want me to do for you? And they say We want to sit at your right hand and your left in your glory. We want the places of power and prominence. You might remember, and if you don't know this, it's helpful to understand that in Jesus' day, there was a common misunderstanding regarding what the Messiah would do when he arrived on the scene. So it was commonly understood in Jesus' day that when the Messiah came, he would go about defeating all of Israel's enemies, Rome included. He would go about defeating all of Israel's enemies, and then he would set up an earthly kingdom that would last forever, and he would sit on his throne. And so James and John, they see, son of God. They've seen all this stuff that he's done in the first half of Mark's gospel, all these displays of power. They're thinking Son of God equals Messiah equals defeating all of Israel's enemies, equals getting a great throne that's going to last forever, which means we want to sit at your right and your left. We want the places of prominence and power so that we can enjoy your glory. That you're going to say, we want to ride your coattails to our own benefit. We want to sit in your glory. And James and John's question shows that that's what they were expecting, too. They were expecting him to set up this eternal throne on earth, and they want the places of power, prestige, and prominence. They want to serve themselves. Now, here's something interesting that we shouldn't miss about this passage. Among the 12 disciples, Jesus has an inner circle of three. Whom he uniquely invests in. Can any of the kids tell me or the teenagers tell me who are those three? Just shout it out? Who forms Jesus' inner circle? Peter, we're going to put it all together. Good job. We're going to complete the puzzle. James, John, and Peter. Oh, notice in the passage. James and John come to come to Jesus to ask to sit at his right and his left. Kids, who's no longer in the picture? Peter, James, and John are scheming to drop Peter from the inner circle. They saw Jesus created an inner circle. We want to create another inner circle that we put ourselves in. We're going to try to get Peter out, and James and John are brothers. This is a family affair. We want the sons of Zebedee to have all the power in the kingdom. Get Peter out of here. So they may have been competitive as fishermen, and they brought that sinful sense of competition into God's kingdom. We're just going to get Peter out of here and we're going to keep this inner circle tight. Just the three of us, Jesus, you and James and I, we we want to be part of this inner circle. Right, so you see their self-serving attitudes now begins to affect the other disciples. They don't care about the other disciples, they want the glory for themselves. Sorry, Peter. There's only two seats, one at his right and his left. You're gonna have to hang out with the other disciples. But I want you to notice something. I want you to notice two things that this passage reveals about people who are characterized by serving themselves. And I offer these things. uh not as a means just to convict you as I saw this in the passage this week. I just thought, oh my gosh, this is me. I want you to notice two things that this passage reveals about people who are characterized by serving themselves. First It reveals that they are ignorant. Ignorant. You see this in two different places. Look again at verses 32 to 35. Just let your eyes scan over it. Jesus is predicting his death. His unjust deliverance into the hands of the religious authorities, his unjust condemnation, his unjust mocking, being spit upon, being flogged, and then being killed. He's painstakingly spelling out his coming death. Of the three predictions in Mark's gospel, this one is by far the most specific. It has pretty much every detail that will then come to fruition in Mark's Mark 14 to 16. So Jesus is going to painstaking detail to spell out his coming death. And then the very next thing that happens after he predicts his death. James and John come with this request. You're gonna die. We want seats of power. Do you see how does that work together Did you even hear anything I just said? You must think this is what Jesus must be thinking about. Are you so hard of heart? I just said I am going to be handed over, flogged, beaten, spit upon, and killed, and you want the seats of power? This is ignorance. Hard-heartedness. That's what hard-heartedness usually means. It can refer to outright rebellion, or it can just refer to like, I just don't get it. I don't get how the cross is supposed to affect me and how I live. And I want the seats of power. It's ignorance. But not only that, not only that. We think we see in the passage is that the the this ignorance is carried out again in Jesus' question to them. What does he say in response to them? After they asked for the seats of power, he says to them, You do not know what you're asking for. And he means that. Their ignorance is seen in their request. You have no idea what you're asking for. They utterly fail to grasp the significance of the cross and what the cross means for how they're supposed to live. And we might look at them and shake our heads and just be like, these guys are ridiculous. How can how can they not get it? But the reality is that every single time we seek to serve ourselves When we fight openly or subtly about getting our own way, or when we place our needs, desires, and wants above others, We are showing the same type of ignorance that characterizes these disciples. We're not seeing how the sacrificial death of the Son of God is supposed to impact our lives on a daily basis. It reveals ignorance. But the second thing that it reveals about those who serve themselves is they're arrogant. They're arrogant. James and John have an exaggerated sense of their own abilities and importance. Look at verse 38. Jesus says in response to their request to sit at his right and his left, you do not know what you are asking. And then he says to them, Are you able to drink the cup that I drink? Or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? Jesus is talking here about his coming death. And here's what he's showing. If you want those seats on the right and the left of me, you need to be able to drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism that I baptize with. Those seats don't come to those who serve themselves, but to those who are willing to die to themselves. And Jesus here is talking about his coming death. The cup, as we'll see later in Mark's Gospel, is the cup of God's wrath that will be poured out on Jesus on the cross. And the baptism isn't referring to his baptism at the beginning of Mark's gospel, but to his death on the cross. It's two references to his death. on the cross. This is why in Paul's letters to the Romans and the Colossians, he describes baptism as symbolizing death. We are buried with him. We die with him in baptism, going under the waters, and we're raised with him To newness of life. So Jesus, this is essentially what he's asking them. He's saying to them, Are you able to be nailed to the cross To bear the punishment for the sins of the world which only the sinless Son of God is able to accomplish? This is his question to them. And their response is in verse 39, look there. We are able. But what are you kidding me? No man on earth can claim that. But you see how their arrogance Their wrongful estimation of their own abilities and importance has so clouded their vision that they think that they are capable of dying on the cross for the sins of the world. And they don't even get it. This is the way that arrogance just clouds our vision, and this is what arrogance does to us. We convince ourselves that we're capable of things that others are incapable of. Hey, we're able. The other ten, no, not so much. That's why we left Peter behind. You see, Peter's been he's been making a fool of himself this whole gospel. We haven't, though. We're able to do this And this wrong estimation of ourselves begins to warp then how we view others, right? What does arrogance do to us? What does it do to us? We begin to think that we deserve power, prominence, or places of honor, and we begin to think that others should serve Us, others should see our ways as the right ways or our opinions as the right opinions And that's where we just need to be honest with ourselves and be warned by the repeated warnings of Scripture, friends, against pride and arrogance. Consider Paul's words. Very simple. Let no man think more highly of himself than he ought. Let no man think more highly of himself than he ought. Whatever wisdom or gifts God has given us come from him anyway. For from him and through him and to him are all things. Let no one boast everything that we have we have received from God as it is John Newton once said, if you walk closely with God for 40 years, you will have a much lower opinion of yourself than you have now. I think that's true as I talk with brothers and sisters who are beyond me, and I want that to be true. I want to hear what they say and actually absorb that in my young age now. But the reality is, I continue to show the same arrogance and pride in my own life. It's like I want to be like that, but the Lord just needs to take me on the road with him and just show me over and over again how foolish I am. How many times in my own life I, in other ways, look at him and say, Lord, I am able. I can do what you've called me to. You can give me your spirit if you want, but I'm not a big deal because I'm gifted. I can do it, right? That's what we do in our lives. But the Lord needs to take us on the way, take us through suffering, just let us fall on our face over and over again before after 40 years we start to have the right opinion of ourselves. But my prayer is for you and for me is that we would be a people who don't take 40 years to get there. That we would start seeing ourselves as we really are today. That we would see the disciples and actually learn from their mistakes. Start humbling ourselves before the Lord and not think that we are able to do more than we actually are. We see that if we want to be great in God's kingdom, we cannot serve ourselves, which brings me to point number two. If we want to be great in God's kingdom, we must give ourselves in service To others. Look at verse 42 and following. Jesus seizes on James and John's self-serving request for power And he uses it to teach all his disciples a crucial lesson about what following him will require. If you want to take if you take notes in your Bible. Just want you to note every time that Jesus calls the 12 to himself in Mark's gospel, you can just write in the margins, important lesson to come. Every time that he calls the 12 to teach them something, important lesson to come. Here's the important lesson we see following on that. Jesus then uses the rulers of the nations as an example. Look specifically at verse 42. He says, You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. The rulers and great ones of the Gentiles are basically the people who hold places of power and prominence in governing the nations surrounding Israel. And notice how Jesus describes their attitudes and actions towards the very people they've been called to govern. He says they lord it over them and they exercise authority over them. The two words here basically mean to subdue, to master, to domineer, to function as a despot They're tyrannical in their governing of those underneath of them. He's saying that characteristically, those who are great in the world, those who hold places of power, use the power that they've been given To serve themselves. But Jesus wants to make it absolutely clear that those self-serving attitudes and actions are not to be found among his disciples. They are not to be found among his disciples. So the clarity, one of the things I want to point out about this passage, is the way that Jesus speaks about living in the kingdom. It shall not be so Notice he doesn't say it should not be so about you and just kind of gives room for it occurring. It shall not be so. Meaning to live in the kingdom, you don't live this way. So if we are living this way, we should start to ask ourselves, am I actually in the kingdom? And if we find out that we are not in the kingdom because we are constantly serving ourselves, here's the great offer of Christ today to you. You can repent of your sins And put your trust in him. He is a God who came to serve, as Jaron pointed out earlier, by laying down his life on the cross, so that if you would repent and trust in him, the one who came not to be served, but to serve He would serve you by saving you from your sins. And that offer is for you today. But look at this. I want you to see in verses 33 and 34, these self-serving attitudes are not to be found among his followers. He says, It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. Notice the contrast The great ones among the Gentiles use their authority to serve themselves, but those who want to be great in God's kingdom, Jesus says, must be servants. We should slow down and appreciate the forcefulness and clarity with which Jesus speaks. Must be your servant. Whoever would be great among you must Not maybe, must be your servant. You must be a servant and a slave if you are going to follow Jesus. There's no other path. to greatness in God's kingdom. You could say that the path to greatness in God's kingdom runs only through the city of serving others. And because Jesus is speaking to the men who would go on to be the first leaders and pastors of his church Following his resurrection, we need to consider what this passage says about the pastors who pastor this church or anyone else who would desire to be a pastor or an elder of this church. I mean, we learn a lot about what is expected of pastors when we read the pages of the New Testament, right? There are numerous roles and responsibilities laid out. Uh, they're to give themselves to the ministry of word and prayer, Acts chapter 6. They're to protect the flock from uh wolves and false teachers. Acts 20. Uh they are to preach the word in season and out of season, 1 or 2 Timothy. But there's so many things that they are called to do, but what I want us to see here is how central being a servant is to the job description of a pastor. Pastors are to be servants. Slays even to this congregation that God has given to the pastors of this church to lead and love and to be a servant or a slave begins first in the heart and the mind. It is a disposition that is rooted in denying ourselves the powers and privileges that that positions of leadership typically entail. Right? For the pastors of this church. It's not leaving work to others that we can do ourselves. It's not viewing ourselves as more important than other members of this congregation. It's not seizing on our authority as pastors in order to get our own way, but instead willingly giving up our rights if that would benefit the congregation. It's not seeing any task as below us. Think about Jesus washing the feet of his disciples, right? There's nothing that's beneath a pastor's role and responsibility. There's nothing a pastor can't do in the life of a congregation. If it's cleaning up after people, if it's fixing stuff in a building, whether this is our building or not. So when there are difficult and dirty tasks that need to be done We should be the ones as pastors leading the way and doing them. I want you to look back real quick to verse 32. Look at verse 32. They were on the road going up to Jerusalem and Jesus was walking ahead of them. He's walking ahead of them. As the one who is going to sacrifice himself for the sins of his people. He's leading by example. He's going ahead of his disciples and saying, come follow me. So, to the pastors of this church or anyone who would desire to be a pastor, if you are going to lead in a congregation, you must lead by example. You must lead by example by becoming a servant of all. That is what Jesus is calling us to. And if you're a member of CBC, you've probably heard the pastors here encourage you to let us know when you what men in the congregation are living this way, even if they aren't presently pastors. Right? We want to know who's doing this so that we can, Lord willing, recognize them or consider recognizing them as pastors. And I want you to see how this passage provides a great picture of what you should be looking for in a pastor. You should be looking for men who serve. Not just that they serve by accomplishing tasks or thinking about theological issues. We absolutely serve in those ways. That's definitely part of it, but that they serve also By entering into the lives of others in this congregation to encourage them in holiness and in pursuing Christ. Right, I think of the Apostle Paul in his first letter to the Thessalonians. How did he describe his ministry to them? He was among them like a nursing mother. Like a nursing mother. That's a great picture of the type of service that Jesus is calling pastors to. I mean, what's a nursing mother other than someone who gives up their very own body for the good and building up of another? He says in that letter that he shared his very life with them. So as you're looking at men in this congregation who could possibly be pastors of this congregation, you should be looking for men who give themselves to the good and building up of others by sharing their lives with them so that they can encourage others in the faith. Simply put, servant shepherds are the type of men that you should be looking for. That's the type of men that Jesus is calling his disciples to be. But Jesus isn't just speaking to pastors. He says that whoever will be great among you must be your servant Whoever would be first must become last and be a slave of all. Jesus is calling all of his followers to this way of living. He's calling everyone who would claim the name of Jesus Christ to be others-oriented, to be attuned to the needs of others, whether physical, practical, or spiritual. We should all seek to be the type of people who come in on Sundays actively looking for ways to serve others. So I literally, in my own life, make it in every Sunday prayer. Lord help me to be focused on the needs of others. And I pray that, if you're like me, I pray that because I'm so innately self-focused Thinking about what I need to get done and what has to happen so that I can carry out the things that I've been called to do. But the reality is I need to come in here on Sundays also focused on how to bless and encourage others. So we should all be thinking when we come in on Sundays, Lord, help me to see the needs of others. I think one of the things that I've seen just to just to help you guys understand as as a pastor In the short time that I've been a pastor is recognizing that everybody who comes through these doors on Sundays has heart in their life. Everyone. Everyone is suffering in some way. Everyone is struggling in some way. We might all put smiles on our faces, but when people come through the door, you're seeing a sufferer come through the door. You're seeing with somebody with heart come through the door. So think about not only the heart that's going on in your life, but that might be going on in others' lives. And think about how you might serve people in that way. And that's why I want us to broaden how we think of serving. When you think of the word serving, if you can just shout it out, what comes to mind? What do you think of? When you're called to serve, what action do you see in your head? Childcare, right? And that's an amazing and wonderful way to serve, and thank you to everyone who serves our childcare. Anything else? Doing the dishes, right? I think what you're seeing is, and those are right ways to think about serving, we tend to think about task orientation. Things that we're acting on and doing in our own minds. And those are absolutely examples of serving. But I also want you to want to broaden your understanding of serving. Serving might also look like sitting and listening to someone who's had a hard week. Right? It might look like spending extra time with a member who might be struggling with loneliness. Don't just pass right by them. Sit down with them. Talk with them. It might look like talking to people who are not looking who don't look like or share the life experiences of other people in this congregation, helping to understand. What's it like for you here? How can we love you and understand you better? Entering into their experiences. It might look like giving someone a hug and asking, really asking, how are you? Right? How are you doing? Not just, hey, how's it going? Good to see you. That has to happen in some level. We all have things that were places that we're going, but think about how can you stop and engage with others But serving also isn't only a Sunday thing. It doesn't just happen in here during the hour and a half, two hours that we're together. It's an everyday thing. He's calling us to everyday service, a total life orientation towards serving that Jesus wants to characterize his people. And it should manifest itself in all areas of life. So word to the kids here. I actually want to I want to to the kids, youth, teenagers, I want I want to draw out a specific subset even. I want to talk to the kids who are the oldest in their family, the oldest sibling. I want you to think about something here. You might consider your role as the oldest among the kids in your family as a place of prominence. a place of power per se. You were born first, right? There there it's just something unique about being born first, but I want you to think about the ways that you can lay your life down to love and sacrifice for your little brothers or little sisters so that you can begin manifesting in your life the type of service that Jesus is calling his disciples to. Now if you're uh twins with somebody, there may be one uh one of those in here. Depends on which one of you came out first, right? You may be the one who has to lay down and sacrifice. So I'll let you guys figure out who that is. But but seriously, if you're the oldest sibling in your family, think about the ways that you can lay down your own rights and privileges that you might have as the oldest. to love and serve your siblings. And what we need to recognize here is that almost all of us are in some form of leadership. Almost all of us are, whether it's with co-workers, whether it's in our family and the different roles and responsibilities we have, whether it's as children as we just talked about, with siblings or classmates, to be a leader In our culture, we need to confront this idea that to be a leader in our culture means that we're the one who has power and control. Right? We tend to view leaders as the CEOs. They're the ones with the privileges, the power and the control. But as Christians, We need to recognize that Jesus is flipping on its head the world's understanding of leadership. Right? Leadership is not being served, but serving. It's not being first, but becoming last. It's not seeking our own way, but sacrificing ourselves for the good of others. And as I look at this congregation, I am so encouraged by the way I see the members of this church living this way. I want to thank all of you for the manifest grace that is evident in you that has caused you to serve. Thinking especially of our deacons who labor week in and week out to ensure that the church is running smoothly. The work that you all are doing as deacons is crucial to God's work in this place. And it's not just the deacons, but it's all of you. As Carl mentioned, like children's ministry or welcome team or any other roles that happen. Thank you all for the ways that you have tirelessly served, tirelessly served to see this church planted and by God's grace grow. I want to commend you all for that and encourage you in that. Understand, understand that serving in whatever capacity it occurs is not simply a Christian duty. but an opportunity to participate in an act of eternal significance. Paul says in 1 Corinthians, That all of our acts of service will be tested by the fires of judgment. And those acts, whether large Or small, whether done in public or done in private, all of those acts that pass through the fires will remain for eternity You are participating in acts of eternal significance. That is that that means like acts of changing diapers in childcare The acts of dropping a meal off at somebody's house, the people who've done that, that nobody else knows that they're doing that, or the call to a friend because you know that they're struggling, you just want to call them to encourage them, those acts bear eternal weight. They will last forever. There's an eternal significance to our serving. In his book, Serving Without Sinking, John Henley said this. He says, Jesus will count every act of service as being done for him. And he will remember it when he comes back in his glory. What you do matters because you do it for Jesus, even when you do it for others. And it also matters because it will endure eternally. In the coming kingdom, you'll be able to see how even the smallest or the least impressive service contributed to God's great plan to save his people. Also, friends, be encouraged by the eternality of your acts of service. Be encouraged by this. Keep going and recognize that you are laying eternal stones for an eternal home in your serving. But we also need to recognize that this will come with difficulty. Jesus calls us to be servants and slaves even. Servants and slaves had little to no rights in the ancient world. When they were told to do something, they had to do it. It was their job to serve, whether they received recognition or not, whether they felt appreciated or not. They were servants. That's what it meant to be a servant. Which means that they were called to serve even if their service was unnoticed. Underappreciated. They were called to serve even if they felt demeaned or perhaps insulted by their masters. And this is what Jesus is calling us to So what about you? What about you? Are there limits to your willingness to serve others? Are you only willing to serve when you're appropriately appreciated? Do you throw in the towel when you feel misunderstood or criticized? These are all common temptations, friends. It is hard to serve in our flesh when we feel like we're not being appreciated or when people are critiquing us or being rude to us. But every time we seek to serve ourselves, or we place limits on our willingness to serve others because we've been hurt in some way by the person or people we're trying to serve. We're showing that we haven't yet grasped the power of the cross. Why do I say that? I want you to consider the reason that Jesus gives for why his people should live lives characterized by serving others. What's the reason for all of this, Jesus? Look at verse 45. For the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. And to give his life as a ransom for many. This is a breathtaking statement. Why? Because Jesus says the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. The Son of Man is a figure in the Old Testament. Specifically from the book of Daniel, chapter 7, the Son of Man is one who rides on the clouds of heaven Is given all authority by the ancient of days. He's given all authority in heaven and on earth. He's given an everlasting throne and kingdom. He is the one that all peoples, nations, and tribes will worship. And this glorious Son of Man is Jesus. And Jesus, with all of his glory and his power, came not to be served, but to serve. When we think about wanting to serve ourselves, we show the arrogance in ourselves because we can't rightfully claim the type of glory that the Son of Man has. But Jesus has all of this glory. He literally can say, serve me, but he doesn't. He says I came not to be served But to serve, when you see one with all glory and all power willingly lay down his life to serve others, you're seeing a breathtaking account of the humility and the depths of the service that Jesus is calling us to. But he came not to be served. And he served by giving his life as a ransom for many A ransom. That's what you pay when you set captives free. And that is what Jesus paid to set his people free We were held captive by sin, dead in our trespasses, completely opposed to Jesus, wanting nothing to do with him or his kingdom, yet he served to the point of giving his very life to save us. A people who, like his disciples, would have abandoned him to serve ourselves when he was wrongly arrested and condemned. They scattered. Bro, I'm out of here. I'm not trying to I'm not trying to be down with that. I'll let you take the punishment for us. I'm gonna go hide in my home. Or we're like the disciples who, like Peter, who would have denied him three times when he was being unjustly condemned to serve ourselves. I don't want anything to do with that. I just want the places of power. I don't want to go through the suffering that you're calling me to. That's what we are like. But did Christ stop serving us? No, he didn't. He was condemned to death, mocked, spit upon, flogged, and killed. And through it all he continued to serve. Friends, imagine where we would be, if you're a follower of Christ, imagine where you would be. If Jesus threw in the towel on you, when you failed to appreciate his grace, or you turn to sin again Or you didn't praise him as you ought to praise him as the Son of Man and the sinless Savior of all mankind. Imagine where we would be if Jesus Christ threw in the towel on us. His self-giving sacrifice to an ungrateful people is the pattern for our service to others. And if this seems daunting, it kind of is. But I want to encourage you from the passage that you don't do this alone. Because now, even now, Christ goes before us and is with us. Look again at verse 32. Jesus is on the road ahead of his disciples, and notice the description of them as they follow him. They're amazed, bewildered, and afraid. They're fearful. This is a picture of what Jesus is doing for us, us easily bewildered and fearful disciples, but he's no longer leading the way to Jerusalem. He's now leading the way to the new Jerusalem, the city with foundations that can't be shaken. And we can be confident that he will carry us all the way home because three days after he was killed. He rose from the dead, and he sent his Spirit to serve us as we serve one another, as we wait for the dawning of a new day to appear, when the Son of Man, who came to give his life as a ransom for many, Now appears on the clouds to bring his ransom people home. The Son of Man came not to be served. But to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. How can you, by the Spirit, take up that service this week and lay down your lives for the good of others? That's probably the same. Heavenly Father, if we are honest with ourselves, we need to say that we can't do it apart from your grace and your mercy. But we know that your spirit can And your spirit is at work sanctifying us, making us more like your son. So help us, our Lord, to take up the cross and follow you But to lay down our desires for the good of others, to serve even as Christ served, lowering himself to wash the very feet of his disciples. Help us to be a people who see who see no task as below us. Who follow the pattern that your son laid down for us. And we pray that you, Lord Jesus, would return soon to bring your ransom people home. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.