Good morning, friends. I'm going to start with a couple of giveaways, books. Uh first. is a little devotional through the Psalter. So it comes in this nice fake leather bound volume. What it has is it's ESV, it has a psalm, and then a little devotional after each psalm. I gave a copy of this to Mike Clauser a year ago. He went through it, loved it. Would anybody else Want to raise their hand? George Fleason. Heal. Alright. It's got this fun cover. There you go. Alright, and the second one is also in the Bible direction. This is in the Christian Standard Version, which is Presently my favorite version. It's what I use in my quiet times. This is the day-by-day chronological Bible with daily readings guided by Dr. George Guthrie, Professor at Union In Jackson, Tennessee. And what it what it does is it divides up the Bible in chronological order and then gives a little intro to each reading and helps you understand what you're going to be reading and moves through the whole thing. And this one I think is a genuine leather. I'm not sure. Leather touch. It's not. It's leather touch. Whatever that means. Who would like Heather? First anxious hand. There we are. Yes. And then the last one. is uh I found two copies on my shelf last week so I thought I'll give one away. Raise your hand if you're a husband. Raise your hand, husbands, or keep it up if you consider yourself the complete husband. Humble men, good Well, here is how you can learn to be the complete husband with this beautiful cover. Yes, there we are. Okay What's that? Don't we all? Okay, uh John asked me to preach several sermons this year. I thought, hey, I'm gonna take little short epistles, like one chapter epistles In the New Testament. So today I'm going to do Philemon and then I'll do a little later in the year I'll do 2 John and then I'll do Jude. Just kind of their nice one-offs. Some of you guys know my brother Philip. Phil? Not only does my name rhyme with this book, it is his name, Phil Lehman. That's what we're looking at this morning. Phil Lehman. Turn to the text. Yes, the humor will be that good all morning. Um if you're using a Pew Bible, it is page 1000. 1,000. And we'll just start by reading that together. By Lehman. Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, the Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, and Apfea, our sister, and Archipus, our fellow soldier, and the church in your house. Grace to you. Peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And then a prayer. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective, for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. For I have derived much joy and comfort for your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. Okay, that's the prayer, thanksgiving, and now the appeal. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child Onisimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel, but I prefer to do nothing without your consent. in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion, but of your own accord. For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever. No longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant as a beloved brother. Especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? So, if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all or owes you anything, charge that to my account I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it. To say nothing of your owing me even your own self. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. Paphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ, Jesus, sends greetings to you, and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with your spirit. What's going on here? It's an interesting story. Let's start with our Bible study hats, just looking at some of the details. of the text you see, look down and keep your Bibles open. It'll help you. You see in verse 1, that is from Paul and Timothy. They're writing to Philemon. Yet you see there in verse the second part of verse 1 and then 2, it's also to apya. Maybe that's Philemon's wife, we don't know. It's to Archipus and it's to the whole church, which apparently meets in Philemon's house. The the your in your house there in verse 2 That's singular, your house, Philemon, but then the your and the you in verse 3 is in fact plural, the church Talking to the church. As are the your and yours. If you look down at verses 22 and 24, again, he's addressing the church there. He has lessons for the church. He has lessons For us. Philemon had probably become a Christian through Paul's ministry years earlier. Look at verse 19. You owe me your own self. Apparently, Philemon was also a wealthy man. He had a house large enough for the church to meet in. He had at least one, if not more, bondservants, or we could just translate it slaves. He probably lived in Colossae. Look at verse 23. He says, Paphris Sends greetings as do Mark and Aristarchus and Demas and Luke, his fellow workers. Now keep your finger here and turn back a few pages to Colossians Colossians 4, page 985. Colossians 4. Look at verse 10. He sends greetings from Mark and Aristarchus, and look at verse 12 from Epaphras, and look at verse 14 from Luke and Demas. It's the exact same people as in this list. And then back up to verse 9. Verse 7, verse 7 says, Tychicus will send you news about me. And then verse 9, he is coming with Onesimus, our faithful and dear brother, who is one of you. In other words, it appears that there's probably several churches in the area of Colossae, including one That meets in Philemon's house. And what Paul seems to be doing is sending at least a couple of letters to these churches. One, the letter that we know as Colossians, would go to all of them And then one in particular, which would go to the house of Philemon and the church that meets together in his house. So You can essentially imagine somebody knocking on the door of Philemon's house. Philemon walks to the front door, he opens it, he looks out, he sees His old slave. Onisimus. Trembling hand, perhaps? Holding a letter. Hands by Leman. this letter from the Apostle Paul. Right? How's Philemon going to respond? What what emotions do we see going across his face in that moment? Well let's let's back up for a moment in the story. Years earlier flashes the television screen and we are let's pretend looking through old security camera camera footage in in Philemon's house and And we look at this old footage and we we see Onesimus there. He's in Philemon's office. Maybe he's sitting there at the computer. He's looking into the computer. And then we see a strange look on Onesimus's face. What's going on? Did he Is he moving money out of his master's account into his own account? Or is he just making bad investment decisions on behalf of his master, making big mistakes that are losing him money. Well we don't know for sure, but something fishy goes on something financially involved goes on. Look at verse 18. If he has wronged you or owes you anything, Charge that to my account in verse 19. I will repay it. And then we continue to watch this security camera footage and we see Onesimus leaving And never coming back, at least until this moment at the door. Now, did Philemon send him? Did He runs away? Well, again, we we don't really know. We just know that he left, and somehow he finds Paul. Paul's apparently, according to the text here, he's in prison, maybe in Rome, maybe in Ephesus. And in his time with Paul, he becomes a Christian. Look at verse 10. Whose father I became in my imprisonment. And sure enough, he he proves useful to Paul. Verse 11. He's been useful to me. And so then Paul sends this bondservant this slave back with letter in hand to by Lehman. Okay, that's That's the background, that's the setup for this letter, this story. So again, we have we have Philemon opening the door, we have him seeing Onesimus, we see the letter in hand, and what does the letter say? The letter says Treat him as you would me. He's a brother. He's one of us now. That's what it says. Look at verses 15 to 17. For this perhaps is why he was parted for you for a while, that you might have him back forever. No longer as a slave, but more than a slave, as a beloved brother. Receive him as you would receive me. These verses here, 15 to 17, are the heart of the letter. If if you're ever asked to give a five-minute devotion on Philemon, focus on these verses. verses. Paul recognizes that there are financial and legal entanglements. Right? But he's also willing to address those financial challenges. Charge it to my account, he says. But he's also saying to the Philemon that there's something much bigger in motion here. Onisimus is a brother in the Lord, and that changes everything. And in fact, Paul even leans into what might seem like arrogant presumption on Philemon's part. When he not so subtly implies that he wants him to send Philemon, I'm sorry, Unissimus back to him. Look at verse 13 again. I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. Now, from where we're sitting in 2019, obviously, it's the sort of the elephant in the room in this letter is is this issue of slavery. It's hard for us to understand why Paul would send Onesimus the slave back. Is Paul consenting to the institution of slavery? We hear the word slavery, and we obviously think of pre-Civil War, race-based. chattel slavery from the American South. Would somebody from the North receive a slave and say, no, no, no, you you you gotta go back. Is is that what Paul is consenting to here. Well, I think it's worth taking a few moments again a little background study that I think will help us. The differences between slavery in pre-Civil War America and pre-uh slavery in the ancient Near East and in the Roman Empire and in the ancient world generally. In both settings People really were owned. One human being was said legally to own another. And in both settings, for sure, abuse and sometimes awful abuse happened. Yet there's also some crucial differences between these two settings. First, slavery in the Roman Empire was not based on race or ethnicity as it was in the American South. In fact, a slave could, as it were, fade into the crowd and nobody would know who the slaves are in the crowd. Nothing in their skin. would give it away. And frankly, nothing even in the clothes that they were wearing would nef n necessarily give it away. They would often look fairly middle class. as it were, because they would have sometimes respectable positions. Second, slaves could own property, including their own slaves Which they did. They could purchase their own freedom. Third, the education of slaves was encouraged because it was seen as increasing their in their val their their value for their masters. Fourth, some slaves worked menial jobs, but many possessed highly sensitive and responsible positions. And so they worked as doctors and accountants. and teachers and sea captains and municipal officers and managers of large estates, maybe even estate like Philemon's It wouldn't be unexpected for a slave, as it were, to be in the master's office on the computer managing his accounts, as it were. Fifth, slaves didn't possess honor, but as I said, they weren't the lowest in society. Free, poor people were the lowest in society. Society. And so very often free people would sell themselves into slavery in order to gain a kind of financial security for a season and then eventually buy themselves out. And that way, many scholars have likened slavery in the ancient world to being like enlisted in the army. in in the present world. You kind of enlist, you sacrifice your freedom for a time in order to get serve certain benefits, and then when you're financially able, you put yourself out of it. It was worse than that. But there there isn't an analogy There. Sixth, it wasn't viewed as a lifelong reality because many anticipated being freed. Seventh, no one, and this is perhaps the most important for our point here this morning. Seventh, no one could see outside the system Because the whole world worked this way. From Egypt, Syria, Babylon, to Persia, to Rome, to Greece. Everyone simply consented to the system. It was all they knew. As I said, freed slaves hoped to get their own slaves. And so some scholars estimate that nearly one-third of the Roman Empire was in slavery. They wouldn't have thought outside of it It's not like there was an alternative society that they would have consented to. In short, I think we can say that slavery in the Roman world was in some sense better. than it was in pre-Civil War America. But in other ways it was more widespread, ordinary, normal There's lots of resources on this topic. Kind of went deep there for a second. I just found it fascinating. If you want to know more, please email me. I can send you stuff on that. Still, the question we have is is Paul even considering to this form? of slavery. Is that what Paul is doing? Well, Paul isn't trying to take on the political and economic structures of the entire Roman Empire and the ancient world in this letter. That's true. He is not trying to take it on. That's not his goal. But I want you to stop and stand there in the doorway with Philemon for just a second and think about what Paul is doing as pertains to slavery, because this takes us to the heart of this letter. Well pretend you're one of the members of Philemon's church. Remember, it's addressed to the whole church. And so maybe you're over at Philemon's house for dinner. Onesimus knocks, opens the door. You've seen the security footage. You know the whole story. Oh look, there he is. He hands Philemon the letter. Philemon hands it to you, you read it, to you too, read this, you read it. What are you thinking? Well maybe maybe you look down and you you see that word there in verse 13, gospel. You see that word gospel. The good news. It's verse 3, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. More fully, what what is that gospel? Well it's It's the news that you, though a sinner, have received a pardon. That Jesus Christ came fully God, fully man, died on the cross in your place for sin. paying the ransom, rescuing you from the slavery of sin, into the freedom of the beloved Son, and the freedom of the Father, Reconciling you not with God, not just with God, but also reconciling you with God's people. So it's like mom and dad go down to the orphanage, they adopt you, you come home, you find what? Well, brothers and sisters. To be reconciled to God is to be reconciled to God's people, people like Onesimus This slave, people like Baileyman, this slave master And so as you're looking at what Paul is saying in this letter next to Philemon, next to Onesimus, maybe you're starting to realize for the first time how radical This gospel is, how personally radical it is, how financially radical it is, how politically radical it is. All of society might say, hey, these are the structures and institutions that we will operate by. This is totally normal. Right? But now Paul's little emissary, little ambassador Onesimus, is standing there Not with a clipboard asking for signatures to sign a petition to go to the Roman Senate to overturn slavery. Rather, standing there with a letter. That changes everything. With a gospel word that would change the whole world for all who repent and believe even the institution of slavery. So just picture again, you and Philemon walk back into the living room, you sit down, Philemon says to you, now I love Paul, but but but is he is he being reasonable here? I write his letter to Timothy. He said, I'm responsible for my family. I need to be a good steward of them. And what he's asking for, doesn't he realize this is going to make it harder to serve my family? And maybe Philemon's wife speaks up and she says, look, Paul has taught us so much. I'm grateful for him, but I think he's being a little overly zealous here. And then Philemon's non-Christian father speaks up. He says, son, I've supported you in this whole Christian thing of yours. But don't you realize that your grandfather and I have worked hard for you to have all of this? And if you go listening to this teacher, Paul You're gonna squander everything that I and your grandfather worked hard for. Might just have to give it to your brothers. Take it away from you. There are radical implications of the fact that Philemon believes in this gospel. It affects his whole life. Not just economic and political implications, family implications, household implications. If you guys have been to the Museum of the Bible, how many have been to the Museum of the Bible? How many of you have gone to the ground floor and seen the slave Bible? If you go back, you should go back and see the Slave Bible. It was published in 1808, 1809 in this country. It was written to educate slaves in reading and religion. And what's interesting is that 90% of the Old Testament is missing. and 50% of the New Testament is missing from the slave Bible. So you think Exodus with freeing the slaves is there? Not a chance. Or turn back to Colossians again. Turn back to Colossians chapter 3 Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, I always have to do that in my head. Chapter 3, verse 11. Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave free, but Christ is all in all. Do you think that verse is in the slave Bible? Colossians is not in the slave Bible. Do you think Philemon is in the slave Bible? Not a chance It's not. The implications of Philemon are just way too radical for slave holders. It is world-changing, right? In other words, the little book of, the precious little book of Philemon doesn't so much lay out all the theology of Paul as it does in other letters. Rather, it lays out what that theology looks like. when it shows up in the life of a congregation. Not so much theology as it is ethics, right? And what that theology, as I said, looks like. It gives us a quick snapshot Of how radically the gospel changes lives, it gives us a new family identity, new loves and affections It flattens hierarchies. It makes God's people one. It activates our obedience. Those are the four lessons we can take this morning from this book. Lesson one Lesson one. The Christian life is the church life. The Christian life is the church life. Christianity is Corporate conversion is conversion into a people. Remember with my adoption metaphor? You're adopted into a family. Onisimus is your brother. Paul says to Philemon. Philemon seems to get this. He gets this and his life demonstrates that the gospel doesn't just make me a new me, it makes me a new us, right? Look at verses four and five. And Paul's thanksgiving and prayers. He says, I thank God Verse 5, because I hear of your love and your faith toward Jesus and all the saints. By Lehman's life is different now. And then look at verse 6. I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. Now that word sharing there, he does not talk about evangelizing, sharing your faith. Evangelizing the word is koinonia. Right? Anybody know that word koinonia? What does that directly translate as? Fellowship. The fellowshipping of your faith, the sharing, the fellowshipping of your faith. May become effective so that you would know every good thing in Christ. Think about that, church, for a second. Do you want to know every good thing that is yours in Christ? Yes. Right? Well, how do you know every good thing that is yours in Christ? Well, through fellowship, through one another. The hand can't say to the foot, I have no need of you The brother can't say to the sister, I don't need you. We need one another to share every good thing in Christ. We need on Sunday this family We need Sunday afternoon time and fellowship together. We need Monday, Memorial Day, a picnic together. We need Tuesday getting together for dinner. We need Wednesday spending time at the basketball with our kids and talking to one another in the bleachers. We need Thursday night elders meeting. We need Friday night fun. We need Saturday VBS Is it on Saturday? Some Monday? Sunday. Well, whatever we do on Saturday, we need that together. We need the fellowship, the community, the relationships we have in Christ. To know every good thing in Christ, because Christ is doing different things in you guys than he's doing in me and in one another And so to know the good things we have in Christ, I need to know you and you need to know me to see what Christ is doing and to know Christ. Makes sense? Right? And notice also in this letter that the word love shows up four times I hear of your love for Christ and the saints, he says there in verse 5. And verse 7, I receive joy and comfort from your love. And he then he talks about being refreshed By hearing the saints have been refreshed and Paul taking joy that the saints have been refreshed through Philemon. And then look at. Look at verse 9. I appeal to you on the basis of love. And then look at verse 16. Onesimus is not just a brother, he's a beloved brother. It's an adjective adjective form of the same noun, a an agape on other The Christian life is the church life, and the church life is the Christian life. Verses 4 to 7 tell us. Philemon's example shows us, brothers and sisters, my heart has been refreshed Just like Paul's and the saints have been refreshed, my heart has been refreshed as I consider you. And I consider your love for one another. I trust you feel the same. Pains, I feel refreshed as I consider your leading in worship and in communion and the way you've opened your home. Jones's, I'm refreshed as I consider the way you guys reach out to others in need and watched you do that. Fleason's, same thing, I'm refreshed by you guys. Mortons, I'm refreshed by you as I watched you open your lives in your absence, your temporary absence, Mark, invite help exposing your own vulnerability. Friends, can we not look around the room and consider how refreshed we have all been in Christ and what he has done through one another As you have poured yourselves out and as you have cared for one another, praise God for this. The Christian life is the church life, and the church life is the Christian life. And frankly, let me just be really honest with you guys for a second. It's been hard on my family to move 20 minutes away. There have been many tears and conversations. I think we did the right thing for various logistical, seasonal reasons of life. Freedom in Christ to do that. I think it was the right thing. Nonetheless, our fat our families felt the brunt of that. We love you. And it's harder now. We have to be extra deliberate in pursuing you in relationship. But our relationship with you is crucial to our own spiritual vitality. So let me invite you to Bowie. Come join us in Bowie where the houses are cheaper and the shopping is more convenient. You'll have Bonnie Holland. You'll have the Bookers. Come on out to Bowie Again, I think it was the right decision, but there are challenges. And in general, I would encourage you to look for ways to be close to other things. Philemon showed evidence of the fact that he was born again, how he loved The saints, he refreshed the hearts of the saints. He made sacrifices for the saints and his home. Indeed, look at verse 21. All these evidences of grace made Paul confident that finally would respond to respond to this And so for you, brothers and sisters, as you think about your individual relationship with God, where do the other members of this church fit in The question for you to ponder this morning. Do you see the other members of this church as a crucial, essential part of your relationship with the Father and Son in heaven? Because that's how your salvation is set up. That's the DNA of the gospel itself. The gospel itself creates family. Knowing Christ means living, abiding in family. Lesson two. Christian ministry is heart ministry. Christian ministry is heart ministry. Or I can put it like this. Christian discipleship is heart-directed Christian discipleship is heart-directed. Now, there's a place for commands In Christian ministry and discipleship, look at verse 8. Though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required. So an apostle can make commands. There's even a sense in which elders can make commands, at least if those commands are directly in line with the word of God. So Hebrews 13, 17 says, obey your leaders. Submit to them. But let me explain something. I think it'd be useful about a pastor's authority, which Incidentally, it shares in common with a husband's authority. A pastor's authority, like a husband's authority, has no God-given enforcement mechanism. Worth meditating on for a second. The state, its authority, it has a God-given enforcement mechanism. The Bible calls it The sword. Parents of young children have an enforcement mechanism. The Bible calls it the The rod. The congregation as a whole has an enforcement mechanism. The Bible calls it anyone Yes, through the keys. You got the sword, you got the rod, you got the keys. What about husbands? What about pastors? There is no enforcement mechanism that God gives. What does that do? That changes, radically changes the nature of the authority that pastors and husbands are called to exercise. It's the kind of authority that you would work that works on a landscape of people who are equal. A parent with a child is not equal. The parent genuinely knows more. Right? The authority without the enforcement mechanism is a different kind of authority, and it works on the landscape of equals. And Paul is exercising authority here. Look at verse 21 again. Confident of your obedience, he says. But I want you to think about how the nature of this authority changes it. It forces the holder of authority to appeal to the heart. Right? As Paul does. Interestingly, that word appeal. Look there in verses 9 and 10. He says, I appeal to you and I appeal to you. The Greek word is para kala, para and parallel. Or paralegal, alongside of, and coll. So Paul is standing in front of him and is not saying, I'm commanding you. He's saying, I'm coming alongside of you, and I'm calling you. That's the kind of authority he's exercising. And look down at verse 14. I prefer to do nothing without your consent. And verse 14 again, I want your goodness not to come from compulsion, he says, but of your own accord. I don't want to f<unk> Artificial flowers here, I want real, naturally grown flowers coming from your heart. I want that goodness to be of your own accord Why this appeal to the heart? Well, because New Covenant Ministry, New Covenant Discipleship is heart ministry, heart discipleship. Remember, the old covenant can't change hearts. The law can't change hearts. It doesn't naturally grow flowers. Instead, we need the gospel and we need the spirit to come in to change the heart so that real goodness grows from it. I'll put my spirit on your heart, says the Lord, so that you walk in my ways. I want the real thing, not the artificial thing, the law-created thing. You must, child, you must go to bed. The child has to obey. That's not the kind of authority that a pastor or a husband exercises Instead, it's a real authority. There is a moral ought to it. But the way it sounds is to come alongside And a call. Hey, this is a way of righteousness. Let's walk this way. In fact, if I was being selfish, I wouldn't be here because I expect some resistance. And there's frankly things I'd rather be doing with my selfish time. There's no advantage to the person in this kind of authority, because this kind of authority is pure initiative. It's pure responsibility taking. It's pure, okay, again, I'm going to come alongside and call you in the way of righteousness, even at cost of myself and other things I'd be preferring to do. This is what pastor authority, this is what elder authority should sound like. Friends, do I always sound that way as a husband? I hope I do most of the time But I trust if you asked my wife, she would say, not all of the time, right? Brother husbands, this is how we are called to lead. And friends, as I've conducted myself as an elder, as a pastor in your midst, I hope this is the kind of authority you've seen me and I trust you've seen in the other elders exercise. And of course, the lesson here isn't just for pastors and husbands. I think the lesson is for all of us as Christian ministers and Christian disciplers. So there you are sitting with a Christian friend. They confess some sin to you. They say, you know, I'm really struggling with anger. I'm really struggling with impatience. I'm really struggling with lust. I'm struggling with covetousness or bitterness or laziness. And what do you say to them? Do you say, I can't believe that? Haven't you read the law? Or do you say, pray he's God? That confession shows me that the Spirit of God is at work in you. And I know the Spirit is in you wanting better. I know you're a new creation because you're wanting better. Oh praise to you, praise to the spirit in you. Now I want to fan that flame of good desire Waging war against the old man, I'm going to fan the flame of the new man and call you on to something better. That the law shows us the way toward. New covenant ministry is heart ministry. New covenant discipleship is heart directed. Lesson three. The Christian gospel flattens all hierarchies and makes us one. Lesson three. The Christian gospel flattens all hierarchies. And makes us one. That's the point of verses 15 to 17. And as I said, I think this is the heart of the letter. Legally, Onesimus remained Philemon's slave. Becoming a Christian does not change this world's legal and political and financial and familial and ethnic and social circumstances. They remain what they are, as the world has Put them together. We're living inside of them. Right? We're in this world. But The gospel changes us so that we're not of this world. The gospel changes the person in the midst of those circumstances, in the midst of those structures. which can eventually lead to a change in those circumstances and structures. Doesn't always, but it can. Accordingly, Paul wants Philemon to receive him no longer as a slave, but as a beloved brother. And notice there in verse 16, he says, in the Lord And in the flesh. That's interesting, isn't it? Because it seems like in the Lord and all that we have in Christ would cover everything. It seems like it would, but Paul wants to give an extra special emphasis in the flesh, too. That is to say, in your stations in this world. You are to receive him, not as a slave, but as a beloved brother. The gospel undermines slavery. The gospel undermines every form of inequality among God's people. It makes us I think the point here, friends, is for you to realize how politically powerful, socially powerful the gospel is, meaning it doesn't just change your relationship with with God, it creates a whole new society of people who are equal and who are one. America is not the city on the hill. As John Winthrop and John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan all said, the church is the city on the hill. How tragic then? How tragic then the church's history of complicity with so much injustice, its complicity with racism You have to confess that, friends. With racism under slavery, under Jim Crow, other forms today I have a book I could recommend on that if you're interested. How easy it is for Christians to be unthinkingly, selfishly subsumed. by the values and by the assumptions and by the power structures of the day. Philemon, it seems, had been subsumed. That's why Paul's writing this letter. Philemon thinks that things have to change. A somewhat known preacher type recently said to me, Yeah, Jonathan, I assume the vast majority of evangelicals will bow the knee to the LGBT lobby. Well, the nation has certainly bowed the knee. Now he could be right. I'm not sure he is in churches that are faithfully preaching Paul's gospel. Because that gospel is powerful. It changes things. It causes God's people to stand athwart in opposition to the assumptions, the values, the structures of the day. Just as Paul is calling Philemon to do here. And friends, this is why your Christianity will always be a political threat. It'll be a political threat to the old man and you. It'll be a political threat to the world, to the people around you. Jesus shows up and says, I'm Lord, I'm Judge over all your life. That is a political threat. Jesus condemning us as sinners and removing all of our grounds for boasting, I don't care what you think you've done, I don't care what group you belong to. None of those things make you righteous. None of those things make you good or worthy. You are righteous, good, worthy, only by a faith bond with me. Any goodness, any righteousness, any worthiness you have, Jesus says, is because of me, not you. Teacher said I'm special. No, no, no, you're not. I'm special. I give you my specialness, says Christ. That's politically threatening. Jesus saying, you can Only be righteous, not because you're a Jew, or a Greek, or a barbarian, or white, or black, or Japanese instead of Chinese, or Hutu instead of Tutsi, rich instead of poor, educated instead of uneducated, all of that is a political Jesus identifying us first and foremost with a new family, a new nation, a new culture That's a threat to your family, your nation, your culture. They'll accuse you of disloyalty and injustice. That will happen. Just ask our friends in Muslim countries when they go home and tell mom and dad I'm I'm a Christian now. Maybe you experienced this in high school when you told your friends I'm a Christian now. What? Your faith, brothers and sisters, is a political threat because it binds you to a new alien system of justification It creates a new people with new create new creation relational priorities that the world does not understand. Our faith makes us one. That's a threat. And to live inside of that is scary. That said, I love it. Maybe you've experienced this. I love it when I travel to other countries and I meet fellow Christians. Have you ever done this? You you go someplace far away and you meet a Christian and you realize suddenly you have a an affinity, you have a bond With this person here in Uzbekistan or Singapore, wherever you are, and you realize, wow, we we share the most important thing. Even more than I share with non-Christian fellow Americans And known the sweetness of that. I confess I find myself rooting for the teams that I know, the the quarterback is a Christian or the or the coach is a Christian, or kind of rooting for the company that I know is run by Christians. Now there is a wrong kind of tribalism that we as Christians can fall into But but if we're doing it biblically, it's this very affection and love that we share amidst ourselves, which is a witness to the nation. It's not a closed party. It's a party inviting them into the party. This is the party I want to be a part of. They will know you are my disciples, said Jesus, by your love for one another. Right? And so that shared affection and loyalty and love we are to experience inside of the church. should be real, should show up in different ways. It will be threatening, but I also hope it's not just scary. It's inviting. And it should be inviting The church is the first place where we learn to love our enemies by Lehman and Onesimus. It's where we learn to beat our spears into plowshares and our swords into pruning hooks Members of Chevrolet Baptist Church, who many of you are involved in politics, if you claim to love politics, but you're not learning to love hospitality and show hospitality and care for one another, you don't know the first thing about politics. Because a true politics starts here, inside of our lives together. Some of you may have heard the story I tell in something I've written About Carlos and Sue. I don't use real names. Carlos. Sue. Z. About how they showed interest in tax policy by inviting a family into their home from a previous church of theirs and helping that family with their taxes and helping them with the mess of the debts and the creditors coming after them. Okay, that was Carlos and Sue showing an interest in tax policy and tax welfare and helping people. with a right politics. Well what about what about the member of this church who has wronged you, like Onesimus wronged Philemon? Do you receive that person as your equal? Do you look for ways to love them and to embrace them? Do you forgive and forbear, or do you harbor hurt and bitterness insisting on payback? Even if it's just the payback of a grudging heart, can't stand them. Notice how Paul doesn't only ask Philemon to receive Onisimus as a brother. Paul offers to pay the debt. He says, charge it to my account. And is Paul not acting like Christ in that? Christ paid the penalty while we were yet sinners. What's Paul doing? Paul's like, I'll pay it. For the sake of unity between these brothers. We should just stop and think. Is there anybody in this church who has offended you? Or do you know of offense between two brothers or sisters in this church? Have you thought of ways you could help pay that debt? absorb it yourself in order to bring peace. I think that's what Paul is calling us. That's why he had the whole church overlook this. Lesson four. This will be brief. Lesson four. Christian fellowship creates obedience. Christian fellowship creates obedience Equality and oneness doesn't leave everyone to act willy-nilly and however they please. It creates obedience first. Christian fellowship incorporates It brings people into the corporate body, receive him as you would receive me. Second, there's a sharing of costs. Charge it to me. Third, there's mutual reliance. I want some benefit. Refresh me, Paul says there. Is this arrogance on Paul's part, or is this an expression of neediness and vulnerability? I need refreshment, the great apostle Paul says. And fourth, as you see in verse 21, there's an expectation of obedience. Confident of your obedience, he says I need to wrap this up. What's the lesson of this sweet little book of Philemon? It is that the gospel is powerful. Gospel is powerful. It actually changes people so they act different. I confess to you, sometimes I look at my own life And I think if things really change, but here's what's helpful for me. Sometimes I I think back to when I became a Christian, probably in my my early 20s, early to mid-20s, and I think about what would the and I want you to do the same Go back to when you became a Christian and ask yourself, what would the trajectory of your life have looked like if you go back to them and then trace the line from there? In my case, that's pretty nasty. I can't imagine if back in my early 20s I hadn't become a Christian and I'd continued on that trajectory. What about you? The gospel changes people. The gospel is powerful. And if you're here this morning as a non-Christian, I wondered if you've discovered yet we cannot really. Change ourselves. We can get fitter, we can get faster, we can learn more things, but what do you have at the end of that? What you have at the end of that is in fact just a Fitter, faster, knowing more things, self-righteous you. Self-justifying you That's all we can really do. Only the gospel can really profoundly change somebody from the inside out. And then the gospel is so powerful that it creates an entire group of people, a community of the people in the grip of that gospel who are capable of standing in opposition to the political economy and power structures of the world. No, we're not going to go that way. We're going to go another way. We're going to go the way of grace. Peace and love. That's what we're going to do. Real love. If you're a non-Christian, please talk to me afterwards if you have questions. And to my fellow Christians. The entire political economy and power structures of the current contemporary world, just as in the Roman world, will turn themselves against us, calling us into unrighteousness. Will we bow the knee Will we follow the world into a sinful partiality towards our own group to sacrificing life? to mindless materialism and consumerism, to calling things love that are not love And we know the problem is not just out there. We know the problem is in here too, as our own hearts want to conspire with all of that. But friends, how refreshed is my heart as I consider what God has done in your hearts How he has given you new hearts. I'm refreshed by that. I trust you're refreshed as well. Let's pray. Father God, we praise you for the gospel. It's coming and saved us, it's forgiven our sins, it's made us right with you, and by your grace, Lord, it's made us right with one another. We pray that you would help us live out that new rightness, that new righteousness, that new love and affection and grace and peace. You give us peace, Lord. Help us to live into that peace. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.