There is in me a deep antipathy towards family portraits. My soul groans a deep guttural groan at the thought of taking family pictures. Leah knows this about me, and so she's learned how to kindly and gently prepare me for family photo sessions. And maybe it's the stage of life that we're in with four kids, seven and under, but I I literally I just can't get excited about spending an hour repeating the same instructions over and over again. Smile. Smile. Smile, that's not a smile. Stand there. Don't move. Stop hitting him. Stop hitting her. Stop hitting them. Get out of the grass. Hey, please, would you just take the picture? It always amazed me though to see the final product, right? Get the card in the mail. Yeah, we don't look that bad after all, considering the madness that was going on in between these pictures being taken. You know, I kid about my antipathy towards family portraits, though. It's not a deep antipathy, only a mild one. Once the experience is over and the portraits come in, I'm always glad we did them because these family photos, these portraits serve as reminders. Reminders of the joy that maybe marked the season of life we were in. Or reminders, perhaps, of the grief and sorrow that marked it. Whether or not they're reminders of a time of joy or grief or something in between, as we look back on family portraits of the past, we should be reminded of how God was at work, always at work. Whether in obvious ways or less obvious ways, to bring about his ultimate purposes I bring up family portraits because today we get a glimpse into an ancient family portrait, not visually, but nonetheless we see who was in this family, what was happening to them. And how God was at work through it all. So I want to encourage you to turn with me to Ruth chapter 4 as we finish out our Advent series through the book of Ruth. In this short book, a great drama has been unfolding that will find its resolution in our passage today. But we should remind ourselves of what we've seen already. In chapter 1, we saw a progression from famine to fullness, the hopelessness of Naomi's circumstances at the beginning of the chapter. The death of her husband and the death of her two sons is replaced by a glimmer of hope at the end of the chapter when she returns with her daughter-in-law Ruth to Bethlehem at the beginning of the barley harvest. That glimmer of hope turns into a ray of hope in chapter two as Ruth ventures out into the to glean in the fields and just so happens. to come upon Boaz's field. We learn that Boaz is a righteous Israelite who not only protects and generously provides for Ruth, but we learn at the end of the chapter, he's also a redeemer in Naomi's family, as chapter two comes to a close, the reader is left wondering, what will ultimately happen to Naomi and Ruth? Was Boaz's generosity a sign of things to come? Will God use Boaz to redeem Naomi and Ruth? And in chapter 3, we find out that he does. Ruth proposes to Boaz, she asks him to redeem her, to which he responds, yes, but Just when the reader thinks that things have turned around for Ruth and Naomi, Boaz tells her there's a catch. There's another Redeemer who, by law has the right to redeem Ruth and Naomi before him. He must be given the option first. Boaz tells Ruth, I will sort this out. first thing in the morning. And that's where chapter three ends. How will this turn out? Will Naomi and Ruth's hopes be dashed by this other man? After all that's happened, will he end up redeeming Naomi and marrying Ruth? As we'll see in chapter four, the answers to those questions are provided. If you're taking notes, I have two points for us today. First, in verses 1 to 12, we see the redemption proceedings. And second, in verses 13 to 22, we see the redemption results. And then we'll consider a few ways that this passage applies to us today. But first, let's look at the redemption proceedings in verses 1 to 12 Follow along as I read the verses for us now, and I want to encourage you to go ahead and keep the Bible open as we're going to be referring to the passage throughout. This is God's Word. Now Boaz had gone up to the gate and sat down there. And behold, the Redeemer, of whom Boaz had spoken, came by. So Boaz said, Turn aside, friend, sit down here. And he turned aside and sat down. And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. So they sat down. Then he said to the Redeemer, Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech. And so I thought I would tell you of it and say, buy it in the presence of those sitting here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not, tell me, that I may know For there is no one besides you to redeem it, and I come after you. And he said, I will redeem it. Then Boaz said, The day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth the Moabite, the widow of the dead, in order to protect perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance. Then the Redeemer said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I impair my own inheritance. Take my right of redemption yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Now this was the custom in former times in Israel, concerning redeeming and exchanging. To confirm a transaction, the one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other. And this was the manner of attesting in Israel So when the Redeemer said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself, he drew off his sandal. Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the hand of Naomi all that belong to Elimelech and all that belong to Kilion and to Malon Also Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Malon, I have bought to be my wife, to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance That the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day. Then all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel May you act worthily in Ephraitha and be renowned in Bethlehem, and may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring that the Lord will give you by this young woman. At the end of chapter 3, after Ruth returned home from her visit with Boaz and told Naomi about the complications regarding this other Redeemer. Naomi tells her not to worry that Boaz won't rest until the matter had been settled. And we see right at the beginning of chapter 4 that Boaz doesn't rest. He wastes no time at all resolving Naomi and Ruth's redemption. I want you to look down at verses 1 and 2 with me. As soon as the day begins, Boaz makes his way to the city gates. In ancient times, uh the city gates were a place where people gathered and when could would conduct business, so this was a normal place for him to work out the matter regarding the redemption. And so we see here that that's what Boaz is doing. He goes up to the city gates and he waits there. And at least the way that the author has portrayed it, immediately it just so happens that the Redeemer. The other man walks by. So you see there, Boaz calls out to him. Most modern translations use the word friend when Boaz calls out to him, but a better rendering is. Hey so-and-so, hey, hey, hey, such and such, hey, hey buddy. It's not as much a matter of acquaintance, friendship, like hey man, we're friends, come on over here. It's more of just a throwaway word in the Hebrew. Hey, hey, such and such, hey so-and-so. Hey buddy, come on over here We're not actually told the man's name, which is odd because the author goes to great pains throughout the book to name people. Well, the man comes over and sits down. Then Boaz gathers elders from the town to act as witnesses to the redemption process, and then they begin. Now, we've talked about this in weeks past, but it's really good to remind ourselves of what's going on here. In Old Testament Israel, God gave specific laws to govern the process of redemption. He made provisions in the law for redemption and redeemers to ensure that widows and especially childless widows continued to share in the old covenant blessings of land and family. If a woman became a widow, it was the deceased husband's brother's duty to marry her. In doing so, he would bring her under his protection. And she would be provided for. He would provide the food from his lands, and he would also provide children, offspring Whatever was his became hers, and whatever was hers became his. And in this cultural context, both protection and provision were matters of life and death for widows. So the role of a redeemer and the process of redemption was an extremely port and an important one and an important one for Ruth and Naomi. Without a redeemer to protect and provide, the widow's life was essentially in danger. But worse than that, she was seemingly cut off from God's covenant blessings of land and family. And so to redeem a woman, to redeem a widow was an honorable thing to do. It was a way to sacrifice a portion of one's own inheritance to ensure that another person would share in God's covenant blessings of land and family. And so in verse 3 and following, Boaz tells the man about Naomi's situation and about his place in the pecking order of redemption. And after hearing what Boaz has to say, the man says at the end of verse 4, I will redeem it. If you're reading through the book of Ruth as a whole, which we are just not, we don't have the time to do today, this is soap opera-worthy drama. Right? We have no idea if Naomi or Ruth are here, but if they are standing around watching what is transpiring, you can imagine how much of a gut punch this would have been to both of them It's Boaz who has been righteous in his behavior. It's Boaz who has been generous to them. It is Boaz who has been Upstanding in every way. Their hopes are set on Boaz, and then out of nowhere, Mr. So-and-so, Mr. Such and Such random buddy comes along and he wants to step in and take Boaz's place. You can think they're thinking to themselves, oh no, is it slipping away from us now? Our hopes were set on Boaz. But luckily, Boaz isn't done There's a stipulation. Perhaps he held this bit of information back because he was a wise negotiator. He tells the man, look down there with me, he tells the man that in redeeming Naomi, he will also acquire Ruth, the Moabite, because she is part of Naomi's family. And as soon as he hears that, he very quickly walks back the choice to redeem. Oh no, no, no, I can't do that. Look at verse 6. Look at the reason that he gives for not redeeming. I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I impair my own inheritance. What's going on here? Why does the inclusion of Ruth cause him to now back out of wanting to redeem Naomi? We need to remember that when he redeems Naomi, all that is his becomes hers, and all that is hers becomes his See, you see, when he agrees to redeem Naomi, he just sees all the benefits of it. I'm gonna get Naomi's land, possibly doubling my own wealth, and I'll have to give up almost nothing for it Naomi's past the age of having children, so I won't have to provide a child for her, nor will I have to feed that child and raise it up and all the costs associated with it But with Ruth as part of the deal, he now recognizes that he'll not only have another mouth to feed, Ruth. But likely many mouths to fre feed, because she is able to bear children. Since Ruth was still at the age where she could have children, he would have to raise up her children, and according to Jewish law, a portion of his inheritance Would now pass to the children that he had with Ruth. They would get some of his inheritance. I don't want to impair my inheritance by having children with her, so I'm going to forsake redeeming them entirely. What seemed like a golden opportunity to do the noble work of redemption now appears to have all sorts of costs associated with it. And he quickly does the calculus on it, sees that he won't benefit from it, and backs out That's what's going on here. And in verses 7 and 8, we learn about the ancient custom of taking a sandal off to confirm a transaction. Now we we have handshakes or signed paperwork. They took off a sandal. Then in verse 9, Boaz calls upon the witnesses to attest to the redemption, and they respond in verses 11 and 12, we are witnesses. What are we to make of this man, though, apart from the fact that he tells us he doesn't want to impair his own inheritance? So I think it's important for us to look at some of the background laws. in Israel on matters of redemption. In Deuteronomy chapter 25, we find that the law specifically says that if a man will not redeem one of a woman a widow from his own family The woman is to walk up to him and spit in his face because he's failing to take care of a woman from his own family, failing to bring her under his protection and provide for her, and so share with her God's covenant blessings for his people. So we see this man is cast in a really poor light. Doesn't want to impair his own inheritance for the sake of sharing Yahweh's covenant blessings with another. Well, they they ratify the decision. The man takes off his sandal, hands it to Boaz. Boaz calls upon the witnesses to attest to the redemption. And so they respond in verses 11 and 12. We are witnesses. And then you see there that they bless Ruth and Boaz. They pray that God would make Ruth like Rachel and Leah. This is a significant prayer. Rachel and Leah were the matriarchs of Israel. These are the two women from whom the nation of Israel came into existence And so they're praying that Ruth would have as important a role as them in building the nation of Israel. They pray also for Boaz to continue in his worthy ways. That he would grow in renown in Bethlehem, and that his house will become like the house of Perez, that is the chosen son of Tamar and Judah. And whether the witnesses knew it or not. Their prayer was a prophetic prayer. We see in our passage that nine months later their prayer is already coming to, which brings us to point two: the redemption results. the redemption results. I want you to follow along as I read verses 13 to 22 for us. So Boaz took Ruth And she became his wife. And he went into her. And the Lord gave her conception. And she bore a son. Then the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, who has not left you this day without a redeemer, and may his name be renowned in Israel He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to him Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her lap and became his nurse. And the women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, A son has been born to Naomi He named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, father of David. Now these are the generations of Perez. Perez fathered Hezron. Hezron fathered Ram. Ram fathered Aminadab. Aminadab fathered Nashon. Nashan fathered Salmon. Salmon fathered Boaz. Boaz fathered Obed. Obed fathered Jesse, and Jesse fathered David. Well, if you look at verse 13, it appears that nine months after the redemption was finalized, Boaz and Ruth had a son. The women of the town learn of the child's birth and respond with a blessing. Two things really come into focus here at the close of the book. The first is the way that the prophetic prayer of the witnesses comes true. Not just that Ruth would have a child, which they prayed for, but that she would be like Rachel and Leah. That she would give birth to children who are as significant in Israel as their twelve sons were. And we can't miss the author's emphasis on just how significant Ruth becomes. From Ruth eventually comes David. King David, the greatest king in Israel's history. The one to whom God promised to give an eternal throne to one of his descendants. Two different times the author mentions David. He's literally the last word of the book. Boaz's redemption of Ruth Leads to the birth of the greatest king in Israel's history, to the continuing of the building of the house of Israel through him. But that's not all his redemption of Ruth results in. That's really the second thing that comes into focus here at the close of the book. I want you to carefully notice who else the focus is on. The focus isn't on Ruth, nor is it on Boaz. The focus here at the close of the book is on Naomi. The story has come full circle. Remember in chapter one, the story began with Naomi's lament. I went away full. But the Lord has brought me back empty. But even though he brought her back to Bethlehem empty, we see that the Lord who brought Naomi back empty didn't intend for her to remain empty. He has filled her emptiness with a child. But how specifically did God fill Naomi's emptiness He did it by providing a righteous redeemer. But not only that, what do we learn in chapter 4 about this Redeemer That he was willing to sacrifice his own inheritance to fill Naomi's emptiness. That is the point of the contrast between Boaz and the Nameless Redeemer. He was unwilling to sacrifice his own inheritance. For the good of Naomi and Ruth, so that they could share in Yahweh's covenant blessings. He was too worried about himself and his future to lay down his life for them. But Boaz, a man of great wealth and great standing, he has fields, he has employees, he has a lot to lose doesn't think twice about redeeming them. He is resolved to sacrifice his own goods, his own wealth, his own inheritance so that they could have an inheritance of his own. Do you see when Boaz turns to the witnesses of around him, why does he say that he's doing it? He is not doing it for his own good He is doing it in order that the name of the widow and the name of the dead might be perpetuated in Israel. His concerns are solely about them and the extension of their family name in Israel. Because to be cut off from having family, to be cut off from the land, to be left a widow and childless was as good as being cursed by God Himself. And through Boaz's sacrifice of his own goods for the sake of pouring into them and bringing them back into the covenant, they now are experiencing God's blessings of life under God's covenant blessings. Through his sacrificial love, Boaz gave Naomi and Ruth a new family The family portrait at the end of chapter one of grief and loss, a family portrait that included only Naomi and Ruth after the book begins with Naomi, her husband Elimelech, and her sons Malon and Kileon, they are now dead. You can imagine the grief of that family portrait. She comes back into Bethlehem saying she's completely empty, and all she has standing next to her is her Moabite daughter-in-law Ruth That family portrait of grief and loss has been replaced by a new family portrait of Naomi and Ruth. And Boaz and Obed. But the author also wants us to see that they are now members in a much larger family And a much greater story. One that is bursting at the scenes with hope and joy. That's the point of the genealogy at the end. To show how God worked in mysterious ways through grief and loss, through suffering, to weave Naomi and Ruth into his grand story of redemption, a redemption foreshadowed in their own lives. And in their own story, and in a redemption that would occur when great David's greater son, the Lord Jesus Christ, the true King of Israel and the one Redeemer of mankind, paid the ultimate price. The price of his very own life in order to redeem his people from the curse of sin, so that they might share in the blessings of the new covenant Now, friends, if you are here and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I hope you see the depth of God's love and mercy towards you in Christ. God shows his love for us in this. While we were still sinners, when we had nothing to offer God, Christ died for us. He took the penalty that you and I deserved. He paid the price that none of us can pay in order to secure our redemption. And it's a redemption that he offers to you today. But to receive that redemption, to be forgiven of your sins and brought into God's family, you and I need to repent. That means to turn around. Turn away from running your own life. Turn around from living for yourself. Recognize that you've sinned against God and that only God can forgive you. And that he does freely and willingly, graciously. He runs to those who come to him. That is our God And you don't want to make the choice that this man made. You can consider what is going on here. Consider the depth of what is going on here when you consider the scope of redemption history. This man essentially chose to enjoy the riches of this life rather than the riches of being brought into God's family and think about what he missed out on. He forfeited the right to forever forego being named in the genealogy of Jesus Christ Do you see that the prayer for the people is to let Boaz's name be renowned because Boaz laid down his life? This man unwittingly passed up an opportunity to have his name named in the genealogy of the Messiah forever. Because he chose my own inheritance. I gotta worry about my own riches here. It's too great a cost for me to I I can't see the calculus in it. What's in it for me? Don't make that decision. That's why the author leaves him nameless. This author surely could have named this man. He's named everyone else in the book. But he is so and so, such and such, the man who will forever remain nameless. In choosing this world over God, he essentially ends up nameless forever. We don't want to make that mistake Friend, don't make that mistake. The riches of this life are not worthy to compare with the riches of knowing God through his Son. And the riches of the inheritance that await all who forsake in this world to follow him. There's something also, though, for Christians to consider in this as well, especially when it comes to sharing the gospel. Think about what's going on here. This man was unwilling to pay the price that would have enabled a fellow Israelite to share in the covenant blessings. I wonder how we might be like that in our evangelism. Maybe we don't want to bear the social cost of being looked upon like a religious zealot for sharing the gospel. Maybe we don't want to bear the cost to go out of our comfort, to go out of our way, to love and serve others in order to create a context to share about Christ. When we do this, We're more like the unnamed Redeemer than we are like Boaz or like Jesus. He laid down the pattern of self-sacrificial love, dying to self for the sake of others Counting their eternal good as more valuable than his own reputation or comfort. I wonder what ways you might be doing that in your life. I know as I look at my life, I'm certainly guilty of it. Something I'm asking God for help with regularly. Lord, please give me a desire to break out of my own comfort zone, a desire to share with others the fact that you have sent a redeemer into the world. But so often I'm like, ah I just can't see the calculus of it. It's so much easier to keep doing what I'm doing. I wonder if you feel that way like in your own life. When we do this, we're more like that unnamed Redeemer than we are like Christ. We should consider leaning into the Lord and asking him for strength, to lay down our own desires, to count the cost, to pay the price for the good of others. We should be willing to give up all to follow Jesus because God has promised that those who leave houses and brothers and sisters and fathers and mothers for the sake of the gospel will receive in this life a hundred times what they lost. and in the age to come, eternal life. I want you to see how Ruth is an example of this. What do we learn about her in chapter 1? She left her father and mother. She left her homeland. She left all that she had to be devoted to Yahweh. And what did God give her? A home, a husband, a child. He replaced all that she lost. Friends, when you stand in heaven, when you and I stand in heaven in the presence of Christ and the fellowship of his church, And you look back on this life, you can be certain that there won't be anything in this world that you wish you held on tighter to. When we choose to let go of this world, God doesn't leave our hands empty. He fills it with more of himself. God's intention is to bless his people with an abundant fullness. What did Jesus say? I came to have life. And life for the I came that they might have life and have it abundantly. If you've put your trust in Jesus, you won't be left empty-handed in the end. Though Naomi's story began quite tragically, it didn't end that way. It started with emptiness. But it ended with fullness. The fullness of a son, whom she had lost in the beginning. The fullness of a husband who had redeemed her, which she had lost in the beginning. A complete reversal of fortunes. God intends to do the same for you if you are in Christ. Not the fullness of health and wealth and living for yourself, which on their own are empty vessels But the fullness of knowing him, of dwelling with him, of being brought into his family, because of Jesus' resurrection, your sadness will one day be turned to joy. Your weeping will one day turn to laughter. And your emptiness will one day turn fullness. We need to remember. In redeeming us, whatever is his becomes ours, and whatever is ours becomes his All that we brought to the table was our sin, dead and trespasses. But he gladly took our sins upon himself Bearing them away for eternity on the cross, so that we could have all that is his. His righteousness. His favor with the Father, his promised inheritance, and his family. We look forward to the day when we gather for that final family portrait around our Redeemer and King. I don't know about you, but that's a family portrait that I can't wait to participate in. It's gone. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for sending a Redeemer into the world. When Christ was born, salvation came Light came into the darkness. Hope pierced the sorrow. The weary world rejoices We rejoice, even in the midst of our weeping. We rejoice because you have given us an inheritance that is unfathomable. Thank you for bringing us into your family. Thank you for calling us your children. We did nothing to deserve it We attribute it wholly to your grace and mercy towards us. Help us now to get outside of ourselves And to seek to lay down our lives for the good of others and to call others to share in that same inheritance, whatever the cost is for us. We pray this all in the matchless name of Jesus Christ. Amen.