Friends, would you join me one more time in prayer before we open up God's word? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, the Lord Jesus said that you sent the Spirit into the world to convict the world of sin. Teach the world of righteousness. Show the world the glory, faithfulness of your Son, Jesus Christ. Lord, our desire this morning is for those things to happen by the power of the Spirit. Lord, we pray that you would convict us of sin. Show us that Jesus Christ is the great Redeemer and that if we turn to Him in faith and repentance today, that you will accept us fully and completely, that you will forgive us of all our sins and draw us to yourself so that we might have an eternal. And heavenly hope today. We pray that this would happen by the power of the Spirit. In Jesus' name, Amen Charles Simeon was the pastor of Holy Trinity Church in Cambridge, England, where he served faithfully for 49 years. And by the end of his ministry, the services at Holy Trinity Church were quite crowded. But it's also the case that Simeon's ministry did not start off on a promising Note. At the age of 23, Simeon became a curate at Holy Trinity Church. A curate basically means that he was an assistant pastor. That would be uh the the term used in that church for an assistant pastor Simeon himself was thrilled by the opportunity he received, but the congregation was less than thrilled at his appointment. The first thing that the congregation did to rebel against him and show him how not thrilled that they were about his appointment was to refuse to let him preach the Sunday afternoon service, which was a main function of his role as the curate. The congregation had the power to pick who preached that afternoon service, and for five years, they chose Simeon's assistant It would be like a church choosing, no, we want your pastoral assistant to preach a service. It would be like the church choosing Mike to come up and preach. John, we don't want you. We want Mike. There'd be nothing wrong with that, Mike. You would be quite happy about that Right? But for five years they picked his assistant to preach the Sunday afternoon service instead of him. Then, after the assistant left the church, they gave the role to another man in the church for an additional Seven years. Imagine serving a church for 12 years. A church that was so resistant to your leadership that for 12 years they refused to let you preach So what did Simeon do? He was like, hey, I gotta preach somehow. So he started an evening service that many people in the town of Cambridge wanted to come to, but the church was so opposed to that That they would lock the doors to the church so that people couldn't get in. Simeon had to call a locksmith at one point to come and unlock the doors, but after it kept happening, Simeon basically gave up and got rid of the evening service That's not all. That wasn't all. Simeon tried what when Simeon was scheduled to preach on Sunday mornings, the church members would lock the doors to the pews. So in these churches in England and elsewhere in the world, some of these older churches The pews had doors on them that could be locked and unlocked. And so the members of the church locked the pew doors so that people couldn't sit in the pews. So what did Simeon do? He set up chairs in the aisles and the corners of the church. But what did the members do? They said, nu-uh. They came in. They took the chairs out of the aisles and the corners. and chucked them into the churchyard. This lasted for 12 years. Oh, can you imagine trying to faithfully serve a church for 12 years only to endure constant opposition from the very people you're trying to serve. What would you have done if you were in Simeon Chews? I can tell you what I would have done. I would have been out of there. Way earlier than 12 years, you know, if if you were seeking to be faithful, but everywhere you turned, you encountered only faithlessness. It's an important question for us to consider as we come to our passage this morning because what we find in the account that we're studying this morning is that it's a story of great faithfulness in the midst of great faithlessness. Yet in our passage, it's not Charles Simeon who is the faithful one in the midst of faithlessness. It's Jesus who is faithful in the midst of his faithless disciples. So I'm going to invite you to open to your Bible to Mark 14 Chapter 14, verses 12 to 31. If you haven't done so already, you can find the passage on pages 850 to 851. You can go ahead and turn there. I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage for us now. I just realized I made a massive mistake. We usually uh uh have a member of the church come up and read the passage for us, and I totally cut them off. Christine, I am so sorry I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage for us now. If you're sitting here wondering, hey, we normally have somebody read the passage for us. I totally short-circuited that. Well, we're gonna keep on going. So sorry, Christine. Chapter 14, verses 12 to 31 is the passage that we're studying this morning. I'm going to go ahead and read that for us now. And let's consider Christ's faithfulness in the midst of faithlessness. On the first day of unleavened bread, and when they sacrificed the Passover lamb His disciples said to him, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, The teacher says, Where is my guest room? where I may eat the Passover with my disciples. And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. There prepare for us. And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them. And they prepared the Passover. And when it was evening, he came with the twelve. And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. They began to be sorrowful and say to him one after the other, Is it I? He said to them, It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me. For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. I would have been it would have been better for that man if he had not been born. And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And Jesus said to them, You will all fall away, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, I will not. And Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. But he said emphatically, if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same. What do we see in our passage this morning? We see that Jesus is surrounded by faithless disciples. But even though he's surrounded by faithless disciples, he remains faithful to them. And those are going to be our two points this morning for those of you taking notes Point one, first, Jesus is surrounded by faithless disciples. And second, point two, Jesus remains faithful to his disciples. So first, Jesus is surrounded by faithless disciples. Let's look at verses 12 to 16 briefly because these verses really just set the stage for the remaining verses. Go ahead and look down there with me. In verse 12. We see that it's the first day of unleavened bread when they sacrificed the Passover lamb. The Feast of Unleavened Bread was a seven-day celebration that began, that first day began with the Passover meal. So the disciples ask Jesus where they're going to celebrate the Passover. And then in verses 13 to 15, if you just let your eyes fall over those verses, Jesus tells them to go into the city of Jerusalem, because they're out in the town of Bethany. There he says he'll find a man carrying a jar of water. They're to follow that man to the house that he enters, and then the house that he enters, they're to ask the master of that house where Jesus and his disciples could celebrate the Passover. And if you look at verse 16, you see the disciples go and they find everything just as Jesus said it would be, and they prepare for the Passover celebration. Then in verse 17, we see that evening has come. So all of that that just happened happened during the day. Verse 17, we see that evening has come. And Jesus arise at the home with his 12 disciples to celebrate the Passover. The Passover was the most important holiday in the Jewish calendar because it memorialized God's rescue of Israel out of slavery in Egypt. And as you would expect on such an important holiday, families would gather together to celebrate the meal and remember God's faithfulness. to his people. And what we see going on in verse 17 is that Jesus is gathering together with what has become his spiritual family, these 12 disciples. But what we find as we continue reading the passage is that Jesus' disciples are faithless. Jesus is surrounded by faithless disciples. What should have been a celebratory meal to recount God's faithfulness is instead a meal that is marked by betrayal and sorrow. Look at verse 18. They begin celebrating the meal. There were different stages and courses to the Passover meal. They begin celebrating it as as they were reclining at the table and eating, Jesus says to the his disciples, his his spiritual family, truly, I say to you. One of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. Then look again at verse 20. He says, it is one of the twelve. One who is dipping bread into the dish with me. Jesus is driving home by repeating it's one of you It's one of you, one of you who is eating with me. He's driving home the terrible reality that one of his very own followers would be guilty of carrying out this betrayal that he has for so long predicted would lead to his very own death. And to underscore how treacherous this betrayal was, Jesus emphasizes that this person eats with him. Right? To eat a meal with someone was much more significant in Jewish culture. than in ours. It was evidence of peace, of trust, of fellowship, of unity. So to be guilty of betraying the very person providing the meal that you're participating in The very person that you're dipping bread into the dish with to betray that person is a terrible form of treachery I mean I'm trying I was trying to think about ways to to draw an analogy in our culture. I just don't know what it would be it would be like having a ver one of your very own beloved family members Stab you in the back in the worst possible way. You know that feeling where you just have the wind sucked out of you, right? This is what kind of betrayal this was. You did what to me Right? I mean this is a spiritual form of adultery. It's that terrible. Now you might be thinking, yeah, but John, Jesus says it's only one disciple who would betray him. You said Jesus is surrounded by faithless disciples. That's true. I want to just point you to the text and I want you to notice how Mark has structured this passage. Look down there with me In verses 17 to 21, Jesus predicts that one of his disciples will betray him. We just looked at that. Then in verses 22 to 25, Jesus gives to his disciples the very first Lord's Supper, which we're going to see in our second point, is a demonstration of Jesus' great faithfulness in the midst of his faithless disciples. But then in verses 26 to 31 After the supper, after this display of faithfulness, Jesus then predicts that all of his disciples will fall away Mark has intentionally sandwiched Jesus' faithfulness in between predictions of Judas' betrayal and all the disciples falling away to show that all of his disciples are. Faithless Jesus is surrounded by faithlessness. Look at verses 26 and following with me. In verse 26, after dinner, they sing a hymn, and then they walk out to the Mount of Olives just outside of Jerusalem And that's where in verse 27 Jesus makes the shocking statement that all of his disciples will fall away. It's easy to read this because we have read the gospel from, you know, if you've read through the Gospel of Mark before and you're familiar with the Gospel stories, you just kind of know the beginning from the end. Like, yeah, you know that this is going to happen, but you need to feel the weight of this prediction He's saying this to a group of men who have been with him for three years, daily walking with the Messiah. He's saying this to a group of men who have heard him teach over and over again, who have received personal, private instruction. Remember the parables? Hey, what did that parable mean? Jesus is like, hey, I'm gonna give you the the true meaning of this. Not everyone's going to get it. He gives them personal, private instruction. He's saying this to a group of men who have seen him work countless miracles. and healings and exorcisms, who have seen him control the forces of nature, who've seen him raise people from the dead, and not one of them will be faithful to him. They will all fall away. And none of them, when we look at the passage, none of them thought that they were faithless. Look at verse 29. Peter's appalled by Jesus' prediction. I would never they might all fall away, but not me, right? Hey, they're pretty faithless. I've seen them, but not me. I would never deny you. Then in verse 31, Peter says it again. I will die before I deny you. And it's. It's not just Peter. Mark tells us that they all say the same thing. None of them think that they are faithless. None of them think that they will fall away. But their self- Confidence is merely a sign of their self-deception. Their self-confidence is merely a sign of their self-deception. These are the same disciples who constantly misunderstood Jesus' teaching. The same disciples who, having seen Jesus feed 5,000 people with four loaves of bread, then at another feeding of four thousand people said to Jesus, How are you going to do this? Okay, they've seen him work great miracles, and then they just immediately forget his great power. the next time it comes around. They're the same disciples who watch him stop a storm and still can't directly correctly identify this is the Lord of the heavens and the earth They have been faithless for the last three years, but they seem to think wrongly that they are impervious to following away, to falling away. They are self- deceived about the strength of their faith. Friends, what's this lesson for us this morning? We need to see the danger here of self-deception. If I'm talking to a group of Christians, I'm not talking about the fact that you aren't actually a Christian, Christian. If you have repented of your sins and put your faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus is clear. You are secure. You will never be rejected by him. But that does not then mean that you in and of yourself are faithful. Right? We need to be aware of the ways that we deceive ourselves about our own faithfulness or faithlessness. This is a danger that all of us face. All of us in this room, all of us, me included, think that we are more faithful than we actually are. Why is that? Well there were honestly there are all types of reasons that I could give that we could come up with. One reason is because a human heart is desperately wicked and none can know it. Right, Jeremiah says that. We don't assess ourselves rightly, and we never perfectly will in this life because our heart is so messed up. None of us has a right estimation of ourselves. So that's one reason. But you kind of look at reasons in this life that can kind of help to deceive us. Paul Tripp helpfully points out four things. Four things that are prized in our culture that when we have them can easily make us think that we are more faithful than we actually are. What are those things? Knowledge, experience, success, and recognition. Knowledge. Knowledge makes us think that we are more faithful than we are. People who have lots of knowledge think that they have all have it all figured out. Tripp says this. He says, when knowledgeable people look in the mirror, they see someone with a powerful brain that rarely needs help. And if you don't need help, then you don't need faith, meaning you are faithless. Experience makes us think that we are more faithful than we are. The experience The experienced person thinks that because they've been around the block a few times, they've seen it all, don't have anything left to learn, forgetting that all of us are spiritually immature throughout the entirety of our life and in every area of life can always continue growing to become more like Christ. Success makes us think that we're more faithful than we are. Successful people equate success with faithfulness, seeing it as a sign that they've done things done things God's way But you could be successful and faithless at the same time, right? Psalm 127, you turn to Psalm 127. And the psalmist says, Unless the Lord builds a house the labor is built in vain. He's not saying that the Lord has to come down and and put the sticks in the ground and put the caulking down and the and the drywall on. He's saying, no, you can build a house. But if the Lord isn't with you in it It's worth nothing. Right? So you can be successful and not faithful. Recognition makes us think that we're more faithful than we are. Recognition blinds us to our faithlessness Because we mistake recognition and praise from man with recognition and praise from God. People tell you, hey, you're really smart, you're really good, you've done great things, and you start to think. You're right. I am. I am pretty smart. That thing that I did was awesome. I mean I said that out loud, but that is what is going on in my mind. And there I'm chipping away at the faith that I so desperately need, forgetting that I'm dependent on God for all things. The reality is that the disciples are a picture of all of us. They have been rocking with Jesus for three years. They've got knowledge, they've got experience, they've got success, and they have recognition, and now they think that there is no way that they would fall away But they haven't paid close attention to the rampant faithlessness evidenced in their lives. What about you? What about you? The Apostle Paul says that none of us should think of ourselves more highly than we ought, but should think of ourselves with sober judgment. When was the last time you soberly assessed not only what was going on in your heart, but what was coming out of your mouth and the actions that you were doing with your hands? When was the last time you soberly assessed that? And what did they say? What did those things say about your faithfulness? We can even drill down and think of specifics. For instance, what does your prayer life say about your faithfulness? Michael Reeves said this about prayer. Your prayer life is disgustingly revealing. It does reveal who you really are. For all your talk and theory of faith You can affirm the truth of prayer and know that God is good. Your prayer life reveals how much you really want communion with God and how much you really depend on Him. I stress it does not tell you about your security as an unrejectable child of God, but it does tell you very accurately how much of a baby you are spiritually, how much of a hypocrite you are, and how much you actually love the Lord. Thus. If your tendency is to think you're rather wonderful, just remember your prayer life. I read that quote and I was like, oh my gosh. That is me. That is me. Lord, I'm faithful. I'm doing good. John, how much have you prayed this week? Oh my gosh, like hardly at all. Right, prayer is the chief exercise of faith. Shows our dependence on God, belief in God. Relatedly, we show ourselves to be faithless when we stop asking God to soften the hearts of people in our lives Forgetting that God holds the hearts of all mankind in his hand and he can turn them at any time that he wants. We show ourselves to be faithless when we're unwilling to forgive others Because unforgiveness shows our lack of faith in the fact that God will bring perfect judgment to every sin and every form of injustice. We show ourselves to be faithless when we become angry, impatient, frustrated, or rude because all of these behaviors are the overflow of a heart. That believes it would be happier if the circumstances of life were different than they were, failing to remember that God sovereignly ordains every circumstance for our good and to make us more like Christ. We show ourselves to be faithless when we become fearful or anxious about the circumstances we're facing in life, forgetting that God is sovereign over the most terrifying of circumstances and can change the circumstances in our life. in a moment's notice. We also show ourselves to be faithless when we begin to doubt God's love for us when He doesn't remove trials, forgetting that God's faithfulness is often seen not in the removing of trials, but in the bringing of His saints. Through them. Friends, the list of ways that we show ourselves to be faithless is inexhaustible because we never fully overcome faithlessness in this life. We are no different. than the disciples. Jesus was surrounded by faithlessness then, and he is surrounded by faithlessness now. He says, wherever two or three are gathered in my name, there I am with him. He is here with us today, and do you know what he's surrounded by? Faithless disciples. But the great encouragement and comfort for us today is that Jesus is faithful to faithless disciples And that's what we're going to look at in point two. Jesus is faithful to his faithless disciples. Where do we see his faithfulness to us? Well, to answer that question, I think we first need to understand something about the Passover meal that Jesus and his disciples were celebrating. If we don't understand the Passover meal rightly, we're not going to understand or see the full import of what's going on here and how wonderfully faithful Jesus is to all of us. So I want to open this question up for some of the kids here. Can any of the youth tell me why the Jews celebrated the Passover? What was that event named for? Can any of you tell me? Yeah. Yeah, so God brought God predicted that he was going to bring judgment on Egypt and he was going to strike down the firstborn child of every of every family And he told to the to the Israelites that I would protect that he would protect them from that uh judgment, right? That would be the Passover, right? Now We've said that God did not strike down the firstborn children of the Israelites, right? What did God tell them to do in order to protect themselves from the coming judgment? Kids. Again, what did God tell them to do in order to protect themselves from the coming judgment? Lois That's exactly right. They were to take a spotless, perfect lamb They were to sacrifice it and they were to take some of the blood of that spotless lamb and put it on the top of the doorpost and on the sides of the doorpost. so that the the doorpost would be covered in the blood of the spotless lamb. And when God saw the blood of the spotless lamb, he would pass over the houses of the Israelites. They would be protected From God's judgment because of the blood of the spotless lamb. Now to the youth again, I got another question for you. I'm just gonna keep firing off at you. To the youth again, what were the Israelites supposed to do with the lamb that they sacrificed? I wanna I'm gonna look I'm gonna be looking around. What were they supposed to do after they took the blood and wiped it on the arms? What were they supposed to do with the lamb that they sacrificed? Okay, look. Close. Not burn it. Does anyone else want to do else? Anyone else want to unless by burning you mean cooking Maybe. That's what I mean when I mean cooking. I burn things, right? Yeah, well we'll take that as the right answer, Caleb. They were supposed to take the lamb that they had sacrificed, the blood that they had taken from that lamb that protects them from God's judgment. They were supposed to take that lamb, roast it, and eat it together in a meal with unleavened bread that had been mixed With bitter herbs. This was the meal that they ate on the very night when God would deliver them out of slavery in Egypt. He would bring them into the wilderness, and he would make his covenant with them. This meal of roasted lamb and unleavened bread mixed with bitter herbs is the meal that Jesus and his disciples were celebrating. It was Was the Passover. They were doing it in remembrance of God's faithfulness to pass over the Israelites because they were covered by the blood of the spotless sea. But when we look at the passage, we also have to notice that there's something distinctly different about this meal. It's clear that this isn't actually the Passover meal, not at least as it was instructed by God. Remember, what was the main course of the Passover meal? Roasted lamb, roasted lamb. Now I want you to look at verses 22 to 25. I want you to look at verses 22 to 25. Do you see roasted lamb mentioned anywhere in the passage? Shout it out. No, why do you not see roasted lamb anywhere in the passage? Because the lamb is sitting there with them. feeding the meal to them. He is the spotless Lamb of God that is sitting among them and is now giving instructions for a new meal, pointing to a greater deliverance, pointing to a new covenant, pointing to a new hope that isn't dependent on our faithfulness. Because we are faithless, but is dependent on God's faithfulness to us. And that is what Jesus is establishing with them. Remember, what did John the Baptist say about Jesus when he first saw him? Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. They are no longer celebrating the Passover because in Jesus Christ God is bringing about a new deliverance. And to symbolize a new deliverance, you need a new meal to teach people about this new covenant that He is establishing. The Passover meal, celebrating God's passing over the Israelites and delivering them out, as Jay already said in his prayer, is a shadow and a type pointing forward to this greater meal, the Lord's. Supper when God would deliver his people out of spiritual slavery by the blood of Jesus Christ, who Paul says is our Passover Lamb. And how would he do that? How would he deliver us? Look at the meal. Look at verse 22. As they were eating, he took bread and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them and said, Take This is my body. The bread representing Jesus' body was broken And given to his disciples, pointing forward to the brutal beating and death he would suffer on the cross when his body would be broken for the sins of his people to pay for their sins. Now, verses 23 and 24. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank of it And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. The wine given to his disciples represents his blood It represents his blood that would be poured out for his people when he would be nailed to the cross for them And that death on the cross, when his body would be broken and his blood would be poured out, would be the foundation of a new Covenant, just as the Passover meal symbolize God's covenant with the people of Israel, the Mosaic covenant, so the Lord's Supper symbolizes good God's covenant with his chosen and redeemed people. And what is so important for us to recognize today Is how much greater the new covenant that God has established with us through his son is than the old covenant. We could sit here for an hour and come up with reason after reason why the new covenant is greater. than the old. But the reason I want us to meditate on this morning is that the new covenant is greater than the old because the covenant God established with Israel was dependent on their faithfulness to his command. But the covenant he has established with us isn't dependent on our faithfulness to him, but his faithfulness to us. Our sins cannot separate us from God because God would have to deny the perfect work of his son Jesus. He would have to deny the perfect life that Jesus lived on our behalf. He would have to deny the perfect death he died in our place. He would have to deny Jesus' resurrection from the dead when his sacrifice would accept was accepted He would have to deny Jesus' ascension into heaven. He would have to tell Jesus, our high priest, to get off the throne that he sat down on. And when was the only time that priests were allowed to sit down? After they had finished the work of atonement, Jesus finished the work of atonement and sat down on the throne. It is finished. Your faithlessness in this life will not separate you from God if he has set his electing and saving love upon you. You may be saying, you may be saying, John, that's great, but you have no idea. You have no idea the ways that I've sinned this past week You're right. I don't know the ways that you've sinned this past week. But God does. And he knew about them before they happened. Do you notice how clearly Mark emphasizes that Jesus knows all things throughout the passage? Look at verses 13 to 15 again. As I was studying this passage, all I could think about was the passage from Genesis. uh when the s Abraham sent his servant to find uh a wife for his son Isaac and she was gonna come to a well of water and she would say certain things and that would be the sign that this was the woman that Isaac would marry. And here Jesus is Jesus is not sending a servant. He's the one telling them, this is who you should look for. This is the person you should look for. A person carrying a jar of water on their head. You're gonna follow that person. You're gonna say to the master of the house that uh prepare this the supper for the teacher, and it's all going to happen. And what does Mark want us to know in verses in verse 16? They found it just as he had told them. He knew all things that would happen. Mark is just emphasizing this. He continues to emphasize it. Verses 17 to 21. Jesus predicts. One of you will betray me. Then at verses 25, 26, and following, Jesus predicts all of you will fall away. He knows that all of his disciples will fall away before they actually do. Just think about the way the passage even unfolds. He celebrates the dinner with them before he tells them that they'll fall away. He knows that they're going to abandon him, and yet he still faithfully gives himself to them in love to save them from their sins. He knew that they would fall away when he called them to follow him in the first place three years earlier. He knew that they would fall away before they ever existed because his knowledge of them Stretches back into eternity past. Your sins and mine do not surprise him, nor will they cause him to cease loving you. He never began to love the disciples Think about this. One of the my favorite quotes on this, I heard this past week, it just blew my mind when I was actually thinking about it. Gearhardtus Voss was asked. This is a guy who's a theologian uh a while back, I don't know exactly when, maybe a hundred years ago or so. He was asked how he knew that God would never stop loving him. And you know what he replied? You know what he replied The best proof that God will never cease to love me lies in the fact that he never began. God never started loving you. He has always known you. His knowledge is infinite and eternal. How do I wrap my mind around this? I don't know, but I know. That he never started loving you. He has always loved you, will always love you. Eternity past, into eternity future, your sins will not separate you from God if you've repented and put your trust in him. Even when we are faithless, he remains faithful. But you may say, John, you don't know how much I've sinned and how great my sins are. Well, you're right, I probably don't, but I don't need to know how great your sins are to tell you with absolute certainty that no amount of faithlessness on your part will ever cause God to turn away from being faithful to you. Richard Sims said this, there is more mercy in Christ than sin in us. His mercy will cover over a multitude of sins. A multitude of sins, many sins, many stumbles, many falls. Just look at the passage with me. Look at the passage with me. Look again at verse 22. So much great and beautiful theology has kind of grown up around the Lord's Supper. So many creeds and confessions state so beautifully what is happening in the Lord's Supper. But I want you put all that knowledge and all that good stuff in a box and remove it from your mind. And just think about Mark's gospel. Look at verse 22. Jesus took bread And after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them. Where have you seen this happen twice already in Mark's gospel? Where have you seen this happen? He took bread, he blessed it, he broke it, and he gave it to them. And he kept on giving the miraculous feedings. What Mark wants you to think is, oh my gosh, Jesus is doing the same thing with this bread that represents his body that he did. in the miraculous feedings when he fed five thousand people with five loaves of bread and four thousand people with seven loaves of bread. In each of those accounts he took the bread He blessed the bread. He broke the bread. And he gave the bread. And Mark says he kept on giving. He kept on giving. What does this mean for you today? In the same way that Christ multiplied physical bread for people who were hungry, he will multiply spiritual bread for you to nourish you and cover all of your sins. Friends, the mercies of God are new every day. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your Faithfulness. God is faithful to a faithless people. Every time you stumble in sin, he says to you, take, eat. Take. Drink. This is my body. This is my blood. This is very much my very life given for you. That was poured out for you. Take my spiritual life into you. Even though Jesus was surrounded by faithless disciples in our passage, he would remain faithful to them. He would remain faithful to God and go to the cross to pay for the sins of all who would repent and believe in him. And just as he's surrounded by us faithless disciples today, he remains faithful to his task. Faithful to his task of building the church Faithful to his task of shepherding the church, faithful to his task of defending the church, and he will remain faithful to the end. Jesus Christ will be faithful to carry out all that he has promised in spite of our faithlessness, which means, which means. We can look forward to another greater deliverance and another greater meal than even the Lord's Supper. See that promise in our passage, don't we? Look at verse 25. Jesus promises that he will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. There is a day coming when Jesus will be faithful to return to gather his church. and bring them to the place where he's prepared for them. And they will celebrate not the Passover and not the Lord's Supper, but the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he will be faithful to carry that promise out. You got any doubt that that will happen? Think about Revelation 19. That awesome picture of Jesus returning on a white horse to defeat Satan and to gather his church. John says, the Apostle John says, the one sitting on the horse is named what? Faithful and true. The one sitting on the for the horse, the Lord Jesus is named, faithful and true. The one who is faithful will one day appear to gather his people. And no amount of faithlessness on our part of his chosen people will prevent that from happening. When we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny. Himself. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are a faithless people. We have sinned in so many different ways, but we rejoice in your faithfulness. We rejoice in your faithfulness to send your Son. Lord Jesus, we rejoice in your faithfulness to carry out the plan that you and the Father and the Spirit agreed together to carry out to redeem us, a lost and ruined people, from the fall. Thank you for your faithfulness and thank you for giving us the Lord's Supper to remember how faithful you are, to remember that you have delivered us from sin, that you have called us to walk in a manner Worthy of the gospel, and that you will come again to gather us. You will be faithful. Impress that upon our hearts by the power of the Spirit this morning. We pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.