Have you ever had someone fail to keep a promise? I'm sure all of us have at some point in life. Unkept promises hurt. And the bigger the promise, the more pain we experience when it's not kept. But the reverse is also true. When a great promise is kept, we experience tremendous joy. Starting around 10 a. m. on January first, eighteen sixty-three, the day the Emancipation Proclamation was supposed to officially go into effect. A largely black organized meeting assembled throughout the day at the magnificent Chimont Temple Baptist Church, Boston Three months earlier, on September 22nd, President Lincoln had announced that he would free the slaves on this day, New Year's Day, if the South did not surrender. But only weeks after his announcement, the anti-emancipation Democrats made sweeping gains over Lincoln's party, the Republicans, in congressional elections Would the president have the courage to keep his commitment when his long-held fear, why he hadn't issued the Emancipation Proclamation before was starting to manifestly show itself, that is, the cost to him politically. Feeding into the doubt, the president kept supporting this plan called colonization For blacks to voluntarily leave the country to places like Liberia and the Caribbean, as if somehow the United States wasn't their country, too. He was doing that even up to the few days right before New Year's. Would the president free the slaves, only then to try and get them to leave the country? Still, hope was palpable that day in Tremont Temple. The crowd swelled to 3,000 people. Peaches, poetry, and singing filled the day as they awaited word from Washington. But a mood of anxiety and doubt seeped into the hall as the afternoon hours gave way to the evening, and still no word. Would the proclamation be changed? Would some truce be reached with the South, a compromise? Would it be delayed without an explanation from Washington? Every moment of waiting chilled our hopes, one attendee recalled years later. Eight, nine, ten o'clock came and went, and still no word. With a visible shadow falling over the crowd, a man, all of a sudden, burst into the room and announced, It's coming! It's on the wires. He was immediately followed by someone who tried to read some portion of the text of the Emancipation Proclamation, but was quickly drowned out by shouting, and quote, a scene wild and grand. Everyone was hugging. An old preacher named Rue stood front and center and led the assembled in the hymn, Blow ye the trumpet blow, and repeated the verse, Jehovah hath triumphed. His people are free. President Lincoln kept his promise after all. As amazing and literally freeing as the Emancipation Proclamation was. We find an even greater promise in our passage this afternoon. And the questions facing us similar to those that faced, similar to those in the fall of 1862. Will this promise be kept? And if so, how? Our pastor is this afternoon is 1 Chronicles chapter 22, verses 9 to 10. I'd encourage you to turn there now. And as you turn, let me give you some context. The books of 1st and 2nd Chronicles were written in roughly the 5th century BC to record the history Of Israel's kings. So 1 Chronicles focuses on the reign of David, which is about 40 years, from 1010 to 970 BC. Second Chronicles then focuses on the reign of Solomon and the kings that would follow him. Most of the three chapters, just before our chapter this afternoon, are about David's victories over Israel's enemies. But in chapter 22, we see a shift where David is preparing Israel for life after he dies. In the first five verses of chapter 22, he does this by gathering manpower and materials together to build the temple. Then in verse 6, David calls his son Solomon to him David knows he's on his way out. He's preparing Solomon to be king. We get this incredible insight into a conversation between a father and a son, the man after God's own heart, with the wisest man that ever lived. We get to peek in and see what the transfer of power looks like. In 22, 9-10, David is actually quoting to his son Solomon what God told David. Through the prophet Nathan back in 2 Samuel 7. So in our passage, it's God speaking to David. God is the first person I, and David is the second person, you. Let's read our passage now. Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies, for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days He shall build a house for my name. He shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish his royal throne in Israel forever. The main point of this passage is that God promises to give his people a son, to whom God will give peace, who will build God a house, and who will reign forever. Well that is going to serve as the outline of the sermon this afternoon. Our three points are: number one, God promises a son to whom God will give peace. Number two, God promises a son who will build God a house. And number three, God promises a son who will reign forever So our first point, God promises a son to whom God will give peace. Whether it's rest, peace, or quiet, verse 9 uses a word to convey peace four times in two sentences. And this promise, of course, came true. After nearly 40 years of nonstop war during David's reign, Solomon's reign from 970 to 931 BC was marked by peace Solomon, when Solomon becomes king, he sends a note to Hiram, king of Tyre, asking for help. Check out how God has already kept his word. It's from 1 Kings 5:4. But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary nor misfortune. Not only is there peace, prosperous peace. God's people are ruled by a king to whom God gave more wisdom than any before or after him. Solomon amassed wealth that was the envy of surrounding nations, and it wasn't just limited to Solomon himself. 1 Kings 4, 24 to 25, describes it like this. He, Solomon, had peace on all sides around him, and Judah and Israel lived in safety, from Dan even to Bersheba. every man under his vine and under his fig tree, all the days of Solomon. The Israelites never had it so good The people of God are in God's place under God's rule. You could argue that this is the high point in all the Old Testament for the Israelites. How did this happen? Our passage gives us two reasons for why Solomon is a man of rest. Number one, God says in verse 9, I will give him rest. Peace was not something that was Solomon's own doing. It was David who conquered the Philistines, Canaanites, Moabites, Ammonites, Arameans, Edomites, and Amalekites. In just under 40 years, David transformed a small kingdom in the central highlands of Judea into a major empire, stretching from the border of Egypt to the lowlands of Mesopotamia But even then, it wasn't as if David deserves all the credit. He was simply God's agent to bring peace. First Chronicles eighteen six And the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went. Reality is, before Solomon ever came to power, the work was done for him by God through David. Solomon got to enjoy peace, but he wasn't why there was peace. It was simply God keeping his promise. The second reason our passage gives for why Solomon is a man of rest seems to be his name. Look with me again at verse 9. I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies, for his name shall be Solomon. Solomon is the Greek version of the original name Shalomo in Hebrew, which is derived from the word shalem, a noun shalom, meaning completeness, peace. The wrong way to understand this is that God gives Solomon peace just because his name derived from peace. Or to put it another way, if only David's name was Solomon, then he could have been a king of peace. Yes, it is a play on words, but the point is to emphasize how Solomon is going to be different from David. David was called to war, and he certainly fulfilled that calling, as we've already seen. Solomon, Paul. We shouldn't interpret David being a man of war as sin either. As if not getting to build God a house was God's punishment for David fighting so many battles. Remember, God wanted David to fight. A few chapters earlier in our passage, 1 Chronicles chapter 14, David actually asked God for permission. What does God say? Well, here's the question. Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my hand? God's response is clear. Go up, and I will give them into your hand. David was obeying God's command to subdue the land. Our second point this afternoon is that God promises a son who will build God a house. In verse 10, we see that God says what the Son will do: He shall build a house for my name. And over the course of the first seven years of his reign, that's exactly what Solomon did. And it's a big point of emphasis for the author of 1 and 2 Chronicles When describing Solomon's reign, he almost entirely focuses on describing the construction and dedication of the temple, God's house. The temple was magnificent, ninety feet long, thirty feet wide, forty-five feet high. It stood in the middle of a courtyard with boundary walls. And if you pay attention to its structure, you can understand its purpose. In the courtyard of the temple, there is this huge bronze altar, 30 feet long and wide, for burnt offerings. There are also ten stands, each holding a large basin for rinsing off animal parts that were used for burnt offerings. The author of Chronicles refers to the temple as a house of sacrifice. That gives you a good idea of the temple's first purpose God's people were to offer sacrifices before Him in order to teach them that blood must be spilled for their sins. There must be atonement. Then there was an inner sanctuary or the most holy place, which was a 30-foot cube overlaid with gold. Inside of it was the Ark of the Covenant placed between two cherubim. This was the place to meet God, the second purpose of the temple. No one was allowed to enter the place except the high priest. And even him, only once a year, he offered the blood of sacrifice. So what's the lesson here? Even in the God-ordained place to meet God, and sin separated him from God Then there's the last promise to David. God promises a son who will reign forever. At the end of verse 10, we see that God will, quote, establish his royal throne in Israel forever. The wording here is really important. Establishing a royal throne forever does not necessarily mean that David's son will himself never die and rule forever. It also doesn't mean that David's descendants would always sit on the throne no matter what. No, God gave David a separate conditional promise in order for David's descendants to sit on the throne Again, back to First Kings, this time chapter two, verse four. David tells Solomon that God said, If your sons take heed to their ways, to walk before me in faithfulness with all their heart and with all their soul There shall not fail you a man on the throne of Israel. The deal was, if your sons want to stay on the throne, then they better follow me. And if they don't follow me, then they won't stay on the throne. That is very much a conditional promise. That is different from what God is promising here. There are no conditions to God establishing his royal throne in Israel forever. If it can't mean that God is promising David will always have a son on the throne, then what does it mean? We should remember when the author who is unknown is writing First Chronicles. It's around 400 BC. Which is over 500 years since Solomon died, and over 100 years after the Israelites returned to Jerusalem from exile in Babylon. Why do I mention this gap in time? Well, those first readers knew that Solomon didn't reign forever. They knew he died just like every other man. They also knew that Solomon's line didn't reign forever. In fact, it didn't even last one generation after Solomon before Israel broke up into two kingdoms. And after Israel broke up into two kingdoms, they also knew that Israelites themselves wouldn't even rule. They were conquered by the Assyrians, Babylonians, Persians. These foreigners would destroy the temple that God promised Solomon would build before allowing the Israelites to rebuild another one. The question those first readers must have had when reading this passage was, what happened to God's promises? Peace was gone. The king was deposed. God's house was destroyed and a shadow of it rebuilt. If there were ever dark days. These were it. Can they trust God? Is he in control anymore? The beautiful truth is that Solomon and the temple were not just foreshadowing what was to come, but were a shadow themselves of the real thing. They were a type. The Gospel of Luke gives us a hint of this when the author notes, quote, something greater than Solomon is here. In the book of Hebrews, where the author's purpose is to show Jesus' superiority over all things, he quotes 1 Chronicles 22:10. When he says, For to which of the angels did God ever say, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son? The author of Hebrews here takes a son from our passage and says, It's about Jesus. This is our proof that this promise to David in 1 Chronicles 22 is ultimately a promise about the Messiah. Yes, verse 9 explicitly references Solomon's name. There is no denying there is application to Solomon here. But it isn't only about Solomon. This promise, also known as the Davidic Covenant, is partially fulfilled by Solomon There was peace for a time in Israel. God did put Solomon on the throne. Solomon did build God a house. But Hebrews tells us God's promise is finally fulfilled by Jesus Christ Himself. How? Well, God's promise was to give David a son, who would build a house, and to whom God would give peace and establish his reign forever. Let's take each of these in turn. Jesus is David's son. Do you ever notice how the book of Matthew starts? Book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David. Right from the very first verse, the author is recognizing the significance of Jesus being descended from the line of David. And for the next 17 verses, we get a description of the genealogy of Christ from Abraham to David to Jesus. Why? Well, at least one of the reasons is that, like the author of Hebrews, the author of Matthew understands that Jesus is the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant, the promise made to David in our passage. Okay, so Matthew 1 clearly shows how Jesus is a son of David. What's next? Jesus didn't just build God's house, he is God's house. Yes, it was wonderful for the Israelites to have God's presence in their midst in the temple. But that physical structure was just a shadow of the one in whom the presence of God was perfectly manifest. The word became flesh and made his dwelling, that is, tabernacled among us, as the Gospel of John. And then in John 2, Jesus is asked for a sign. What does he say? Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The author explains that, quote, he was speaking about the temple of his body, the temple pointing to Christ Remember how the temple symbolized two things to Old Testament Israel? The place where they would offer sacrifices for their sins, and where they could meet God. Jesus is the ultimate fulfillment of both those things. Jesus is the final sacrifice that takes away the guilt of God's people. That's why Christians don't offer animal sacrifices to God. And Jesus Himself is God in the flesh. If you want to meet with God, you no longer had to go to the holiest of holies in the temple. God was here in the flesh, walking amongst his people. So, Christian, we now have direct access to God through Christ. How incredible is this! The God who made the universe, who knows all things, who isn't just good but holy. There's not an ounce of deficiency in his character. He's totally trustworthy, totally reliable. The idea that we wouldn't have five minutes every day to go to him is crazy. Ultimately, I think the reason some of us don't is because we don't think we need him. But there is nothing we need more than God Himself. The reality is we need God more than we need food. We need God more than we need drink. Water. We need him more than the air that we breathe. And not only that, he wants us to go to him. He wants us to pray to him. Matthew 7:11, if you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? Proverbs 15:8: the prayer of the upright is his delight. So how's your prayer life? Husbands, fathers, what are ways you could better lead your wives and children to making a habit of prayer? Mothers, are there ways that you can model prayer to your children? How can all of us encourage one another in prayer? How our prayer life is doing or what we can pray for should be regular questions that we ask of one another. One of the most encouraging things about Tom Bennett's funeral service was to see person after person come up and talk about how much Tom prayed. Notebooks and notebooks full of prayer. Prayer for practical things like tests and ball games. Prayer for deeper things like salvation and spiritual growth. Tom covered his family and friends in prayer for decades. What a legacy. And looking back, I bet he didn't regret one minute He didn't regret one minute that he chose to spend on prayer. Here's the thing. I hold Tom up as an example to all of us because he absolutely was. But Tom was not superhuman. It wasn't like he had the spiritual gift of prayer, or others of us don't. You know this. You know that the Holy Spirit is in you, and you too can devote as much prayer as Tom did, or devote as much time to prayer as Tom did This is not a matter of can or can't. This is what we choose to do or choose not to do. So let's choose to pray like Tom. Pray without ceasing. I understand that may be a lot to bite off, but let me encourage you to start small. Find a time during the day when you can pray at that specific time, five days in a row When starting to have it, there's something about doing it at the same time that creates a sort of muscle memory. You're less prone to forget, it becomes more and more automatic Pray for two uninterrupted minutes. You have a hard time thinking of what to pray for. Pray for what you read in the scripture that day. Pray for what was preached on the previous Sunday. If you're still having trouble, think through categories. Your friends at school, co-workers, family, acquaintances, neighbors, government authorities. Get the picture Oh, how we should be a church that prays. What good would come from it for us and those we love? So this week, let's go to the Father with everything that's on our heart. Let's not waste this precious. This leads into our next point of fulfillment. Jesus is our peace. Our ultimate enemy is not the Ammonites or Amalachites. It's not unbelievers who may belittle us, criticize us, or persecute us. It's not Al-Qaeda or ISIS. It's not the far left or the far right. It's not socialism. It's not Trump. It's not the boss who's a jerk to us or the so-called friend who gossips about us or the parent who doesn't respect us. Our ultimate enemy is ourselves. You're not a Christian sitting here today. I understand how odd that might sound. It certainly is far from how the world celebrates the self. Be true to yourself. You are your desires. The truth of the Bible is that God has called us to holiness to do what is right and good. And we have proved over and over the saying: we are our own worst enemy. We didn't have to sin, but we chose to. We despised God's good rules for us. We found them toilsome and boring because we didn't trust God. We rejected Him as our King. It wasn't that we haven't done any good thing. We're all made in the image of God. That's not the standard. The standard is not simply avoiding whatever we think are the really bad sins. The standard is not doing more good than bad. The standard is not being a good person compared to other people. We don't get to set the standard. God does, because he's God. Standard perfection. Not doing anything that God has told us not to do, and doing everything to the fullest of what He has called us to do. Have you really always loved others like you should? Have you never had an angry or lustful thought towards someone? One bad action. One bad thought, the Bible says, and we are guilty of having broken the whole law. So we face God's righteous judgment. He will not sweep sin under the rug. He will not simply ignore it. We have all been enemies of God. We are the ones who need peace. We are powerless to get it on our own. The wonderful news is that the Promised King did come. Jesus came not to clear enemies from the promised land or to overthrow Roman rule. No, he came to reconcile to God enemies of God. You, me Well, on earth, Jesus met the standard. He lived a perfect life. There's nothing he did or even thought that was in any way sinful. Then he was executed on the cross, the sins of the world. He died, was buried, and on the third day, something truly awesome happened. Anne got up from the dead. The great exchange was now made. He took the punishment that you and I deserve for our sin, gave us his perfect righteousness. What must we do to no longer be enemies of God? That is the question, right? Simply trust and believe. Matthew 11. Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. You will find rest for your souls. Life apart from Christ is hard It's exhausting to try to find meaning in this world apart from our creator, to try to constantly justify ourselves before a judgment we know deep down is coming, to try to make sure we're good enough. It's exhausting because it's impossible. We can't be good enough. Can't justify ourselves. We need completely new hearts. So, non-Christian, will you find rest in Jesus this afternoon? If you want to learn more about what that looks like, I would love to talk to you afterwards. To the Christian, if we're now at peace with God, that means we're also at peace with each other United by the blood of Christ. We've been baptized into one body. There are inevitably going to be disagreements. We don't have all knowledge of perfect wisdom. There are also going to be slights and even hurt. We're all still sinners. There should never be division. We should be quick to listen and to forgive when, not if, sinned against. I know of two members who felt sinned against recently. They talked to one another, listened, acknowledged wrongs committed. It wasn't an easy conversation Tears were shed. But they ultimately forgave one another and reconciled. How I loved to see that. Working towards peace can be hard, but it can also be joyous. I pray that we can love one another with a love that flows from someone who has been transformed, from an enemy of God to a child of God. And now to our last point of fulfillment: Jesus reigns forever. From Acts to Romans, to Ephesians, to Colossians, you go up and down the New Testament, and the authors remind us again and again: Jesus ascended into heaven where he sits enthroned. Here's how the author of Hebrews puts it. After making purification for sins, sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Jesus is reigning now, and he will reign forever. As he promised in verse 10 of our passage, God has established David's royal throne in Israel forever. This is the answer to the riddle. Jesus is the one who reigns forever. As a non-Christian, whether you want to admit it or not, Jesus is king. There is no neutrality before this king. As Jesus says in Matthew 12, whoever is not with me is against me. Either serve Jesus or you don't. Children. I can hear many of you here this afternoon. If Christ is King and He has given power to your parents to rule over you, Then submitting to your parents, listening to them, and obeying them is submitting to Christ. If you say you follow Christ, then as your parents follow Christ, so you will obey your parents. You know how we show submission? It isn't only by obeying when we agree with the command. No, it's specifically when we don't agree with it, or don't feel like doing it, but do it anyways, that we show submission. Otherwise, if we only obey when we agree and feel like it, then we're not submitting. We're doing what we would have done anyways. Next time you disagree with your ch with your parents, ask yourself: are my parents asking me to sit? If the answer is yes, then respectfully talk to your parents about why you think the answer is. If the answer is no, then you should joyfully obey. Children, if you really trust in Christ, gladly obeying your parents is one of the ways you show the Holy Spirit is living To all Christians, part of what makes us Christian is that we joyfully submit to this king. In fact, we have no deeper allegiance than to this king Again to the Gospel of Matthew. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Our supreme allegiance is to Christ. And when people interact with us throughout our week, they should at some level walk away smelling Christ. To our integrity, graciousness, joy, kindness, love, service, sacrifice, our aroma, as 2 Corinthians puts it, should be that of our King So, what ways did you smell like Christ this week? In what ways did you stink like sin? And were there moments when your hearts were allied to another king? I get that this election matters. As someone who works in commerce, I can even understand it matters a lot. And voting thoughtfully, thinking of who would be the best politician, not just to do good to me, but also to my neighbor, I think that's a clear way we love our neighbor. And I also think it's natural. When the candidate you voted for loses, you're gonna be disappointed. Candidate you voted for wins, you're gonna be excited. But friends, let's remember that God is still in charge today as He has been since the beginning of time. He can never be voted out of office. He can never be taken off his throne. He will keep ruling over us for our good. This election didn't change a lick about what God will or won't do for his people. I get how non-Christians are either distraught or over the moon based on this election. That should not be us. Immediate time after an election is a time for Christians to stand out. What should be clear to our friends, neighbors, co-workers, and visitors to this church, especially this week, is that our supreme allegiance is not to any president or political party, but to Jesus Christ our King. As Paul puts it in his letter to the Philippians, our citizenship, heaven. We should conclude Shortly after the Emancipation Proclamation was issued, there was a big push to sign black men up for military service. Men of color, to arms, to arms, read one broadside. Recruiters, generals, governors, even the Secretary of War promised blacks would be treated fairly. But in June eighteen sixty three, just six months after the Emancipation Proclamation was issued, and when black recruitment was in full swing, The War Department announced that black privates would be paid $7 a month, nearly half of the $13 a month that white privates were paid Some promises cannot be kept after all. Praise God, he's not like man. He keeps all his promises. Our passage was partially fulfilled through Solomon, who built God's house and whose reign was marked by peace, but ultimately fulfilled through Christ, who is God's house, gave us peace with God and reigns forever. Remember that 1 Chronicles was written in 400 BC, 500 years after God had first made the promise to David? How is the author taking the time to record a promise that was 500 years old? The author wants his readers to remember God's promises. It had been hundreds of years of waiting, and the author is calling them not to lose hope. Remember that promise that God will give peace, send his son, reign forever. It's still true. Hope in God. Of course, we need the same reminder today, don't we? 2,000 years after Jesus died and rose again, there are still promises that are not yet fully fulfilled. Jesus has not yet come back to rule and reign. God does not yet permanently dwell with his people in a new Jerusalem. We are not yet perfectly sanctified and without sin. Like the first readers of the book of First Chronicles, are you tempted to doubt that God will keep his promises? And if we're honest, I think we all have moments, even seasons, when we are. After all, what is sin if not believing and trusting in God's promises? Sin not only tempts us, but we give into it. Work is still hard and unfulfilling. Childbirth is painful. Life hurts so much at times It causes us to weep with sorrow. Sickness nags at us. Death stalks us. And yet Yet and yet it will not always be this way. Why? Because God always keeps his promises. And God has promised that one day Jesus will come again to reign forever with us. On that day there will be no more sin or death or tears. Just as he kept his promise that he made to David by sending his son to die for our sins, he will keep all his promises to us. We can trust God. It will happen. God, thank you for being a God who keeps his word, that there is no promise that you will break. Give us the faith to keep trusting in you, and may the hope we have in you make us a light in our homes and in our communities this week Your name we pray, Amen