Good morning. It's uh a pleasure and a privilege to be here with you today to open up God's Word. And to hear him speak to us through his living word. Before we open up and look at the passage this morning more carefully, let's go again to the Lord in prayer. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our prayer this morning is the same as the psalmist's. We ask that you would send out your light and your truth. Let them lead us. Let them bring us to your heavenly holy hill and to your dwelling Because you are our salvation and our God. And we pray this in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Uh on october fifteenth, nineteen forty-nine, in Baltimore, Maryland, John and Lindy Erickson welcomed their youngest daughter into the world. They decided to name her after her father, John. But since that would be an odd name for a girl, they modified it slightly to Johnny. And Johnny Erickson grew up to loving parents in a very active household. Johnny's childhood was full of activities like horse riding, tennis, hiking, and swimming. She was always doing something. Then at the age of fifteen, Johnny attended a young life camp where she heard the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ who came to save sinners. By offering himself as an atoning sacrifice in their place, and that they would turn and trust in him, they would be forgiven of their sins and given an eternal hope. She heard that message and believed. She repented and trusted in Jesus. Johnny led a charmed childhood. Imagine growing up in a loving household, full of fun activities, and then on top of that, finding Jesus And having a real, true relationship with God. Things were going well for Johnny. And then tragedy struck. Not long after coming to faith in Christ, Johnny went swimming in the Chesapeake Bay with some friends. After misjudging the depth of the water, she dove in and fractured her spine. She was paralyzed from the shoulders down. Still is today paralyzed from the shoulders down In the wake of the accident, she was overwhelmed by anger, depression. She wanted life to end so bad that she would shake her head back and forth, hoping her neck would break, because that was all she could move. Imagine her conversations with God. The God whom she had just trusted in. How could you let this happen? Why? Why did you let this happen? I thought you loved me. Why didn't you stop this? Why? Why? Why? Now here's my question for you. Did Johnny have any reason, even in the midst of her paralysis? Have hope. Real hope. Not superficial platitudes, but real rock solid hope. A hope that didn't just wish for better But promised and even guaranteed better. Hope that would not only bring her out of her darkness, but would eventually bring her out into a greater and more glorious existence. than she could ever imagine. Did Johnny have that hope? Does such a hope exist for you? In the midst of sadness, sorrow, grief, mourning, depression, and despair Is there something real to hope in? Something real that has the power to draw you out of the darkness? And to give you real and true hope in the midst of otherwise hopeless circumstances. Does that hope exist for you today? To answer that question, we're going to turn to Psalm 43. So I want to invite you to open there in your Bibles now. If you're using the Bible we've provided, you'll find Psalm 43, I believe on page 496. Some believe that Psalm 43 is actually an extension on Psalm 42 As there are a number of similarities, especially the refrain of being cast down, O my soul, why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God. You see that refrain for refrain throughout verse uh Psalms 42 and 43. But we're going to treat Psalm 43 on its own today. You see there that there is no indication of who the author is. But we will read it nonetheless and listen to what God has to say for us. This is God's word. Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause against an ungodly people. From the deceitful and unjust man, deliver me. For you are the God in whom I take refuge. Why have you rejected me? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? Send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God, my God Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God. For I shall again praise him, my salvation, and my God What I hope to convince you of today is that if you follow Jesus, you always, always have reason to hope There are no circumstances so dark that the light of your hope will ultimately be quenched. You always have reason to hope. What is that reason? Let's look more closely at Psalm 43. What we're going to do is break it up into three headings. First, we're going to look at despair in verses 1 and 2. Second, we're going to look at longing in verses 3 and 4 and 3. And finally, we're going to look at hope in verse 5. So first Despair. The psalmist is in a state of despair. Look with me at verses 1 and 2 He really wastes no time getting to the point. We're immediately brought into his circumstances, and the stress, the tension, and even the agony of them is immediately apparent to us. In the first verse alone, he pleads with God for three different things: vindicate, defend, and deliver. Basically, he's crying out, help! And why does he need help? Because he's being attacked. Look down at the descriptions of the people attacking him. He calls them an ungodly people. That word for People can also be translated as nation, an ungodly nation. Not clear exactly who these people are, but one thing is clear about them. They reject God. They reject God's law. And they couldn't care less about following him. And their ungodly character comes out in their attacks on him. They're deceitful and unjust. They're lying about him and treating him unfairly. Or look at the end of verse 2. They're oppressing him. He goes about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy We're told almost nothing specific about what they're doing to him, but based on the fact that he describes them as deceitful, unjust oppressors. We can imagine the malice that they're treating him with and the types of things they were likely doing to harm him, which is why he cries out like he does. Vindicate me. Do something to show I'm in the right. You're the God of justice and I'm being treated unjustly. Defend me. Don't leave me to their oppressive schemes. Deliver me. The psalmist circumstances are desperate. And the pain of his circumstances is compounded by his own faithfulness to God. Look at verse 2. Notice the reason he gives for why God should vindicate, defend, and deliver him for or because. You are the God in whom I take refuge. In the Old Testament, for an Israelite to say they take refuge in God is to say they've been faithful to God. Imperfectly, yes, but faithful nonetheless. It's to say that they've entrusted themselves to Yahweh's covenant love. They've sought to obey his commands They've offered sacrifices when they've sinned. They've kept the feast and and honored the Sabbath. They've taken refuge in God. God, I've taken refuge in you. I've done all that you've asked. Vindicate, defend, deliver. Help me because I've been faithful to you. I've done everything that you've asked me to do. I've sought to do what is right And notice where this leads him. It leads him to question God's love for him. Why? Why have you rejected me? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? You must not be for me. Because if you were for me, you wouldn't let me experience this suffering that I'm experiencing. You wouldn't allow me to experience such sorrow. Such opposition, such injustice, such despair. Why have you allowed this to happen to me? I wonder. I wonder if you can relate to the psalmist this morning. Do you feel like God has rejected you Maybe you wouldn't go so far as to use that language or to wonder really if God has rejected you. Because you're most of you are likely Christians and you know, no, that's not that's not a Christian thing to ask. I know that God hasn't rejected me, but it sure feels like He has rejected me. And so deep down do you wonder? Does God love me? Is God good? And if so Why is he allowing me to suffer the way that I am? Why am I experiencing persecution, opposition from enemies Even as John prayed for the man Adam this morning in Central Asia, it's likely that that man will experience opposition and persecution from his family because they don't like Jesus in that part of the world. Or like Johnny Erickson Tata. Why have you allowed me to be paralyzed? Why would you allow me to suffer through a terrible disease or endure chronic pain? Why would you allow me to live with an unfaithful or unloving spouse? If you love me, why would you allow me to experience loneliness or anxiety or depression? Or why am I experiencing the same persistent struggle with sin? I thought you wanted to sanctify me. What have I done to deserve this? Why have you rejected me? Maybe you can't point to any particular trial in your life, and yet you just feel struck down. cast down, shrouded in darkness, day in and day out. Even though you've taken refuge in God If that describes you today, first thing I want to say to you, that there's nothing wrong with you or feeling that way There's no nothing wrong with you for feeling the way that you do. It isn't a sign that your faith is defective God doesn't scorn you for thinking that, for wondering. Why? Why? Sorrow, despondency, mourning, sadness, depression, and despair are experienced by Christians. Genuine Christians who have taken refuge in God. There's nothing wrong with you We may experience these things because we're being directly attacked by enemies like the psalmist Or we may experience them because we're experiencing attacks from the evil one. We know that from the New Testament, we don't wrestle just against flesh and blood, but against the rulers and authorities and powers in the heavenly places. We have spiritual forces at work against us. Or we may experience these things because we're battling the enemy of our own flesh. Or we experience them because we live in a fallen world and our bodies and minds are still under the curse, whatever it might be, despair and the questioning of God's love that often accompanies it is a normal experience. So normal, in fact, that God By his Holy Spirit inspired the writing of Psalm 43, a psalm in which his love for his people is called into question. It's not just Psalm forty three. It's Psalm ten. And Psalm twenty two. And Psalm 35, and Psalm 42, and 44, and 74, and 79, and 80, and 88, and 89, and 115. And then 71 times in the book of Job, the question why is asked to God: why am I suffering? Why have you rejected me? Or we could look to the New Testament and see in the man of sorrows himself, the Lord Jesus Christ. The ultimate fulfillment of Psalm 43, who, while surrounded by his enemies on the cross, cried out to God, why? Why have you forsaken me? Why is one of the most often asked questions of God in all of Scripture? You're asking why of God today not alone. You're surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses in Scripture, faithful believers like the psalmist Or like Job, who pleaded with God to know why, surrounded by faithful Christians in this church. Who either are asking why now or have asked why at some point in their life. You are not alone But it's also important to note that why is not only one of the most often asked questions of God in Scripture, it is also one of the most often unanswered questions in Scripture. scripture. And the sting of silence from God can often be worsened by the response of well-meaning Christians You see, most of us struggle to know how to respond to those who are suffering. We want to find something to make it to say to make it okay and to make them feel better. And so we say things like, God's going to show you why this happened. Someday this will all make sense. When in reality, we just don't know that that's true. Someday it may not make sense You may never have the answer to your question why in this life. And that's okay In fact, when God leaves our most pressing questions unanswered, it's then that he's most clearly refining our faith. Because faith is trusting God when there are no answers. The goal of our faith is not answers The goal of our faith is God. Our faith is in God, not in God providing answers Otherwise, it wouldn't be faith. To need all the answers to your questions, why is to to put conditions on your relationship with God. God, God, I will follow you if you show me why you're allowing this to happen. But that's not how God works. God doesn't have conditions placed upon him. Key is the point of our faith. And he knows that. And he leaves questions unanswered often to teach us that. Because in leaving questions unanswered, we're forced to cast ourselves more fully upon him. And in casting ourselves more fully upon him, we come to know him more fully as the all-sufficient God. Whose grace is sufficient for us in the midst of our suffering, who sustains us in our weakness and draws us closer to himself through life's unanswered questions. And cast himself upon God is what our psalmist chooses to do. Which brings us to point two, longing Rather than sinking further into despair and becoming angry with God, the psalmist instead longs to be in God's presence, worshiping him. Look at verse 3 with me. Send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling. God's holy hill and dwelling are Mount Zion in Jerusalem, the place where the temple was in Israel, where God dwelled among the people of Israel and where they would come to worship him. And the psalmist is longing to be at the temple. Now you might ask the question: why doesn't he just go and worship God? Why does he ask God to send light and truth to lead him? I think, based on the fact that he's surrounded by a nation of ungodly people, and believes that God had rejected him, cast him away, and he can't travel to the temple, makes it likely that this psalm was written during exile. But whatever is happening, it's clear that the psalmist is separated from God's presence in the temple and he longs to be back with him to worship him. Look again at verse 3. He asked God to send out your light and your truth throughout scripture. God in his very nature is described as light and truth. He creates light. He dwells in unapproachable light He led Israel with a pillar of fire, that is, light in the darkness. God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all, which is also to say that God is truth. He does not lie. All that he says is true. Light and truth. The psalmist is asking for God's personal presence to come. And for what reason? Look at verses 3 and 4 again. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling. Then I will go to the altar of God. To God, my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the liar, oh God, my God He's asking for God's personal presence to come and lead him back into his very presence in the temple. Lead me there so that I can worship you in your presence again. Lead me there so that I can give thank offerings and offer sacrifices on the altar to show you my love for you. It's you who gives me joy. It's you I want to worship. You are my God You read the psalm over and over again. You can just feel the turn happen in these verses. You can feel his disposition begin to change. The sorrow, the mourning, the despair has begun to give way to something better. Notice the change? Look at the end of verse four. The same psalmist who asked God why he had rejected him now calls God my God How did he get from feeling rejected by God to confidently calling God my God? I think the most important thing he did was move towards God rather than away from him I wonder if you're surprised by the fact that a man who had sought to faithfully follow God only to experience persecution and opposition to the point that he felt rejected by God, chose not to get angry with God or grow cold towards God, but instead called out for more of God. God, it seems like you have rejected me, but I know that you haven't. Please draw near to me. I'm dwelling in darkness. Please send out your light and truth. Guide me back into your very presence. His response is surprising. Because when we seek to live faithful lives only to experience suffering or persecution, the temptation we all face is to become Angry with God. Maybe that's happening now and you are suffering. Or has happened in the past and you're still carrying around that anger towards God? Maybe passages about God's love for his people seem hollow to you. Maybe when you hear other Christians talk about God's goodness, you shake your head in agreement and smile, but inside you're irritated or annoyed. Maybe you just avoid God altogether and have no desire for the word or for prayer. If that's you, I want to encourage you as a brother. What you need most right now is more of God and not less. He's the only one who can bring light into your darkness He's the only one who can bring truth to bear on the lies that you may be tempted to believe. And God gives us light and truth in our suffering now through his word. God sends out his light and truth to us in his word. His word is a lamp to our feet in the darkness of this world. And just think about all the different ways that God sends out light and truth in His Word. There are so many different ways that He gives us light and truth in His Word, but chiefly He does it by drawing our eyes to the one who is the light. and the truth. Perhaps the only thing more surprising than the way the psalmist responds to his suffering Is the way that God answered the psalmist's prayer. Think about how he prayed. God, send out your light and your truth to bring me back into your presence. And God responded to him, yes, yes, I will. And he answered his prayer, not in some metaphorical way, but really Truly and actually by sending his son Jesus, who is the very presence of God in light and truth. How does John's gospel open? What does it say about Jesus? Those who were dwelling in darkness have seen a great light. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness And the darkness has not overcome it. And we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and Truth. Light and truth. The presence of God in the Lord Jesus Christ And it wasn't just John who said it. Jesus said these things about himself too. What did he say to his disciples? I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Jesus Christ is the light of God and the truth of God who came into the world to lead us back into the presence of God. And the reason we need to be led back into the presence of God is because our sins have separated us from God. Sins like our anger. Our pride. Our lust. Our lying. Our greed. Our vanity. Our casual indifference to God's existence. These sins and more are all an affront to God and have brought us under His judgment. But God, in an astonishing act of mercy Grace and love did not leave us in a state of separation, but sent his son Jesus into the world. To live the perfectly righteous life on our behalf, and to bear the judgment that we deserve so that we could be brought back into the presence of God to worship him. You remember when Jesus was hanging on the cross? What happened to the sun as he was hanging there The sun was darkened as he hung on the cross. The land was shrouded in darkness in his death on the cross. The light of the world hung in darkness so that we who love darkness could become children of the light. The one who was perfectly faithful to God was forsaken by God so that we who deserve to be rejected could be brought into God's very presence. And three days after he was buried, God vindicated, defended, and delivered Jesus by raising him from the dead, showing that he really is the light and the truth. And proving to all who trust in him that though we may feel rejected by God in our suffering, Instead, God is bringing us closer to Himself by allowing us to share in the sufferings of Christ, through which we're also being conformed into the image of Christ. And not only that, but God has promised that if we share in Christ's sufferings, we will also share in his glory. And that glorious future gives us hope, even in the worst of possible circumstances. And that brings us to our third and final point, hope. I want you to look with me at verse 5. Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God. For I shall again praise him. My salvation. My God. See what's happened here He starts off the psalm in a state of despair. And in his despair, he questions God Why have you rejected me? But after recalling the joy of worshiping in the presence of God and knowing for certain that he would one day worship him again in his presence, he now questions not God, but himself Why are you cast down? Oh my soul. You know that you will worship in the presence of God again Why are you so down? Hope in God. Because you know you will praise Him again The psalmist remembers that he has hope because he knows that he will worship in the presence of God again. He will experience exceeding joy again. His sufferings will not last forever. Notice what he's doing in verse 5. He's preaching to himself. More and more importantly, he's preaching truth to himself He's taking the light and the truth of God's word and preaching it to his own heart. Friends, I can't underscore this enough The most influential preacher you listen to each week is not me. And it's not some other preacher that you might listen to online or listen to over. pod podcast. The most influential preacher you listen to each week is you. You What are you preaching to yourself? Whether you realize it or not, you preach to yourself every single day. What are you preaching to yourself Are you preaching messages like, you're stupid? Nobody likes you. You're worthless. You have no value. Your circumstances are hopeless. Suffering is pointless. If God loved you, he wouldn't let you experience this. God doesn't love you. God has rejected you Is that what you are preaching to yourself each week? Or in the midst of your suffering, as hard as it may be, when you feel like you're clothed in darkness Are you preaching the light and truth of God's word into your heart? Are you preaching messages like. . . Whoever comes to Jesus will never be cast away, will never be rejected In this world I will have trouble, but take heart, O soul. Jesus has overcome the world I'm struggling with sin again, but I know from the light and truth of God's word, if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins. Not only that, I know that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. As much condemnation as I might feel right now, there is none for those who are in Christ Jesus. Jesus said, O soul, it is finished. What are you preaching to yourself What are you preaching to yourself? Friends, Satan and the world will feed you messages that will rob you of hope. For the teens, I just want to dwell on this for a minute with you. What are you preaching to yourself? What do you find yourself teaching yourself? What messages are you hearing from the friends around you Everyone is going to be preaching to you. It just may not be as clear as what I'm doing right now, but you are always being preached at. On TV, in movies, in commercials, Satan will preach to you. He will tell you to believe. Oh, yeah, you know you could believe all of those things that scripture says, but you might just want to doubt a little bit whether those things are actually true. Do you really want to put both feet out onto to that ice and really trust in God? Are you sure you want to do that? Hasn't God let you down before? Kids, those messages are going to come at you. You can ask your parents about the messages that they hear in their own mind and that they hear from the world. You need to be preaching to yourself And you need to preach the light and truth of God's Word into your own heart. It's His Word that brings light into the darkness. Only the light and truth of God's Word. can give us hope in the midst of otherwise hopeless circumstances. And I want you to notice specifically What truth gives the psalmist hope in the midst of his despair? Look at verse 5. Hope in God Because I will again praise him, my salvation, and my God His hope was firmly established on the belief that he would come into God's presence again to worship and praise him And his belief wasn't some existential crutch that he created for himself to help him through hard times, as the world wants to say about faith in Christ. It was based on God's promise that after his people were sent into exile, God would come again. to gather them and bring them back into his very presence. And God kept his promise by sending the Lord Jesus Who is now, today, gathering for himself a people who would turn from sin and trust in him and all that do. are given the sure and certain hope that we will one day come into God's presence Where we will experience unmitigated joy and we will praise Him, who is our salvation and our joy, and we will do it with purified hearts and purified minds. And that day will happen when God sends out his light and his truth in the Lord Jesus Christ a second time. When Jesus comes to lead his people to the heavenly Mount Zion, where we will worship in God's presence forever. What did Jesus say? Let not your hearts be troubled. In the midst of your difficulty, I know you are suffering. I am a man of sorrows. I sympathize with you in your weakness and in your spare despair. But let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And will take you to myself, that where I am, you may be also. The Lord will bring us. The Lord will lead us once and for all to his holy hill. and to his heavenly dwelling. And that glorious future, the glorious future that awaits, puts our present sufferings in perspective, doesn't it? The Apostle Paul knew suffering well. He knew what it was to despair. He knew what it was to feel rejected by God. But he also knew that God was working in his sufferings and that ultimately his suffering wouldn't hold a candle to the glory that God had in store for him when he would be brought back. into the presence of God to worship him, his exceeding joy, his salvation, and his God. How did he put it in Romans 8? For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. That the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly, as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. He's basically saying the exact same thing that the psalmist says in Psalm 43. Future glory gives the believer present hope. Real hope. In the midst of even the worst of circumstances. For the Christian, there are no such things as hopeless circumstances. You always have hope In the worst of circumstances, you have hope. In the darkest possible suffering, you have hope. In death itself, you and I have hope because Jesus has defeated death. That hope deferred. We wait for it with patience. And while we're waiting, we will still experience things like suffering, sorrow, depression, and despair. Psalm 43 ends on an entirely realistic note. He has moved from despair to hope, but that hope hasn't entirely erased the fact that he's still cast down. Why are you cast down? He is still cast down. Friends, you have hope And you will likely still experience this type of sorrow, despair, It's sadness at different points along the way in your journey to God. You will still experience it. There may be some things that happen in this life. That are so gutterally painful that you walk around mourning the rest of your days. But even then, if you are in Christ, you have hope. Friends, in Christ, we are never without hope. And when we experience being cast down As surely as we will from time to time, when we are cast down, we need to remember that being cast down is not the same thing as being without hope. You're never without hope. Johnny Erickson Tata put it well when she said, the best we can hope for in this life is a knot whole peek at the shining realities ahead. You ever feel like you get the glimpses of heaven in your heart? Glimpse just. Little bit, Lord, give me more that I might have more and more hope, that I might be filled more and more with the hope that I know awaits. The best we have in this life is a not whole peak. At the shining realities ahead. Yet, a glimpse is enough. It's enough to convince our hearts that whatever sufferings and sorrow currently assail us aren't worthy of comparison to that which waits over the horizon. And what waits over the horizon. The new heavens and the new earth. What waits is a life free. Sin, sorrow, tears, or pain What waits is the river of life and the communion of the saints. What waits is God Himself. Our salvation. And our joy. Johnny, when talking about her paralysis, That's the thing she's looking forward to most when she comes into the new heavens and new earth, getting up out of her wheelchair, but she's not going to stand up first, she says She's gonna fall down on her face and worship her living God, her salvation and her joy, your salvation and your joy. If you follow Jesus, you always, always have reason to hope. Hope in God. For you will again praise him. He is your salvation and your God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, help us to hope in you today, in the midst of our suffering, our sorrow and despair Teach us to hope. We know that we will again praise you. And we look forward to that day. Come, Lord Jesus, come. A man