Amen. Well good morning, friends. How's everyone doing? Great. It's a pleasure to see you all here this morning. I want to open us again also in the in another brief word of prayer before we turn to God's word. So would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we rejoice to come before your glorious throne this morning. You are the one who is robed in majesty and honor. Your power and majesty and might go before you, and the earth melts away in your presence. You are the holy and righteous one, the holy one of Israel, and it's you whom we serve Lord, thank you for not only being a great and wise King, but a tender and loving Father. Thank you for the Holy Spirit Thank you for giving him to us to give us wisdom and insight into your word. And we pray, Father, this morning that you would cause the Spirit to rejoice. And giving glory to the Lord Jesus Christ as we open up your word. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well friends, Thanksgiving is upon us, isn't it? It's hard to believe that another year is already winding down and coming to a close. But alas. Uh it is the the time of year where the the seasons change, the temperatures change, the colors of the leaves change, right? Everything looks like it's on fire. Glorious, especially if you've ever been to the Northeast, like New Hampshire, during the fall, it's beautiful. The oranges and reds and yellows just makes the landscape look like it's on fire. And for most, this season of Thanksgiving is a time for us to reflect on the meaning of Thanksgiving and even the things that we're thankful for as followers of Christ. But we think about the different things that people might be thankful for on Thanksgiving or during the Thanksgiving season. Some people are thankful That they can finally start playing Christmas music without being judged, right? You can raise your hand if that's you. Some of you, maybe you've already started playing Christmas music. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hands They've been playing it in the stores already for weeks now. Just keeps creeping out, grows out like ivy, right that Christmas season. Other people are thankful that they simply get to feast on food and drink. It's a it's a it's a time of eating and enjoying the the blessings of this life. Others are thankful for family and friends and for the time that they get to spend with them. But as we look back at the history of the holiday to the meal that would constitute or become what we know is thanksgiving, we find a more somber and solemn reason given for being thankful. After crossing the Atlantic in the fall of 1620, a group of 102 pilgrims landed at Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts Bay Colony. And during their first bitter New England winter, they suffered terribly. They lost over more than half the group dying from sickness and disease during that first winter. But as winter turned to spring. The remaining pig pilgrims had the hope of a future harvest. So they planted and they waited, knowing that if the harvest itself failed, then they also would fail and likely perish. Spring eventually turned to fall, and with fall came a harvest that provided enough food to sustain the colony. And because the pilgrims firmly believed that it was God that had blessed them and provided for them, and who was active in preserving them and sustaining them, they set aside a day for giving thanks to Him. Thanksgiving was conceived of as the pilgrims as a time to give thanks to God for his provisions. And oftentimes it's provision for things that we really often take for granted. I wonder a question I might have for you this morning. But what are you thankful for today? And even as you think about the week to come and the Thanksgiving Day celebration that will celebrate later this week, what is it that you are thankful for? Take a moment. Think of those things. You might even write them down on your bulletin that you might consider them later today, and especially after we've. Looked at our passage this morning. In our time together, we're going to be looking at Psalm one hundred, so want to encourage you to open in your Bibles to Psalm one hundred If you're using one of the pew Bibles or seat Bibles we've provided, you'll find Psalm 100 on pages 500 and 501. And if you don't own a Bible, we want to encourage you to take a copy of ours. It's a gift from us to you. We think that there's nothing more important in this world than for you to have a copy We believe that he is spoken only in and through his holy scriptures in the Old and New Testaments. And so we want you to have a copy of that for yourselves. If you're there at Psalm 100, I want to notice with you first the inscription. Not every psalm has an inscription. This one does. That means that this inscription was part of the original manuscript. That made up the psalm. They wanted you to know that this is what the psalm is about. And you see there in Psalm 100 that it's a psalm for giving thanks. It's a psalm for giving thanks. Well now does that just mean that this is a psalm that teaches us how to speak out loud and to talk about the things that we're thankful for? Well, yes, I do think it's partially that. It's gonna it's gonna show us how to give thanks and what we're to give thanks for But it's also important for us to know that giving thanks or thanksgiving in the book of Leviticus was actually a sacrificial offering. So in the book of Leviticus, as God constituted his people after bringing them out of slavery in Egypt, he created a system of sacrifices. The sacrifices were to teach them that sin brings death. Whenever they sinned, sacrifices needed to be offered. We could not approach God without a without a right and proper sacrifice offered. But there were sacrifices for lots of different things. There were guilt offerings, sin offerings, and there were thanksgiving offerings. So what that's teaching you is that even in the Old Testament To approach God and even give him thanks required a sacrifice. And it's widely thought that this psalm It's the only one that's uh labeled as a psalm for giving thanks in the entire Psalter. That this psalm would have been sung by the nation of Israel as they traveled to the temple. And you see, look down there with me in verse uh Verse 4, enter his gates with thanksgiving or his courts with praise. This is the outer ring of the temple. The temple was a building. It was surrounded by courts and gates that you had to walk through. And so this is a psalm that would have been sung in companion with or together with that offering for sacrifice to be able to give thanksgiving to God. So that's what we're looking at this morning. It's a psalm for giving thanks. And I'm going to go ahead and read that for us now. This is God's word Psalm 100, a psalm for giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing. Know that the Lord, he is God. It is he who made us, and we are his. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him. Bless his name. For the Lord is good. His steadfast love endures forever And his faithfulness to all generations. Amen. Psalm 100's message is simple. It's beautiful and it is deeply profound. And it is this All people on earth are called to worship God because he is God and because he is good. All people on earth are called, commanded to worship God because He is God and because He is good. And if you're the type who likes to take notes during a sermon, we're going to look at it in two points. We're going to look first at the fact that all people are commanded and called to worship God. And then second, we're going to see that the two reasons are because he is God and because he is good. If you're hypersensitive about taking notes, because he is God and because he is good are one point. We're going to put those together in one point. If you want to put them as two separate points, you should feel free to do that You could even do subpoints on your paper if you're that type of person. Well, first I said Psalm 100 calls all people to worship God. Where do we see that? Well look at verse one with me. It says, make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth All the earth, right? So when the psalmist says, let all the earth make a joyful noise to the Lord, he's not speaking about inanimate objects like mountains or rivers or trees. He's speaking to the inhabitants of earth. the people of the nations. And he's saying to them, all of you people, make a joyful noise to the Lord. And this is actually important for us to grasp because The Psalms are widely regarded, and I think they are, the hymn book or the song book of the people of Israel. But you notice the psalmist isn't speaking to the people of Israel. He's got them gathered around him, and together they're looking at the nations, and they're saying, You nations, make a joyful noise to the Lord. We don't want to skip by that. We see that God has always had purposes and intentions for all of the nations to serve and worship him. This goes back even to his promise to Abraham. That through Abraham and his descendants, the nation of Israel, all the nations would be blessed. Israel had purposes not just as God's chosen people. But the way that they lived a holy life before the Lord, obeying his commands, was supposed to show off to the nations that the Lord is the true God. And so you see here, the psalmist is just following through with what God has taught his whole word. That he has purposes for the whole nations, all the earth, to come and to serve him. And he's calling them to worship God. Look again with me. There are seven commands in our Psalms, seven imperatives. Verse 1, make a joyful noise to the Lord. Verse 2, serve the Lord Then again in verse 2, come into his presence. Then in verse 3, know that the Lord He is God. That's a command. Know that He is God. Verse 4 to all the earth, enter his gates, give thanks to him, bless his name, right? These aren't polite requests. They're not open invitations. These are spirited commands to the nations to come and worship God. These are all just simply different expressions of worship. They sound like a bunch of different commands, but we can boil them all down to one word. He's calling the nations to worship the Lord. And in the Old Testament, worshiping the Lord wasn't limited to one single activity. It was something that really encompassed and pervaded all of life. It involved what we would look at this morning, kids, if you're following along on your sheets, the four H's of worship that we see in this passage. Worship involved the head. The heart, the hands, and God's home. I'm gonna call that an H. Worship included the head, the heart. The hands and God's home. These are the four H's of worship that we see in our passage. I'm going to hit pause real quick. If anyone could get me a cup of water, I would be supremely blessed by it. Mike's going to grab it in the back. Thank you, Mike. So first, notice that worship involves the head. Look at me at verse 3. What's the command that you see there? Know that the Lord, He is God. Know as in apprehend, comprehend, and understand that the Lord is God. That may sound redundant to you, but understand or know that the Lord is God. Is that like saying isn't that like saying know that God is God? Know that the Lord is God. Is that the same thing? Twice? Well, not exactly. If you're not familiar with reading the Old Testament, one thing I want to point out to you is that when you see that word Lord Spelled in all caps. That's the English rendering of the name of God, which was Yahweh Yahweh was the name of the Lord, and in English Bibles you often see it translated in all caps as Lord. Sometimes you might see it also translated as Jehovah. And that's important for us to understand because what he's saying is, know that Yahweh is Lord. Now remember, who is he speaking to? He's speaking to all the nations. In the ancient Near East, at the time that the psalm would have been written, all of the nations served different gods. They had their own gods. Think of the names that you remember recall from the Old Testament. You have Baal. You have Ashareth. You have Raphan. You have Dagon. Remember when Dagon falls over in his temple whenever the ark goes in there? No God stand beside the living God. So the psalmist is saying to all you nations, know that Yahweh is the Lord. He is the true and living God. The gods that you serve are not gods. They are false gods. There is one true and living God, and his name is Yahweh. Know that the Lord is God. So he is commanding the right knowledge of God. You see how it starts in the head? He's commanding the right knowledge of God because to truly worship God, you must know who God truly is. I just want to point this out in our culture. This is not foreign to us. This is where this psalm, written maybe 3,000 years ago, has a lot to say to you today. Why? Because we see that the thank you very much. Appreciate it, Adrian. You see that the different nations worship different gods, Hindu gods, and Buddhist gods and Allah and the God of Judaism who kind of looks similar to our God, but isn't the same one because they reject Jesus Christ To know and worship God, you must know him as he has truly revealed himself. And that may sound a little offensive in our culture today, that doesn't really have any room for disagreeing with people on things like his that this? They look at religion as something that's purely false. You kind of make it up if it makes you feel better. then then so be it. I'm glad a God can make you feel better. And all the people have different gods. There's no one true God. But but if we look at what Jesus teaches about the Lord, he says, anyone who rejects me has rejected my Father in heaven who sent me. And nobody can come to the Father except through me. So as we're looking at different religious claims in this world, we need to understand that if if people reject Jesus Christ as Savior, then they are rejecting God, no matter how sincere they are. So Muslims don't worship the same God that we do. Why? Because they believe that Jesus is only a prophet. They think it's blasphemy to say that he's the Son of God. Jews don't worship the same God as we do. And this is just illogical. You don't even have to get emotional about this, right? Is it possible for Jesus to be both God and not God at the same time and in the same way? No, it's not. So a Jewish person who says that Jesus is not the Messiah, and a Christian person who says that Jesus is the Messiah, only one of them can be right. This is pretty basic logic, right? But we need to see what the psalm is teaching us. It's not okay to just let people go along believing that the gods that they worship who are not real gods are going to save them. Just like this psalmist is doing. Nations, nations, your gods are not gods. They cannot save you. It's a loving thing to bring them to a knowledge of the true God. And we want to do that in our lives. And for the young adults and kids in the congregation, I want to encourage you to take advantage of the fact that you have parents who know the Lord. And who are able to teach you about him. You're able to even come to a church that teaches the Bible. Right? I assume it can be pretty easy at your age. I don't blame thee, blame you for it. When I was your age in church, I used to check out pretty quickly. It can be easy to check out, but I want to encourage you to really engage with the sermons. Think about what what the Bible is saying to you through God's Word. I want you to see that knowing God, knowing both who he is and what he expects of us is central to a relationship with him. So for the kids, I want to encourage you, engage your parents. Ask some questions after the sermons. Don't just stop with your parents. You can come up to any of the adults in the congregation. Our church covenant talks about the fact that we're called to raise up those who are under our care. We're committing, as a congregation, to raise up everyone's children. Right? And what we're doing is we're raising them up in the knowledge of the Lord. So kids, you can ask any of the adults questions. I'm sure they'd be happy to talk with you about Jesus. Now none of us none of us has a perfect knowledge of God, so you shouldn't be afraid to ask questions, right? It's actually a sign of humility. I don't know everything there is to know about God. I depend on people asking other people questions. And as long as we're in this world, we're never going to come to a perfect knowledge of God. So you should ask those questions. It's a sign of humility, and it's a sign of the fact that God is so infinite and great and majestic That we're never going to fully know him, at least not on this side of heaven. And I'm confident that in heaven we're never going to completely know. We're just going to keep growing in the knowledge of him because he is infinite in glory. So think of this. Worship first involves the head. But he's also calling them to worship that involves the heart. One of the most wonderful things about this psalm. . . Is its supremely joyful tone. You can't avoid it when you read the psalm. Notice the way the entire psalm is in it's just infused. with an unsinkable joy. Look at all the expressions of joy and thanks and praise. Verse 1, make a joyful noise. It's a joyful shout. That's a word that's also translated shout in the Old Testament. When the walls of Jericho came down, it's the same word. They shouted, and the walls fell down. Make a joyful shouting noise to the Lord. Verse 2, serve the Lord with gladness. With joy in your heart. Come into his presence with singing. Enter his gates with thanksgiving. His courts with praise Give thanks. Bless his name. To bless someone's name is to speak excellently about them. Bless the Lord's name. It's just infused with an unsinkable joy. So what does this mean? It means that knowing God in the head should then begin to transform your heart, and it should result in a heart that overflows. With what you know about him causes your heart to overflow with gladness, gratitude, joyful shouting, and songs of praise God doesn't want worshipers who merely know things about him. He wants worshipers who are so moved by what they do know that they cannot contain the awe and amazement and joy that wells up within them. The image that comes to mind for me. Is the image of a geyser. Right? Picture a geyser. Like people go to visit these geysers. They stand around and just wait for them to They just explode because so much pressure has built up under the ground that the geyser cannot contain it and it's boom and you stand out and you're like, whoa, that's amazing There is a sense in which we are to be human geysers as followers of Christ. I think of Psalm 145. Psalm 145 is probably one of the best examples of living this type of life. What does it actually look like in practice? Read Psalm 145. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, because his greatness is unsearchable. He talks about the fact that the truths about God are like a fountain that pour forth, like a geyser that explode. What we know about God is supposed to transform our expressions of God. Now I want to be careful here because what I'm not talking about is happiness. Some of you may be under the impression, and I don't mean to, I don't say this to in a in a harsh way, some of you may be under the impression that God is concerned. with your happiness, he is not. He is not concerned with your happiness. He is concerned with your joy. And they are two very different things. Happiness is circumstantial. Joy does not change based on circumstances. Happiness is not what the Apostle Paul had when he was in jail. He had joy that allowed him to say, in any and every situation, I have Christ and I can be joyful. Joyful carries us through the storms. Happiness is gone as soon as the storms come, right? He's more concerned with a true and deep joy. And there are going to be seasons for everything. We know this from Ecclesiastes. There are going to be seasons of weeping, seasons of sorrow, seasons of feasting, seasons of thanksgiving. But God is using those trials in our lives. when we have go through those seasons of weeping to produce joy-filled wonder and amazement at who he is and what he's done for us. And I just want to say that those expressions of joy and thanksgiving, those should be present in our services together. Those should be present in our services together. Look at Psalm 100. Just look at it. Accept it on its own terms What do you think this was this this uh this time was like? Think it was exciting, fun, joyful, people shouting, make a joyful noise to the Lord. But Israel's going, they're going crazy. We're having fun worshiping God because God has allowed him to come into his presence. And in our services, God gathers with us through the Holy Spirit, through the Spirit And through the right worship of Christ, we come into the presence of the Father, and our services should have a sense of awe and amazement and joy and praise. That's not the only thing they should have, but they should have that. So I want to encourage you. Think about when we're singing. Sing loudly. I bet that if you actually sang louder, you would start to stir your own heart upward The Lord made us emotional creatures for a reason. We're not robots, right? He uses us to stir up our emotions and our affections upward. I want to be careful also. I'm not calling you. Some of you may have had bad experiences with just purely emotionally driven churches and emotionally driven spiritual experiences. That is not what I am talking about. Worship begins in the head with the right knowledge of the Lord, but the right knowledge of the Lord leads to joy, leads to thanksgiving, leads to songs of praise, because my gosh, this world is not your home. You have a greater home that's coming where you will dwell in the presence of God forever, without sin, without pain, without death. I mean, can we praise God for that even in the midst of storms? Yes, we can. This type of joy and thanksgiving, these songs of shouting. Should in some part characterize our services together. Now that it's I want to be careful again. I'm not telling you to take on the personality of other people But I'm just asking you in your personality, what does joy look like in different areas of your life? Are you a very somber person here, but when you're at home watching sports, you're just like all over the place? Help me connect those two things. I'm just asking you to help me connect that. God is calling us to be joyful. We should think about ways that we can express joy that is consistent with our own personality. We don't want to become different people. I'm a very expressive person. Not everybody is like me, but like what you're gonna see me doing up here is what I do in my office. If you walk by my house and see me in my office, you'll probably see me doing the same thing in front of my computer while I'm writing the sermon, but it's just my personality. So I just want you to think about ways that you can express joy. Worship begins in the head, moves to the heart. And then he's also calling them to worship that doesn't stop with the head in the heart, but comes out in the hands. Right? Notice in verse 2. The psalmist commands the nations to serve the Lord. True worship doesn't just live in the head and the heart, but it's lived out with the hands and serving God can take a variety of shapes. We go back to the original context. In Israel, serving God could have looked like being one of the priests who served at the temple. Who offered sacrifices and gave offerings and and just generally cared for the temple, they're described as serving the Lord But serving God wasn't just restricted to the priesthood. All the Israelites were expected to serve the Lord by being obedient to his commands. Being obedient to his commands is one way that the Lord describes people serving him, who we worship. Is going to cause us to serve and obey. And we worship the Lord. He calls us to serve and obey his commands. That's an expression of serving him. And the psalmist is, we need to remember, the psalmist is calling the nations to serve him. Into that same service, he's saying, Come come and know the Lord. Be moved to praise by his sheer glory and serve him by offering sacrifices and obeying his word. The worship that the psalmist is calling the people of the earth to was an all-encompassing worship that was to affect every area of your life. We think through through through the sacrifice of Christ to Romans 12. Be living sacrifices. Living sacrifices. Offering your life in total in all that you do as worship and service to the Lord. Think of living sacrifice. What is a living sacrifice? It's an oxymoron. It's a living person who's dying. Right? A living sacrifice. So what does it look like to serve the Lord? It looks like dying to yourself and serving others. Jesus Christ himself said, I did not come to be served, but to serve and to give my life as an offering and a ransom. for many. So worship involves the hands. And that worship, the fourth H, that worship was to take place at God's home. What do I mean by that? Well, simply put, if you wanted to worship God in the Old Testament, you had to come to his home, which was the temple in Jerusalem. The temple, if you're not really familiar with the Old Testament, the temple was the most important physical structure in the entire Old Testament. The most important physical structure. The temple is one of the most important things in the entire Old Testament. And why is that? Well, because the temple was a place where God's presence on earth was manifested. In the Holy of Holies, which was a room inside the temple, there was a curtain that separated anyone from the presence of God. So the high priest would come in and offer sacrifices. They would offer the sin offerings to the Lord. But behind the curtain was the Ark of the Covenant, and above the Ark of the Covenant was the presence of the Lord. And to meet God on earth. You had to travel to Jerusalem, to the temple, to come to God's home, to come to God's temple. And in the temple, outside of the temple, in the temple courtyard, the people would gather These people of the nations would come. This is what the psalmist is calling. And it's where they would also be assured of God's promise of forgiveness for those who repented. So you had to come to the temple To meet God, to experience the presence of God. But to first experience the presence of God, someone had to offer a sacrifice on your behalf to make you acceptable before God. Because God being a holy God does does not join himself with sinners without a sacrifice. And so you had to come to his home. But if you're from a foreign nation, let's say you're from Philistia, you're a Philistine. Or you're a Babylonian, or you're a Canaanite. These are all nations that surrounded Israel in the Old Testament. And you hear these commands to worship Yahweh. You know, maybe you're from Philistia and you worship uh Dagon, I think, is who the Philistines would have worship. You think you're likely going to ask, why? Why should I travel all the way to Jerusalem? Why should I travel to worship this Yahweh? What are the reasons that I should worship him? You can you can just imagine them responding. But why should we come and worship your God? We have our gods. Why should we come and worship Yahweh that that He's the true and living God that you say? What reasons do you give? What we find is that the psalmist gives two crucial reasons why the nations should worship Yahweh. So if you're taking notes, this is point two. All the earth, all the people of the earth should come and worship the Lord because he is God and because he is good. We'll look at both of those in our second point. First, look at verse 3 again. Know that the Lord, he is God It is he who made us, and we are his. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. So why should the nation nations worship God? Because he is God. He's the one who created them. You notice how the psalmist says, it is he who made us. He's going all the way back to the book of Genesis. He's saying all hey, all your creation stories about how mankind came into existence They're not right. They're incorrect. There is only one true creation story, and Yahweh is the one who made us. He used that word. It is he who made us. That word is used seven different times in Genesis 1 to describe God's making of everything in the universe. So we recall from Genesis 1 that the crown jewel of God's creation was mankind. So the psalmist wants the nations to know that all people on earth were given life by this one God. Not those gods. Yahweh created you. Yahweh created you. And because God gave us life, he owns us He has authority over us. Notice how clearly the psalmist says this. He says, it is he who made us. We are his. We are his people. It's crystal clear. So if if you are in high school or in college and you're here and you're you're listening, I think it's important for you to understand, especially given our cultural climate, there are a lot of things going on in our culture where people are showing what happens when you cut God off from reality and you make yourself the authority over human life. You begin to change sexuality. You think you can change gender. And I'm not saying this is an insult to those people. I want them to know that there is a living God who made us. But this is important for you to understand as you go about living on campus or in your high school, around your friends, there are going to be people who living around you who don't believe what you believe and who think that they can do whatever they want with their bodies. They can change their body any way that they want. They can use their body any way that they want because they believe they are autonomous over themselves. They believe that they own themselves. That's just foolish. None of us brought ourselves into the world. Right? The Lord created us. And so he has authority over us. And so we need to think carefully as Christians about what that means for sexuality, what that means for gender, what that means for what we do with our body. He owns us. And so we need to turn to his word. And if you're surrounded by people who are having questions about that, one thing that you can do is joyfully Look at Psalm 100 with them and show them how serving the Lord is a good thing because he is a good God. He doesn't lay burdens on us that that we can't hold. His authority is a good authority. Notice how that's even present in verse 4. Look at what he says. He uses the image of sheep. He says, we are the sheep of his pasture. That may sound like an odd image to us, but in the ancient Near East, in the time that the psalm was written, kings and rulers were also called shepherds. They were known as shepherds who led their flock, their people, into green pastures. They were called to shepherd their people by protecting them, by caring for them, by leading them, and by feeding them. And so you see this image reflected in our psalm. The psalmist is saying, Yahweh. Yahweh is the true shepherd. Only he can lead and feed and protect his people because he alone is the one who made us. He's calling them to worship God because he is God. And he's also calling them to worship God because he's good. Look at verses 4 and 5. Look at verses 4 and 5. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him. Bless his name. For The Lord is good. His steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations. Why should the nations worship God? Because God is good. Slow down there for you. Because God is good. He is Good. It's so easy to miss the depth and richness of this description of God because we describe all sorts of things as good. Certain foods are good. Certain books are good. Certain appliances are good. Certain concerts and TV shows are good. And the frequency with which we use the word good, I think dulls our ability to actually see what's being spelled out here when the psalmist says that God is good. God is good. He is in his very nature the essence and source of all goodness. It's a stative verb. He's stating the nature of God. God is good. God is goodness itself And from him flow goodness and all the different types of goodness that are described in the Bible. Goodness in the Bible when describing God is a summary description of the perfection of his moral excellence and out of his goodness flows grace. And mercy and love and faithfulness and patience and compassion. These are all expressions of his goodness. God is good. He is good itself. He is the one who determines goodness by his own character, because he is good, and from his goodness come all that is good. Grace flowing down from above. But he also shows a special type of goodness that God displays, not just to all people, but a special type of goodness that God reserves for his chosen people. Look again at verse 5. For he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. And his faithfulness to all generations. It's like the psalmist is saying, for he is good. Let me explain what I mean. His steadfast love endures forever and his faithfulness to all generations. Steadfast love and faithfulness were unique expressions God is good to all, he shows common grace to all. The rain and the sun fall on the just and the unjust alike. He opens his hand to all, he feeds all But he has steadfast love and faithfulness towards his chosen people only. And this is good news for us. And this is good news for the nations because steadfast love describes the committed love. That God has for his people Israel. It's what the, I've said before, it's what the Jesus storybook Bible calls God's never stopping, never giving up, unfailing, always and forever love. That is God's steadfast love. And the psalmist is telling the nations that if you come and worship this God, you will also share in experiencing God's steadfast love. A love that one commentator said will not let his people go. A love that will not let his people go. And the people of Israel could point to their own past as evidence for this. If the nations asked why, we're not only going to tell you that God made us and that God made you. And we're not only going to tell you that God is good, we're going to show you by the evidences of his goodness in our own lives. They would have said to the nations, He had rescued us out of slavery in Egypt. He parted the waters of the Red Sea so that we could travel through on dry ground. He led us in the wilderness for 40 years. Leading us and protecting us, feeding us like a good shepherd with bread from heaven, giving us water to drink from a rock Not only did he do those things, he he he went before us into the promised land. He drove out our enemies for us All the promises that he made to us in Deuteronomy, he kept because he is a faithful God, and we have seen those promises kept in our own lives. That's what they could have said to the nations. But do you know how Israel repaid God? And they repaid him by rebelling against him. Though he was faithful to them, they were not faithful to him. Over and over again in the Old Testament, the people of Israel sinned against God. They broke his laws. They even began worshiping false gods. They began worshiping the gods of the nations rather than the true God. And God promised them He promised them before they even entered the promised land. He said, if you persist in sinning against me, I will cast you out of my presence, because I am a holy God And they persisted. Literally, for hundreds and hundreds of years in the Old Testament, over the course of centuries, they rebelled against God until finally they were exiled. Adam and Eve sinned against God, passed out of his presence Israel, sinned against God, cast out of his presence. Oh for two. And what happened when he casts them out of his presence? His presence up and left the temple. You know what that means? Nowhere else on earth left. To meet and come. The presence of God. God has departed the earth. The temple is empty. That's what Israel's sin did. They were drove out of his presence, and he removed himself from them. The temple was then later destroyed by invading nations. He couldn't even call the nations to come and enter his gates and his courts anymore. There's no more temple. It's been torn down The temple was later rebuilt, but one thing that we note in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, when the temple is built, the presence never returns Remember when they when they built the first temple, they had a ceremony where the presence of the living God descended on the temple, showing, I am with you. They build the new temple after the first one was destroyed. No ceremony. No rejoicing. The presence never came back. But even though God had abandoned the temple, He had not abandoned people. Because God's steadfast love endures forever. His faithfulness to all generations. Think of his steadfast love that it endures It endures because he has to endure those who continue to sin against him in spite of his mercy and grace and calls to repentance. His steadfast love endures forever. God may have abandoned the temple, but it was only because he was preparing a greater temple. and a greater sacrifice through which people from every nation could come into the presence of the living God to worship him with their head and their heart and their hands. And because God knew that we would never respond to his call to come, he said, I am going to come to you. I am going to come to you because you will not come to me. And he sent the second person of the Trinity, the eternal Son of God, incarnate in the Lord Jesus Christ, as the true temple of God. What did Jesus say to the Jews in the Gospel of John? Tear this temple down and in three days I'll build it up. And they look at him like, what are you talking about What temple? How are you going to build a temple in three days? Because they didn't understand that he was talking about his very own body. What does John tell us in chapter 1? In Jesus Christ is manifest Tabernacled within him, the presence of the living God. It is in Jesus Christ on earth that man meets God and comes into his presence. It's in Jesus Christ that we see the eternal sacrifice. To bring us near to God. He came to us. And not only is he the true temple, but he is the true creator. The one who made all things, Colossians 1, for by him all things were made. Things that were invisible and things that were visible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. Jesus Christ is the one through whom all things were made. It is He who made us. It is He who made us. We are His sheep. We are His people And even though we are his, all of us rejected him. All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Each to his own way. But we can praise God because Jesus is also the true shepherd. Remember what he said in Matthew's Gospel? What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the 99 on the mountains and go and search that one who went astray? Friend, if you follow Jesus, please realize he is talking about you. He is talking about you. He said to the father, They are lost, and I am going to go get them. I will find them in the ravines. I will find them in the pits. I will pick them up and carry them on my shoulders to glory. Because I am the good shepherd. We are the sheep of his pasture. We are the sheep of his pasture. He came in search of us. To rescue us, he stooped down into the muck and the mire of your own life. To take upon himself the punishment for your sins and my sins, so that he could bring us into the presence of the Father in the power of the Spirit Come into his presence. Jesus is the true psalmist of Psalm 100. Come into his presence, I am the temple of the living God, and through me you will meet God even here on earth. It doesn't matter what nation you're from. It doesn't matter what nation you live in. You can come to Jesus Christ and through him have a true and lasting relationship with the God who created you. See, see the crucified Savior with arms outstretched calling you to come. I'm calling you. You were not meant to be separated from God. You were not meant to be banished from His presence forever. You were meant to live in His presence. You were meant to live in his presence with great joy and thanksgiving. And I have come to give my life so that you could have eternal life. So come, come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest for your souls. See him hanging on the tree There is the Creator. There is the temple. There is the Good Shepherd who lays down his life for the sheep. There is the sacrifice that makes giving thanks possible. Jesus is so good. This Thanksgiving holiday. What are you going to be thankful for? Let's pray. Lord, thanks. Seems like too small of a word, but it's a word that you've given us to express the gratitude that we feel inside. So we proclaim with one voice, Lord, thank you. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for coming to search us out and to rescue us and to bring us to the Father through your temple. Thank you for granting the Holy Spirit to inhabit our hearts so that we might actually come to you We pray that you would grant faith and repentance to all who are here today, that we might know this joy and this thanksgiving of living in your presence, and living in your presence through the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. We praise you and give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen.