The sermon passage this morning is Psalm 80. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock. You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth. For Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us. Restore us, O God. Let your face shine that we may be saved. O Lord God of hosts, how long will you be angry with your people's prayers? You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure. You make us an object of contention for our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. Restore us, O God of hosts, let your face shine that we may be saved. You brought a vine out of Egypt, you drove the nations and planted it. You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root and filled the land. The mountains were covered with its shade. The mighty cedars with its branches It sent out its branches to the sea and its shoots to the river. Why then have you broken down its walls, so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit? The boar from the forest ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it. Turn again, O God of hosts, look down from heaven and see. Have regard for this vine, the stock that your right hand planted, and for the sun whom you made strong for yourself. They have burned it with fire, they have cut it down, may they perish at the rebuke of your face. But let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself. Then we shall not turn back from you. Give us life, and we will call upon your name. Restore us, O Lord God of hosts. Let your face shine, that we may be saved. This is God's word. Good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with you all this morning. As we are coming to God's word and are in need of God's help to understand his word, let's turn to him one more time briefly in prayer and ask that he would bless this time. Let's pray. Father, we are a needy people, and you are a generous God We know you to be generous and merciful and patient and kind. And that has been displayed perfectly, fully, gloriously in your Son Jesus Christ We call out to you now through the Lord Jesus Christ and ask that you would make your face to shine upon us this morning. Give us understanding of your word, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well friends, I want to invite you to open in your Bibles to Psalm 80, which you just heard read. If you're using the Bible that we've provided, you'll find our passage on page 491. And if you're not familiar with use in a Bible, what you're doing when you're opening to page 491, you're looking for the big, bold number 80. And then we're going to be looking at the smaller verse numbers after it, verses 1 through 19. That's Psalm 80. Psalm 80 is one of the 150 Psalms that make up the book of Psalms, and the book of Psalms, one all 150 of them, is divided up into five smaller books. And Psalm 80 is part of book 3 of the Psalms. Psalm 80, along with the first 11 Psalms of Book 3, Psalm 73 to 83, were all written by a man named Asaph. Asaph was chosen to be a musician to assist with leading the people of Israel in the worship of God. And we also see that Asaph wrote Psalms. And Asaph's Psalms Along with the majority of the psalms in book three are dominated by the theme of exile Israel is in exile and experiencing the affliction of exile, and many of the psalms in book three communicate this this desire, this need to call out to God for the people of God to be restored. from exile. And Psalm 80, if you were following along, I'm sure you noticed, is no different. It's what we would call a communal lament. God's people are experiencing affliction in exile, and they repeatedly call on God to restore them. I want you to see this in the Psalm yourself. Look at verse 3. Restore us, O God. Let your face shine that we may be saved. Now look down at verse 7. Restore us, O God of hosts. Let your face shine that we may be saved. Now look again at verse 19. Restore us, O Lord God of hosts, let your face shine that we may be saved. That repeated call for God to restore them is really the lesson for us today. But if we don't consider why they were calling out for God to restore them, then we're really going to miss the power and the beauty and the relevance of Psalm 80. for ourselves today. So what we're going to do is we're going to break down Psalm 80 into two points this morning. If you're taking notes, our first point point will be consider. In point one, we're going to consider the potential cause of our afflictions. And then second, we want to take away the lesson that in response to the potential causes of our afflictions, we should call out. Call out for God to restore us. If you are experiencing any sort of affliction today, and we're going to talk about all sorts today, but There will be a specific kind that we have in mind, but what I want you to know is if you are experiencing affliction today of any kind, you should consider the potential cause of your affliction and call out. Call out. For God to restore you. So first, we should consider the potential cause of our affliction. What Psalm 80 teaches us as we look through it is that the people of Israel were experiencing affliction. And the nature of that affliction becomes clearer as the Psalm develops. Go ahead and look down there at the Psalm with me. In verse 2, you see Asaph calls on God to come and save them. We don't know from what, we just know that they're in need of being saved. They're experiencing some sort of situation in which salvation is needed. Well, now look at verses four to six. In verse 4, ASAF questions how long God will be angry with their prayers. It seems like God is no longer answering them. Then in verse 5, we see this powerful image. They're crying so much that their tears are like bread and water. Their tears have become their food and drink. That's how much they are weeping. But it Honestly, at this point in the psalm, it's still not clear why they're suffering and what exactly they're suffering and why they need to be restored But then we see in verse 6, look there with me, their neighbors, that is the surrounding nations. That's the word that's usually used for the surrounding nations. That would be Assyria and Babylon. Those nations hate Israel and mock them. Their enemies laugh at them. So now we're now we're starting to see a little bit of the shape of the affliction that the people of Israel are experiencing. Now look at verses 8 to 11. Asaph introduces this image of a vine. The image of a vine is something that's used to represent the nation of Israel in numerous places in the Old Testament. And the fact that it represents Israel is obvious from the Psalm itself. Notice what he says in verse 8. He says, You brought a vine out of Egypt. So for all of the kids or the youth in here What event is he referring to when he says, you brought a vine out of Egypt? Just shout it out if you know it. What's that? Yeah, when he took the nation of Israel out of slavery in Egypt during the Exodus. This is the image of the that's the vine that he rescued out of Egypt. Not only that, but in verse 9, so he rescued them. What a great blessing that was. But look at verse nine. God cleared the ground for them. This is a picture of blessing. He ensured that the nation of Israel was planted in good soil in the promised land. And because he cleared the ground for it in the second half of verse nine, it flourished. So much so that we see in verse 10 and 11 that it stretched out itself to cover the mountains and it stretched from the sea to the river. The nation multiplied and multiplied and filled the promised land. The sea and the river there would have been known by the Israelites to be the boundaries of the promised land that God had given them. So this nation of Israel had once flourished, filling the land, stretching out over the mountains, from sea to river, all around. They experienced God's blessing. But now in verses 12 and 13, look down there with me. There's this drastically quick turn of circumstances. We see the walls of this vineyard have been broken down. God has removed his hand of protection from them. He uses the image of people plucking its fruit and these boars and beasts ravaging the vineyard. That would be the surrounding nations who've come in to attack and plunder Israel. Look at verse 16, even we see the nations have burned it with fire and cut it down. Right? All throughout the Psalms in book three, we see these images. I even preach Psalm 74. About a month and a half ago, and we looked at how Psalm 74 taught that the Babylon the Babylonians came in and they plundered the entire temple. This is it. Same thing. They've cut it down. They've burned it. They've destroyed us, God. Why is this happening to us? You see that there in verse 12, that common question. Look there. Why then have you broken down its walls so that all who pass by buck its fruit? Now I know Asaph asks this question. Why? But I want to make the argument here that I'm confident he actually knows the answer. And the reason is because if we look at the surrounding Psalms that Asap has written, all which deal with exile We see that Asaph recognizes that their exile, their afflictions that they are suffering are a result of their sins. Look at Psalm 79, the very the one right before it. Psalm 79, verse 8, in which he describes exile again. Psalm 79, verse 8. Do not remember against us our former iniquities. Verse 9. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name, deliver us and Atone for our sins. Asaph understood that the afflictions, the exile, the destruction that they were experiencing were a result of The people's sins against God. And the reason that Asaph would have known this is because God had been so clear with them throughout the Old Testament about what would happen to them if they chose to reject. His laws, if they chose to live for themselves in common parlance, if they chose to rule themselves, right? That's the way that the way that the Bible describes what we do is when we turn away from God, we've chosen to be our own rulers, our own kings and queens. We know what we got it We got it handled from here, oh Lord. It doesn't even need to be this like this kind of outward rebellion like we hate you, God. No, they could just be subtle. No, we've got this. We live for ourselves. I know what's good for me. That's the type of rebellion that that causes these afflictions from God. And he told them that if they did these things, they would experience curses and afflictions, first in smaller measure as warning signs, because God is loving, he's merciful. He'd send them warning signs that they strayed from the path. And if they didn't recognize the smaller warning signs and repent, the curses and afflictions would increase and eventually culminate in the nation being cast out of the presence of God, which happened in the exile And for hundreds of years, the people, unbelievably, right, they had these warnings. God told them what would happen. And unbelievably, for hundreds of years, Israel chose to sin against God over and over and over again. And so God kept his word. He sent smaller afflictions. And then larger afflictions. And he coupled those warnings, those warning signs that judgment was coming. He coupled those with sending prophets to explain the warnings and call the people. Hey, come back. You're straying from the way, but they didn't they didn't listen. They paid no attention to the warning signs, and so God kept his word and sent his people into exile, which we see being described here in Psalm eighty. So when Asaph took time to consider the afflictions they were experiencing, he would no doubt realize that their afflictions were caused by their sins against God. I gotta ask the question I wonder if you are experiencing afflictions in your life right now Are you experiencing what seems to you to be an unusual amount of suffering in your life right now? Are you experiencing what seems like curse after curse, trial after trial, like the stars seem to be aligned against you? If that describes you, I wonder if you've considered whether your afflictions might be the result of your sins against God. And listen, that's a hard question for me to ask. I recognize it's not an easy question to be asked, right? John, are you saying that I've done something to deserve this? But I ask it in all honesty because the Bible is so clear with us, so clear, that our sins bring curses and judgment and afflictions and trials and even death. Right now I know if you're anything like me That some of you may already be thinking about your lives and wondering that the thing, is the thing that I am suffering right now the result of a sin that I have committed? And you're probably running through the Rolodex and memories that you have in your mind trying to figure out Wait, is there something that I did that caused that? If that's you, which it's totally normal if that's you, because that's what I would do if I was being asked that question, I want to ask you to try to hit pause on those thoughts I'm going to offer some caveats of the ways that we suffer in this world that have really nothing to do with sins, specific sins that we've committed. But the fact that there are caveats. Does also mean that I want us to sit with this for a moment and consider the ways, this reality, the ways that our sins may be the cause of our afflictions. Right, that specific sins lead to specific afflictions is really clear right from the beginning of the Bible, right? If you've read the Bible, Then you know right from the beginning, we see that Adam and Eve are cursed. Kids, tell me, why are Adam and Eve cursed? What is it that they did? They disobey God. They ate from the tree that He told them not to eat from. He said, Look, you got the whole garden. You got all these trees, all this fruit. You can eat from all of it. There's just one Don't eat from this one, and what did they do? They sinned against God. They thought they knew what was best. It looked good Seemed like it would be tasty. They reached out and they ate from it. And that specific sin led to the specific curse. of like the the the ground is going to bring forth thorns and thistles, children will come forth in pain, and you are cast out of my presence. Their specific sin led to a specific affliction, and this is the pattern throughout Scripture. It was a pattern with Adam and Eve It was the pattern with Israel, and it's God's pattern of how he deals with all of humanity. Kids again, sin brings what? Consequences. Think of the book of Romans. Sin brings. Sin brings someone shout it out Death Sin brings death God has created the world in such a way that life and joy and peace exist within the boundaries of the laws He's given us to live by. And when we choose to Step outside of these boundaries. We're choosing to step outside of the kingdom of life into the kingdom of death. And when we walk in the kingdom of death in disobedience to God's commands, It should be no surprise to us that we experience a thousand little deaths to our body and our soul for living outside of God's presence and for living how we want to live. Right? That is a result of sinning against God. And there really are so many ways that we can be afflicted because of specific sins, really too many to list. But I want us to at least consider some very we real tangible ways to understand the types of afflictions that accompany specific sins. Right? Consider the person who regularly yells at, demeans, and insults their spouse They will suffer the affliction of a broken or dysfunctional marriage. That sin will lead to that. One-to-one Consider the person who abuses alcohol or drugs, right? They'll suffer the afflictions of being hungover or sick. They may suffer trouble with the law. But consider the person who lies. They'll suffer the affliction of being known as a liar. And what does that do? It really It keeps us from being able to establish meaningful relationships with other people because I don't know if I can trust you because you've lied in the past. It's an affliction that we experience Instead of the person who's placed all their hope in their kids or their job or their money or their home They'll suffer the afflictions of discontentment because none of these things can bring the contentment that only God can provide. These are all various forms of afflictions that we suffer for sinning against God. And these afflictions may also be compounded by the affliction of a guilty conscience. Feeling of shame, experiencing distance from God. We were not made to feel those things. Well, in a sense we were, because we do feel them. God created us with that capacity. What I mean is his intention for us was to live in his presence. and be obedient to his laws and experience the joy and life and peace that come through relationship with him. But when we step outside of that relationship, afflictions come. This is how God has created us as humans and how he has organized this world. But we also need to recognize That not every trial, not every hardship or sickness or suffering that we endure is a result of a specific sin that we've committed. Right? If you're a Christian, you can suffer for simply fought being a follower of Jesus, which is not a sin. Right? We can also suffer not because of our own sins, but because someone else has sinned against us. from minor unkindnesses to major harms, we can absolutely suffer afflictions as a result of someone else's sins And we just got to recognize that the majority of the suffering that we experience in this life is simply experienced because we live in a fallen world. Right? Think of cars or homes that break down or bodies that don't work right or chronic illness or disease. But think of the different types of tragedies. There's just a vast array of suffering that happens because we live in a fallen world. Right? So not all of the afflictions we experience in this life are a result of our sins. Right. So what I don't want us to do is walk away from here and just start like digging through the kind of the dead. You get the you have y'all have desk drawers at home that are just full of all this stuff. Right. Maybe I'm the only disorganized one here. Right? You had you had that desk drawer that everything goes. I'm not trying I'm not you're not supposed to go home and like dig through that drawer and try to find everything. I'm I'm thinking about obvious ways in which you have sinned against God and your experience affliction because of those things. You should consider. Consider if that is the c the reason that you're suffering, because that is the reason that Israel was suffering. Not all of the afflictions we experience in this life are a result of our sins. but some may be, and it's crucial for us to retain this category of suffering. Sin brings affliction, and our present afflictions may be the result of our sins. Right? And the afflictions that we experience are not random events, nor are they the product of some impersonal law of cause and effect I want you to look down at the text with me. We see in verse 5 that these afflictions are sovereignly ordained by God. Look at verse 5. Who has fed them with the bread of tears? You, you, oh God, have fed us with the bread of tears. Look at verse 6. You make us an object of contention for our neighbors. Now verse 12, you have broken down our walls. This is happening because you are sovereignly ordaining this to happen. God sovereignly ordains these afflictions. And I want us to see here, he does not do this because he intends to be mean or intentionally wicked towards you. Right? God is not wicked. He is not evil. He is loving and merciful and kind. And the reason that he allows us to experience specific afflictions for specific sins is to warn us of the danger that we are in right now. And the greater danger that's coming if we don't change our course. But a great illustration of this came back in September of 1900. There was a man named Isaac Klein. He was a chief meteorologist at the U. Weather Bureau in Galveston, Texas. Meteorology was a fairly new science at that time. And Klein had made a name for himself in that new field of scientific research. Really, there wasn't a whole lot that was known about why weather pat patterns happened the way that they did, why storms formed and why they went in certain directions and not others inclined, did a lot of work, made a name for himself and got the post as the head of the U. S. Weather Service in Galveston, Texas. You know, at the time it seemed as though, I'm sure he would admit, now I don't know everything that there is to know about how storms work and how hurricanes work But I think it's clear from his story that he had a pretty high estimation of his opinion and in some sense acted as though he knew all that there was to know about how storms and hurricanes worked, which is why in the first week of September 1900, Klein dismissed numerous atmospheric and oceanic warning signs that didn't hit his that didn't fit his framework for how these storms worked. And he dismissed these atmospheric and oceanic warning signs that we know now precipitate massive hurricanes He didn't recognize the strange deep sea swells that were happening off the coast of Galveston, nor did he pay attention to the peculiar winds that began hitting the town in that week. And so on September eighth, nineteen hundred, because Klein did not pay attention to the warning signs. The town of Galveston was not prepared for the monster hurricane that completely destroyed the town and killed over 6,000 people. All because Klein didn't pay attention to the warning signs. Had he paid attention to the warning signs, it's likely he would have issued a statement calling people to evacuate the city, right? What does that mean for us today? Well the afflictions that we experience as a result of our sins are a lot like the warning signs that Klein ignored leading up to that hurricane. God will mercifully allow these deep sea swells to come into our lives or these peculiar winds that start hitting us. And he sends them into our life mercifully to warn us that we are headed in a direction that will ultimately end in judgment Now, if you don't follow Jesus, even if you do, I think one of the one of the particular dangers here is if your life is going along just fine. You're not experiencing anything going along. You just say, hey, there's no afflictions going on in my life. Then that must mean me and God are on good terms. But if you're tempted to think that, I just want to lovingly point you to the fact that the Bible is clear that all of us All of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. I think it's actually can be a particular judgment of God to not allow afflictions come to come into our life to show us that we're on the wrong path. Right, to just let us go on as though everything's fine between us and God. Right? And because God is good, he's not going to overlook our sins. He's set aside a day when he's going to bring affliction on the entire earth. and all who are in it for the sins that we have committed against him. And that, friends, will be a fate far worse than the exile that the people of Israel experienced That affliction, according to Jesus, will result in being eternally cast out of God's presence. So what do we do? What do we do if we look at our lives, if we consider our lives, and we recognize that we've sinned against God? Well, we do what the passage teaches us to do. We call out to God, which is what is going to bring me now to my second point. We call out to God to restore us. Right, we already looked at the beginning about how that is the constant refrain. You could say that's the chorus of the psalm, right? Every song has a chorus, it's that part where you're like, yes, this is the part that I love. Right, the chorus, the refrain of Psalm 80 is: Restore us, O God. Let your face shine upon us so that we may be saved. Right? That is the refrain here in this Psalm. But I also want us to look at verses 14 to 18, where he basically asks for the same thing. He fleshes it out a little bit. Look at verse 14 with me. Asaph calls for God to turn again and remember. Right? Remember the vine. Remember your people, Israel. Then in verse 15, he calls Israel the son whom you made strong for yourself. In the Old Testament, the nation of Israel is referred to as God's son. Then in verse 16, he describes again the way the nations have destroyed the land before calling again in verse 17. For God to let his hand of salvation be on the man at his right hand. Who is that? It was a man at his right hand. Well, the king of Israel, the monarch. Was understood to be the one who sat at God's right hand. So this is a call for God to save the king of Israel. And if you save the king of Israel, through him the people of Israel will also be saved. Restore us, God. Turn to us. Save us. Now if Asaph has considered his life and recognizes that this exile is a result of their sins, if their afflictions are a result of their sins, why do you think Asaph prays what he does? What do you think led him to pray again and again for God to restore them, to make his face shine upon them so that they would be saved? I think the reason is because just as Asaph knew that their afflictions were a result of God keeping his promise to judge them for their sins In the same way, Asaph believed and bet his life on the fact that God would keep his promise to forgive those very same people. If those people would humble themselves. and call out to God to restore them. You go back to 2 Chronicles 7, and you just have this glorious prediction Of what's going on in this psalm. And what you need to realize, if this is a psalm written by Asaph, Asaph lived when Solomon and David lived hundreds and hundreds of years before the exile, then he is prophesying of this coming exile that would happen to the nation of Israel. But Asaph lived When the temple was dedicated. And Asaph was to lead the people in the worship of God when the temple was dedicated. And do you know what God told the people of Israel in 2 Chronicles 7 when the temple was dedicated? He said to them in 2 Chronicles 7, after promising that he would afflict them if they sinned against him, he said to them, If my people who are called by my name humble themselves And pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. Think about that. He says, if my people humble themselves and pray, friends, that's what this psalm is. It's a prayer. Look at verse 1 Give ear, O shepherd of Israel. Father, listen to our prayers. You are the shepherd. Come and gather your lost sheep. And if he says, if my people pray and seek my face. Do you see the constant refrain throughout the psalm? Restore us, O God. Let your face shine upon us that we may be saved to experience the shining face of God's. The shining of God's face is to experience the fullness of blessing and salvation that belong to those who God makes his face to shine upon, his people, right? Asaph recognizes that the afflictions they're experiencing are a result of their sins, and he's leading the people of Israel. In humbling themselves before God. He's leading them in prayer. He's leading them in seeking God's face. And he's leading them in turning away from their sins. In short, friends He's leading them in repenting to God for the sins that they have committed. We repent, oh God. We recognize that our sins have brought us to this place, not you. We recognize that we are to blame. We are to blame for our broken relationships. We are to blame for the guilt that we carry. We are to blame for our disunity. We are to blame for our gossip. or slander, our discontentment. Not you. We have done this to ourselves. When you call out to God that way, when God's people humble themselves and recognize the ways that they've fallen short and call out to him that way, God will hear when his people will cry out to him. If there's any doubt about that, you better believe that God will hear when his people cry out to him that way. Why? Because he is the Lord. The Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, and Forgiving, forgiving, forgiving, wickedness, rebellion, and sin. The Lord is a forgiving God and the Lord is who Asaph calls out to. And he would answer Asaph's prayer for restoration and salvation in the most surprising way. Friends, you need to recognize that 70 years after the nation was sent into exile, God gathered his vine, this vine of Israel, and brought them back into the promised land. You know, you read about that in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. But if you read the rest of the Old Testament story of Israel, you realize that this vine never took root again. It never took deep root again. It never flourished again as it once had. It never covered the mountains or filled the promised land again that it once had. So did God, did God fail to answer this prayer? No. No. And that is because God was preparing to send the true vine. His son, Jesus Christ. Jesus came as the true vine of God. What did Jonathan read this morning? John 15. I am the true vine. And my Father is the vine dresser. Jesus came as the true vine of God. And unlike the people of Israel, he never stepped outside of the boundaries of the laws that God had given him. He never chose to rule himself. He he submitted himself perfectly, fully, completely, at all times and in all ways through the course of his life to God's law. Because he knew that inside of these boundaries, God, you are good. You're a good God who teaches us how to live. Never sinned against God. Right? He came from heaven, never chose his own way, never lived for himself, lived in complete dependence, perfect obedience to God, and even though Even though he lived a perfect life, Jesus, the true vine, died on the cross to bear the afflictions that we deserve because of our sins. He recognizes this, friend, when you read Psalm 80, you were to think I deserve to be uprooted. Not him. I deserve for my walls to be broken down. Not him He's the true vine. Is he the one who obeyed your law completely and perfectly? Why is he being torn down? Why is he suffering the afflictions that I deserve? Let us never question or consider or think in our minds that God is not merciful and loving and slow to anger and compassionate and gracious And forgiving. God says to you, I gave the true vine, my son, to bear the afflictions that you deserve, so you can be united to him by faith and know the flourishing that he deserves. Jesus is the true vine. When we are united to him by faith, friend, that is when we are planted deeply. We take deep root. That is when we flourish. Why do we think, why do you think we call it in the New Testament? The fruits of the Spirit. The fruits of the Spirit come in connection with how much we are connected to the vine and abiding in him and abiding in his love and listening to his commandments. That is when we bear the fruit of the Spirit And we flourish and fill the land. I want you to think about this, even how Jesus taught this in his very own life before he went to the cross. The parable of the mustard seed. It's a little little seed tinier than all the seeds on earth. We're gonna throw it in the ground. This is the kingdom of God. And what will that seed do? It's not just gonna fill the promised land, friends. It's gonna spread throughout the whole earth. And wherever people humble themselves before God and pray to him and they seek his face and they turn away from their sins. God will unite them to the vine and they will flourish and grow. And that vine, friends, you think about this. We're in Bladensburg, Maryland. That vine is living and growing in the whole earth today Wherever the church is gathered, where people are seeking the face of God in repentance, turning away from their sins, the vine continues to grow. It continues to grow. It continues to grow. You've seen a vine like cover your house and you're like Stop that thing from growing like every night when I wake up like the thing is like reached up to my roof. It was like out of the ground. You were just like this yesterday. How is that happening? It's a mystery. We sow the seed and it continues to grow and that thing people can try to cut it down all they want. It ain't getting cut down. That thing's gonna cover the house of this whole earth someday. Jesus will be glorified because Jesus is the true vine. And we know that he's the true vine because three days after he was buried, the true vine. Sprouted from the ground. Jesus rose from the dead and as the true vine, he calls all people everywhere to humble themselves. Seek the face of God. Turn from your sins. And if you do that, you will be restored to God. And in every place where men and women and children humble themselves and call out to God in repentance and seek God's face and turn from their sins, this vine will continue to flourish and grow. A friend, if you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I want to encourage you, be united to Jesus' vine Right? Every other vine that you seek in this life, every other thing that you try to pour your life into to invest it, it will get cut down in the end. Only Jesus' vine will continue to grow Be united to his mind. Repent of your sins. That is the only way that we can really avoid the coming affliction of God's judgment. A man by the name of Augustine, I want you to think about how soon should I do this, John? How soon should I be united to this vine? A man by the name of Augustine once said this, God has promised forgiveness to your repentance. But he has not promised tomorrow to your procrastination. Turn today. Don't wait another day. You are not promised tomorrow. But I want you to also understand what repentance entails. We need to understand what true repentance is. Repentance entails a change of life, right? I think there's a lot of people, and I get it, I think there's just been Teaching that has not looked carefully at what the Bible says. A lot of people think I prayed a prayer, I was baptized once, and I'm on good terms with God, and I can just go on living however I want. But that friends is not Genuine saving, repentance. True repentance entails a change in the direction of our lives. An entire change Right? You have if you've ever driven on some of those roads, they have uh you have like a a roundabout. Well maybe there's not a roundabout, but you have like the soft angle left turn, you have the hard angle left turn, or you can keep keep going straight. Repentance is not I'm gonna take the soft angle left turn and I'm gonna kind of keep going in the way that I'm living. I'm gonna make a little bit of a turn. No, God calls in repentance to completely turn around and go the other direction, right? Turn around to him. It entires an entire change of the course of our lives. It means once you lived for yourself, but now you live for God and are willing and eager to make your life conform to how He calls you to live. That's what repentance looks like. But you also need to know that true repentance is not something that is mustered up from within. If you're hearing what I'm saying right now and you're thinking to yourself That's it, John. I'm doing it today. I'm doing I'm gonna muster myself up. I'm gonna lift myself up by the bootstraps, and I am going to come to God. I kind of want you to think that. I cut yes, come to God. But I want you to recognize that repentance is a gift of God. He is the one who gives it. Right? It is not mustered up from within Right? When we repent, we're saying to God, God, I absolutely cannot bring myself to you. I am in desperate need of your help. That's what Asaph is saying here. He doesn't say, I will restore myself. Who does he ask to restore them? God. Because only God can do it. Only God can help. So I want you to think real quick if, this is just a real quick sidebar, if you find yourself listening to preachers who tell you, you can do it. Right? You just need a little help from God. God is waiting for you to come to Him. I think, I think you need to be really, really, really careful about listening to those preachers because that is not what the Bible teaches. It teaches the opposite. The Bible says that we would never have come to God on our own if he hadn't first come to us. We can't do it. We're dead in our trespasses and sins. Ephesians 2. We need him to make us alive. And God is gracious to grant repentance so that we would turn to him Have you ever you ever have you ever seen those sumo suits that people get inside? They play wrestle in, right? And and what what happens when they get they they run at each other and they got these little arms? They can never grab each other. Why? Because the sumo suit hit boom and I'll just bounce back. The sumo suit keeps them from bumping into each other. Those sumo suits are like our sin. We can try and run at God to hug him all that we want. We will bounce off him in our own power every single time. Right? We need to prostrate ourselves on the ground. Humble yourselves before God and say to God, God, I need you. To remove my sins from me. I need you to restore me. I need you to forgive me. And if you come to God in that way, you can be confident that God will forgive you your sins and fill you with the Spirit. Oh friends, repentance, true repentance is the seed that bears the flower of forgiveness And this, friends, is a message for all who follow Jesus as well. This is just for those who don't know Jesus. We don't enter the kingdom of God by repenting of our sins and then just start living by our own strength. Like, okay, now I got it, God. I'm just you were good. You gave me life. Now I'm going to live by my own strength, right? Because we're a people who continue to sin, we are also, or should be also, a people who continue to repent. And this is why we set aside time in our service to do a prayer of confession, because we know that we've fallen short and need to call out to God to restore us. Right? But repenting and confessing as Christians isn't something that we should only be doing once a week on Sundays for the few minutes that we do it in our service. Repentance Is the perfume that Christians should put on daily. It should be the fragrance of our lives and the daily song on our lips. A Christian who does not repent is like an opera singer who doesn't sing. Right? She sings and to fill the hall with her beautiful voice and repentance from a Christian heart humbling itself before the living God. seeking forgiveness of sins is like that beautiful music filling the hall. Christians are a repentant people. Friends, if you are following Jesus And you have sin in your life that hasn't been repented of. And maybe you're even experiencing God's loving and merciful afflictions because of it. Let me encourage you to confess it to God. Consider also confessing it to another brother or sister in Christ, even in this church. You want to open up your life to allow somebody to walk alongside you and hold you accountable, right? Think about what Thomas Watson said about our fear of confessing. Because why do we not want to confess sins? We think God is going to judge us and we think others will judge us. Right, but we shouldn't worry about that, right? Think about what Thomas Watson said. Christ went more willingly to the cross than we do to the throne of grace. Let that not be said of us because the God who has the power to afflict us also has the power to restore and heal when he wounds. And when he wounds, he wounds to heal like a good doctor. And he delights when his people humble themselves and confess their sins. Those are people who can be sure that God will restore them. And when he restores them, he will unite them to the true vine, Jesus Christ, and through Christ. they can be sure that their vines will not only flourish in this life, but in the life to come. You know, one author said this, eternity is a day that has no sunset. As I reflected on that, I thought about this passage, and I thought to myself that it has no sunset because our vines will always have the face of God shining upon them. Friends, consider how you've sinned against God. Call out for God to restore you in Jesus Christ. If you do that, you can enjoy today and forevermore the shining face of the Lord Jesus Christ in your life. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we don't confess as often as we should. Sometimes it's because we just don't even see the sin in our lives. That's us. Open our eyes. Sometimes it's because we're prideful. We don't want to do it. If we're prideful, humble us. Sometimes it's because we fear you and we fear being judged by you, but let us know that those who have been restored and united to divine Jesus Christ will never experience your judgment. And whatever discipline we face in this life is a result of your love. To help us lay hold of the throne of grace and fill us with joy and humility in our repentance, recognizing that we have been completely forgiven and restored to you and united to your Son by faith. Oh Lord, cause his vine to flourish and cause us to hold fast to him as he holds fast to us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.