The sermon passage this morning is Mark chapter thirteen. And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Look, teacher, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings. And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. And as he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished? And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one leads you astray. Many will come in my name, saying, I am He, and they will lead many astray And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. This must take place, but the end is not yet For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places. There will be famines. These are but the beginning of the birth pains. But be on your guard, for they will deliver you over to councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before them. And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations. And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say. But say whatever is given you in that hour. For it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. And brother will deliver brother over to death. and the father his child, and children will raise against parents, and have them put to death, and you will be hated by all for my name's sake But the one who endures to the end will be saved. But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where he ought not to be, let the reader understand Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the house top not go down, nor enter his house to take anything out, and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days, pray that it may not happen in winter. For in those days there will be such tribulation as has not been from the beginning of the creation that God created until now and never will be. And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect whom he chose, he shortened the days. And then if anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ, or look, there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders to lead astray, if possible, the elect. But be on guard. I have told you all things beforehand. But in those days after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. From the fig tree learn its lesson. As soon as its branches become tender and put out its leaves, you know that summer is near. So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that He is near, at the very gates. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the sun, but only the father. Be on guard, keep awake, for you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man going on a journey. When he leaves home he puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore stay awake, for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening or at midnight, or when the rooster crows are in the morning, lest he come suddenly and find you asleep And what I say to you, I say to all, stay awake. This is God's word. Friends, pray with me one more time before we open up God's word together. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you in the name of your Son Jesus Christ, and we come with great confidence, knowing that you have given your word for a very specific purpose. Uh, to build up your people. We know that your word is sharper than a double-edged sword. It pierces to the division of soul and spirit, mind and body. It reveals the thoughts and intentions of our hearts. And we pray that this Mysterious teaching here on the end times would not be so mysterious to us that we miss the very plain teaching of Christ here: that we are to be a people who are to be prepared. Help the Spirit this morning through the Word encourage us to live lives that are prepared for this final coming of Christ. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. By prepare by failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail. Now these are wise words that are attributed to Benjamin Franklin. Franklin said it was better to not have an opportunity and yet be prepared. than to have an opportunity and not be prepared. I'm sure many of us have had the terrible experience at some point in our lives of being ill prepared for some moment or some event. Maybe it was the test or the final that you didn't study enough for. You tried to cram at the last moment and then you showed up and you realized I did not cram enough. I did not give myself enough time. I was not prepared for this test. Maybe it was a job interview that you showed up to without having done enough research on the company, so when the interviewer asked you, hey, why do you want to work for us? What is it about our company that makes you want to work for us? You were just like, yeah, I don't really know. I'm not prepared to answer that question Maybe it was a music recital or a sporting event that you just didn't practice enough for. For me, personally, just to give you some insight into my life, it's the Sunday sermon. uh that strikes fear in me. I have a somewhat regularly recurring nightmare of sorts uh in which I show up on a Sunday not realizing that I am supposed to preach And I haven't prepared at all. It's a terrible nightmare. Every time I awake from it, like most nightmares, I'm thankful that it was only a dream But it's something that happens in my own life. It's this fear of not being prepared for a big moment. Most of us know from experience how true Franklin's words are. Failing to prepare really is preparing to fail. And that's important for us today because the passage that we're studying this morning is going to beat the drum of being prepared over and over and over again because what Jesus wants us to be prepared for today is the most important event that every single one of us in this room and every single human being on the planet today, every single human being that has ever lived, all of us will experience This one event. So if you haven't already turned with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 13 If you're using the Bible that we provided there in the seats, you'll find the passage on pages 850 and 851, I believe, or 849 and 850 We're looking at the entire chapter of Mark this morning, and we come to what is possibly the most important chapter in the entire Bible regarding the end of the world. And the reason I say that is because of how foundational this chapter is. in the rest of the New Testament. The rest of the New Testament authors are basically just looking back at this chapter and they're now explaining more subpoints and things like that. But this chapter really is the foundation and foundational teaching on the end times in the New Testament and on Jesus' second coming. Now really the we also need to note that the correct interpretation of Jesus' teaching in Mark 13, what does it really mean? When do these events take place? What's he saying? When will this all happen? The correct interpretation of these events is widely debated among Christians today. There are faithful Christians who believe different things about what this passage teaches, and that's okay. There is so much debate that I could really do a month-long series on just the different views. that people have regarding this chapter. Generally speaking, broadly, big picture, there are three views. One view says, everything that Jesus predicts in this chapter has already happened. All of it. Everything that you just heard has already happened. Another view says that everything is yet to happen. None of it has happened yet. And then there is a third view, which is a view that I hold, is that some of the things have happened, they've already occurred, and that there is more that is left And since we are going to deal with this entire chapter in just one sermon, I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time caveating the different beliefs. I'm just going to tell you what I think the passage says. And if you have questions about what it teaches or what I've taught this morning, I want to encourage you to come talk to me after the service. I'd love to talk with you. There is lots of fascinating and really wonderful teaching here for us. What I'm gonna do, normally I will just give people the points of the sermon ahead of time, but because of the way that this chapter is structured and because of the content of what Jesus teaches, what I'm gonna do is spend about the first 25 minutes just walking verse by verse through the whole chapter, just kind of explaining as we go, trying to tell you what I think it all means. And at the end, we're just going to meditate on what the one main takeaway is for us this morning, which is Going to be very clear for us as we go. So, what I want to encourage you to do, if you don't have your Bible open, you will be supremely bored in this sermon if you don't have the Bible open and are looking. Because I'm just going to be looking down at the passage. Not reading every single verse, but I we're gonna look, we're gonna put our eyes on pretty much every verse in this chapter, and I'm gonna try to explain it to you so that we're all on the same page and we can understand what the main takeaway is for us. Go ahead and look down with me now at verses 1 to 4. We see there that Jesus and his disciples are leaving the temple, and as they are leaving the temple. One of his disciples makes a an exclamation, a proclamation about how amazing the temple itself, the whole complex. how amazing of a structure it is. And architecturally speaking, the temple complex was awesome. So the entire complex itself was big enough to fit 12 football fields inside of. It was gigantic. And there were individual stones. Kids, pay attention to this. This is amazing. There were individual stones that the temple was built out of that were 42 feet long, 11 feet high. 14 feet deep and they weighed over a million pounds. One single stone. That's why when they're looking at the temple, it's just like, whoa, this thing is awesome. If you look at the stage up here, you're looking at probably 20 to 25 feet. So almost double the size of the stage in length. It was one single stone. Up to the height of a basketball hoop, back the height of a basketball hoop, and weighing a million pounds. One stone That is gigantic. Legos don't really kind of compare, right? You can't you know they're they're a much smaller picture of what's going on here. But this temple complex was astounding visually But we see there in the passage, if you look down there with me, what Jesus says in verse 2, he's not impressed, and he predicts that the temple in all of its grandeur will be completely destroyed. If you're just diving into this chapter, you might think, wow, that that sounds kind of severe. Why on earth would you say that, Jesus? But this prediction needs to be understood in light of the constant attacks he's just faced at the temple. Chapters 11 and 12 capture for us just how corrupt the temple had become And when Jesus is making this prediction about its destruction, it's in light of the corruption that we've just seen in chapters 11 and 12. It was corrupt beyond repair, and it is going to be destroyed. And so understandably, his disciples say, hey, when's this going to happen? What are the things that are going to take place before it happens? What are the signs that will prepare us for its happening? And what you see in verses 5 and following through the end of the chapter, Jesus tells them what to expect. Now, for the sake of clarity, I want to say up front that I believe the predictions that Jesus makes in verses 5 to 23 5 to 23 are predictions of events that would happen before the destruction of the temple. And since the temple was destroyed in the year 70, that means that what Jesus predicts is going to happen in verses 5 to 23, I believe, has already happened. All of these events have already happened, in my opinion. It's uh not an an uncommon opinion today. I think it's widely held by many commentators today that these things have already happened in verses five to twenty-three I'm going to nuance that a bit as we go along, but for all intents and purposes, I want you to understand verses 5 to 23 as predicting events that have already happened. And what are those events that we see that Jesus predicts? Well, look at verses 5 and 6. Look at verses 5 and 6. He predicts that there would be false messiahs. These are people who are coming and claiming to be God who will then lead people astray. Then in verses 7 and 8, look there with me. Jesus says that there will be wars and rumors of wars between nations and kingdoms, and that there will be things like famines and earthquakes. Yeah, when when we read this passage, it's very easy for us, and I think uh it's kind of right of us to say this is a type of prediction that really could happen at any time, right? There are constantly wars, we experience wars. uh all the time there whether it's in our country or elsewhere in the world that they almost always seem to be going on. Uh John prayed about the Mississippi, Louisiana area, the Gulf Storm that was coming. There's things like famines and natural disasters and earthquakes. But In Jesus' time, this description fit first century Roman Empire really well. Not only are there numerous historical reports of Legitimate false messiahs in first century Judea. One of which, when you turn to the book of Acts, chapter five, you see in Acts chapter five, a man named Theodus rose up claiming to be somebody, and he led a bunch of people astray with him But it was also true that wars were an ever present reality under the reigns of Caligula and then later Emperor Nero, not to mention massive famines that occurred under the reign of Claudius, which you see in Acts chapter eleven being reported on. as well as earthquakes, one of which leveled the Roman city of Pompeii in the year 63. So we see all of these things happening in the first century from the point forward when Jesus makes these predictions. But then more specifically, look at verses 9 to 13. Jesus predicts that before the temple is destroyed, his followers will face intense persecution. They'll face intense persecution from the ruling authorities. You see that in verses 9 to 11. And God will use that persecution by the authorities to provide a platform for his disciples to proclaim the gospel to the nations. You think about the Roman Empire, the most persuasive, influential empire that has probably ever existed. Road all roads led to Rome. So when the gospel is being proclaimed In Rome, it can be legitimately said that it's being proclaimed to all nations. Why? Because it's going out to all the ends of the earth. The Roman roads led to the ends of the earth. And this persecution is going to provide a platform for that proclamation. But it's not just from ruling authorities. You see in the passage, verses 12 and 13. His disciples will also face persecution from family members. Jesus describes the heartbreaking reality that family members will turn on one another. I think he's describing Christians being handed over to the Roman authorities by their own families. There are multiple uh historical reports outside of the Bible of Christians being handed over by their own family members, and then some of those Christians even during the painful interrogation they faced, handing over other Christians, telling the ruling authorities where they can find other Christians. And then those Christians are sent to the Coliseum to be fed to lions and killed by the warriors there. This is a terrible time period. But some of you may read these verses and and think, wow, this this sounds a lot like the book of Acts And if you say that when you read these passages, I think you'd be right. The book of Acts is actually just a commentary on these verses. The book of Acts is describing for us in more detail the things that Jesus predicts. And what's interesting about the book of Acts is that it covers the years 33, basically from Jesus' ascension to the years 68. 69, right before the destruction of the temple in the year 70, and you see all of these things happening. False messiahs are reported in the book of Acts. Famines are reported in the book of Acts. disciples being persecuted and put to death in the book of Acts, right? All of this is happening in the book of Acts. And they it runs right up until the temple was destroyed. And just prior to the next And most mysterious of Jesus' prophecies was fulfilled. What prophecy is that? Well, in verse 14, it's the prophecy of the abomination of desolation. Go ahead and look down there with me. I'm going to read this verse for us. Verse 14, and when you look at this passage, when they talk about when will these things happen, Jesus describes these kind of sub-moments, these wars and famines and earthquakes and persecution. But this prophecy really lies at the centerpiece. When you see this happen, you should run. This is what he's going to say here. So verse 14, Jesus says to them, When you see the abomination of desolation, Standing where he ought not to be, let the reader understand, then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. I think the most glaring question about this prophecy and this verse is what or who is the abomination of desolation? Let's, before we try to answer that question, let's just stop and think about the words. An abomination in the Bible, according to the way the Bible uses that word, is a particularly heinous sin, usually related to idolatry. And desolation is punishment for sin. So the abomination of desolation will likely be in some way related to sins, related to idolatry, which will then trigger judgment, desolations from God. The abomination of desolation will likely do that. But you notice here, Mark wants us to think about what Jesus is saying. That's why you have that little parenthetical comment Let the reader understand. Do you see that? Not all that often in Scripture. When you do see it in Scripture, you should stop and say, Lord, help me understand what you're talking about. Because the Holy Spirit led Mark to say Pause here and encourage everyone who comes across this letter to think carefully about what you're writing. And what he wants them to think about are the predictions from the book of Daniel about someone known as the abomination of Desolation. This person, according to Daniel, would interrupt the worship in the temple and would therefore bring about God's judgment. Interestingly, though, for our purposes this morning, about trying to figure out when this prophecy happened, Daniel also predicts that the abomination of desolation will arrive with his armies And they will defame the temple in some way, which connects really well with Luke's record of Jesus' prophecy here about the abomination of desolation. Jesus says in the Gospel of Luke, he records Jesus this way. Jesus says, but when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then you know its desolation has come near. And the event that Jesus seems to have in mind is when the Romans laid siege to Jerusalem in the year 70 A. D. Jerusalem was surrounded by armies, fulfilling the sign of the coming abomination of desolation. And four months after the siege began. Caesar gave orders to destroy both the city and the temple itself. And the destruction of the temple was so complete that not one stone was left in place. It was completely raised to the ground, raised R-A-Z-E-D, just torn down complete, completely And this is why Jesus basically says in verses 14 to 16, after the prophecy, if you look down there with me in verses 15 and 16, when you see armies come to surround Jerusalem. Run and don't look back, right? He goes on to describe how terrible the tribulation will be that will follow this Abomination of desolation and the tearing down of the temple. And he says that it will be so bad that if God hadn't cut short the days, nobody would be saved. And we know that the siege itself was actually devastating. It was devastating. The normal, horrendous things that happen when a siege occurs happen. Uh people turn on one another. Uh cannibalism uh i is provoked or evoked, people starve to death, people don't have water. Roughly 1. 1 million Jews died, and 97,000 of them were enslaved by the Romans from that one event. This is why you see Jesus flee to the mountains. When you see this happening, run. Interestingly. As best we can tell, no Christians were killed during this siege. Why is that? Well, according to an early church historian by the name of Eusebius, all the Christians in the area of Jerusalem fled to the city of Pella, which lay at the foothills of a mountain range, and it seems likely, according to Eusebius, that they fled because of this prophecy in Mark 13. They paid attention to what Jesus said. And when they saw the Roman armies coming, they said, we are out of here. The tribulation that's about to come will be terrible. And then after that tribulation, Jesus describes again, look at verses 21 to 23. He just mentions again that false teachers and false messiahs will appear. And they'll be performing signs and wonders in order to lead God's people astray. You see, verses 5 to 23. Predict events that would occur between Jesus' ascension into heaven and the destruction of the temple in the year 70. It would be a time marked by false teaching. Wars, famines, earthquakes, persecution, the appearance of the abomination of desolation, a terrible tribulation, and the destruction of the temple, and all of these events have already happened But I did say that I want to nuance that a little bit. And the way I want to nuance it is by saying that even though these events have already happened, they haven't yet happened. What do you mean by that? Even though these events have already happened, they haven't yet fully happened When we come to prophecies like this in the Bible, we need to pay careful attention to the way that the Bible presents history. The way that the Bible presents history. The Bible presents history as cyclical, not a closed circle that just moves in cycles around itself. But as a spiral from the beginning of creation, it cycles and spirals towards a pre-intended endpoint that God is superintending. But the spirals, why do I bring up the spirals? Because the same patterns of history repeat themselves. And so these predictions of prophecies, we should not be surprised if there are future predictions of other prophecies that sound very much like this one. I want you to see how this actually happens in our own passage. I want you to notice the patterns that are present in our passage this morning. Look at verses 14 to 16. Notice Jesus says to his disciples, when you see the abomination of desolation, flee to the mountains. And then he says twice, don't turn back. Flee to the mountains and don't turn back. I want to open this up to any of the youth here. Any of the youth that are in the service today. Can any of you Tell me the story, the very important and well-known story in the book of Genesis, in which a man and his family are told to flee for the mountains and not look back. Any of you know? You can raise your hand. Abram? Close. Not Jacob. Can anyone else tell me in the very back? The story of Sodom and Gomorrah, Lot and his family. Remember the angels say to Lot and his family The judgment that is about to come is so severe, run and don't look back. And then we have the the the popular story of Lot's wife who did look back, turns into a pillar of sand. But where do Lot and his family where are they commanded to run to? The hills. The mountains of Zophar. Right? John, why are you bringing this up? Because the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and the fact that God's chosen people, Lot and his family, were told to run, is a pattern. It's a pattern. It's meant to prepare us. When we look back at that story, it's meant to prepare us for this story of the destruction of the temple. And then even a greater judgment that will come someday when God's people should run again to the mountains when destruction You also see in verse 22. Look at verse 22 with me. I want you to notice another pattern that's present. In the period just before this great judgment. There will be false prophets who can actually perform signs and wonders. They can do things that are amazing to lead God's people astray. What is this patterned after? This is patterned after the Exodus. Remember when Moses went to Pharaoh, and Moses was like, I'm gonna do a miracle so that you know I'm telling the truth. Pharaoh calls his magicians, they come in, they do miracles too. And it's like, okay, am I going to believe you or am I going to believe them? They can do what you do. But here's what I want you to see. After that happens in the book of Exodus, what happens in Egypt? Darkness falls on the land God brings judgment on Egypt and he appears to deliver his people out of slavery in Egypt. Now look, right after Jesus predicts false prophets will do signs and miracles. What comes next in verse 24? Darkness falls on the land, the lights in the heavens will fall dark, God's wrath and judgment will be poured out, and Jesus will be seen coming on the clouds to rescue his people. What led people out of Egypt? A cloud by day. What's gonna arrive? What will Jesus arrive upon at the last day in darkness? He'll come on the clouds to bring his people out of judgment. These patterns that happen in the old testament happen again in the New Testament and are meant to prepare us for a future judgment that is to come. So yes, these predictions have come true. But they haven't yet fully come true. And you look at this passage and you can't help but notice that the abomination of desolation sounds strikingly like the man of lawlessness. who will come at some point in the future, the Apostle Paul says, will come someday, who will take worship to himself, he'll interrupt the worship in the temple, and he'll trigger God's tribulation and judgment upon the earth. And at that point Christ will come. If you have questions about that, I'd encourage you to read. Just go and read 1 and 2 Thessalonians this afternoon. It'll take you 20 minutes to read both of them And those chapters speak very clearly. You can see how Paul is looking back to Mark 13, and he's starting to explain. This is what it really means. This will be the full fulfillment. You might say, John, how how is it possible though that the abomination of desolation, the man of lawlessness, will stand in God's temple? The temple's been destroyed. How can that prophecy actually come true? Well, that's because the temple in Jerusalem isn't the temple that Paul is talking about. The temple in Jerusalem is a pattern of the earth The earth is God's temple. That's why in the temple itself there were trees and pomegranates and fruit carved into the walls. It was meant to remind people of the earth. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. So when the man of lawlessness appears in the earth, interrupts the worship of God, begins persecuting God's people, that will trigger what we hear about in verses 24 to 27. Look there with me. That judgment will come according to verse 24 in those days. If you pay careful attention to the language as Jesus is speaking in Mark 13, it's clear that he has shifted his attention from the destruction of Jerusalem and the events that are coming to a distant future event when he says in those days after that tribulation. He's speaking in about event that will happen after the destruction of the temple. And according to Jesus, there is another judgment coming that will be patterned after this destruction. It will have similar events. occurring around it and it will be unlike any other event in human history. Look at verses 24 and 25. Jesus says the lights in the heaven will be darkened and fall from the sky. It's going to be like a reversal of the creation narrative in Genesis chapter 1. And when that happens in verse 26. Jesus, the Son of Man, will be seen coming on the clouds with great power and glory. All we got to do is look at Acts chapter 1. Remember, after Jesus ascends into heaven, the angels appear and say to the disciples, hey, why are you standing there? Just go do what he told you to do. Be ready. Go preach the gospel. There will be a day coming when he appears in the same way that you saw him go, which is on the clouds. This is a prediction of that future coming. And when he arrives, we see that he is going to gather his elect, his people, those people who have recognized that they have sinned against God. Who have turned from their sins, they've repented, they've put their trust in Jesus for the forgiveness of sins. Jesus is going to come and gather them And bring them to be with him. And he's going to gather them from the four winds, from the ends of the earth. The four winds is just an ancient way of saying from every corner of the globe. Well, it's a globe. How can I have corners? Well, from you get you get what I'm saying. From from everywhere on earth, right? Jesus is going to gather people from everywhere on earth. But then it gets confusing. And it gets confusing because in verses 28 to 31, it seems like Jesus switches back to talking about the near-term future. Look there with me. He describes it by using a budding fig tree as an object lesson. He says, just like when you see a fig tree sprouting leaves, you know that summer is near. And when you see these things happening, you know that he is near. And we tend to think these things, everything he just said. Well the sunny I thought he was coming on the clouds. Wait, did that happen or did that not? What is Jesus talking about here? I think what's happening here is he's switched back to talking about the near term. You'll notice in verses 29 and 30, he switches from talking about the distant future, those days, to the near-term future. These things. His disciples ask, when will these things happen? Jesus gives them a list of things that will happen, and then he gives a future prophecy, and then he switches back. When you see these things, the things in verses 5 to 23, you know that he is near. And he switches back there by you see that using the term these things. This isn't a view that only I hold. I think it is a common view today among commentators that they see these things as referring to what was predicted in verses 5 to 23. And because he's talking about the near-term future again, he can say to his disciples that this present generation will not pass away. All of you will experience this. And because these things all did happen within that generation, years 30 to 70, Jesus' prediction came true. But I think one question that I often have when I come to passages like this and that you might have is why on earth would Jesus interject a prediction about the second coming in the distant future and then switch back to talking about the near term? Why not just be like normal and put it all in chronological neat order for us so that we can understand the timing of it all and Jesus is more interested Less in strict chronology and more in helping us understand how these events predict one another, how these patterns that I've already talked about help predict one another. Right? Jesus moves from the appearance of the abomination of desolation and the tribulation that follows, which happened new nearly 2,000 years ago, immediately to his second coming, because of how closely related those events are. Not in time and space. but as c closely related patterns of reality. The appearance of the abomination and desolation of desolation and the tribulation is a closely related pattern of the appearance of the man of lawlessness who triggers the second coming of Christ. Prophecy is can be confusing because the authors are not concerned with chronology, but helping you interpret events in light of events. And the best illustration that I have personally heard about how to understand Prophecy is by the use of the image of a mountain range. When you look at a mountain range from miles away, it looks like one single landmass. Just one gigantic mountain. Maybe you can tell some faint outlines and shapes. Right? It's just one single thing. That must be one single mountain on one single spot on the earth. But as you get closer to the mountain, what happens? Oh, you start to see, oh, there's more depth. Oh wait, whoa. These mountains are actually separated by great distances. This peak is closer. That peak is much further away in the distance. In the same way biblical prophecy often works that way. Jesus has packaged these things together as one single prophecy mass But as you move through human history, you start to realize, oh wait, there is a great distance between the abomination of desolation and the second coming, but Jesus has put them together in one mountain range because he's teaching one single thing. When the man of lawlessness appears, then he will appear, and at that time there will be a great and terrible judgment. And that's what he switches back to in verse 32. Look there with me. Jesus says, concerning that day, the day of final judgment, the day when the sun will come on the clouds, he says, nobody knows, not the angels, nor the sun, only the Father in heaven. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. John, you have been preaching to us for a year and a half now that Jesus is God. This is what Mark's gospel is all about. How can he possibly not know? If God knows all things and Jesus is fully God, then Jesus should also know this. What is going on here? And in short, my answer to you is, I do not know. I I honestly I don't I don't know. Jesus is fully God. Jesus is fully man. Answers have been given about how these two natures intersect and and relate to one another, but I think the great answer for Christians is It's a mystery because God is far greater than us. Right? I mean scripture is very clear. He is not like us. So there are things going on here that I don't quite understand. Jesus is fully God, the eternal Son of God. He appeared on earth As a baby. He grew in wisdom. He hungered. He slept. All things that God doesn't do, right? But he's still fully God. And he says here, what even though we have great mysteries surrounding how these two natures intersect with one another, what's not a mystery is that nobody knows when it will happen. He just repeats this over and over in verse 33 and following. And he closes his prediction of this second coming with an illustration about a man who goes on a journey. Hey, he says, hey, you guys do this work. I'm going to put you to work in my house. And I'm going on a journey. When are you coming back? Not telling you. So you need to work hard because I could arrive at any time. That's the point of that illustration. And that is really what leads to the big takeaway for us that Jesus beats like a drum throughout this chapter. If we read this chapter and we get hung up on all the mystery and all the things about when will this happen and how will these things intersect? And we don't take away what Jesus wants us to take away, we have epically failed, right? Like the the message of this chapter is very clear. He's kind of packaged all the mystery kind of by itself and then he's just gonna beat this drum. over and over again in order to teach you the lesson that you should take away from this chapter. What is that lesson? Well let's scan quickly through the chapter and I think we'll see it very quickly. Look at verse 5, chapter 13, verse 5 Jesus says, see that no one leads you astray. See, this is a command, an imperative. Watch out. Beware. Be prepared. Now look at verse 9. Jesus says, but be on your guard. That is, be ready, be prepared for false teachers. Now look at verse 23. Verse 23. But be on your guard. Again, he repeats himself. I have told you all things beforehand. Be prepared. Be ready. Look at verse 35. Be on guard. Stay awake. Then again, finally, verse 37. What I say to all of you, what I say to you, I say to all, stay awake. Jesus, what do you want us to take away from Mark chapter 13 and all these hard to understand prophecies? Be prepared. Be prepared. That's what I want you to take away this morning. To my non-Christian friend, if you're here, I am guessing. That you are probably tempted, as I have been in the past, to dismiss Jesus' second coming as fantasy? And if so, I want I think it may be helpful to know that even within a few years of Jesus ascending into heaven, people were already dismissing it as fantasy. Hey, wait, where is this second coming? that you have talked about. And people dismissed it then and dismiss it now because life continues to go on just as it always has. But if that describes your view on the second coming of Christ, I want to encourage you not to dismiss his second coming just because life seems to go on as it always has. When you look at history throughout the Bible, there are long periods of life going on just as it always has, and that are punctuated by appearances of God and judgment from God. And these long periods exist in the Bible according to Peter in 2 Peter because God is kind and God is patient. And God does not desire to see anyone perish, but to turn from their sins and trust in him. Peter says it's God's kindness and patience that lead us to repentance. So the reason that life Just seems to go on as it always has for you and for me today is because God is in heaven hoping that you would hear what's being taught by Jesus here today and turn from your sins and trust in him And that's the way that you can be prepared today. Really, this when we look at this earth, one of the things that people talk about, and one reason that most people have, a lot of people have, for not believing in God today is How can all these terrible things happen? Why why doesn't God intervene and do anything about it? And I get that. I understand that viewpoint. What I want to encourage you in understanding is that God is going to do something about it. He is chosen a day when he will do something about it. And on that appointed day, Jesus will come and judge the whole earth. And I want you to think about this. This passage has characterized that day as terrible. Oftentimes Christians can be kind of, you know, you're you see them with the picket signs, repent, hellfire, brimstone. I'm not trying to communicate that to you today, but I do want to just point at what Jesus is saying and say, hey, if Jesus said it, we should take it seriously. And he says that day will be terrible. Now, why? Well, think about it All the things that you've seen happen that have caused you not to believe in God, if there was a God, how do you think he would respond to those things? With great fury and anger And that is what's going to happen. But you see, the problem for us is that it's not just the sins of mankind in general that God will judge, but our sins personally and individually. That have added to the corruption that we see on this earth. And so all of us stands guilty and condemned by God. And when Christ appears, it will be a terrible day for us if we have not fled to him for refuge and forgiveness from sins. So I just want to encourage you today, friend, if you're not a follower of Jesus, consider what Jesus is teaching here today and consider how you might be better prepared for that day. I also want my Christian friends to think about this call to be prepared for Jesus' return. This is one of the reasons that committing to a local body of believers is so important in our lives as we follow Jesus. Why is that? Well, we see in the book of Hebrews, chapter 10, that God has given the local congregation as an assurance of salvation cooperative. Where we come together to specifically encourage one another to remember that that day is drawing near. Right? That's what we're doing here this morning. We're reminding ourselves that we need to be prepared because Jesus Is about to appear. He's standing at the very gates. And we need that encouragement. We need this weekly preparation, this every seven-day preparation, because of the way that it prepares us to guard against the things that Jesus tells us to guard against. It prepares us to guard against false teaching and opposition, both of which Jesus says we will face. We are called to be prepared against false teaching. How do we do that? Well, we do that by continually growing in our own personal study of God's Word We do that by joining together weekly to hear the word preached, to better understand it ourselves and to think about what it means in our lives. We do that by gathering with other Christians throughout the week to pray with them, to read the Bible together with them. We test those things that we hear taught from others, whether we're receiving teaching from books or from podcasts or from sermons online. We want to test those things against what we read in God's We have to recognize as Christians that some false teaching is obvious and can be easily avoided. Some of it is just painfully obvious. And it can be easily avoided. But the reality is that the New Testament describes false teachers, many of them as intentionally and subtly manipulating the message of the gospel to serve themselves. And it's in these types of cases that we need to be discerning. Charles Spurgeon said this about discernment. Discernment is not knowing the difference between right and wrong. Discernment is knowing the difference between right and And almost right. And that's the type of people that we want to be. We want to be able to discern the difference between right and that's not quite right. I I I need to keep the law to be saved. That doesn't sound right. That doesn't sound like what Jesus teaches. But I want to give a quick caveat. In no way am I saying this to give license to any of us for being argumentative and or nitpicky Paul says in the New Testament that we should correct our enemies with gentleness. And if we should correct our enemies with gentleness, how much more should we interact with one another in a spirit of love and gentleness? But we also need to be prepared for persecution and opposition. Right? It's kind of foreign to us in America today, and we can thank God for the great period of relative peace that He has granted to us. But we need to recognize that the relative lack of opposition that we face in our country is an aberration It is not normal. It is not normal when you look at all of human history from the point of Jesus' going up into heaven until now. And it's not even normal today. When you look at many, most even countries around us, there is opposition and persecution against those who would preach. the gospel. And we just, hey, let's just recognize that this is likely, possible, likely even to happen in our own lives. And this can easily cause fear. Right, it caused fear and anxiety amongst even the early disciples, but we can take confidence in the fact that the sovereign God they trusted in is the same yesterday and today and forever. They faced opposition with boldness because they knew that their God could deliver them from even death itself. And why did they believe that? Because the Savior that they had just put their faith in had died and risen from the dead. God can deliver his people from the most dire circumstances. They recognized that God was greater than all of their enemies. A man named William Gernall said this: One Almighty. is greater than many mighties. One Almighty is greater than many mighties. It doesn't matter if the nations of the earth And their ruling authorities take counsel together against the Lord and against his people. One Almighty is greater than many mighties, even all the mighties of the earth, because he is the Almighty God. And these early disciples kind of went forth with the gospel in the boldness that they did and with the the eagerness that they did because they knew that their God was greater than all the mighty rulers. And we serve that same God today, so we don't need to fear persecution or opposition. I love the way that Robert Murray McShane put it. He said this. If I could hear Christ praying for me in the next room, I would not fear a million enemies. Yet distance makes no difference. He is praying for me. Christ is interceding for his church even now at the right hand of God. And we can thank God because the prayers of a righteous man availth much, and Jesus Christ is the righteous one and his prayers that his people would be preserved through even the most intense persecution, those prayers will be answered. And so we can face opposition with encouragement. encourage. The Lord Jesus, as we see in this passage, so clearly has promised to deliver his elect, his people, and is praying even now to the Father that we would be saved. And we know that his prayers will be answered. And so, how can we think about being prepared today? What does that mean for us? What does it look like to live prepared? Well, I think it looks like pursuing the people that God has put in our lives, but to see them come to this knowledge of Christ. Now I know that so many of you have already shared the gospel with your neighbors, your co-workers, and your friends, and I am so encouraged by that. Am I telling you, do I need to go back today? Do I just need to like beat on their door and keep sharing it? Well, as opportunity presents itself, I would encourage you to share the gospel, but I would encourage you to love them and live with a life of hope That shows a hope that cannot be quenched by any of life's circumstances that might draw them to say to you, Hey, you shared this gospel with me. Where does this hope come from? Well, let me tell you, the God that I've been teaching you about in the gospel is the God who gives this hope. We can live with a hope that cannot be quenched because we know that Jesus' words will not pass away. The promises that he made then will happen no matter how many years pass between. then and now. So we should be prepared for that day. Think about what what do you do when you go on a vacation? Right? In the weeks leading up to the vacation, kind of life doesn't change a whole lot, but then if you're like me, the morning of it changes, maybe the day before, right? Depends on your personality. But what do you do? You start packing, you start planning, start taking food out of the fridge, you start throwing stuff away. You don't want anything to rot, and you know, things like that. What do you you are preparing for what you know is about to happen. How do you see the reality that Jesus is about to return, that that is about to happen? How do you see that manifesting itself in your life today? Are you in the period before the vacation comes where you're not really thinking about it a whole lot and not preparing? Or are you living in that moment, the day before, the morning of where you're starting to pack and prepare? Where do you see this level of preparedness in your life? Are you thinking about your relationships, your finances, and your schedule in light of that day? How are you doing that? I want to encourage the members of this church in the way that you've challenged me by your level of preparedness. In the conversations that I have with you throughout the week and the conversations that I have with you on Sunday. and the ways that I hear you guys encouraging one another, I am challenged in my own life to live a life that is more prepared because I see you doing that and you are an example. to me and I praise God for that. And I just think about what Paul says to the Thessalonians in both his letters where he's teaching them about the end times. He just says over and over again, you're already doing it. Keep going more and more Keep doing it more and more. Keep encouraging more each other more and more as you see that day drawing near. I want you to continue fighting to live lives that are marked by faith and hope and love, and I want to encourage you to pursue those things more and more. And we have so much to be hopeful for, don't we? We have so much to be hopeful for. God has rescued us from sin. He's given us his spirit so that when he commands in Mark 13 to endure to the end, we can know that because of his spirit within us, we will endure to the end. He's promised to preserve us through every trial, and we have the certain hope that someday soon, and even very soon, Every eye will see him. He will be coming on the clouds, and he will be coming for you and for me. Not so that we might face that terrible tribulation, but that we might be delivered from it. And he's going to bring us into his kingdom. And this morning we have the opportunity after the service to celebrate the Lord's Supper. where we can have that hope, that sure and certain hope, that we will celebrate with him around his table, feasting with him at the marriage supper of the Lamb. Oh friends, are you prepared for that today? Let's pray Heavenly Father, we praise you for this teaching. We praise you for your clarity Thank you for granting the Holy Spirit to lead Mark, to accurately transmit this account from Jesus, and to tell us so clearly that we should be prepared for Christ's coming. Grant us your spirit to now empower us to do that in our lives, that we might live lives marked by faith and hope and love, and might by your grace and your empowerment draw others to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.