The sermon passage this morning is Mark chapter fifteen verses one through fifteen. And as soon as it was morning, the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council And they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate. And Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And he answered him, You have said so. And the chief priests accused him of many things. And Pilate again asked him, Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you. But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed. Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked. And among the rebels in prison who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas. And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them, and he answered them, saying, Do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews? For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up. But the chief priests had stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barabbas instead. And Pilate again said to them, Then what shall I do with the man you call the king of the Jews? And they cried out again, Crucify him. And Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? But they shouted all the more, Crucify him. So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd Released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. This is God's word Well, friends, would you join me one more time briefly in prayer, asking God to open our eyes to behold the wondrous things that He has for us in His Word? Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning as the King of all creation, the one who gave life to all things. And the one against whom we have sinned and fallen short of your glory. Father, we know that we deserve judgment for these sins. We will see this so clearly in the passage. And yet we pray, Father, that you would grant the Spirit to open our hearts and our eyes and our ears to hear and see and believe the good news that you sent your son to bear the punishment that we deserved, so that we might go free in him and by the power of the Spirit live new lives, sanctified and set apart to you. Oh God, we cannot cause this to happen on our own. We need you to do this, and we ask that you would. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh friends, if you haven't already, please turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 15, verses 1 to 15. If you're using the Bible that we have provided there in the seats, you'll find our passage on page 852. And as we always do, we want to let you know that if you don't own a copy of the Bible for yourself, a copy of the Bible that you can read in your own language, we want to encourage you to take the copy that we have provided. as a gift from us to you. We don't think that there's anything more important for you to have in your life than a copy of God's word for yourself. So let's see where we've been. We've been journeying now through Mark's gospel for the last year and a half, right? The last year and a half since February of last. year and in the first eight chapters we saw display after display of Jesus' divine authority. Right? He exercised demons. He healed the sick. He controlled nature. He stilled a storm with his very voice. He stopped a powerful storm. He raised the dead. Then at the end of chapter 8, we see that there's a bit of a transition in Mark's gospel after the first eight chapters in which he had these numerous displays of his authority. Chapter 9 begins a new section in Mark's Gospel where Jesus begins teaching on the nature of what it means to be his disciple. Right? He predicts three different times that he would suffer and die, and that his people, those who follow him, those that say, hey, we want to follow you, Jesus, they must be willing to take up their own cross. He taught also that if we want to be first, we must become last. He taught that if we want to be the if we want to be the greatest in the kingdom of God, we must become servants It's kind of flipping on its head what what most people think it means to follow God. It doesn't mean getting everything you want and having every thing that you want, it means laying down your life. Becoming a servant of all, not seeking to be first, but becoming last. That's what he's taught taught in these last eight chapters, seven chapters of his gospel. And yet everything that we've seen or heard in Mark's gospel has been preparing us for the climactic events of Mark's gospel, which is Jesus' death on the cross. So for Mark, Jesus' death on the cross is the central and defining event displaying Jesus' authority as both the King of Kings and as the suffering servant who lays down his life for his people. So on the cross, according to Mark, is where we, you and I, will see What it means most fully for Jesus to be the Son of God. And our passage this morning prepares us for that terrible event. I think you've maybe already picked up as Katie read it. It's a it's a truly painful passage to meditate on. But the main point of this painful passage is as beautiful and as encouraging as any we will have encountered yet in Mark's gospel. But what is that main point? Well, normally I like to give the main point up front, but what I'd like us to do today is walk together through the entire passage. Explaining it as I go. And I think that as I do that, we will arrive together at what the main and beautiful point of this passage is. And then after we come to understand what's going on here. We'll consider a few implications for what this passage means in our lives today. So what I want you to do is I want to invite you to dive in with me now to Mark chapter 15. We're going to begin You'll remember that last week we looked at Jesus' trial before the high priest, where he was condemned to death for claiming to be the Son of God. And the Messiah. And you'll recall that that trial lasted or began in the middle of the night and lasted in the in the early morning hours up until the hours just before dawn. Now look there at verse 1. As soon as day breaks, the whole council of religious leaders meets together to decide what to do with Jesus. Well, why would they need to hold counsel? Didn't they just condemn him to death? What do they need to get together and talk about? Like they should just put him to death, right? But but the reason they actually have to meet is because The Jews didn't have the unilateral right to put their citizens to death. You need to remember that Israel was an occupied country. They were occupied by the Roman Empire and were subjected to its laws. So the high priest and the council of religious authorities need to seek approval for Jesus' death from the governor of the region that they lived in, Judea, and that governor was Pontius Pilate. But I also think that there's another reason that they're meeting here. And I think that reason is to ensure that the charges that they present to Pilate Will result in Jesus' death, right? They need to charge Jesus with something that will stick. Remember, Jesus claimed to be the Jewish Messiah, the Christ. But it's clear from the Gospels, if we read the Gospels and put this picture of Pilate together, It's clear that Pilate didn't care about the Jewish religion, nor did he really understand it. And so if they were going to come to Pilate and say to him, This man claims to be the Messiah, Pilate would be like, Why do I care? This doesn't mean anything to me. So they're holding consultation so that they can come up with a charge that will stick, that will grab Pilate's attention, so that Pilate will say, yes, that man needs to be put to death. They need to find something that the Romans care deeply about. And what the Romans care deeply about is getting rid of anyone who claimed to be a king. Anyone claiming to be a king was viewed as a direct threat to Caesar and would be swiftly dispatched. Anyone claiming to be king was basically immediately put to death by crucifixion. You couldn't attack the throne that way. So you're looking at Rome. They're controlling these countries and these people groups. Part of what it meant to govern people who were not their own was to stamp down protest and uprisings and insurrections. And so if there's anyone among this people group that we're controlling who claims to be a king, we need to get rid of that person right away. Right? So what do the Jews do? Well, the high priests, they they understand from their own scriptures, they understand that the Messiah, the Messiah was to be a king. It was to be a royal king who would come and rescue Israel from her enemies, rescue Israel from her Roman enemies. We need to bring this to Pilate and tell Pilate that this man, this man, Jesus, claims to be our king, and now he's directly opposing Rome and Caesar, and he needs to be put to death. Right? They have been opposing Jesus from chapter 3. They've been plotting his murder all along. These men are wicked. And when they're holding consultation, you can be sure that they're coming up with this charge themselves. We need to reinterpret this charge. Don't call him the Messiah. Pilate won't understand it. We need to call him the king of the Jews. That's what he's claiming to be. And so that's why when they bring him to Pilate. They tell Pilate, this man claims to be a king, and you see there in verse 2, look down there with me. Pilate doesn't ask Jesus, are you the Messiah? No. He asks him, are you the king of the Jews? This is the claim, the charge that they're bringing against you. Are you the king of the Jews? They fed Pilate the charges that they think will turn him against Jesus. It's interesting though when you look at Pilate's question in the original language, it's actually phrased a bit more like a statement with a question implied. You are the king of the Jews? You are? And if you look back to the high priest charge of Jesus in the previous chapter when he's on trial before the high priest. It's phrased as though the question reads, are you the Christ, the Messiah? But in the original language, the way that the question is is phrased, it's actually, you are the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God? It's as though Mark wants us to see that these men who are opposed to Jesus are unknowingly, unwittingly confessing the truth about him. They don't even realize it. Pilate says, You are the king of the Jews. Well yes, and much more than the king of the Jews. I am the king of kings. Jesus says to him, what does he say? Look at verse 3 You have said so. You know, some people read this response and consider it to be enigmatic, maybe evidence that Jesus was trying to figure out his own identity. He was in search of who he really was, and so he he's just maybe saying, you've said so, maybe I am, maybe I am. But that's that's ridiculous. We know from the previous chapter, when Jesus was asked point blank, are you the Christ, the Son of God, which was to ask him, are you God in the flesh? He said, I am. I am the Son of God. I am God in the flesh. I am the Messianic King. I am the Son of Man, the Divine One, who will come on the clouds of heaven to judge the living and the dead. So Jesus' response here to Pilate seems more just to be to be kind of poking Pilate. Hey, consider. Consider what you just said about me. Consider the question that you just asked me. Consider the words that just rolled off your tongue. Who do you think that I am? You have said that I am the King of the Jews. Right? He's telling him to consider who Jesus is. That's a question I want to ask to you this morning Right? Who do you say that Jesus is? You can think of the answer right now. Who is Jesus Christ? Is he the king of the Jews? Is he the king of kings? Is he just a rabbi who died an unfortunate death and was no more than a man? Who do you say that he is this morning? I want to encourage you to keep that question in your mind as we continue because I hope to make it crystal clear who Jesus claimed to be and who he actually is. In verse three, Mark recounts that the chief priest continued heaping on more accusations. If we look at other gospels, it seems like Pilate was not convinced of Jesus' guilt. So you see the chief priests here, they're heaping up more accusations. If you look at look at Luke's gospel, they start to claim that Jesus said that That the Jews shouldn't pay taxes to to Caesar or to Rome. Well we know that just three days earlier Jesus said the exact opposite of that. He said, give to Caesar. What is Caesar's? These men are lying about him. They're heaping up accusations. They want nothing more than Jesus to be. put to death. Right? So we shouldn't be surprised about what we read about them in verse 3. And they're heaping up accusations then in verse 4 leads Pilate to ask. Have you no answer to make? You hear what they're saying about you. What do you what do you have to say for yourself? What about all these accusations that they are bringing against you? But we see Jesus there, if you look there in verse 5. Jesus. stands his ground in silence. Didn't say a word Just stood there, silently, before Pilate. And we really do need to pause and consider this, right? Kids, I want to ask y'all a question. I want to ask you a question. What is the first thing that you do when one of your siblings, if you have a sibling, what is the first thing that you do when one of your siblings tattles on you? What do you do? You respond, right? I did not do that, right? I did not do that. I'm gonna tell you what I did. I'm gonna I'm gonna shout it out. I'm gonna make sure that you understand that I did not do what my sibling is telling you that I did Right? That's how we normally respond. You want to defend yourself even even if you actually did what they said you did, right? Even when we're guilty, we want to say, oh no, no, that wasn't me, that wasn't me, right? And kids, I just want you to know that as you get older, this is something that you're always going to struggle with, right? I can tell you from my own personal experience, my own personal experience even in the last week, this is something that I struggle with, right I'm no different. Anytime that I'm in a conflict, as soon as I get the slightest whiff that the person might be misunderstanding me Misinterpreting me or misrepresenting me, my broken justice meter goes off. And I want No, you need to understand that what you're saying is wrong, and if I don't interrupt you to let you know that I that you are wrong, you're misunderstanding me. You better believe that I am storing up my accusations and my defenses in my head so that as soon as you stop talking, I'm just gonna step in and let you know how wrong you were. Right. I I appreciate that you think I was in the wrong, but here I'm going to tell you how wrong you are. That's what we do. It's because we're self-righteous, right? And the ridiculous part about it is typically when somebody's bringing some charge against us, there is something wrong that we've done that we can't own up to, right? But here's Jesus Jesus never committed a sin. No crimes whatsoever to speak of, has done nothing wrong in his entire life. He's only ever done good and told the truth. And these men are lying about him. And they're not just lying about him to accuse him of something so that he can go on his way and just continue living his life. They are lying about him so that they can put him to death. And Jesus stands silently. Doesn't defend himself You see the effect. Look at the end of verse 5. You see the effect that it has on Pilate. Pilate is amazed. Amazed. And we should be as well. It's remarkable really because throughout Mark's gospel, what has drawn people's amazement about Jesus are his awesome displays of power. His healings. His exorcisms. His raising Jairus' daughter from the dead. His healing apparalytic where the people sitting there When the paralyzed stood up and walked out praising God, the rest of the people were amazed. It's Jesus' powerful works that cause people to be amazed. And what is interesting about this is this is the final time in Mark's gospel that anyone expresses amazement at Jesus. And what does he express amazement about? Jesus' authority to remain silent in the face of false accusation Mark wants us to see that Jesus' silence isn't just the strength of will to remain self-controlled, but his silence is pointing us deeper to a deeper aspect of his own reality as the Son of God. And we're going to come back to that reality in a little bit. But I want us to go ahead and continue now. So let's continue looking at the passage. We're going to look now at verses 6 to 15. But what I want what I want to do is I want to frame these verses for you appropriately so that they they make a bit more sense because it can be a bit jarring. Pilate has just gone from being amazed at Jesus' silence, and then all of a sudden they're at this feast, this crowd is clamoring, they're calling for Barabbas, they're shouting for Jesus to be crucified. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, what happened here? How did how did all this come about. So it will be helpful for us to know that Mark's account of what happens next after this initial exchange with Pilate is way more concise than the other gospels. So we know from the other gospels that after this initial exchange that takes place in verses 1 to 5, Pilate finds no guilt in him I find nothing worthy of convicting this man of death for, but the chief priests respond so vehemently that Pilate basically punts the case. He says, hey, where is this man from? He's from Galilee. Send him to Herod Antipas, who's the ruler of Galilee. Let Herod Antipas figure out what to do with him. You've got one of these hot potato problems before. What do you do when you get it? You're like, ah. Boop. Let somebody else take care of it, right? I don't want to handle this one. If I make this decision, the people are going to come after me. Just send them to Herod. Herod will take care of it. I'll let him take the blame. I'll let him be the fall guy, right? So Jesus is then sent to Herod, but Herod, like Pilate, finds no guilt in Jesus. No guilt whatsoever. And it seems clear from the Gospels that he sees no reason to put him to death. So he sends them back to Pilate. Sends them back to Prabhupada's like, oh my gosh. Like I've got it, now I've got to deal with this And we got to understand a bit of the background here behind Pilate and his relationship with the Jews. Pilate had a uh what you could call a stressed and tenuous relationship with the Jewish people. He had made numerous missteps. He had uh raised up images that were supposed to be worshipped in the city of Jerusalem, which was a no-go for the Jewish people that caused riots and an uprising. There was a bunch of people who even bared their necks to Pilate saying, There was a huge uprising, so he pulled the images out. Then he had this massive building project, this aqueduct that they that funneled funds from the temple. to to help support this Roman aqueduct. The people protested against that. There was another occasion where uh there was an uprising and Pilate ended up slaughtering hundreds of Israelites uh for their their rebellion against him. So what's going on here is Pilate is recognizing these chief priests and these Sanhedrin, they are massively powerful and influential in the city of Jerusalem. And if they start an uprising I'm not going to be able to control it. I've had too many fallouts with these people. I'm going to get removed as the Roman governor. I'm going to lose my job. I could get killed by Caesar for the work that I've done here. And so he's looking at this potential kind of Firestorm that's coming at him in the person of Jesus. He sees in Jesus, here is an innocent man. I cannot put an innocent man to death, but if I let him go, protests and uprising and upheaval. So what am I gonna do? But he's forced to make a choice. He's forced to make a decision. He can either put an innocent man to death or he can let him go and risk protests and political upheaval. But it's here It's here that Pilate remembers that the Jews have a custom. They have a custom, which is where Mark picks up back in verse 6. Look there with me. During the Passover feast, it was customary for the Roman governor to give the Jewish people the choice to release a prisoner of theirs who was essentially on death row. Now look at verse 7. There were a number of rebels, Jewish rebels in prison. They had carried out an insurrection or an uprising against the Roman government. And they'd even committed murder, right? So this is a a rebel, thug, murderous clan of guys who like committed crimes against Rome. We don't know the exact event that this was referring to, but one thing is certain. Whoever these men were, they were going to be put to death. Right? Insurrection against Rome was a capital crime. And to commit murder on top of it is just icing on top of the cake. These men are on death row. awaiting crucifixion. And among these rebels is a man named Barabbas. Barabbas. So what does Pilate do? What does Pilate do? He knows that if he decides to let Jesus go, then he'll face intense blowback and protest. But if he can stack the deck in Jesus' favor by giving the crowd a choice between Jesus and Barabbas Surely, surely the crowd will choose Jesus. Then Pilate can avoid responsibility for letting him go. Not my fault. The people chose him, right? Jesus. And Barabbas. Of course it's an easy choice, and why wouldn't the crowd choose Jesus from the earliest days of his ministry? Jesus' fame has spread far and wide, from Galilee to the north to Tyre and Sidon, to the south to Judea, and you know who loves him most? The crowds. You read Mark's gospel and you see the crowds are always following Jesus. They love Jesus. They're enamored by his miracles. They want to see him do great works of power. They want to see people get healed. They run around the Sea of Galilee and catch up with him when he gets in a boat to cross the Sea of Galilee. The crowds love Jesus. Pilate has stacked the deck perfectly. There is no way the crowd is going to choose Barabbas, a rebel thug murderer over the crowd favorite, Jesus, who has only ever done good. It's a simple decision. All I gotta do is put it forward. The crowd is gonna choose Jesus So he shouts to the crowd, look there with me, in verse 9. Do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews? Here's the simple choice. He doesn't even Mark doesn't even record him mentioning Barabbas' name. He's like the king of the Jews, this guy Which one do you want? Right? The king of the Jews obviously is going to be the one that you choose. This is a simple choice. Who, in their right mind, would choose a murderer over Jesus? But Pilate doesn't recognize that the chief priests, the ruling body of the chief priests, the Sanhedrin, contained about 70 to 100 different chief priests, right? So you think about this large crowd that's gathered outside of Pilon's Pilate's mansion where he would have released a prisoner, where this Passover feast, this customary thing is happening. There's a large crowd that's gathered and a hundred people spread throughout that crowd like evil yeast. And what are they doing in that crowd? They're stirring up rebellion. Pilate says to them, do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews? Of course. And what are the chief priests saying? Tell him we want Barabbas. We want Barabbas. Tell them we want Barabbas. It's Barabbas we want. Give us the murderer. Put the Son of God to death. And the crowds, the crowds, what do they do? The crowds that love Jesus? They call for Barabbas. Give us Barabbas. You can imagine Pilate's just shocked at this response. What? Give us Barabbas. We want Barabbas. We want the thug, the murderer, the rebel. We want to put the Son of God to death. Crucify him. What does Pilate say? What does Pilate say? What shall I do with the man you call the king of the Jews? And they cry out again, look at verse 13, they cry out again, crucify him! When you read this account, you've got to slow down and just soak in. This is a travesty. This is a complete injustice. This is all wrong. Jesus, what has Jesus done? Jesus has gone about his entire ministry healing people. From the very beginning, he shows up setting people free from demonic possession, healing people of their diseases, showing compassion to crowds who were like sheep without a shepherd. He loved the crowds, he provided food for them in the wilderness. He heals lepers, touching people who were unclean, outcast to society. He came down in love to heal. And what has Barabbas done? He's a thug. He's a murderer. He's a rebel. And the crowd wants Barabbas. How is this possible? How could anyone choose Barabbas? If anyone deserves life, it's Jesus If anyone is innocent, it's Jesus. If anyone deserves to go free, it's Jesus, not Barabbas. Barabbas deserves to die. He is guilty. But the crowd shouts even louder: crucify him, crucify him. We don't want the king of the Jews. We don't want the Son of God. Give us the murderer and crucify the King of the Jews. So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas. And having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified Regardless of how much Jesus Pilate thought that Jesus was innocent, when we see what the fear of man does, We see what self-preservation does. We see what pursuing self-interest does. Friends, if if you don't think The fear of man is a terrible sin to be waged war against with every fiber of your being if you don't think Self-interest is a sin to put to death with every ounce of your soul. You need to understand that the fear of man and the pursuit of self-interest led to the death of the Son of God. It is a sin to be forsaken at all costs. And Pilate, Pilate, wanting to please the crowd, the Roman governor. He had all power. He could do whatever he wanted. Wanted to satisfy the crowd. Rather had the people love me. By the way, I don't even know if this guy is the son of God, King of the Jews. Send him to be crucified. Friends, put to death fear of man. Put to death pursuit of self-interest in your life Pilate sent the sinless Son of God to be scourged and crucified. That's where we need to, we need to stop here and understand that the entire gospel of Mark. has been building up to the crucifixion. For Mark, the crucifixion is the central act which displays and testifies most. clearly to all people in all places that Jesus truly is the Son of God. The crucifixion foremark is the climax and resolution of the entire gospel. Why do I bring that up? Because look at where this passage is placed in Mark's gospel. Look at where this passage is placed. The passage that comes immediately before Jesus is crucified, Mark includes an account of how Barabbas A man who deserved to die on the cross ends up going free, while Jesus, a man who deserved to go free, dies on the cross This passage is interpreting for you and for me exactly what is happening on the cross. Barabbas goes free and Jesus dies. He is set free. The scourging didn't belong to Jesus The cross didn't belong to Jesus. The scourging and the cross belong to Barabbas, and the scourging and the cross belong to us. Friend, when you read this passage, when you read this passage, people tell you when you study the gospels, what you should do is look for characters that you can identify with. Find characters who can show you how to act or how not to act. Find characters that you identify with in the gospel and try to learn from them. Do you know what happens when you turn to this passage and you try to find characters to identify with? You find that every character is guilty. You want to identify with Pilate? Guilty of fear of man and pursuing self-interest Do you want to identify with the chief priests? They hate Jesus. Do I want to identify with the crowd? Where am I in the crowd? How would I have responded? Do you know how you would have responded if you were there? Crucify him Because all of us would, because what Mark has been teaching us throughout the entire gospel is that there is only one person who is innocent. And he is standing silently on the platform. He has done nothing wrong. You and I are in the crowd, with that crowd. We are being stirred up by the chief priest in our own flesh. We would have responded the same way. And not only are we like the chief priest And like the crowd and like Pilate, we are Barabbas. Our sins. Our sins have put us in shackles. And we are standing on the platform across from Jesus. It's your death or his. Your death or his. Barabbas. You notice the Barabbas doesn't even talk in this passage? Says nothing at all. It's like a picture of all of us. We stand silent. Every mouth will be silent before the judgment seat of God. Barabbas could not speak because Barabbas was guilty. Friends, you and I have sinned against a holy and living God. The Bible says that our sins are like bondage, they're like chains and shackles that have chained our hearts. We stand on the platform with Barabbas, like Barabbas, in bonds and shackles, and we have no hope but to go to the cross unless Someone would come and stand in our place and take the punishment that we deserved. And the picture that we have in this passage is that Jesus takes the punishment for Barabbas. Barabbas, do you know what his name means? Son of the Father. Son of the Father. Standing across the platform from the true Son of the Father. And the Son of the Father who was bound in shackles and chains, committing sins against God, is allowed to go free while the true Son of the Father Goes to the cross and bears the punishment for him, the punishment that Barabbas deserved, the punishment that we deserve. Friend, the astonishing point of this passage is that Jesus The sinless, spotless Lamb of God, the suffering servant, died, died, so that cosmic criminals like you and me could go free. Now to my non-Christian friend, that might sound crazy to you. What do you mean, cosmic criminals? But you need to understand what the Bible says about humanity. Our first parents, Adam and Eve, lived in perfect relationship with God. He gave them laws to live by, but they rejected those laws. A curse came upon them, and all humanity after them was born in bondage to sin. That is the bad news, but the good news of the gospel is that God did not leave us in our sinful condition without hope. He sent his son mercifully into the world to offer his perfect son Jesus as a sacrifice to bear the punishment that you and I deserve. So that if we would repent of our sins and trust in him for the forgiveness of sins, we would be like Barabbas and we would be able to walk free. Free from the power of sin and death in our life and free from the judgment to come. What do you think that experience was like for Barabbas on that platform? I mean we don't know if he was back in a cell or if he was standing out there with Jesus. If he's back in a cell, you know, Mike was mentioning this to me. If he's back in a cell, what do you think Barabbas hears? Crucify him! He's trembling like this is it's coming, it's coming. My crucifixion is coming, and he's brought out onto the platform and he sees this man standing there. Who knows if he knows who Jesus is? And then what happens? He's expecting to be sent to be scourged and crucified, and then what happens? They slip the key in his chains. They take him off of his wrists and his feet. And Barabbas walks free. While Jesus. Jesus bears his punishment Friends, this is what God has done for humanity. He has offered us forgiveness one way, one way to be forgiven with God. through his son, taking the punishment that we deserve, so that if we turn and trust in him, he will grant us forgiveness and mercy and freedom in Christ A friend, turn from your sins today and see how clearly this passage teaches us the punishment that we deserve, but the punishment that Christ took for us. To my Christian friend, I want you to see God's love for you in this passage. I hope you understand that this passage is a picture of your divine acquittal. Friends, you and I are Barabbas, right? You can replace his name with our names, and the passage doesn't change a bit Shall I release for you the King of the Jews? Give us John Joseph, the liar and unfaithful man who hasn't been able to keep your law his entire life Put your name in Barabbas' place and the passage doesn't change one bit. It's your chains that were taken off. It's you who went free. It's you who deserve to be scourged. It's you who deserve to be crucified. But Barabbas Barabbas and us were able to walk free because Christ bore the punishment in our place. He came to set us free. You recognize in the passages in the Old Testament that prophesy about Jesus, they promise that one of the things that he would come to do is to set captives free. Like Barabbas, like you and me. But it's not just that he sets us free, right? He took that scourging, that cross, for us without ever lifting up his voice He stood silently before the accusing chief priests. He stood silently before the crowd so that we would see in him the most powerful fulfillment of the suffering servant from Isaiah 53 in the Bible. He was oppressed and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep before his shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Jesus is silent. And his silence is deafening. And he was led to the slaughter. He was scourged. There really isn't a better word to describe the heinousness of what actually happened when a person was scourged. In order to speed up death during crucifixions, the Romans would scourge people before they nailed them to the tree. What does that mean? It means they would strip them down and tie them to a post and they would pull out a whip that was woven together with bits of metal and bone And they would whip over and over and over again. The horror of the scene and its effects on the human body were unspeakable. It was so terrible that many died before they were ever crucified. It was so terrible that the Roman Emperor Domitian, who was responsible for sending people to be scourged, couldn't watch it. And so he refused to watch it. And don't think that your sins are not terrible. Understand what Jesus did for you. That's why Isaiah 53 says, Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken by God, smitten and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace and with his wounds. those terrible wounds inflicted in his scourging, we are healed Friend, if you have repented of your sins and trusted in Jesus, this passage is teaching you that you have been healed Healed in the most profound and ultimately important sense of the word. Your body may be subject to pain, decay, and death in this life. But because Jesus stood in your place and bore the wrath of God for your sins, your soul has been healed. You have been justified, adopted, sanctified, and set free in Jesus Christ. Out of my Christian brothers and sisters, I hope you consider the reality that Jesus died so that cosmic criminals like you and me could go free. That we would be set free. Right? That you would be set free was not a hope of Jesus's. It wasn't a wish of his. He didn't die hoping that his death might result in you being set free. He died in order to set you free. And insofar as you have repented and trusted in him, then you have been set free. Listen, listen to the good news of the gospel. Let it sink deeply into your heart, friend. You have been past tense set free. Already done. Completed. You have been set free. You are no longer a slave. Sin. You're no longer a slave to your desires. You're no longer a slave to your temptations. If the Son sets you free, Jesus said, you will be free indeed. Friends, if you have repented and trusted in him, the chains are off. You have walked free, you have been fully acquitted for your sins. Now, kids, I want to make sure that you all hear this. I want you to listen closely to this. The gospel, the gospel is the good news that Jesus died for your sins. And he sets you free. It is not the news that Jesus dies for your sins and then calls you to live by your own strength and your own willpower. That is not the gospel. That is not good news. Right? We don't have the strength and willpower in and of ourselves to put sin to death. The gospel is the good news that Jesus was put to death in our place. Was raised for our justification. And when we repent of our sins and trust in him, he sets us free. The power of sin and death is shattered in our lives forever. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Your desire to obey God is only an overflow and a response to the fact that you have been definitively set free. So we need to ask the question. We need to ask the question, how many of us are living in that gospel freedom today? How many of you are living in it? You still controlled by anger? You still controlled by insecurity? We still control by pride, by arrogance, by fear, by sexual temptation And if so, why? I asked this question of myself, why? Why am I doing this? I have been set free I'm convinced that one of the culprits behind our choosing sin over living in gospel freedom is because we we think little of sin. We downplay it. Minimize the offensiveness of it. But just because we minimize the offensiveness of sin in our own minds and in our own eyes doesn't mean it's been minimized in God's eyes. Right? You and I don't define the seriousness of sin. God does. And God has given us a perfect, definitive picture of how seriously he regards sin. in the scourging and death of his son. Right? So Christ says to us, my son, my daughter, I took the shackles off of you. I set you free. But you remember you were standing on that platform with me. The key went into that lock. The key opened that lock. The chains fell off. Why are you still putting the shackles back on? That's not how you're meant to live as one of my children. I came to set you free. Walk in the freedom that I won for you on the cross. The power of sin and death has been broken in your life. I have given to you the Holy Spirit. It is for freedom that you have been set free And it's the gospel that empowers us to live out this freedom that is really ours in Christ. In the gospel, God gives us his spirit to enable us to wage war against sin. The Lord is a spirit, and where the spirit of the Lord is, there is what? Freedom. Freedom The Lord lives in your heart and he's given you freedom. He has set you free. Walk in that freedom And if you're feeling burdened, condemned, or overwhelmed with guilt because of your sins, there's one last thing that I want to point out to you today. Not only has Christ set you free, but because of Christ. You will never, ever, ever face judgment for your sins. This is what Martin Luther called the sweet exchange of the gospel. The sweet exchange perfectly illustrated in Barabbas going free and Jesus going to the cross. Jesus, the sinless Son of God, the perfectly righteous one, takes upon himself our sin. Bearing the totality of our sin in his flesh and taking the totality of that sin and that guilt to the cross to bear the fullness and totality of God's wrath against our sin. And not only does the cross pay for our sins, past, present, and future, but through the cross and through the giving of the Holy Spirit, Jesus gives to us the fullness and totality of his perfect righteousness. As fully as our sins become his, his righteousness becomes ours, and through his righteousness, we are forever protected from the judgment of God. God's wrath has been fully satisfied. You're not only free, but gloriously free. Free from the fear that any sins that you commit in this life after repentance will result in judgment from God. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the spirit of life has Set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Free from the power of sin. Free from the fear of judgment. Friends, this is divine double jeopardy. You cannot be tried twice for your crimes against God, not because of a constitutional amendment or some sort of stipulation that gets you off against the government that's prosecuting you. You have divine double jeopardy because Jesus Christ paid fully for your sins. There is nothing left in the cup for you to drink You have been set free, gloriously free. There is therefore now no condemnation, no judgment awaiting you Friends, this is the sure foundation of Christian hope and joy, of peace and love and faith and everything good that comes from the Spirit. We have our best life ever awaiting us. Not now. We will share in suffering now. God will be kind to us. He will force us to take the cross with Christ, to make us more like his son. But he will do it because he loves us And when we pick up that cross, it's not a cross of judgment, a cross of discipline instead, that makes us more like his glorious son. Oh friends, look at what Christ did for you on the cross. You have been set free. One wonders if Barabbas ever considered what actually happened when he was set free, right? We have no record of him ever turning to Jesus. He just walks down the steps. Goes on with his life. We don't know if he did. We don't know if he didn't. One commentator, though, put the pieces of Jesus' trial together. He was looking at the fact that Barabbas was in prison with men who committed murder and committed robbery and committed insurrection and they were about to be crucified and Barabbas goes free. But then he recognized Jesus was crucified with two robbers. He speculated. We don't know. He speculated that these were the men who were in prison with Barabbas. Barabbas walked free. They went to the cross. Why wasn't Barabbas on the cross? Because Jesus was hanging on the cross in his place. We don't know if he ever considered it, but you know what the story tells us? That we can put ourselves in Barabbas' shoes today. And we can look at those three terrible crosses. And we can decide if we are going to hang on the side of Jesus and bear God's judgment for our own sins, or if we will walk free and allow Jesus to take the place on the cross for us What decision are you going to make today? One way brings sin and death. One way brings freedom and life. Friends, choose freedom today. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we must admit that our hearts are often cold to this reality. Called to the reality of what you've done for us in the gospel by sending your son to bear the punishment that we deserved. Our hearts often minimize sin, forgetting just how heinous it is that it resulted in the death of your son. We're also cold to the fact that you have set us free and there's no longer any fear of judgment in our lives. Lord, forgive us. And cultivate in our hearts a love and a joy and a faith and a hope that overflows from the reality that Christ has taken the punishment fully for us. And help us to walk in gospel freedom this coming week we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen