Friends, why don't you pray with me one more time as we ask God to bless the preaching of his word? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word is good. You have the words of eternal life. Where else can we go to? To find eternal life. There is nowhere else for us to go. And so we come to you. And we pray that as we open your word together, You would open our hearts and our eyes to behold the glory of your Son Jesus Christ in his victory over all things. Over every nation, over sin and death and Satan and hell, we come to the risen and reigning Lord Jesus this morning. We lay hold of him by faith. We pray that you would bless this service, that you would bless the preaching of your word now to save and to sanctify your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I love war stories. And by war stories I mean actual war stories, not not stories about difficult days at the office that we that we call a war story, right? Whether it's a biography about a soldier. Or an account of a particular battle, I'm captivated not by the strategy of war, the strategy of it all, but by the experiences. Of those who were in battle. And as I've read multiple books on war experiences, there are broadly speaking similarities And the ways that soldiers tend to process and respond to battle. There's the keen awareness that you're walking on the edge of death, and the way that your senses are all heightened. There's fear, crippling fear at times. There are the thoughts of whether you're going to make it home or not. There's wondering whether you're fighting a winning battle or are you on the losing side. There's despair. There's weariness. And conversely, you often don't find things like confident songs of praise in the midst of battle or steadfast hope. Or certainty that the battle will be won while you're still in the midst of it. Which is interesting Because that's exactly what we find King David doing in Psalm 108. A Psalm that he wrote while he was in the midst of battle against his enemies. So I want to ask you to turn with me in your Bible to Psalm 108. If you're using the Bible that we've provided, you'll find Psalm 108 on what page? Someone who's using that Bible. 507. Thank you, Angela Payne. I keep needing to fill in that note there to find the page number in that Bible. I'm going to go ahead and read Psalm 108 for us. And then we're going to look more closely at it. This is God's word A song, a song of David. My heart is steadfast, O God I will sing and make melody with all my being. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations, for your steadfast love is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. That your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand and answer me. God has promised in his holiness with exaltation, I will divide up Shechem and portion out the valley of Sukkoth. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is my helmet. Judah my scepter. Moab is my wash basin. Upon Edom I cast my shoe. Over Philistia I shout in triumph. Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies. Oh, grant us help against the foe. For vain is the salvation of man With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. If you're taking notes, what I'd like to do is just go ahead and go verse by verse through the psalm, just kind of explaining what it meant in its original context. And then I want us to see how this psalm is fulfilled in Christ. And then we're going to look at two applications that we can draw from this psalm for our lives today. These are two of just a number of different applications, but they're the ones that I want us. to think about the most. So go ahead and look down with me at the text again. The superscription tells us that this is a song. A Psalm of David. Kids, let me get your attention real quick. Who is David? What can you tell me about David? Anything that comes to mind. Cooper. King of Israel? Caleb? A really good king? Yeah, why would you say that? What did he do that made him a really good king? He won a lot of battles. Yeah, you think about Goliath and his battles against the Philistines and against Moab and Edom. Anyone else? Anything else about David? We'll go to Bridget. When he was young, he defeated Goliath and then one more Jack? He played the harp. That's exactly right. Oh very Good answers, kids. He's the good king of Israel, the one who won wars and battles against all of the enemies of God's people. He's God's chosen and anointed king. Famous Not only because of his success in battle, right? We've already heard about his victory over Goliath and over all the surrounding nations, but also. Famous because of God's promise to David that one of his descendants would sit on an eternal throne. And this song, this psalm of David is clearly a song of praise. Look at verses 1 to 3. David describes singing and making melody in verse 1. Using instruments in verse 2 and giving thanks and praise to God in verse 3. But what's he giving thanks for? What caused him to write this song of praise? Look at verse 4. I'm gonna sing praise with all my heart because of your steadfast love and faithfulness, oh God. Right in the Old Testament, God's steadfast love and faithfulness are shorthand for God's covenant commitment. to the people of Israel. When he covenanted with them, when he committed to them, he committed to show them steadfast love and faithfulness. Even when they wavered up and down in their obedience, he was going to be steadfast in his love and faithfulness toward them. When God saved the people of Israel out of Egypt, he made a covenant with them. Much like uh a covenant that a man and a woman would make in marriage. They commit things to one another. And in the covenant God made with Israel, he promised that if they would obey his commands and do all that he told them to do, he would be their God. And they would be his people. They would enjoy an utterly unique relationship to God. If they obeyed, he would bless their harvests. And their families and their nations. He would go out with them in battle and lead them in victory over all of their enemies. He would show them Steadfast love and faithfulness. And God had done those things for Israel and done them with such lavish abundance that got that David says that God's steadfast love and faithfulness are Higher than the heavens. His steadfast love and faithfulness are beyond grasping. They're out of our reach, right? They're far beyond human comprehension. And they're a display of God's glory. They are an emanation of his character as a holy, loving, and faithful God. And so, in verse 5, you can look there with me, David asked God. To make his glory known in all the earth. That is, in the same way you've made us your people and shown us your glory, do that in all the earth, on all the nations on earth. But then we get our first hint that all's not well. In verse 6, David turns and pleads for God's help He calls out for God to deliver his beloved ones. That would be the nation of Israel. Apparently something is going on in their lives that they need to be delivered. He cries out for God to give salvation by his right hand and answer him personally. It's not just Israel that needs to be delivered, but David as well. What we're going to find when we get to verses 10 to 13 is that David's in the midst of battle The salvation and deliverance he's calling out for are salvation from his enemies. Enemies that he's presently at war with. And yet his plea for salvation, here in verse 6, is is almost an afterthought to his praise of God's steadfast love and faithfulness. In the midst of battle, David still praises God. And as he's praising God and praying for help David begins recalling God's past promises to his people. We see that in verses 7 to 9. You can look there with me. Look at verse 7. David remembers a time when God has promised in his holiness. David's remembering that at some point in the past, God promised in his holiness. That means that God staked these promises on his own holy character. That's his way of saying, as surely as I am God. And as surely as I am holy, I will deliver on these promises that I'm about to make. And these are the promises that David now remembers. And what are those promises? Well, he promises to give his people the land that he promised to them. Shechem and Sukkoth were key boundary markers of the land that he promised to Abraham. Back when I said to Abraham, I will give you all of this land, the land that I was talking about was marked off by the boundaries of Shechem and Sukkoth. I am gonna make good on that promise. It is gonna come true. And he also promised not only to give his people the land, but he promised to give his people victory. Look at the names that you see listed there: Gilead, Manasseh, Judah, and Ephraim. Gilead was descended from the tribe of Manasseh. Manasseh and Judah descended from Jacob. Ephraim was one of Joseph's sons. These are God's people. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim, my helmet. Judah, my scepter. Right? Notice that imagery that David uses. Ephraim is God's helmet. And Judah is his scepter. These are battle armaments, right? The helmet for protection and the scepter for rule. God has promised. That his people will participate in his defeat of their enemies. And their enemies are listed in verse 9. Notice the switch from calling his people by imagery of battle armaments, Ephraim, my helmet, Judah, my scepter. Notice the images related to God's enemies, Moab, Edom, and Philistia. Right? And these enemies were no slouches. In verse 10, we're gonna see that Edom is a fortified city. The Philistines had men like Goliath and had defeated Israel on numerous occasions, but David remembered that God promised to defeat them. He says that he's going to make Moab his wash basin, right? There weren't paved sidewalks to walk around on in Israel And neither were there nice roads that had, you know, fresh pavement laid down for you to keep your feet clean on. The streets were made of dirt. And were used by people and animals alike, together, mixing with one another, walking in and out of one another, and everyone wore sandals. So you can imagine what their feet were like at the end of a day, right? So people would use wash basins to clean off the filth that had accumulated throughout the day. Moab is God's wash basin. Right? He's going to humiliate them, shame them for opposing him Then he says, upon Edom, I cast my shoe, taking your filthy sandal off your filthy foot and throwing it at another person. Was akin to what we would think about in our day of spitting in another person's face. Right? And we see that over Philistia, he shouts in triumph. Put these images together, and what do you have? You have David remembering that God will keep his promise. To give his people the promised land. He'll keep his promise to bless and protect his people, and he'll keep his promise to curse their enemies. Basically, God will keep all the promises he made to Abraham. But then we find in verses 10 to 13 that David's present circumstances Don't appear to line up with God's promises. Look at verses 10 and 11. He questions out loud who will bring him to the fortified city Who will lead me to Edom? I think Edom is the fortified city that David is describing. The city itself was built into the side of a mountain and was famously difficult to attack. But I want you to notice it's not their fortifications that he's worried about. It's the fact that God wasn't with them. Look at verse 11. God had rejected them. He didn't go out with their armies, which meant certain defeat for them. So when you open up the Old Testament, after you get through basically the book of Joshua, and even though it happens uh once at least in the book of Joshua. Every time the Israelites went out into battle without the Lord's presence going before them, they suffered terrible defeat. . . So without the Lord's presence, David knows he has no hope of attacking and defeating Edom. So what does he do? Look at verse 12. He cries out to God for help. Oh, oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. Help us, God, because man's wisdom, man's strength, man's schemes, man's plots, man's plans are vain. Empty, meaningless, and powerless against our enemies. We can't save ourselves. But David knows He knows that if God is with them, then that's game, set, and match. Look at verse 13. With God. If God is with us, we will do valiantly. We will be victorious because He will tread down our foes. Seen the Psalm 108. David is God's anointed king who, in the midst of battle, praises God for his steadfast love. And stands upon God's certain promises of victory over all of his enemies. And my hope is to persuade you this morning that the way that David responds in the midst of his battles. Is an example that you can and should follow in if you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a pattern for how you and I should respond in the midst of our Spiritual battles, not necessarily our battles against physical enemies, but how we should respond in the midst of our spiritual battles. I think God wants us to look past the physical enemies that David faced. To the spiritual enemies that we all face. And there are two reasons I think that. But before I give these reasons I want to ask you to stick with me over the next few minutes. We need to do a little bit of work to understand what's going on in Psalm 108. But I think that work will be worth it. I think what you're going to see in Psalm 108 is the coalescing, the fusing of glorious promises. Through which, like a stained glass window, as the light of the former Old Testament shines through the stained glass window of Psalm 108, the glory of Jesus Christ. Our great King who has defeated all of our enemies will clearly be seen. So I want you to stick with me, which means as best you can track with what I'm saying. Follow the argument that I'm about to make. I said there's two reasons why Psalm 108 is a pattern for how you and I should respond in the midst of our spiritual battles. First, I want you to look with me. At the final verse of the Psalm again, verse 13. David says there. With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. As you read the Old Testament in your personal time studying God's Word, I want you to grow in awareness Of how God ties together major threads of his glorious plan of redemption by repeating key words, phrases, and ideas. And one of the key phrases in this psalm that points beyond the physical realm and into the spiritual realm is this idea. That God will tread down our foes. Elsewhere in the Old Testament, it's translated as bruise. Crush, smash, and trample. And the first place this phrase appears is in the garden After Adam and Eve fall into sin, God curses Satan, saying, I will put enmity between you and the woman. And between your offspring and her offspring, and he shall bruise Trample, tread down your head, an offspring of Eve Will bruise, trample, crush, and tread on the head of the serpent. And notice again from that promise that the serpent has I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. The serpent's offspring are not baby snakes. They are people who are aligned with the serpent in their opposition to God and to his people, like the nations of Moab. Edom. Philistia. And those people, wherever you find them in Scripture, Suffer the same fate as the serpent. God treads them down. God will tread down his peoples physical enemies and trample down, tread down the spiritual power that lies behind them, namely Satan So that's reason number one why I think Psalm 108 points beyond physical enemies to spiritual enemies. But I said there were two reasons why I think the spiritual realm is in view here. And the second reason is because of the appearance of a second keyword in the Old Testament. Look at verse 8 Notice the description of Judah as God's scepter. May seem like John, this is just one word in one psalm out of 150. Come on, are you like I'm making a big deal of this? No, I'm not. Throughout the Old Testament, the scepter is imbued and filled with power and importance and meaning for the people of Israel. And from the very first time it's mentioned in Scripture, it carries that that power, that importance, that that prophetic looking forward to a king who will rule with the scepter over all the nations. After God promised Adam and Eve an offspring who would tread on the serpent, that promise of that offspring then falls to Abraham. The offspring who will crush Satan is gonna come from Abraham. Okay, so now we're watching Abraham. That promise then falls to one of Abraham's Grandchildren, Jacob. Okay, so now we're focusing in on Jacob. The offspring's gonna come from Jacob, not the not his brother Esau, or or now he has twelve sons. Oh gosh, which which one of these twelve sons is the promised offspring gonna come from? And one of Jacob's children is Judah. And at the end of his life, in Genesis 49, Jacob says about Judah, the scepter shall not depart from Judah. Nor the ruler's staff from between his feet until tribute comes to him. And to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. So not only do we have the promise of an offspring who will tread down the serpent and his offspring, we also have the promise of a scepter-wielding king who will rule the nations. We're not done with our work yet. It's about to get really good, in my opinion. I want you to turn with me to Numbers chapter 24 in your Bible, fifth book of the Bible. It comes right after, excuse me, fourth book of the Bible comes right before Deuteronomy. Numbers 24. The reason we're turning to Numbers 24 is because that's where we see these promises of an offspring who will tread on the serpent and his offspring. And a scepter-wielding king fused into one glorious person We're going to look at Numbers 24, verses 15 to 19. But Numbers 23 and 24 are huge chapters in the plan of redemption because of how they shed so much light on who this coming Savior will be. We're looking specifically at Balaam's final prophecy about the nation of Israel, Numbers 24, verses 15 to 19. This is what Balaam says. And he took up his discourse and said, The oracle of Balaam, the son of Beor. The oracle of the man whose eye is opened, the oracle of him who hears the words of God and knows the knowledge of the Most High. Who sees the vision of the Almighty falling down with his eyes uncovered? I see him, but not now. I behold him not near. A star shall come out of Jacob. and a scepter out of Israel. It shall crush, trample, tread down the forehead of Moab And break down all the sons of Sheff. Edom shall be dispossessed. Seir also His enemies shall be dispossessed. Israel is doing valiantly, and one from Jacob shall exercise dominion and destroy the survivors of the cities. Let me summarize Balaam's prophecy for you. A scepter-wielding king will come from Israel, who will tread down the serpent and all who align with him, and when he comes. Israel will be doing valiantly because he will defeat all their enemies. But wait, I thought Psalm 108 said that it was with God that Israel would do valiantly. It does say that because this Scepter-wielding, serpent-crushing king will be God in the flesh, and that king, friends, has already come. Not great David. But great David's greater son, Jesus Christ, the star who came out of Jacob. Jesus is God in the flesh. He is the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of Jesse, the one who holds the scepter and sits on an eternal throne, and the one who came to tread down all of our foes. Not Moab or Edom or Philistia, but sin, Satan, death, and hell. And he has done it. Psalm 108 looks forward to the day when God would come to defeat his people's enemies. But that day has come, friends, which is why we don't sing with David, with God, we shall do valiantly, we say, in Jesus, with God We have already done valiantly. He has already trampled down all of our foes today. Well, friends, that promise is for you. What does Paul say in Colossians chapter 2, verse 15, about Jesus' defeat of our enemies? And you Who were dead in your trespasses, and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with them, having forgiven us all our trespasses by Canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. Now get this. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. And as he did it, he disarmed He disarmed, defeated, trampled down, crushed, smashed, tread down the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame. Sin, Satan, death, and hell, Jesus said, I cast my shoe on you. I make sin, Satan, death, and hell like my wash basin. Jesus has completely defeated all of our foes. On the cross, he put our spiritual enemies to open shame. Crushing, crushing Satan's power over us. And he defeated the power of sin in our lives. What does Paul say? Romans 8. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, your sin, he condemned sin In the flesh. Condemned it in the flesh so that you could say, There is therefore now no condemnation for me. Defeated the power of sin in your life. Not only the power of it, but the judgment we deserved for it. And not only has he crushed Satan and sin, Jesus has defeated death itself. When he rose from the dead, Jesus rose in triumph over death. What did the risen Christ say? I am the living one. I was dead, and now look, I am alive forever and ever, and I hold the keys of death and Hades. King Jesus walked directly into the fortified city of death, tore down its walls And took the keys and the deeds of the house. He owns death. And he can call anyone back from death that he wants because he has the power over death. Because he has been victorious. Over death. Oh death, death, where now is your sting? Oh death, where is your victory? We have the victory in the Lord Jesus Christ who has defeated all of our Foes, friends, this is the good news of Christianity. When we talk about Christianity being good news, this is at the heart of what we are talking about. Satan crushed. Sin defeated, death itself undone. The good news is that Jesus has destroyed death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And if you want to share in his victory today, you need to turn to Jesus in faith He offers full forgiveness of sin and the promise of eternal life to all who turn from sin and trust in him, and all who have turned from sin. And put their faith in Jesus are now more than conquerors through him who loved us. We now share in his victory over sin. Satan and death. With God we have done valiantly. It is He who has tread down our foes. And though he has already won the war, there are still battles to be fought. We're not off the battlefield yet. What Psalm 108 provides for us is a pattern for how we should respond while in the midst of this spiritual battle. And there's really two applications that I want us to take away for living life in the midst of spiritual battles. First, in the midst of battle, you can still praise God. Isn't it remarkable that even while David is in the midst of battle, he begins this psalm by praising God? He begins by praising God because he knows that regardless of his circumstances, regardless of the fact that God had seemingly rejected them and not gone out with their enemies, he still has. God's steadfast love and faithfulness. Steadfast love and faithfulness that are higher than the heavens. And if David can praise God in the midst of battle for God's covenant love, how much more should we? still be able to praise God in the midst of our spiritual battles. We who have been rooted and grounded in love. And who have come to know what is the breadth and length and height and depth of God's love for us in Christ Jesus. We have God's steadfast love and faithfulness through his Spirit who dwells in us, always with us. In the midst of every battle that we face, God's steadfast love and faithfulness is with us, which in itself is cause to praise God in the midst of those battles And it's God's unquenchable love for us in Christ that enables us to praise God in the midst of our battles against sin, against Satan, and against death. In our continuing battle against sin, as discouraging as it may be at times, we can praise God Because we know that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Friend, Paul said that to Christians. Because he knew that they would need to hear it. The gospel is not just for non-Christians. The gospel is for you if you've believed in Jesus. You need the good news not every day, multiple times a day I need to preach the gospel to myself, remind myself that there is therefore no now condemnation for me. Because I'm in Christ Jesus, why do I need to encourage myself with that truth? Because I sin and struggle every day and I trust that if you are human and a believer, that you do too. But we can still praise God because his steadfast love and faithfulness is all always ours in Christ Jesus. Because our relationship with God is not built on our own obedience like it was under the Mosaic covenant. Our relationship with God is established, founded upon the righteousness and obedience of Christ He has secured our step God's steadfast love and faithfulness for us, and we will never lose it in him because he can never lose it. We can always praise God, even in the midst of our battles against sin. So if you are struggling today If you struggled this morning, I don't know about you, but I feel like Satan lines up his attacks on our family on Sunday morning. He's just like, I'm gonna like let it all out on Sunday morning on this family before they come to church, that they come discouraged. Feel like they can't come to the you know Lord's table in good conscience, feel like they can't actually receive God's promises, you know, because they've struggled so much with sin. Right? If that's you, you've struggled today or this week Come to Jesus Christ again. You have come to him. You have been saved by him, but keep turning to him. The good news of the gospel is for you. God will carry on to completion the good work he began in you. He is faithful and just to forgive us of all our sins if we confess our sins. Right? Friend, if that is you today in your battle against sin. You can still praise God because the good news of the gospel means that God's steadfast love and faithfulness are always yours in Jesus Christ. In our battle against Satan, who prowls around like a roaring lion, we can praise God because he has promised that none of his people will be snatched from his mighty hand. In our battle against disease, pain, illness, death, and all forms of suffering, we can still praise God because death has been swallowed up in victory. Ancient fathers of the church used to say, because they were being persecuted in Rome, they can kill us, but they can't hurt us. It's you. Disease, death, illness. It can take your body But it can't take your soul. And God's going to give you a new body forever that doesn't get affected by sin, disease, death. You can still praise God in the midst of your suffering. And I'm not saying that these these praises are songs of like jubilant joy. You can lift up your praises to God in songs of lament and sorrow. Why? Because they are expressions of faith in God. That He is going to undo all that has gone wrong in the world. including what has gone wrong in your life. We can still praise God in the midst of our battles against sin and Satan and death But because these battles so easily steal our attention away from the reasons we have to praise God, we need to actively commit To praising God and giving thanks to Him. That's what David does. Notice in verse 1. He starts off by saying, My heart is steadfast. It's not, he's not saying, I am steadfast and I am strong. I'm steadfast in you. I'm committing to praise you because I know it's good to praise you, and it'll be good for me to praise you. Right? He describes his commitment to start his day, awake o morning. He describes his commitment to start his day by praising God. And when he does, his perspective on his circumstances changes He now views his circumstances through the lens of God's steadfast love and faithfulness, and he's now able to recall God's past promises to him and ultimately remember that God with him, with God, he will do valiantly. Friends, how are you doing cultivating a daily routine of beginning your day with praising and thanking God for his steadfast love to you in Christ? Are you starting your day with the word? With prayer? Or with song? Or are you starting with the news? Twitter, Instagram, work emails, or other things. Listen, the Bible doesn't tell us that we need to do all these things in the morning. It doesn't give us a command that we need to do these things. in the morning, but it does talk enough about starting in the morning, worshiping in the morning, that we should at least consider why it talks about it so much. I don't know about you. But I recognize the kind of deleterious effect of starting with what I'll just call the world rather than starting with the word Right, it just messes my whole day up. If I start with Instagram or Twitter or work emails, I'm just on just instantly distracted. And then when I turn to God's word, it's there. I'm reading it, but like where's my mind Oh, I got that email from that person, I need to do this, I need to do that, I got a growing to-do list, ah, I'm just I'll just get started on my day, right We need to, I struggle then throughout the day to remember God's promises. I find it more difficult to fight against sin. It changes my entire approach to the day Why don't you think about this? I was talking with Leah this morning. She thought about it this way. Think about someone who's gone to the doctor and received a terrible diagnosis, right? Just gonna be so distracted from that point forward because of the news that they've just gotten. But then a then a few days later, they get an email from the same doctor saying, Oh, there was a mistake. We're so sorry, there was a mistake in the testing. It turns out you're actually gonna be Fine. What's the rest of that person's day going to be filled with? Praise. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Thank you, Lord. There's going to be praise, there's going to be thanks, there's going to be joy, it's going to be renewed energy and focus. Friends. consider the daily email we get from God in his word with the news about our future. Sin forgiven. Death defeated. Satan crushed and everything evil and hard that happens to us in this life is being used by God for our eternal good. That news changes your perspective on the battles you'll face throughout the day. How you start your day matters. We praise God in the midst of battle because praising God and remembering his steadfast love helps us to be more effective in fighting the battle. And God intends For our praises of Him in the midst of our battles to be a means by which we witness to others about His power and glory. Thinking back to Acts 1 that Heather read for us this morning. I want you to look at verse 3 again of Psalm 108. David says I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations. The peoples and nations refer to the Gentile world. Basically, all of the people on earth who are not part of God's chosen people, Israel. But God didn't choose Israel so that they alone would know God's steadfast love and faithfulness. They were to be a witness, a light to the nations. The rest of the world was to be drawn to Yahweh's light through Israel's praises of him. And David here is using his battles as an opportunity, not just to praise God in private. But to praise him in the presence of the nations. Nowhere in the Bible do we find the modern American notion of private faith. I believe this privately, but it doesn't affect my personal life. Nonsense. Everyone's private beliefs affect how they live publicly. And our faith should manifest itself publicly. And one way that it can manifest itself publicly is by praising God and giving thanks in public for what He has done in your life. Right? Our praises of God should appear in our conversations with others. Whether it's sharing why we fight against sin or why we continue to put our faith in God in the midst of suffering, God intends For our praises of Him in the midst of battle to be a means by which we witness to the world about His power and His goodness. In the midst of battle, we can still praise God, but second and lastly, in the midst of battle, we can also stand on his promises of certain victory. That's what David is doing in the rest of the psalm. He's looking back on God's past promises to defeat Israel's enemies, to stay steadfast in the present against the enemies that remain. God's past promises provide a sure foundation for David to stand on and to keep going in the present. Friends, how much clearer. And more certain are God's promises to us. We considered hundreds of promises in the New Testament. Think about some of them. Your present struggle with sin will not continue as it always has. Why? Because God has promised that he will carry on to completion the good work that he began in you. God has defeated death and given you the promise of eternal life. What did Jesus say to his disciples? Because I live, you also will live. God will protect you against Satan's schemes. You are being guarded through faith by God's power for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. God will provide for your daily needs. God will meet all your needs according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus. And we need these promises because the reality we experience on the ground in our daily battles doesn't always appear to align with God's promises to us in His Word. But when that happens, we need to remember that God is working on a much grander scale, a much larger battlefield than we are working on in our own lives. And so things may look very different from our perspective. than they do from his. But D. L. Moody was a pastor of a church in Chicago in the early 20th century. And he once visited a woman in his congregation who was experiencing a number of trials. And when he came to visit her, she was complaining about the difficulties of the trials that uh she was facing and the bitterness of them. And as they were talking, She was working on a little tapestry. I'm not sure what you would call it if you knit or sew. It wasn't a blanket. It was like an actual design that she was working on needling. Is that the right word? Perhaps needling? And at some point in the conversation, as she was complaining and talking, she dropped this tapestry, this needling artwork on the floor, and it fell baside down so the bottom was exposed and when you expose the bottling of needling it looks like a a hot mess. And Moody is like Goodness, my dear, like what are you creating? That looks terrible. Jews like, how dare you, Mr. Moody? You have not seen what this needling actually looks like. You're looking at it all wrong. You need to look at it from the face side down And Moody was like, it's exactly right. Sister, you are looking at your trials from the wrong side. You need to see them from God's perspective, looking down on the battlefield that you are in. If you would see what God is doing, you would marvel at it. Friends, God has promised To win the victory for us. And even though it may seem like at times God has rejected us, we can be confident of His promise that In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able. To separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Friends, God has promised that with Him we will have the victory And we can stand with certainty on his promises. But we need to remember that it's with God that we will have the victory. David says, vain is the salvation of man. Meaningless. Powerless to defeat our enemies Kids, I want you to imagine a battlefield with me. Think in your minds about this big green field. You're standing on one side of the battlefield, and you're clothed in Plastic armor. And you have a plastic sword. And you have a nerf gun with foam pellets. And on the other side of the battlefield, kids, is The US Army with real tanks, real guns, real soldiers, real weapons Would you want to go into battle against that army with your plastic armor and swords? Anyone? Shout it out, kids. Do you want to go into battle against that army? No, because there's no way with your plastic armor and your plastic weapons that you're going to be able to feed the US military. Kids, in the same way. There is no way that you can defeat sin, Satan, or death on your own But with Jesus, you can do valiantly because he's strong enough to tread down all of our foes. Even the biggest, meanest of them, he can tread them down. That's a picture of us standing before sin, Satan, death, and hell. We cannot defeat them on our own, but Jesus can My friend here who might be a non-Christian, considering what it means to follow Jesus, I want you to understand what David is saying here. Quite simply, he's saying you can't save yourself. Any acts of righteousness that you do, trying as hard as you can, doing whatever you think is it God would want from you to save yourself, you can't do it. The chasm that exists between us and God is far too wide. Our sin has completely separated us from God, and the only way that we can be reconciled to Him is if God acts to tread down our enemies for us. And He's done it through the Lord Jesus. And I encourage you to consider what it would look like to follow Jesus today and follow him into victory. I love war stories. Especially I love the war stories when I know that the army's gonna win in the end. And this war story, the Christian war story, is one where we know Victory is certain. With God, we will do valiantly. He will tread down all of our foes. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us to praise you in the midst of our battles. Protect us from Satan and his schemes. Grant us your spirit to say no to sin and yes to righteousness and help us to stand today and in the days moving forward on your certain promises. Which we know are all yes and amen in Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.