Well, friends, we are going to turn now to the preaching of the word. And I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to the book of Colossians. We're back in the New Testament. We're going to be looking at Colossians chapter 1. We've been on a two-month break from Paul's letter to the Colossians, but are diving back in today. And since it's been just about two months since we were last in this letter. It'd be good for us to remind ourselves of what we've seen already. So if you're looking at Colossians chapter 1, you can just kind of let your eyes fall over the page. Paul opens his letter to the Colossians with his typical greeting, and then in verses 3 through 8, he reminds the Colossians of the world-changing power of the gospel. It's the gospel that he says to them that has been bearing fruit among them and has also been bearing fruit and increasing in all the world. Then in verses 9 to 14. He prays for the Colossians to continue bearing fruit, fruit that we see grows out of the gospel. What does that fruit look like in our lives? It looks like walking in a manner worthy of God. Doing good works, growing in knowing God, patiently enduring all suffering with joy and giving thanks to God. Who has done everything necessary to deliver us from darkness and save us through his son Jesus. And that brings us to verses 15 to 20. We see in verses 15 to 20, Paul pens really what is one of the most majestic passages in the New Testament about The preeminence of Christ, about the person, the nature, the identity, and the works of Jesus, his glory, his majesty, his authority over everything But before we start looking at verses 15 to 20, it's really important for us to understand why Paul felt it necessary To emphasize that the gospel is bearing fruit all over the world and that the Colossians will only grow insofar as they remain could to continue to believe in the gospel and that at the heart of the gospel is the preeminent Christ. Why did Paul feel it necessary to write these things Well, the answer, which is crucial for us to understand today, is because the Colossians were in danger of looking for spiritual fullness in things other than the gospel and other than Christ. After they had professed faith, numerous false teachers had begun coming around them and telling them that they hadn't actually experienced spiritual fullness. The gospel just wasn't enough. Jesus just isn't enough. They were teaching them that if they wanted to experience true spiritual fullness, they needed to add to their faith in Jesus. They needed to add strict obedience to the Jewish law. They needed to add man-made spirituality. They needed to get rid of all worldly possessions. They needed to start worshiping angels, having visions. And Paul is concerned that the Colossians are going to begin looking for spiritual fullness in all of those things rather than Christ and his message to them. Is the same as it is to us today. There's nothing you can add to Jesus True spiritual fullness comes only through a living relationship with Him. It happens through a day-by-day faith-filled dependence on him. Well saying, look, don't turn anywhere else Wait till you see what I write to you in verses 15 to 20. It will become clear to you that there is no one else. He is so preeminent over all creation that it would be foolish. to look for spiritual fullness in anyone or anything other than him. So if you haven't already Turn with me to Colossians 1 verses 15 to 20. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us now. This is God's word He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities All things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things. And in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning. the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. Whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. There are few passages in the New Testament that compare with this one in its description of the exalted status of Jesus Christ, right? You can't miss it. Paul reels off exalted description after exalted description of Jesus' identity, his nature, his status, his works, and then he tells us why he's telling us all these things about Jesus. Look at verse 18 again. This is crucial for us to see. Paul's putting the final touches on Jesus' resume, and he says, and he is the head of the body, the church, he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. That in everything he might be preeminent Paul, why are you telling us all these things about Jesus? Because I want to impress upon you Jesus' greatness. Jesus' transcendence, his supremacy, his preeminence over all things. There is simply no one greater than Jesus. And so Don't look for spiritual fullness in anyone or anything other than him. Continue in him. If you move on from him, you will be lost. The point of verses 15 to 20 is to teach us Jesus' preeminence over all things And by all things, Paul means over the created world, over all creation, and over all of the new creation. The church and the kingdom of God. The last time we were in this passage was about two months ago, and we looked at Jesus' uh preeminence over the created world, over the creation, in verses 15 to 17. And this week In verses 18 to 20, we're going to look at Jesus' preeminence over the new creation But let's look at what Paul teaches us about Jesus to prove that he's preeminent over the new creation. We see four things. We're going to look at each, and at the end we're going to consider how we should respond to what we see here. Well, the first thing that Paul tells us to prove Jesus' preeminence over the new creation is in verse 18. I want you to look again with me. Paul says, and he is the head of the body, the church. I said that these verses focus on Jesus' preeminence over the new creation, and that becomes immediately apparent when Paul describes Jesus' relationship to the church. Right, the church refers to all people throughout time and space who have ever recognized their need for forgiveness repented of their sins and put their trust in Jesus' death and resurrection. Those people, according to the New Testament, make up the church. And Paul describes the church here as Jesus' body. It's his body. He is the head of his body, the church That the church is Jesus' body is a fairly common image used in uh used to describe the church in the New Testament. It conveys the reality that when we put our faith in Jesus, we become one with him. We become in that sense his very own body. But the focus here isn't on the church, but on Jesus' relationship to the church. He is the head of the body He is the head of the church. That he is our head implies that he is our source of life and our ultimate authority. He's our source of life. In his letter to the Ephesians, Paul uses the same image, and he says that Jesus is the head from which the entire body grows, and that as the head, he gives growth to the body. Right now now it's obvious the human body has multiple vital organs without which we can't live, but I'm sure that we can all agree that you can't live. without a head, right? And neither can the church continue living if we're cut off from Christ, our head, because he's our source of life. But he's also our ultimate authority. By saying that Jesus is the head over the church Paul is saying he rules over it, right? Just as the president of the United States is the head of our country, and the CEO of a company is the head of that company, and the principal of a school is the head of that school. Each of those people has authority over the organization that they are ahead of, and Jesus is the head of the church. He is the supreme and final authority over the church. He's the source of life for the church. He is preeminent. That's not all that we see here. I want you to look again at verse 18, at the next thing that Paul tells us to prove Jesus' preeminence. He says he is the beginning. He is the beginning. I mean there are clear echoes here of Genesis 1, verse 1, right? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth But when Paul says here that Jesus is the beginning, he's not referring to his role in creating the world. He already did that in verses 16 and 17. He's saying here that Jesus is the beginning of the new creation. Just as the Son of God was present with God. in the beginning and was the one through whom all things came into existence. He's also the one through whom the new creation comes into existence He's the beginning of the new creation. And we know that's what Paul is saying because he expands on this by telling us that Jesus is the firstborn from the dead. The new creation began when Jesus was resurrected by the power of God as the firstborn from the dead. Right? The term firstborn is used two different ways in Scripture. It can be used to describe the firstborn child of his or her parents. But it can also be used to describe someone who has supremacy, rank, authority, and preeminence, regardless of whether or not they were the first child born in their family. How's it being used here? I think we can ask a couple questions to the kids to help us figure out how this word is being used here. Kids, I have a question for you, and anyone, teenagers, youth, kids, any of you can answer. Was Jesus the first person in the New Testament to come back from the dead? Yes or no? Do we have a no is that a no? Is that Josiah in the back? You say no? Who agrees? Is Jesus the firstborn to come back from the dead? Or the first person to come back from the dead? Lois says no. Who is the first person to come back from the dead in the New Testament? Lazarus. Yeah, Lazarus was the first one to come back from the dead. But Kids, would Lazarus eventually die again? You can just shout it out. Yes, Lazarus would eventually die again because when he came back from the dead He did not rise in resurrection glory. He died as a mortal and rose as a mortal and then died again as a mortal. His luck is kind of confounding. Like, wow, that would be amazing to come back from the dead, but then to have to die again a second time. Like wow, thanks, but no thanks. Right? He he died as immortal, rose as immortal, and then died again as a mortal. He didn't rise in resurrection glory, but when Jesus rose from the dead, he rose in resurrected glory. Death had been swallowed up by life. He rose as the true firstborn from the dead, who was the first to rise from the dead in immortal glory. And he rose. in immortal glory because of the power of his perfectly righteous and indestructible life, and as the first to rise from the dead in immortal glory, He also ascended to a place of supremacy, rank, preeminence, and power over the new creation. He is the firstborn from the dead. Which is why Paul concludes, verse 18, the way that he does, look down there with me. That in everything he might be preeminent. This goes back to the beginning of verse 15. Jesus' preeminence over all things is displayed in the fact that he is the image of the invisible God. He is the firstborn of all creation. He is the creator of heaven and earth. He is before all things and sustains all things. He is the head of the church. He is the beginning of the new creation. He is the firstborn from the dead. Need you say more? Jesus Christ is all glorious and preeminent over all things. He is the Lord of creation. He is the Lord over the new creation. He is the Lord over all, and He is the Lord over all because He is the Lord. Look at verse 19. His preeminence over all things is grounded in the fact that he is God in the flesh. For or because. This is why he's permanent in all things. In him, all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. How could Jesus be anything but preeminent over all things when he is nothing less than the living God Himself Greg Beal put it simply, the reason that Jesus is preeminent is that Jesus is God incarnate And he's not partially God or a degree lower than God. He is fully God. Paul emphasizes the fullness of his deity by saying All, all, the infinite all, the infinite all of God, all power, all transcendence, all glory, all might, all of that dwells in Jesus. Not some, not a drop, not a splash. Jesus is the full glass of God, filled to the brim. Nothing less than completely and totally God Which is what makes what Paul goes on to say all the more shocking. Jesus Christ, the preeminent King of all creation, the eternal sustainer of all things, the one in whom the fullness of God dwelled. Died on a bloody cross. What? Jesus is like the paradox of this passage He died on a bloody cross, making peace by the blood of his cross. Are you staggered by that reality? Let's sink in the preeminent one. The one who is high and lifted up. The one who dwells in unapproachable light The one who reigns supreme over all creation, the one who's holy, holy, holy. Look on flesh. And died a shameful death on the cross. Stained by his own blood. Why did he do this? Look again at verse 20. He did this to reconcile us to the Father To make peace between us and God. He reconciled us to God. Our relationship with God was ruptured. He healed it. It was severed. He restored it. He removed the hostility and replaced it with peace, making peace by the blood of his cross. Making peace. We were at enmity with God. To put it bluntly, if you if you're not here, you don't follow Jesus, learning about Christianity. Mankind's relationship with God is beat up. It's trashed, and it's not trash because of what God has done, but what we've done. We've chosen to live for ourselves. We chose to reject God. Our first parents rejected him. All mankind fell in them. And we now work out that sinful nature in our lives by the choices we make. If you're honest with yourself, I'm sure it's evident to you, even in your heart of hearts, you might tell other people, no, you're I'm good, it's good between me and God. But when you when you look in the mirror and you look at your life, do you lie? Do you get angry? Do you seek to preserve yourself? Do you harm other people with your words? In varying degrees. These are all manifestations of our sin, and they show that our relationship with God is in trouble. It is in peril. God, because he's just and because he'll punish all sin. You think about the justice that we desire in our world. It's a good desire for justice. I want you to think about that now in your relationship with God God is perfectly just. He doesn't take bribes. He's no respecter of persons. He's not going to be swayed. He's not going to be fooled by a fake video or a real video. These things that we like we we just thought we we can't ultimately work out perfect justice. God can. He sees all things. He sees all motives. He knows all things. But now God is looking at your life. And he's seeing the way that you have rejected him in your life There's there's enmity between you and God. Things aren't good between you and God. They're not good between any of mankind and God But God sent his son into the world to live the perfectly righteous life that none of us lived, that all of us should have lived. He lived it in our place. The righteous life that we were called to live. He lived it in our place. Then he went to the cross, and on the cross, he bore the shameful punishment that we deserve. And then he rose from the dead, showing that God accepted his sacrifice. Yes, I will accept it because your life is perfect, your motives are perfect, you were perfectly pure. I will accept it. And now anyone who professes faith. will be reconciled to me, the anger, the enmity, the wrath, put away forever, making peace. By the blood of his cross. That's what Jesus did for you and me. How could you not want to just jump? At the offer to be reconciled to God through his son Jesus. That is what is on offer in this passage. That is what the glorious God did. The eternal Son of God came down to earth. took on flesh, fully God, fully man, died on the cross for our sins, rose again in newness of life, and now he offers to all come and have that life. Do you want that life? It's yours free today if you would repent and put your trust in Jesus What an amazing offer. Oh my gosh. If you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I think we gotta point out a few things about this passage that really undermine common opinions that people hold today about sin and salvation. The first common opinion that people hold today That's undermined by this passage is that sin just isn't all that serious. Right? But notice what this passage is teaching us. Sin is so serious, so deadly, so evil, that to remove the curse of it and the effects of it The Son of God had to die. Right? Just consider what that means about the seriousness of sin. When you read about lawsuits and you read about parties settling out out outside of court, right, you can gauge the seriousness of the of the offense. By the amount of the settlement. A $50,000 settlement points to one kind of seriousness, and a $50 million settlement points to another kind of seriousness. Our sins are so serious that to fully pay for them, the Son of God had to die. We want to think like God thinks about sin. Our temptation is think, uh, not all that big of a deal. God says, hey. It is a big deal. You should think what I think about sin. Sin is serious. That leads to the second common opinion that people have today that's undermined by this passage, and that's that there are many paths to God. Some take one path, others take another path, but we all get to the same place in the end, right? But notice what this passage says about who provides reconciliation with God. Look at verse 20 again. Paul says, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. Through him, God reconciled to himself all things God has provided one way of reconciliation, one path back to Himself, and that is through Jesus. Every other path doesn't lead back to reconciliation with God. Is this exclusive? In one sense, yes. God made one way for us to be reconciled to him. Frankly, we should be thankful that he made a way at all. He made one way. But it's also inclusive. How is that? Because the one way of reconciliation with God through Jesus is open to all people. All people. God is no respecter of persons. Reconciliation isn't just for Asian people or black people or white people or Indian people or men or women or people with curly hair or straight hair. Reconciliation with God is open to all. Whoever will repent of their sins and trust in Jesus will be reconciled to God. Consider that today if you don't follow Jesus. Think about what God is offering you. For those of us who follow Jesus, consider what this passage is teaching us. Jesus is the head of the body. He is our source life. Individually and corporately. We don't have enough time to consider all of those two things in their entirety, so we're going to want to think about this on an individual level. He is our source of life. And Paul really is just fleshing out what Jesus himself taught, right, in John 15, I am the vine, you are the branches Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. We need to be reminded of this. Because we're constantly tempted to look for life elsewhere. We're constantly tempted to abide in things other than Jesus. Like the Colossians were. The Colossians are being tempted, hey, look to stricter religion. That'll get you the spiritual fullness that you're looking for Different in our day in some senses, but we're being tempted. We're tempted by the allurements of this world. Tempted by our own hearts that seem to be always looking for things that can't, looking for life and things that can't provide it. I wonder where might you be looking for life these days? Where are you looking for spiritual fullness these days Maybe some questions to help you unpack that. Think about the following questions. Spend some time considering these questions. What makes you anxious or fearful? What makes you angry? Where do you look for escape? The answers to those questions reveal where we might be looking for life. So for instance, A little transparency here from the front. In my own life, I get angry and impatient when my plans for working out after work get blown up. Whether it's because work went long or I need to do something around the house. You we're gonna eat dinner at a certain time and work went a little bit long, the kids are melting down, I've got to help with Leah and uh now I can't work out And I get upset internally, get really frustrated, uh just gonna uh uh uh in my heart. That's what I'm saying to everybody in my heart. Maybe I'm smiling, but that's what's going on in my heart. And I can be rude to those around me. Ridiculous, right? But what is my anger saying? It's saying that if anyone or anything keeps me from working out, I'm gonna be upset. And I'm going to take it out on you because in some sense, I need to work out to be happy. I can't just have Christ and have that be sufficient for me to get through that little trial. You can do the same thing with escapism. Whether it's video games or shopping or food or drink, we escape. We run to the things that we think will bring us happiness. Why are you running to the things that you're running to? What's underneath of that? We have to recognize that none of those things are sources of true life Jesus is the source of true life. He is our head. It's only in connection with him that we grow spiritually. When you're being tempted to get angry or to fear or to escape, you're being given an opportunity to seek life in the truest sense Because we're going to face those things. We're going to be faced with temptations to give in to anger, to give into fear, to give into escapism. We're given an opportunity to seek life in the truest sense. In that moment, fear, anger, the desire to escape is alerting me to the fact that I am seeking life in something other than Christ. What's it gonna be? Is it gonna be life in that? Floating on the sea, I'm thirsty, there's a lot of salt water there, looks good, not actually going to give me life. Or am I going to seek it in Jesus? Am I going to turn to him? Am I going to trust in him? Take some time this week to really think through where you specifically struggle. And the situations and scenarios in which you're tempted to seek life in places other than Christ. And when those situations and scenarios arise, recognize that you have the ultimate weapons of word and prayer. at your disposal in order to help you choose life. Think about word and prayer in that moment. Right? I'm being tempted to anger. Lord your word says, be angry and do not sin. The anger of man does not result in the pleasure of God, right? Lord, help me to not be angry. It can be as simple as that That's what it looks like to seek life in Jesus, to abide in him, abide in him, moment by moment, day by day, walking by faith. Another thing I want you to want to encourage you to think about in the days to come that this passage teaches is that Paul calls Jesus the beginning. The beginning. He is the beginning. When Jesus rose from the dead, he rose into, into the beginning. Of true life. The first fully human person to rise in resurrection glory and establishing the pattern that all of us who've trusted in Him will follow in. Resurrection life is the beginning Of true life in a very real sense. True life hasn't begun You know how people say things like, oh, you haven't lived until you've done this or that. Paul wants you to know that you haven't lived in the truest sense until you've been resurrected from the dead in glory. Only then will the senses fully come alive. Only then will our souls be fully purified from the dross of sin. Only then will our perishable bodies be replaced by imperishable. Only then will death be fully swallowed up by life. But it's only then Now, we wait. We wait, and while we wait, we continue to experience the afflictions of living in a fallen world. Of living in a world that's cursed by death and sorrow, of living in a world that is itself groaning under the weight of sin. And the temptation that we face while we wait is to be unfaithful. To choose the pleasures of life rather than waiting for the glory of the true life that's coming. For the teens and kids. Maybe think about it this way. I want to encourage you to choose waiting for the true life that Jesus brings instead of living for this world and for yourself. The food that this world offers. pales in comparison to the feast that Jesus has prepared for us. Mike McKinley described it this way. He said, think of it this way, the way that this world offers, the life that this world offers over the true life that awaits all who've trusted in Christ, like driving to a Thanksgiving dinner And choosing to stop at 7-Eleven to eat big bites. No offense to y'all who like 7-Eleven big bites. I I've had them before myself. But think about what someone who's driving on their way to Thanksgiving dinner makes a choice to pull over at 7-Eleven and eat big bites because you didn't want to wait a bit longer for the food at the feast. What a terrible choice, right? True life hasn't begun yet in its fullest sense. And we don't want to miss out on the experience of true life because we've filled ourselves on this life. Yet in another sense, Jesus' resurrection from the dead ushered in a new creation that has already invaded the old order. One author said this about Jesus' resurrection. He said, the friends of Christ coming at daybreak to the tomb found the grave empty And the stone rolled away. In varying ways, they realized the new wonder, but even they hardly realized that the world had died in the night. They're talking about how Jesus conquered the kingdom of darkness when he rose from the dead. And in that sense, true life has invaded The here and now. Through faith in Jesus, God gives to us a new heart. God grants us His suit his spirit that we might enjoy the things of God, that we might walk in His ways and know Him and experience The joy that comes with knowing God and being reconciled to Him. Friends, we should remember that the Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is the same spirit that gave life to our souls. Dwells in our hearts through faith and empowers us now to live new lives today. And you can have that new life, the foretaste of that true life today through faith in Jesus Christ. But it's only in connection with him. It's only in connection with him that we have the hope of true life and eternal life. It's only in connection with him that we have the power of true life now, and it's only in connection with him that we can be reconciled to God. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things. And in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. That in everything he might be preeminent. Continue in him, friends. Continue in Christ Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask for your help. For your gracious strength, your infinite and eternal strength to encourage us and help us walk by faith Father, we are tempted in many ways to turn from Christ, to look for things that will fill us that cannot fill us. We pray that you would keep our eyes fixed on Christ Nourish our hearts by your Spirit. Help us to set our minds on Christ where He's seated at your right hand. That we might remember that we serve the King of glory. That He's given us the deposit of the Spirit even now. That we might taste that true life now, look forward it, look forward to it forevermore. Come, Lord Jesus, come. We pray this in Christ's name