Good morning. It is such a joy to get to look at God's word together with you. Please turn, if you would, to Titus Chapter 3, Titus, chapter 3, that's just before Hebrews. Or if you're following along in the Bible is provided, that's on page 998. And if you are visiting with us this morning, we would actually love to offer that Bible to you as a gift. If you don't have a Bible of your own, or if you don't have one in modern English, we would love to uh give you that. We love for you to take that home and read it. And if you are somewhat unfamiliar with reading a Bible, you'll notice there's big numbers, those are the chapter numbers, the little numbers are the verse numbers, and so we're going to be looking at Titus chapter 3 verses 1 through 11. And so let me go ahead and read this wonderful passage for us. Titus chapter 3, verses 1 through 11. Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, be obedient, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one. To avoid quarreling, to be gentle, to show perfect courtesy toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray. Slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others, and hating one another But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us. Not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. for the washing of regeneration and renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Saviour, so that, being justified by his grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people. But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him. Knowing that such a person is warped and sinful, he is self-condemned. Let me pray for us. So we ask that now you would give light to your word. Help us by your Spirit to understand the things freely given us through your word and through the work of your Son Jesus. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen. One morning long ago in Calcutta, India, Gandhi showed up to a Christian church. Gandhi had begun studying Jesus and the gospels, and he became really intrigued in Christianity, especially what he learned about Jesus. And so he decided to grace the door of a Christian church. It was at this church that an usher actually stopped him at the door and said, excuse me, you can't worship here, because this church is for high-caste Indians and whites only. Understandably, Gandhi turned his back and left that church, and consequently, Gandhi turned his back on Christianity as a whole, partly because of that experience Gandhi said later in life, if it weren't for Christians, I'd be a Christian. He also said, I love your Christ, but I hate your Christians. Because your Christians aren't like Christ. Well, it turns out Gandhi is not alone. About 10 years ago, there was a study done by the Barna group. And it found that about 90% of non-Christians described Christians as hypocritical. That's one of the number one words that non-Christians use to describe Christians. And after all, Gandhi and some of those folks that were polled have a point. 1 John 1. 6 says, whoever claims to be in Christ must walk as Jesus did. Well, in this passage, we actually see that faith in Christ is inseparably linked to godliness Wherever you see genuine faith, you see godliness growing. So as we look at this passage this morning, I think the main point of this passage, and therefore the main point of this sermon, is this. Genuine faith in Christ produces a life like Christ. Genuine faith in Christ. produces a life like Christ. And just to give you an idea of where we're going, here's our three points. First we're going to look at the godly life Christians are called to live. Secondly, the doctrine that doesn't produce godliness. And third, the doctrine that produces godliness. That's our main point and kind of where we're going. Well, this book, Titus, was written by Paul, and it was written to Titus, who was at the time a pastor on the little island of Crete. In the Mediterranean Sea, it was just south of Greece. And uh Paul's main concern in this book, if you read the whole thing. He's really concerned primarily with the Christian who is not living a godly life. The person who calls himself a Christian. But is not concerned with growing in godliness. That's Paul's main point. So if you look at chapter 1, verse 16, this verse really sums up the whole book well. He says, they profess to know God. But they deny him by their works. That really sums up the book well. For Paul, and in this book, you cannot separate Faith and godliness. Genuine faith in Christ will produce a life like Christ's. So first, let's look at our first point. The godly life Christians are called to live. In these first two verses, Paul really sketches what this godly life looks like. And specifically, he's talking about the context of a non-believing community. So in chapter two, Paul sort of gives instructions on how brothers and sisters uh in Christ in a church should interact with one another, the older women, discipling the younger women, older men, younger men, and All sorts of things. And these verses he's saying, okay, as a Christian in a church, what should your life look like in your community amongst non-believers? And so look at this first verse. It says, remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient Given that context, I think Paul here is talking about government and civil rulers and authorities that we need to obey. and submit to. And so the first thing we learn here in this passage is that leadership is a good thing. But that's not always taken for granted, is it? Think of how natural it is to see people gathered around the water cooler and just speaking negatively about those in authority. Their boss. Leaders of any kind. It's almost a given. It's like talking about the weather. Oh, see so-and-so is you know, riding me or whatever. And so as Christians, Paul's saying that we actually live a different way. We don't constantly grumble. Does it mean we don't see evil and speak about it when we see it? But it also means we see leadership as fundamentally a good thing. And so what does this look like? Well I think it means that we pray for those in authority, as we often do here at CBC I think it also means obeying the government, as in paying our taxes and bills and things like that online. Or um or yeah, anything like that. It also means Hearing out, particularly political leaders, hearing out arguments in their full context where we can gauge and judge those arguments responsibly, not just listening to a sound bite, but allowing people in their own words. to describe their views and then responsibly make a judgment. And so kids that are here, think about who has God put in authority in your life and how can you obey them well. Think of your parents or your teachers or your coaches. What are ways that you could obey them well? Maybe it's listening to them, doing what they ask right away Certainly praying for them, right? Maybe you could actually even go to someone in your life that God's putting authority uh there and ask them how they could or how you could pray for them. But they would love that. And so as we think about submitting and obeying to authorities, there is something that we have to keep in mind. And that is there is a higher throne. Christ is seated on the throne. He always has been seated there and he always will. And as we think about that, as we know that one day As believers, we will gather around God's throne, who has been there for all eternity and will be there for all eternity. Trust me when I say that that song friends, will be more beautiful than any national anthem you have ever heard. Because that king is eternal. And so when we remember that Christ is on the throne, it helps us not put too much hope in those that are in authority, but it also helps us not despair about those who are in authority. Because we know where their authority is derived from. We also see in this passage that we are to be ready for every good work. Paul most likely in has in mind here just Service in our community. How can we be a blessing to our community? So one thing that comes to mind is the Chevrolet Village. That's a great opportunity for even people here in this community to go and serve Some of the elderly in this community. And there's also countless opportunities. And even if you don't live in Chevrolet, what are ways, as Christians, that we can serve our community well? In such a way that people would be blessed by it? Are we serving this community in such a way that people that are non-Christians in Chevrolet would say, I want CBC to grow because those people are such a blessing to this community? Then Paul kind of turns up the uh difficulty with the next few items. Next he writes, to speak evil of no one. I don't think Paul here is telling us to live in this naive kind of bubble, like always speak positively about people, don't ever say anything negative. No, there's times when we actually have to recognize evil and speak about it. But I think what Paul is trying to guard against is our natural tendency to think and say the worst about people. When you think back on this past week and you think about maybe the negative things you've said or or thought about people Did you say that your motive there was genuine good for that person? What would people think if all of your thoughts about others were broadcast on the Dumbotron in Times Square and everyone could see What you thought about others, what you said, and why you thought those things Another characteristic here is that of the godly life Christians are called to live is that we should avoid quarreling and to be gentle. Would people describe you as a gentle person? Like when things are going well, it's typically a little, you know, it's easier to be gentle, but are you gentle on say 295? Is anyone? Oftentimes there are certain people in our lives that are more difficult for us to be gentle with. Who are those people for you? How could you pray for them? I find that it's really hard to consistently stay mad at someone that I'm praying for consistently. What about being uncontentious? Are there uh are there arguments you're willing to lose? Are there hills that you are not willing to die on? Sometimes our pride won't let us lose an argument, even when we know we're wrong. And sometimes our pride makes us too harsh with others when we know we're right. We should learn from Christ, who, when reviled, did not revile in return. but entrusted himself to the one he judges justly. And then there's this last one that's really kind of the catch-all. Paul says To show perfect courtesy, or that word to be humility, show perfect humility toward all people. Perfect humility toward all people. Now Crete, one important background here is Crete was actually known as an incredibly immoral place. Even actually, Paul quotes one of uh their own prophets early in the in the book. In chapter 1, verses 12, he says, one of the Cretans, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. That's bad when that's your own person saying that about you. And so when Paul says that, show perfect courtesy or humility toward all people, you can bet that the Cretans were thinking, are you serious, Paul? Have you been here? Do you know my neighbors? And yet Christians have all the reason in the world to be humble toward others, right? Think of the gospel. T. S. Lewis said, a proud man is always looking down on things and people. And of course, as long as you're looking down, you cannot see something that is above you. Consider, friend, that if you've begun looking down on someone else for any reason You've begun to look away from God, the cross. I think that's a report an important reminder for us. Well this life that Paul describes is certainly wonderful to imagine, isn't it? Imagine if every single one of us really embodied these verses perfectly. What an interest in Christ that would stir up in all sorts of non-believers in our community. And yet I wonder if, like me, as we went through this list, you felt more convicted than maybe encouraged or affirmed. You know one thing I I love is movies. And as much as movies, I actually like the movie soundtracks and movie uh trailers. And one thing I appreciate about movie trailers is that almost no matter what the movie is, as long as there's good music and slow motion and this guy talking in this really awesome voice. It can look awesome. Even the most mundane tasks, right? Like anything. One man had to cut the lawn. Yeah, like anything you could come up with. And it just turns into this incredibly epic Story. Well, one person said that our lives as Christians are like a movie trailer for Christ. In the same way that someone watches a movie trailer and they think, I'm not going to waste my time on that, or, wow, that looks good. I'm going to check that out. People are also going to see our lives. And they're going to say, huh, I wonder what there is to this Christ in Christianity. Or they might see our lives and say, I'm not going to waste my time on that. And so how is your life as a movie trailer or Christianity? Think like me, you might be thinking mine could be better. And that begs the question, how do we get this godly life? If we don't embody this list, how do we grow in godliness? Well, we actually learn in this passage that our growth in godliness is actually directly linked to our doctrine. A growth in godliness is actually directly linked to our our doctrine. And so let's look at our second point, the doctrine that doesn't produce godliness. So our doctrine, the beliefs that we hold deeply, really matters, doesn't it? What we believe will affect our life. It's gonna show up in our priorities and our decisions and things like that. And so you might hear people say things like doctrine doesn't matter, you know, uh love unites, doctrine divides. One thing that's important to realize is that itself is a doctrine. It's the doctrine that doctrine doesn't matter. And people who believe that are going to be shaped by it in their life. And so what we believe matters. And so kids, think about the things that we talk about in church in a sermon or Throughout the service, think about family worship that you do at home or conversations you have with your parents or others about God. It's actually a really good thing to pay close attention in those conversations and in those times because what you believe about God is actually the most important thing about you. It's not just about doing good things, right? It's about what we believe, and that's going to shape your life. It's going to affect what you do. And so first let's look at this doctrine that doesn't lead to godliness, that Paul lays out. And so towards the end of the passage in verse 9. Paul says, but avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. We don't know the exact nature of this false teaching, but we do know that it was an argument over doctrine doctrines of genealogies, who came from who, and how that affects them spiritually, or arguments about the Old Testament law. Paul describes this teaching as unprofitable and worthless. And the reason is because this special knowledge, this genealogies or all sorts of these things, are really just another form of moralism. It's just another form of legalism. It's a way that we can try to justify ourselves before God rather than receiving his grace, his free grace. And the reason this is so sad is because it always leaves ourselves doubting God's goodness for us. Because it's tied to our performance. How much knowledge do I have? How good am I doing with these two verses, right, that we just looked at? God's goodness toward us is always linked to our performance for him. That's moralism and that's why Paul says that this is worthless. He doesn't really mix words. Paul doesn't do that much. He just goes right after it. Worthless. That's how much that it's really And so we um so we see that uh you know many people have actually said or or thought That immorality is the greatest enemy of Christianity. You know, um worldliness, things like that. I actually think that moralism, that this false doctrine is actually the greatest enemy of Christianity. Because think about how dangerous this is. This legalism, this false doctrine, Paul lays out, it leads people away from Christ While making them think they're still Christians. It's so pervasive and it's so destructive and it's so subtle. And that's why it's so dangerous. And I think that's why Paul goes after it so harshly. This doesn't mean that things besides the gospel don't matter. There's all sorts of doctrines that are worth talking about and discussing, baptism and the Lord's Supper. And church government and worship. I just devoted five months of my life doing a pastoral internship where we read and wrote almost exclusively about those things. And so I will be the first to tell you that those things are valuable And yet, as we talk about those things, it's important to keep the gospel central. One thing you'll notice walking through Washington, D. C. , is that the Capitol Is is visible from so many points of the city, isn't it? There's a clear view of it on Pennsylvania Avenue, North Capitol, South Capitol, East Capitol, there's all sorts of places in the city But you can look and and you can see a clear view of the Capitol. And so a lot of travelers to the city will get their bearings from seeing the Capitol. They'll get lost and think, oh there's a Capitol. Okay, now now I know where we are and we need to go this way And it's also just a sight to behold. It's just a beautiful building. People, pedestrians and drivers dangerously, uh their gaze is drawn to it as they're going throughout the city. Well, in the same way The gospel should always remain visible in our life. No matter what we're talking about, whether it's secondary issues or other doctrines that are important but not central, we should never be far From a view of the gospel. The gospel should orient us. So as we're talking about these secondary issues, we can say, okay, uh we can we can disagree about this, but we can have unity because of the gospel. And the gospel should also draw our gaze to it. Every time we see it, it should stop us in our tracks and say, wow. Beautiful is the gospel. What unity, what peace, what riches we have in it. Real quickly at the end of this passage in verse 10, Paul mentions a divisive person, and uh he tells Titus how he should handle that situation. So he says, as for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him. Knowing that such a person is warped and sinful. He is self-condemned. I think it's likely that Paul here has in mind possibly removing someone as a member of a church because of divisive doctrine and false doctrine that they're teaching consistently. But I think primarily here since Paul is writing to Titus, I think he's trying to tell Titus, hey Don't get wrapped up in every single theological debate. When you've spoken your truth and you've had a conversation with that person once and twice trying to get them to change their way of thinking You have to then devote yourself to the word. Don't neglect your good ministry. And I think in our lives we need similar wisdom We need to know when it's appropriate for us to back away from a debate and trust God that in his sovereignty, he is going to use the truth we've spoken in his timing. And that we can devote ourselves to the word, to discipling others. And so we've looked at the doctrine that produce that doesn't produce godliness. Moralism and legalism. Now let's look at our last point, the doctrine that produces godliness. In perfect contrast to this false doctrine, Paul sets forth pure doctrine, which he explains in verses 3 to 7. What is this powerful doctrine that enables us to live lives of godliness? Well, it's the gospel. First he explains to the Cretans, as we saw in the end of verse 2, Paul left off saying, Show perfect humility toward all people. Well, first, Paul shows the Cretans how they can be humble toward all people. By reminding them that they were once foolish, that they were once disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures Paul doesn't exactly send the Cretans a hallmark message. He reminds them vividly of their sin, of their brokenness. This is one of the unique things about Christianity is how out there and bold that we are with our weaknesses and our sin. I was even struck singing this morning and uh I think it was the song Not in Me. Um I am a sinner through and through. Who sings that? With a smile on their face. Only Christians, because we also know that my sin, oh the bliss of this glorious thought. My sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord on my soul. We can be bold about our sin because we know that he bore it. And so if you are a non-Christian and you're joining us this morning, I'm so glad you're here. And you might be hearing some of this and you th you might be really confused. You might be thinking, okay, so uh So we're all sinful, we're all broken, and uh the punishment for that sin is death, and God uh and we can't do anything to save ourselves, we desperately need a savior Your first thought is probably not, man, when can we do this again? It's humbling. The gospel stings And yet I also hope and love that you feel the sting of the gospel. The gospel must wound you first, or it heals you. God is like that great doctor. He is the great physician who has to cut us open first before he can go in and replace and heal that vital organ. Or heal that disease. And so if you're feeling wounded this morning, if you're feeling, wow, really don't don't measure up. Actually a good thing. That means the gospel is wounding you. Charles Spurgeon said the beginning of salvation is conviction of sin. So don't let the gospel wound you and then run out of here. Trust in Christ. Talk to me, John, any of the members here, or the person who brought you. We would love to talk to you. About what it looks like to trust in Christ, to repent of your sin, so that you with us could sing that glorious truth, that my sin can part with the whole, nailed to the cross. So you can have peace and joy in Christ. The gospel is humbling. And then after this, Paul sets forth this glorious statement, isn't it? In verse 4, he says, but when the goodness and loving kindness of God, our Savior, appeared, He saved us. We could honestly just camp out and look at that verse this Sunday, probably every day for the rest of your life. And you will never plumb the depths of God's goodness in this verse. This is so contrary to everything that we know. The riches that we have in Christ. And so one thing that's important to remember is that just like doctrine matters, we also operate spiritually out of a kind of bank account If you think of um you know a bank account that has no money in it, if you have no money in your bank account, well you might be tempted to maybe steal some food, feed yourself or your family But if you've got a million dollars in your bank account, you're gonna think, well why would I steal that food? I have plenty. Well, spiritually speaking, the same is true. When we realize how much God loves us, how he will provide for us, how he will be faithful to us, it fills us up with such riches. that we actually have power to say no to temptation. And so in verse 11 and 2, chapter 2, verses 11 Paul says, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness. The gospel and salvation actually trains us to say no to ungodliness because we realize the riches that we have in Christ. And so the more we understand how rich we are in Christ, the less we will be tempted to sin. So look at the words that Paul uses here in verses four through seven. In verse four, he says. The kindness of God appeared. In verse 6, poured out on us richly. In verse 7, he justified us. In verse 7 as well, we've been made heirs. And at the end of that verse, we have the hope of eternal life Friends, this is the language of riches and wealth. Paul's basically saying here, do you want to know how you can say no to temptation? Look at what you have in Christ. Look at the riches that you have. They're immeasurable. Why would you ever want sin? Why would you be tempted by this? Look at what you have in Christ. This is so contrary to us. Like everything in our world says, why would you stress the free grace of Christ to get people to do something? That doesn't compute, right? Well, it's because when you realize how rich you are in Christ, you actually don't want sin. When Christ becomes more beautiful to you than your sin, it sort of breaks this enchanting power sin has over us. then enchants us in some ways, doesn't it? It think about times in your own life that you've experienced very real temptation. Didn't you in that moment feel that unless you had this, you were never going to be happy? Unless you had X, I'll never be satisfied. I won't be okay. That's the enchanting power of sin. And the gospel explodes, this kind of enchanting power by telling us that we are a child of the king. Why would we steal bread? Why would we want that? Why would we desire that? And this is why That we must pound the gospel over and over and over again into our hearts Now that it's fall and winter is approaching, one of my favorite things to do is to chop firewood and make fires in our fireplace and uh And I just I just love it. I love the different kinds of wood. There's cherry wood, maple, oak. They all burn differently. They all smell differently. I just love it. And so we went out recently and I took our kids. And we were chopping this wood, it was great. And then we got to this section of wood that was so dense and hard that no matter how many times You know, I was hitting it. I kept hitting it over and over again, and my son Jackson's like, Dad, when are you gonna split it? I'm like, I'm trying, son. And so I just we hit this thing, it just would not break. And so uh what we finally had to do is we took one of the axes and we swung and we stuck into the top of the axe until it stuck in there. Then we took the other axe and we turned it around the hammer side. We just began to pound that other axe and use it as a wedge. We just pounded it over and over until it drove deeper, deeper, and deeper. into this wood until slowly but surely that hard and dense wood began to crack bit by bit, then with one last blow, put apart. Well friends, in the same way, we have to pound the gospel over and over, over into our hearts Until the power of the gospel breaks through our cold and hard hearts, and it fills every corner of it with its warmth and life-changing power. We need the gospel. We need him every hour. Only when the gospel fills our hearts with its life-changing power can we say no to temptation. And so John Owen, great theologian, he said this. He argued that the only strategy, real strategy, against temptation was the gospel. This is what he said. Keep the heart full of a sense of the love of God in Christ. This is the greatest protection against the power of temptation in the world. Owen goes on to argue that you can fight temptation with all sorts of things. You can say, what's gonna happen? What if I lose my job? What if I lose my position? What will other people think? What's gonna come of this sin if I go through with it? But see, all of those things just have to do with the consequences of sin It doesn't actually give us a new desire. The gospel comes in and it makes Christ more beautiful to us than our sin. And so for example, if you're say you're tempted to uh speak evil of someone, as the verse before said, maybe you feel in your heart that By comparing yourself with someone else, you're gonna feel better about yourself. Or maybe you just want this person to take an interest in you and you think, oh, I've got this juicy piece of gossip or whatever, and this person's gonna take an interest in me How does the gospel help? The gospel reminds us that we've been justified by his grace It's not our performance that matters. It's the fact that Christ lived a perfect life that we could never live. So there's no reason to compare ourselves with others, to make ourselves look better. Christ has justified us. It also shows us that God took an interest in us He condescended. He left his throne, where he was worshipped by angels. And in scripture it says he became nothing, a servant. If God, if the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, took an interest in you to the point of shedding his own blood? What's this person taking an interest in you mean? The gospel gives us a new love, causes us to adore Christ So as we dwell in the gospel, Christ becomes more beautiful to us than our sin. Suddenly we don't desire it as much. So in a sense, Gandhi was right. Christians don't look like Christ. No, I don't. But that's why we're Christians. Because we need Christ. Because we need his forgiveness And yet, as we dwell on what he's done for us, we are, it trains us, we're made more like him. Genuine faith in Christ produces a life like Christ's. We pray Father, we thank you that you have made us rich in Christ. We are filthy rich. Father, we pray that you would help us watch our doctrine closely. Help us think deeply about what we believe and help us dwell on the gospel, what you've done for us So that we might be able to say no to ungodliness. We pray all these things in Christ's precious name. Amen.