Good morning. It's uh a privilege and an honor and a pleasure to be here with you today, to have this opportunity. To open up God's word together and to hear him speak to us through his living and active word. Before we open up and look at Psalm 3, I'm going to go ahead and pray for us one more time, and then we will look more carefully at the text. Let's pray now. Heavenly Father, we come to you knowing that you have the words of eternal life. There is nowhere else that we can go. There's nowhere else that we can find life, the life that you bring. We know that the Lord Jesus came to bring life and bring it to the fullest, to bring it abundantly. We pray for those today who have not come to know that abundant, full life that Jesus Christ offers, that you by your grace and mercy, would cause them to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And for those who have been born again through your living and eternal word, that you would build us up in that word today. Grant us faith and help us to lay hold of Jesus in such a way today that our fears that we all have in this world, in this life Would erode away, seeing that he will protect us, sustain us, and ultimately save us. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen The Halloween season is upon us, which means it's a season for costumes and candy. Kids, how many of y'all raise your hand if you are excited about the candy that is coming your way? Hey, let me know. Just shout it out. Shout out what is your favorite candy? Mike Clauser, that was for kids. But we know Mike is looking by is that Reese's pieces or peanut butter cups? There there you go. Peanut butter cups but he likes both kids. What I what's your favorite candy? Shout it out Skittles MM's chocolate all right all right I heard Skittles I can kind of relate to that one my favorite candy is Sour Skittles. Yes, Jack knows it. You get the the family bag. I think it says on that bag this is the shareable bag. And I say no it is not the shareable bag. This is a bag that I will consume in one sitting My problem with sour skittles, I like them so much that I like eat the entire bag and my taste buds are ruined for like two or three days because nobody is supposed to consume that much sour powder. Right? But Halloween isn't only the season for costumes and candy. It's also the season of beer. At no other time of the year do we collectively acknowledge that there are things that strike fear in our hearts. Whether it's haunted houses or horror movies or ghosts and goblins or skeletons and graveyards, Halloween is in part about fear. Now, you might be thinking, some of you might be thinking, John, that's ridiculous. We all know that those horror movies are foolish. Haunted houses are fake, ghosts and goblins aren't real, and graveyards are full of just that graves and nothing more. You know, if that's what you're thinking, I'd say you're kinda right. And kinda wrong. I think you're kinda right in that haunted houses are silly and horror movies are basically ridiculous and ghosts and goblins as popularly c popularly conceived. are foolish. But that's where you'd also be kind of wrong. Because while our conceptions of what's out there that we should fear may be mistaken. The reality is there is something far worse out there in the spiritual world than what we see in haunted houses and horror movies. There are real, personal, evil beings. But not only are there things to fear in the spiritual world, our daily lives are filled with kind of physical, more material things to fear, right? War. Political upheaval, economic collapse, unemployment, homelessness Sickness, disease, death. We are surrounded really by reasons, the fear But what if I told you that you didn't need to fear any of those things What would it take to convince you that there is literally nothing in the world, spiritual or physical, that you need to truly fear I want you to think on that question. As you think on it, I want you to go ahead and turn with me in your Bible to Psalm 3. Where we're going to learn exactly why we don't need to fear anything. If you're using the Bible that we've provided, you'll find Psalm 3 on page 448. I'm going to read the passage for us, and then we'll look at it more closely. This is God's word. Psalm 3. Song of David when he fled from Absalom his son O Lord, how many are my foes? Many are rising against me. Many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me My glory and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord and he answered me from his holy hill. I lay down and slept. I woke again. For the Lord sustained me I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around Arise, O Lord. Save me, O my God, for you strike all my enemies on the cheek. You break the teeth of the wicked Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. I think the point that David is making, and what I hope to convince you of this morning, is that there is absolutely nothing you need to fear because God will protect sustain and ultimately save all of his people. I want you to see this in the text for yourself Don't want you to first look with me at what we'll call David's terrifying circumstances. You'll see his terrifying circumstances in the superscription to the Psalm all the way through verse 2. Go ahead and look down at this superscription with me. We see in the superscription that this psalm was written when David was on the run from his son Absalom. Then we learn in verses 1 and 2 that David has many enemies. He repeats many. Three different times, right? Emphasizing how many people have aligned themselves with Absalom in opposition to himself. Now, the background to this psalm comes from 2 Samuel chapters 15 to 18. And what you find there is that upset because of how his father treated him after he murdered one of his own brothers, Absalom. put together a conspiracy to take the throne from his father David. What he did was he he gathered chariots. And he gathered a group of fifty men kind of around him who agreed with Absalom in his uh anger at his father David, and they ran before him with chariots to give him an air of authority And then what he did was he positioned himself at the city gate of Jerusalem. And whenever anybody came to the city gate with a dispute, because that's where the place where disputes were settled in ancient Near Eastern Israel Absalom would tell the person with the dispute, I totally understand your dispute. And you know what? You're in the right. But my father David hasn't designated anyone to decide your case. If only I were the king, if only I were the judge. I would decide the case for you, and I would give you the justice that you deserve. You know, it's actually not that hard for us to imagine a scenario like this, right? I don't know if you've ever had a political candidate knock on your door. And they're they're going around, they're uh just going around getting to know people in the neighborhood, wanting to know the people to know their face and their name. And what do they do when they knock on the door, right? They tell you all the things that are wrong where you live. And how they? They will make it right. Right? That's what Absalom was doing, and his plan worked. We learn in 2 Samuel that Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. They all believed him. So many people believed him that the author of 2 Samuel wrote, the conspiracy grew strong, and the people with Absalom kept increasing. Now look at verses 1 and 2 again. Oh Lord, how many are my foes? Many are rising against me. So many people aligned with Absalom that David had to flee the throne in Jerusalem. His throne. These are terrifying circumstances. All of Israel has turned on their king. He has to flee for his life so that he isn't killed by Absalom or Absalom's loyal followers. I don't know what the neighborhood is like where you live, but I'm guessing that in your community, you're likely surrounded by hundreds, if not thousands, of people I want you to imagine you're at work. And on your way home from work, you get a text from a family member or a friend who says to you, you cannot come home. Everyone in the community is looking for you and they want to kill you. Take care of what happened, what would happen in your heart. What do you mean? Where am I to go? Why are they after me? What am I gonna do? There's thousands of people who want to kill me and see me dead. How on earth am I gonna overcome this? You just think about the fear that that would strike in your heart. That's a small picture of David's terrifying circumstances because he had a nation turned against him. And he was their king. But it's not just that people want to kill him. They're also mocking, taunting him. Look at verse 2 again Many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. Basically, they're mocking him with his own hopeless circumstances. There's no way God can rescue you from this, buddy. There's even a sense in which they're mocking him because of his circumstances, as in, if God loved you. He wouldn't let you experience this. Therefore, God must not love you and surely isn't going to save you. David's on the run for his life All of Israel has risen up against him, wanting to kill him, and he's being mocked and taunted as though he's been cursed by God. These are terrifying Fear-inducing circumstances. Which makes David's confidence all the more surprising. I want you to look with me at David's surprising confidence in verses 3 through 6. Even though his son successfully carried out a coup, even though he's on the run for his life, Even though he's being mocked and taunted as though he'd been cursed by God, how does David respond? Well, he responds by remembering that God protects his people. Verse three. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me Inevitably, whenever I'm prepping for a sermon, so I try to read the passage a bunch of times. And as I read it, different things stick out at different times. I notice different things at different times. One thing that stuck out about this psalm from the first time I read it until the last, and in fact it just grew in terms of like how big and awesome it was, is that line right there. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me. Notice the contrast again between verses 1 and 2 and verse 3. Many are my foes. Many are rising against me. Many are mocking and taunting me. But you, O Lord. David may have many enemies, but he also knows that he has the one true and living God on his side. I used a quote by William Gernall, a well-known Puritan about a month ago in a sermon. I'm going to use it again because it's so fitting. Gernall said in in terms of spiritual warfare and the battle that we are all in. One Almighty is more than many mighties. One Almighty is more than many Mighties, if you're a Christian, you just need to drill that quote into your heart, into your mind, into your soul. One Almighty is more than many mighties. Many are rising up against me, many are my foes, many are saying, but you Oh, Lord, are my shield and my protector. Many out there are opposing me, but you, the one God, are on my side. Therefore, I am ultimately. Okay, but you, O Lord. David remembers that God protects those who put their faith in him. He is a shield for them. And if you're looking at verse 3, if you continue through those descriptions, he also remembers that God is his glory. For God to be his glory means that David doesn't find his glory in his office as king. His glory isn't tied to his skills and giftings. It isn't tied to his victories and battle or even his present circumstances. His glory is God Himself, and since he's been united to God by faith, he always possesses a glory that's beyond the reach of even thousands of enemies. And God is also the lifter of his head. Not a phrase that we hear often in our culture, to lift up the head of someone was to exalt them to a place of honor. With David saying that even though he's on the run from his enemies, he knows that God would eventually vindicate him and exalt him to a place of honor. And remembering these things, David cries out in prayer in verse 4. You can look there. He cries out in prayer for God to protect him and deliver him from these circumstances. And David says there in verse 4, he says that God answered him from his holy hill. But what was his answer? The psalm doesn't tell us the answer. What is the answer? Is it yes? Is it no? Is it maybe? While it doesn't explicitly state what his answer was in the Psalms, when God responds to prayer from his people by answering, and that's all it says, the implied answer is yes. I have and I will answer and deliver you. He will save David. He will protect. He will deliver. He will exalt. And he answers from his holy hill. This refers to Mount Zion. God's dwelling place in Jerusalem. So recognize what's going on here David has fled Jerusalem. David has fled his throne in Jerusalem Absalom, who's run a successful coup against him, comes into Jerusalem, and we should assume takes over the throne. But it's not Absalom's decrees. or decisions or dictates that have authority in Jerusalem, but God's decrees, God's decisions, and God's dictates that have authority. Absalom. may have taken over Jerusalem, but God still rules Jerusalem and He has answered from His Holy Hill, and the answer is yes. Protected, saved, delivered, exalted. Now watch it unfold. David is able to respond to terrifying circumstances with confidence because of everything he knows to be true about God. He knows God will protect. He knows God will exalt. He knows God will deliver. And we also see that he knows God will sustain him. Look at verse 5. What a great verse. There are so many in the Bible, we can all agree to that. This is just one of the many, hundreds of great verses in the Bible. What a simple and beautiful verse. I lay down and slept. Woke again. The Lord sustained me. And this realization that it's the Lord who sustains is really the final piece that causes his fear to fall away. Look at how he responds. I lay down and slept, I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around See what he's doing here? He's reframing his terrifying circumstances in the light of what he knows about who God is and what God does for him. And he remembers that even the most mundane of daily experiences, like sleeping and waking, happen Because God caused them to happen. I woke up today. Why did I wake up today? Because the Lord sustained me If I didn't wake up today, what would have been the cause of me not waking up today? It would have been because God decided to not sustain me. If God desires to sustain me, I will be sustained. Therefore, I do not need to be afraid of even thousands of people surrounding me who want to take my life. If God wants me to wake, I will wake. If God does not want me to wake, I will not want, uh, will not awake. If God wants me to be delivered, I will be delivered So I can trust in him. I can lay down and sleep and wake again and know that the Lord sustained me and look around at my life and realize there are fearful things happening in my life, but I ultimately don't need to fear them. Because of who God is, and because of what God has promised to his people. This surprising confidence In the face of terrifying circumstances, is rooted in the fact that he knows his Almighty God protects and sustains him. But he also knows that ultimately God will save him. Look at his ultimate hope in verses 7 and 8. In verse 7, David calls on God, Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God. David is simply calling on God to do what he promised to do. Earlier in David's life, God told him that he was the one who went before David and defeated his enemies for him. That's clearly what David wants God to do again. Arise and go before me and defeat my enemies. Now look at the second half of verse 7. You see that he has his enemies in mind there. It's God who strikes his enemies on the cheek. And breaks or smashes the teeth of the wicked. Both of these are descriptions of judgment. It's God who judges his enemies. And that picture of teeth there being smashed, elsewhere in the Old Testament, you see God's enemies being described like lions who lay their fangs into God's people. And then the people who have their the fangs being laid into them cry out for God to break the teeth of the wicked. I think that's the picture in view here. The wicked are uh being pictured like lions who God defangs by breaking their teeth. And David knows that it's not him who defeats his enemies, but God, which he puts plainly in verse 8. Look there with me. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. This is really the high point, the climax of David's confidence. And the source of his ultimate hope. Salvation belongs to God. God delivers and saves whoever he wants, and nobody can stop him. All of Absalom's allies might be saying that there is no salvation for David in God, but David knows that no man Has the power to determine who God can and can't save or who God will and won't save because salvation belongs to the Lord. And if the Lord intends to save David, David will be saved. And David's declaration that salvation belongs to God was proved true. We need to think about this in the historical progression of the Old Testament. The Bible doesn't end at Psalm 3 with David fleeing from Absalom. You go back to the book of 2, Samuel, and God answered David's prayers. Absalom and his forces eventually went to war with David, and the men with him went to war with David, and God delivered David by striking down Absalom. God did protect David. God did lift his head and exalt him. God did answer him. He returned to Jerusalem and sat again on the throne. David didn't fear his terrifying circumstances because he knew that ultimately salvation belongs to the Lord. But we also have to see how this psalm points beyond David to another and greater king of Israel But throughout the New Testament, the apostles understood and taught that the Psalms. All of them were fulfilled ultimately not in David's life or in any other person's life, but in Jesus' life According to the New Testament, Jesus is the true anointed King of Israel and the one to whom all of the Psalms ultimately point in some form or fashion. And we can see how clearly Psalm 3 points to and is fulfilled in Jesus' life. Right, like David, Jesus had many enemies. During his three-year ministry, the number of his enemies increased. along with their hatred for him, and their hatred for him drove them to conspire against him to have him arrested and crucified. And at his public hearing, right, remember when he was standing beside Barabbas, at his public trial, those enemies. Stole the hearts of the men of Israel by stirring up and persuading the crowd to cry out for his crucifixion Think about Jesus. How many are my foes? How many are rising against me After being nailed to the cross, the Gospels tell us of the shameful mocking and taunting he experienced while he was hanging on the cross from his enemies All who passed by derided him, wagging their heads, saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself and come down from the cross. So also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Many are saying of me, there is no salvation for him in God. And yet, Jesus went to the cross because he knew That God was his shield, his glory, and the one who ultimately, in the end, would lift his head and exalt him to a place of honor He knew that even through death, God would sustain him, protect him. And so he didn't fear the worst that his enemies could throw at him. The worst they could do was kill him. But he knew that he would rise again because he knew that salvation belongs to the Lord. And rise again he did. Three days after he was buried, he rose from the dead. God protected him sustained him, saved him, and lifted his head to a place of honor at God's right hand where he sits now as the rightful king of all creation. But we don't just see Jesus in Psalm 3, do we? And we also see ourselves. Where do we see ourselves in Psalm 3? You're a Christian. I assume your first instinct is to see yourself in David. Well, that's not entirely wrong. I would say the first place that we see ourselves is actually Absalom. I want you to think about this. Who is Absalom? He's the son of the anointed king. The anointed king of all God's people. He's the anointed king's son who wanted power for himself And so sought to overthrow his father. Absalom is a picture of all mankind's relationship to God. God, the great King and creator of all, made mankind in his image to rule over creation as his sons. But rather than honoring God and living for his glory, Adam and Eve chose to rebel. They wanted God's power for themselves The power to live for themselves, the power to write their own rules, to write their own stories, the power to do what they wanted to do, the power to express themselves however their desires led them to. And all of us have done the same. Every single person in this room has rejected God's rightful rule as the rightful king of all creation. We've all risen up against God like David's enemies in verse 1. We've all tried to knock God off his throne and to take his power for ourselves. as if that were even possible. We are all like Absalom and the enemies who joined him in his rebellion. But rather than striking us on the cheek And shattering all of our teeth. What did Jesus Christ do for his enemies while we were still sinners? Enemies of God. Christ died for us. He died the death of a rebel and of an enemy of God so that enemies and rebels would become sons. and children of God and becoming God's children would now experience the blessings that God bestows on his people And what are those blessings that are there for us that God bestows on his people? They're the same ones that David experienced in Psalm 3. God protects and sustains us and will ultimately save us. But think about this: God protects and sustains us Through faith in Jesus Christ, God has become a shield to all of his people. What does Peter say in 1 Peter 1? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded, shielded, protected through faith For a salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. Through faith in Jesus Christ, God is your shield. God protects and sustains his people. But we need to be careful here, right? Because it's really easy to misunderstand this. Some people think that if they believe in God, that nothing bad should ever happen to them. And if bad things happen to them, then it's a sign that their faith, that either their faith isn't strong enough, or God isn't actually protecting them. But nowhere in Scripture, Old Testament or New, does God promise that He will keep everything bad from happening to us Right, kids, Jesus didn't say in this world you will have perfect peace and comfort, did he? What did Jesus say, kids? In this world you will have, shout it out. In this world you will have Suffering in this world, you will have trouble. You will have trouble. I just want to point this out to you all kids. I know it's this may be just kind of a little bit up here for where you're at in life. But Jesus doesn't promise that we won't ever experience pain or hurt, suffering, or trouble. He promises something better than that He promises to be with us through the midst of it, to sustain us through it, and to ultimately deliver us from it in the end. Right? In this world, you will have trouble. Right? You will have trouble. Christians and non-Christians alike, bad things will happen. The promise for the Christian is not protection from bad things happening, though I do want to say that's sometimes the case. But we often don't know it. Why? Because the bad thing never happened. And we just it never happened, so I have no idea what God protected me from, right? The promise for the Christian is that God will protect and sustain them spiritually in the midst of those bad things happening. I mean, think about this. Think about the fact that God is described as a shield. Right? God can't be a shield, doesn't need to be a shield to his people. Unless there's a battle going on. Battle is required for God's shield to appear, right? Nobody carries a shield around unless there's something. threatening their safety. God never said you won't experience battle. He said, I will be your shield in the battle. Right? You think about David, right? God did not stop Absalom from doing what he actually did. David actually went on the run. David actually had to flee Jerusalem. There were actually enemies surrounding him, saying, There is no salvation for you. But God was a shield in the midst of it. And he is a shield in the midst of your sufferings and your trials and your fears. He protects his people But you might say, God, it doesn't feel like you're my shield. I'm still taking shots here, right? I'm still experiencing affliction. I'm still experiencing war. Mortars are still exploding around me, but God said the reason it doesn't feel like I'm your shield is because you're not recognizing what I'm protecting you from. I'm protecting you from, I'm not protecting you from the trials, the afflictions, and the persecutions, I'm protecting you from the doubt. The despair, the falling away from the lies of the evil one, from the threat of being snatched out of my hand. I am your shield against your greatest enemies, and because of that. You don't really need to fear even the most terrifying of circumstances. Whether it's being surrounded by thousands of enemies, Or facing a terrible diagnosis, or experiencing unemployment, or enduring a difficult relationship, or not being part of the in-crowd at school. We don't need to be controlled by fear. Because God has promised to protect and sustain his people. Just think about any circumstance that might cause you to fear. There's going to be so many for all of us, right? Are any of those circumstances bigger than God? None. There's nothing you can find, not even death. Can stop God because salvation belongs to the Lord. Right? He will bless, protect, sustain, and deliver his people. So I just want to ask you What causes you to fear? What causes you anxiety What are the circumstances for you, because we're all different, that get those worry wheels just churning? That's a feeling in your stomach just starts churning, starts spreading through your whole body, just feel gripped, right? What are those for you? Right? Well, whatever those circumstances are, I want you to just walk with me. Now run that scenario out of those circumstances What am I fearing? Okay, why am I fearing it? You name all the reasons. Those are legitimate reasons to kind of like, oh, this would be really hard if I experienced this. Right? If the thing I'm fearing happens. Then what? Will I be beyond God's ability to help? Ever. Ever There's no circumstance that you can experience as a Christian that places you beyond the ability of God to intervene and help whenever he wants to. Right? We have to bring the circumstances that cause us to fear back to the Lord, remembering that He protects and sustains us, and remembering how much bigger than our circumstances God is. In his book, Running Scared, which are given away, Ed Welch said, the odd thing is that fear and anxiety are running away from something But they don't know where to run to. They know that there's danger, but they don't know where to find peace and rest. As Christians, though, right, when we experience fear and anxiety and worry and things like that because of our circumstances, we do know where to find rest. We find rest in the Lord Jesus Christ, who is our protector and our sustainer. When we experience fear, worry, and anxiety, we can and should run to Him. Right. We should bring our circumstances to him in prayer. Oh, over and over again. I wonder if you if you noticed how much David prays in Psalm 3. Not only is the entire psalm a prayer, but then he cries out to God in verse 4. Then he prays again in verse 7. The battle against fear is in part won in and through prayer. Are you talking to the Lord about your circumstances? Are you asking him for help in the midst of those circumstances? You might be like, John. Why do I need to describe my circumstances to the Lord? He knows all things. I know, but then he also inspired David to write a psalm in which David describes his circumstances. Talk to the Lord about what you're going through. Ask him to remind you of who he is and all that he does on behalf of his people. Ask him to remind you of all his promises to you, which are yes and amen in the Lord Jesus Christ, even his promises to protect, sustain, and save you. Come to the Lord in prayer. But there's also another danger that we need to be aware of here, and it's the danger of being callous Towards those who struggle acutely with fear, right? I saw a description of Christians recently in a book I'm reading as having a metallic spirit. I think that'd be a good description here when it comes to like dealing with interacting with other Christians who are struggling with fear and anxiety. Oftentimes we can be metallic towards them. But you're struggling with fear. Bible says don't fear. God's bigger than your circumstances. Why are you fearing? Stop fearing. Right. Well I'm sure you can imagine what it would be like to deal with somebody, you know, uh acting that way towards you. It would not be easy. Because the reality is we all struggle with fear to different degrees and over different things. Right? We want to develop a gentle and kind spirit, right? We don't want to be those metallic types of Christians. And even David's proclamation here isn't that when he says, I will not be afraid of many thousands of people, this isn't a proclamation that he will never feel fear. We know from David's other Psalms that he does feel fear and he does struggle from time to time. It's a declaration of faith. I will not be afraid. I'm feeling fear. I will not be afraid. Why? Because I know God protects and sustains. It's a statement of faith. He's reminding himself that he doesn't need to fear. All of us will fear feet feel fear to one degree or another. And though we may not struggle with fearing things that other people fear, there are things that would cause all of us to worry at times. So we want to be sensitive towards those who are struggling with fear and worry. And gently come alongside them. Remind them of who God is. Remind them of the ways that you might struggle with fear and about how you can walk together, reminding one another of how God will protect, sustain, and ultimately sus uh save his people. And we also need to recognize that the battle against being controlled by fear is more like the process of erosion than it is like flipping a light switch, right? We don't just wake up one day and poof, we flip the switch and fear's gone, right? Instead, we need to constantly remind ourselves of who God is and how much bigger than our circumstances that He is. And over time, the power of fear's grip in our life will slowly erode. If you are in Christ, God will protect you. He will. God will sustain you. through even the worst of trials. And so you don't need to fear. But ultimately, more than that, God will save you I want you to see how this psalm really revolves around these two competing claims about salvation. This is where we're bringing it to a close. Right? David's enemies say that there is no salvation for him in God. While David claims at the end, salvation belongs to the Lord. Which of those statements is true? We know that in time, David was shown to be in the right. God delivered him because salvation belongs to the Lord, in spite of what people may have been saying about him. In the same way, those who mocked Jesus while he was hanging on the cross were shown to be wrong after he rose from the dead because Salvation belongs to the Lord. The claim that there was no salvation for David and God was at its root a lie. Did God really say he would save you? Look at what's happened in your life. See what's going on around it. It doesn't seem like God is going to save you. I mean, just look at all your enemies. Look at how many people oppose you. There's no salvation for you in God. These lies take different forms today, but at their root, they're the same. Did Jesus really rise from the dead? Do you really believe those stories are actual history? Do you believe Jesus really walked on water? Do you think there is really a God listening to your prayers? Or you've been waiting on a job for months? Your family members are suffering illness. Your life is falling apart. There is no God who loves you. God will not save you. You should curse God and die. Whether it's other people saying it to you, your own conscience, or Satan who just flings lies at believers, these lies come at us day after day. There's no salvation for you. Right? But we need to respond to these lies with the right answer. And what is the answer to these lies? The answer is and always will be. Salvation belongs to the Lord Till our dying breath, we declare: salvation belongs to the Lord. Chronic illness, salvation belongs to the Lord Suffering from cancer or some other disease, salvation belongs to the Lord. Experiencing mocking or shunning from family members, co-workers, and friends. Salvation belongs to the Lord. It always has, and it always will, because the Lord reigns and not man. Let God be proved true and every man a liar. The Lord is enthroned in Zion. He laughs at all who oppose him, and he gives salvation to all who trust in him. Your experiences as a Christian are not indicative of God's love for you or his commitment to save you. The cross is. Jesus promised suffering. Jesus promised opposition. Jesus promises that fearful things will happen. But he also said we don't need to fear because Salvation belongs to the Lord. In this world, you will have trouble. But take heart. I have overcome The world. When Paul's in the midst of facing terrible persecution, how does he respond to that persecution, that opposition, that suffering in Romans 8? What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? Like there is no salvation for you and God. It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, who was raised? Who is at the right hand of God? Who indeed is interceding for us? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword No! No None of these things can separate us from God because salvation belongs to the Lord. And because God protects us, sustains us, and will ultimately save us, there is absolutely nothing that we need to fear. Kids, there's a story about how young Indians were trained to become warriors that might be helpful in illustrating why ultimately there's nothing you need to fear if you follow Jesus. I'm not certain that this is actual history, but it illustrates the point well. Apparently on the night of a boy's 13th birthday, after being taught how to hunt, and fish and scout in his early childhood years, he was put to one final test that would kind of serve as his entryway into uh manhood, adulthood. He was blindfolded and brought out into the woods a long distance from his home, and he had to spend the entire night in the woods alone. That's pretty scary, right? He would have to fend for himself. He's able to take the blindfold off after a period of time had elapsed, but just think about it. After he takes the blindfold off, he starts looking around. He just sees a scary place. That's getting scarier by the minute as the sun is going down. Getting darker and darker and darker until he can't see anything. Then he hears sounds. What was that? Is that a mountain lion? A bear? What's over there? Is that a wolf? But after the night had passed, the sun would come up slowly and he'd start to look around. He'd see, there are the trees, there are the bushes. But then he would look around, he would wait, say, wait. There's a person. There, not too far away, keeping watch on his son. So, kids, if the boy's father was there all through the night watching, even if he didn't know, did he need to fear? No. Because his father was there. Keeping him through the night. How much more do we not need to fear? Because our father's with us. We don't need to fear even many thousands of enemies. We don't need to fear disease. We don't need to fear Satan or even death itself. There's nothing at all we need to fear because God will protect us, God will sustain us, and God will ultimately save us because Salvation belongs to the Lord, and he will bestow his blessings on his people. Let's pray Heavenly Father, you tell your people not to fear. And we know that we shouldn't fear and don't need to fear, and yet we do still struggle with it. We pray that you would forgive us. We pray, Lord, that you would strengthen us. We know we have a sympathetic high priest. Lord Jesus, strengthen us. Remind us and help us to believe that you will protect us You will sustain us and you will ultimately save us because we know that salvation belongs to you. We pray this in your mighty name. Amen.