So want to encourage you to go ahead and open up with me to Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 to 14. Colossians was written by the Apostle Paul to the church in Colossae in modern-day Turkey. And he was writing to them to encourage them to continue in the faith. To continue trusting in Jesus' finished work on the cross and in the resurrection because other religious teachers had come along and were telling them that if they wanted to please God, they needed to do more than trust in Jesus' finished work on the cross and in the resurrection. They were being told that if they wanted to please God, truly please God, they needed to obey the Jewish law and observe certain holidays and feasts. And it seems other religious teachers were coming along and telling them that if they wanted to please God, they needed to sell all their goods and worship angels and have visions and have these uh extravagant spiritual experiences. And so Paul writes to dispel the claims of these religious teachers And to describe for them clearly the type of life that pleases God. I want you to follow along as I read the passage for us. This is God's word. And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him Bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Well, over the last five sermons in Colossians, we've looked at one specific aspect of the type of life that pleases God each week. And the last time we gathered, we saw that it looks like a life of patience with joy. And this week we see that the type of life that pleases God Is a life of giving thanks to God. Where do we see that? I want you to look down again with me at the passage beginning in verse 11. Paul says, Being strengthened with all power, according to God's glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints and life. The type of life that pleases God is a life of steadfast, expressed gratitude to God. A life that is marked by seeing all around us evidences of God's grace and thanking him for them. A life that, even when marked by suffering and difficulty, Seize God's kind provisions even in the suffering itself and give thank give thanks to God for them. The type of life that pleases God is a life of giving thanks to God. For all that he has done for us in and through his son, Jesus. But giving thanks doesn't come naturally to us, does it? Mankind is not by nature a thankful creature, and nothing makes our natural lack of thankfulness more obvious. than the fact that all of us had to be taught to say thank you. Right? Everyone who has ever worked with young children knows this all too well. Not only do they not know how to say thank you, they don't even know that they should say thank you. So whether you save them from falling down the steps, Or you keep them from bumping their head again on the sharp corner of the table, or you give them a warm meal or provide them a place to sleep at night if they aren't taught to say thank you They won't say thank you because we are by nature thankless creatures And the root cause of our thanklessness was the entrance of sin into the world. When Adam and Eve sinned against God, they in effect climbed up on his throne, shoved him off of it That's what they thought they were doing, shoved him off of it, and then put themselves on top of it. They became their own rulers and they put themselves at the center of the universe instead of God. And their sinful and self-centered nature spread to all mankind so that all of us come into the world believing that the rest of the world revolves around us. You are all here to serve me. You are all blessed to be in my orbit, right? And when you believe that the world revolves around you, Then that means that everyone else in the world is there to serve you. In that sense, we are all like cats. I don't know if you guys have ever seen the meme of a dip the difference between dogs and cats, but it goes like this Dogs think my owner pets me, loves me, and feeds me. He must be God. Cats think my owner pets me, loves me, and feeds me. I must be God. Right? That is basically you and me in our fallen state. We are like cats. No offense to cat lovers out there. We think the world revolves around us. And whatever good other people do for us is proof that we are at the center of the universe. And so whatever other people do for us is not cause for giving thanks. It's what they owe us. We are God, after all. And because in our natural fallen state, we think the world and everyone else in it revolves around us. The thanks that we are taught to say when we're younger, the thanks that we're taught to give, is most often just performance It's outward etiquette. It's the adoption of social norms for the preservation and furtherance of the self And that is not the type of thanks that Paul is describing here. That is not the type of thanks that pleases God. God doesn't desire a perfunctory, forced performance. No, God desires genuine expressions of thanks. in response to his overwhelming grace and abundant mercy. But now we're in a bit of a conundrum, aren't we? Because if we are by nature thankless creatures, but God is pleased when his people give genuine thanks in response to his grace and mercy. then we can never please God because we can never by nature give genuine thanks to Him as God. And if that's what you're thinking, then you are exactly right. That's why Paul says in Romans 8, for the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh in their sinful human nature, those who are in the flesh cannot please God. As long as we remain in our sinful nature, we can never give genuine thanks to God, nor can we please God. What you and I need is a new nature. And that is what God has provided for his people in the gospel. The good news of the gospel is not only that Jesus paid the entire debt for your sins. And given to you his perfect righteousness, it is also that now God has given to each and every believer a new heart. A new nature that is freed from the power of sin, that is inclined to love and obey God, and that rightly recognizes that God is at the center of the universe And not us. And that is now, in response to God's grace and mercy, able to give genuine thanks to God for all that He has done for us in and through His Son Jesus. You see, when we talk about the type of life that pleases God, when Paul says giving thanks to God or giving thanks to the Father because he has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light, he is not telling you to tally up the thanks that you give in order to earn God's favor. He isn't telling us that we need to earn God's favor and pleasure by being thankful. God has already displayed that He is pleased with us once and for all. Fully and completely by giving his son Jesus to deliver us from the kingdom of darkness. And now he is at work to make us more like Jesus, to conform us into Jesus' image and giving genuine thanks. to God is evidence of our becoming more like Christ. And that pleases God. But though God has given his children a new nature, if we're honest, giving thanks is still a struggle I mean, I can't count how many days in my Christian life in this past decade that I've not said thanks to God once. These probably far more days than I have said thanks to Him. To my shame. It's a struggle because when God saves us, He doesn't perfect us right away. He doesn't perfect us in this life ever. No, slowly over time God grows us and grows us, which means that in the midst of that slow growth, You and I, even if we've been saved by God and genuinely love God, we will still struggle with thanklessness. We will still struggle with self-centeredness. We will still struggle with a complaining spirit With bitterness, frustration, self-righteousness, greed, envy, and every other gratitude-choking sin that you can think of. And so if you're going to grow in giving thanks, you and I are gonna have to make a concerted effort at it Yes, God has saved you. Yes, God has redeemed you. Yes, God is fully pleased with you in Christ if you have repented and put your trust in him and yes you are commanded every day to take action To put off the old and to put on the new. You and I daily Maybe even Howerly need to put on thankfulness. It won't just happen If I want to learn how to paint but never take classes, will I learn? If I want to learn how to play the piano but never take lessons, will I learn? If I want to get stronger but never lift weights, will I get stronger The obvious answer is no. If you want to give thanks more often, but you never put on thankfulness, will it happen? No. Putting on thankfulness means practicing, giving thanks. If you and I are going to grow in giving thanks, we are going to have to practice I wonder how are you doing practicing giving thanks to God? There are so many different ways that you can do this. Well one small way we do in our family, very tiny, very obvious way, is just at dinner time. We go around the table and share one way, one thing that we're thankful for from the day. What are the ways that you are practicing and building in rhythms of giving thanks to God in your life? My encouragement to you is to figure out a regular rhythm and start small Don't leave here today thinking I'm gonna spend the next hour, I'm gonna spend the first hour every day just giving thanks to God. Right? If you're like me, you set goals that you can't keep and you're just gonna fall flat on your face. It's discouraging. Just start with one. God, thank you for today. Start small. Grow from there. If we needed to practice saying thank you after we were born, Why should we be be surprised that we need to practice saying thank you after we're born again? You know, if this seems dry to you, like like practicing giving thanks? That seems so blah. Let your emotions lead you into thankfulness. That's much more free and beautiful, right? Well, that's well and good until you've lived for like more than five minutes. Because the reality is living in a fallen world while still battling your old nature means that your heart and mind will quickly, skillfully target lock onto frustration. Craving, jealousy, materialism. Why? Because we practiced them for so long. If you're going to cultivate Christ's likeness in this area of your life of giving thanks It will take discipline and practice. But the glory of practicing thanks rather than letting your emotions lead you into giving thanks is that when you practice it Your emotions will inevitably follow. That's why Johnny Erickson Tada, a quadriplegic nonetheless, said this. As a matter of fact, God isn't asking you to feel thankful. He's asking you to give thanks. There's a big difference. One response involves emotions, the other your choices, your decisions about a situation, your intent, your step of faith Do you want to become less frustrated? Complain less? Be less jealous of others, envy and covet less? Then give thanks more. The more you give thanks, the more you will see that you have to give thanks for But this isn't just a command, do this, right? God supplies what we need to carry out the command in the gospel Right, he tells us what we need to do. This is why Augustine prayed, Lord, Lord, uh, decree what you will, command what you will, and then give what you command. The Lord commands us to give thanks and then gives us the animating spirit and the new nature behind it to cause us to give thanks. And that's why we not only practice giving thanks, but we ponder all that we have to give thanks for. You and I need to fuse our practice of giving thanks with pondering all that God has done so that we understand more and more all that we have to give thanks for. And our verse this morning. succinctly captures some of the most staggering realities of the gospel that are yours and mine now By faith in Jesus Christ. And these realities not only provide the engine, but the fuel for that engine of giving thanks. What are these realities that we see in the passage? Why don't you just look back down again with me? Paul says giving thanks to the Father. Why, Paul? Because he Has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. You and I should give thanks regularly Because God has qualified us. Right? God has qualified us, not is qualifying us and may fail in the task. Not might qualify you if you do certain things, no, has qualified you fully and completely in Jesus Christ. It is yours now. All of these promises Through faith in him. God has taken it upon himself to do all that was necessary to make us fit to share in that heavenly inheritance. I've mentioned before my struggles as a student in the past. I didn't try hard. I did not apply myself. I did not study. And so when it came time to take tests, I always approached them with a sense of fear and dread because I was in no way qualified to pass them. Friends, you and I were headed for a test that none of us was qualified to pass. The test of perfect purity and holiness that God demands for entrance into His kingdom. We were approaching that test, whether we knew it, with fear and dread, because all of us. We're going to fail that test. But God has qualified us. He has done everything necessary to ensure that we enter into his kingdom And he has qualified us to share an inheritance, the glory of which is beyond our capacity to grasp. He didn't just qualify you for some like fun trip that like as soon as it's over, you're not going to enjoy anymore. He qualified us to share eternally in the inheritance of the saints in light, which is the inheritance Of dwelling in the glorious presence of God's light forever, where your perishable body will be raised imperishable. Where you will no longer need to fear danger, disease, or death, where you will experience eternal, everlasting, and ever-increasing rest and joy. for your soul, where you will celebrate the wedding supper of the Lamb with the Lord Almighty, where you will know pure joy in the presence of the Savior for all eternity. Where you will experience Perfectly restored relationships with all of God's saints as one people in perfect unity forever Where you will live on a perfectly restored planet that is no longer at war with its inhabitants and enjoy the fullness of God's creative bounty. Where you will finally and fully see God and be made like Him, the Lamb who was slain The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Alpha and the Omega, the just judge of all the earth, the victorious king, the true priest priest, the great prophet, the good shepherd, the Lord Jesus will walk with us forever. That is the inheritance that is yours that God has already qualified you for through faith in Jesus Christ. Give thanks to God. His steadfast love endures forever. This is why Paul later in Colossians is going to tell the Colossians, set your minds in heaven. Not that you need to be like pie, like pie in the sky by and by, like detached from this world, but remember what God has qualified you for. Remember what God has done for you. Give thanks to God. He is so good for his people and to his people, but that's not all he did. He didn't just qualify us. Look what else he did in the passage. Paul says he also delivered us from the domain of darkness. You and I once lived in spiritual darkness and ignorance. We had not the capacity to know or love God But God reached down into the darkness, snatched us out of the pit, and look at what else he did. He transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. Notice that God didn't leave us in some uninhabited middle earth where we needed to find our way back to Him. Right? He transferred us immediately. Kingdom of darkness, kingdom of light. You were in darkness, now you are in light, fully and completely, into the kingdom of his beloved Son, where we now live under Christ's perfect rule. One of my favorite movies growing up was Lean on Me. Morgan Freeman played the role of Joe Clark. It's a true story about Joe Clark, the fierce inner city principal who brought order to a disordered high school. As he brought order to the chaos, the kids started flourishing in ways that they didn't think possible. And then there's a scene later in the movie where one of these kids who just lived a disordered life, but under his His rule, Joe Clark's good rule, this kid started flourishing, and there's a scene where that one of those kids is going to be transferred out of the school and he is broken because leaving Joe Clark's rule will mean his demise. Right? Because nobody ever cared for him like Mr. Clark had. Oh friends, that is the type of rule that Jesus brings to his kingdom. Order out of disorder, flourishing out of failure. And the great news for you and me is that we are never, ever in danger of being transferred out of his kingdom. He's never going to send us to another school district. We will never lose our qualifications to be under his right rule because he purchased them for us. But it's not only that he transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved son, look at what else he's done. We also see that he's redeemed us We were slaves to sin in bondage, and a redemption price had to be paid to free us from slavery, and Jesus paid it all on the cross. Bearing the full weight of our sin and offering up a sacrifice of such immense value that it freed everyone who would repent and put their trust in Him. But it's not only redemption that he's done for us, he's also forgiven us. Forgiven. In him you are redeemed and forgiven No longer carrying around the shame and guilt of your sins. No longer fearing punishment for your sins. No longer needing to sacrifice for sins or find modern, ritualistic, spiritualistic, new agey ways of cleansing our souls and our consciences. When Christ offered himself up on the cross He offered a sacrifice that put away sins once and for all. So high as the heavens are above the earth, as far as the east is from the west, so far has God removed your transgressions from you. For given. Think about what God has done for us in His Son. Qualified Delivered, transferred, redeemed, forgiven. The gospel is the engine and fuel for giving Thanks. And we will only grow in giving thanks by pondering the glorious realities secured for us and promised to us in the gospel. And I hope you also see how the gospel is the engine and fuel for giving thanks in all circumstances. So Paul says to the Thessalonians, give thanks in all circumstances. We don't only have reason to give thanks when things are good. The gospel gives us reasons to give thanks even in the darkest storms of life. Now I want to be clear because it is so easy for us when we encounter people who are suffering, who are experiencing sorrow, and we're not, to just say. . What's wrong with them? . They're commanded to give thanks. They have so many reasons to give thanks. Why don't they give thanks? Nowhere in the New Testament Is there envisioned a pie in the sky, detached optimism that encourages ignoring pain and sorrow? No, the gospel offers true, grounded, real hope that penetrates the darkness with real glorious light, so that even in our sufferings We can give tear-drenched thanks. If you want to know someone who suffered and was able to give thanks like this, consider Helen Keller. who became blind and deaf. I mean, I just I cannot even imagine what that is like. To be locked in your own dungeon. She became blind and deaf at a very early age, yet wrote in her autobiography: For three things, I thank God every day of my life. Thanks that He gave to me knowledge of His works. Deep thanks that he has set in my darkness the lamp of faith. Deep, deepest thanks that I have another life to look forward to. a life joyous with light and flowers and heavenly song. Helen Keller claimed that so much had been given to her that she had no time to think about what had been denied of her. Now, friends, the more that we ponder all that has been done for us and given to us in the gospel, the more we will see all around us reasons for giving thanks. Many years ago, as the story is told, there was a devout, God-fearing king. And this devout, God-fearing king, he was disturbed by the ingratitude of the members of his royal court. And so what he did was he prepared a large banquet for those members of the royal court. And when the king and his royal guests were seated, he had actually arranged ahead of time for a beggar to stumble into the hall. And this beggar stumbles in in front of the seated royal court and all the members of it, where there's a feast set down at the table, the beggar stumbles in. Sits down at the king's table and gorges himself with food. Then without saying a word, he gets up and leaves And the members of the royal court were furious. How could this beggar, having just eaten at the table of the king and feasted on all his food, have gotten up and left without saying thanks? And the king replied to the members of his royal court, that beggar has only done once to me what each of you does three times a day. Never have any of you, after sitting at my table and eating till you were satisfied, given thanks to me. Then you walk away without recognizing who it is who gave you this gift or expressing one word of thanks to him. Friends, a story like this captures how wrong it is when people who have been given so much give thanks so little. Every single day. You and I feast at the table of the Lord's mercy. Every day Let's be sure to give thanks to God between the continuous helpings of His mercy and grace. Because we must recognize That apart from his mercy and grace, we could never have qualified ourselves, delivered ourselves. Transferred ourselves, redeemed ourselves, or truly forgiven ourselves I'll give thanks to God. His steadfast love endures forever. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we do give you thanks. We thank you that you have given us a heart to see your work in the world, to even open our eyes and our ears to hear that the heavens declare the glory of God Where once we did not acknowledge you as the creator of the universe, we now see all around us evidences of your grand design, your great wisdom, and your glorious power. We give you thanks for those. And even more, Father, we thank you for your special work of redemption, where you have made us new creations through your Son Jesus We thank you and bless you for all that you've done in Christ. We ask for a Spirit to thank you more often, more genuinely, more faithfully. Help us to see more and more evidences of your grace all around us And we pray, Father, that we would give thanks increasingly each and every day until we come into your presence to sing thanks to you forever. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.