Good afternoon, friends. It's great to have this opportunity with you to open up God's Word and to hear Him speak to us today through His Word. I'm going to go ahead and pray for us again briefly, and then we will dive in. Let's pray. Mother in heaven, we have already sung today. That unless you build the house, those who labor labor in vain. Lord, please don't let our labors today be in vain. Surely there are ways in which we are relying on the flesh, relying on our own strength. Show us those ways. Cause us to repent and turn from them and to trust wholly and completely in you. Help us to come to the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the fountain of living waters, and to drink freely from him today. Lord, we are thirsty. Quench our thirst with Christ. Feed us from your heavenly word and form your people into the image of your beloved. beloved son. And we pray this all in his name. Amen. In his recent article The Fractured Power, How to Overcome Tribalism. Ruben Brighetti sheds light on the trenchant tribalism affecting America today and offers ideas on how we might go about fixing it. Now, Brighetti deploys his past experience as an ambassador, helping other countries overcome destructive tribalism, in order to offer ways to help America address some of the tribalism it's experiencing today. He says this in his article. The contentious 2020 presidential campaign laid bare deep divisions in American society. Exhibiting precisely the kind of tribal politics when strict loyalty to a foundational identity such as race, religion, clan, or region is the organizing principle of political life within a country. The campaign looked less like a contest of ideas and more like a battle between tribes with voters racing to their partisan corners based on identity, not concerns about policy Pardoned ethnic and ideological identities affixed to political parties, political leaders exacerbating sectarian divisions. Public institutions that are distrusted by more and more citizens for their failure to deliver policy solutions, the capital storm by rioters for the first time in over 200 years. If American diplomats and aid specialists found this pattern in other countries, they would call for diplomatic intervention. And according to Brighetti, the problem of tribalism in America needs to be approached and addressed in the same way that American ambassadors in the past have helped other leaders address tribalism in their own countries. And that would be through using tools like the conflict assessment framework, which the U. S. uh uh international department. Uh US Agency for International Development uses to illuminate the underlying dynamics of countries in various stages of civil strife. And then coupled with that assessment framework is essentially a program of communicating with locals and mediating conflict between leaders of dis different ethnic or ideological Now, I don't want to downplay the importance, the importance of rightly assessing problems and communicating well about them with involved parties. But given how prevalent and destructive tribalism has been throughout human history, we have to ask the question, are these tools enough? Are these tools enough to end tribalism in America or elsewhere? Is there anything that can help humans truly overcome tribalism? That's the question that our passage today is concerned with answering. And the massively encouraging truth for us is that it holds out an answer, that there is an answer to tribalism. And what is that answer? I want you to go ahead and turn with me to Colossians chapter 3, verses 5 to 11. We're now in week three of a three-week series on these verses. Uh two weeks ago we looked at putting to death sexual sin in verses five and six. Last week we looked at putting off sinful speech in verses 7 to 10. And this week in verse 11, we'll see Paul address tribalism in the church. I want you to follow along as I read verses five to eleven of Colossians chapter three. This is God's word. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you. Sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these, the wrath of God is coming In these you two once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Here, there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free, but Christ is all. And in all. If you're interested in learning more about putting to death sexual immorality or putting off sinful speech, I'd encourage you to check out the sermons on verses 5 up to 10. You can find on our website or on Apple Podcasts. But today we're looking at verse 11 specifically. And the point of verse 11 is that we should put off tribalism. Because we've been united in Christ. Christians should put off tribalism because they've been united in Christ. Those will be our two points today. Point one, put off tribalism. Point two, because we've been united in Christ. So first, let's look at putting off tribalism. Even though Paul doesn't explicitly tell them to put off tribalism, it's really clear from the broader context of verses 5 to 11 that call that Paul is calling them to put off attitudes and ways of thinking, speaking, and acting that have no place whatsoever in the kingdom of God. These ways of speaking, thinking, and acting that are inconsistent with the new life that God has given us in Christ. So when Paul says in verse 11, here there is not Greek and Jew. Circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave-free, he's saying essentially, if you judge one another, using the same categories the world uses to judge, there will be division and disunity. You need to put off sinful partiality and favoritism. You need to put off tribalism. There are different forms of tribalism that he's concerned about in the church. We see ethnic and cultural tribalism. If you look again at verse 11, it's pretty obvious. He talks about Greek and Jew. Pretty straightforward. Greek people and Jewish people. Circumcised and uncircumcised and barbarians and Scythians. These all refer to ethnic and cultural groups, right? Greeks and Jews are obvious. Circumcised refers to Jews again, and uncircumcised refers to pretty much every other people group on the planet from a Jewish perspective. It was us versus them, us the circumcised versus all the surrounding nations, the uncircumcised. And two of those surrounding nations were barbarians and Scythians. And these ethnic and cultural groups fueled a tribalism that brought division and disunity. Broadly speaking, Greeks and Jews looked down on the rest of the world. Greeks looked down on the rest of the world because they viewed themselves as having a superior and more refined culture, right? From the Greeks, from us came the great philosophers and the great works of art And Jews look down on the rest of the world, seeing themselves as holy, and the rest of the world as unclean, broadly speaking. They were the circumcision. They were God's chosen ones. And indeed, if we're looking at the Bible, God had chosen Israel, but not because of anything innately good or holy in them, right? It was an act of grace. And both Greeks and Jews were guilty of ethnic and cultural tribalism. And we see this air of supremacy, of superiority, even in our passage. The barbarians were named barbarians by the Greeks. They got their names from the Greeks, not because they didn't shower. or bathe, or because they had a generally unkempt lifestyle, but because the language of the barbarians sounded to Greeks like babbling. So when the barbarians talked, all the Greeks heard was bar, bar, bar, bar. And so they called them barbarians. Their language sounds like babbling. All we hear is bar, bar, bar. You're the barbarians because of that. The Greeks looked down on them because their language and their customs weren't as culturally refined as the Greeks. And the Jews are no different in some ways. They disdained the Scythians as savages. Josephus, a famous Jewish historian, said about the Scythians, they delight in murdering people. and are little better than wild beasts. It's an attitude toward a particular people group, right? Definitely should not be shared in the church. Or among God's people, they were viewed as savages by both Greeks and Jews. But it's not just ethnic and cultural tribalism that Paul wants them to put off It's also social and class tribalism. I want you to look at verse 11 again. He says, here there is not Greek and Jew. circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, scythian, slave or free. Slavery pervaded the Roman Empire and the ancient world, and we're going to talk more about the institution of slavery in the Greco-Roman world when we get to the end of Colossians 3. But in this context, It's clear that Paul is addressing social and class tribalism. To be a slave or a free person was to exist in different places within the social order. And because of those different places within the social order, there would have been a whole host of differences between the two groups. Education level, income, status, and enjoyment of various societal privileges. And in a fallen world, those tribalisms, ethnic, cultural, social, and class, they become a petri dish of sorts for prejudice, hatred Partiality and suspicion, those things grow unchecked. And Paul calls the Colossians and all Christians to put off tribalism. Look at verse 11 again. He says, here. Where, Paul? Here. In the church. In the outpost of God's heavenly kingdom on earth, where God makes his glorious presence known among his forgiven, redeemed, and reconciled people, here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, or free. There are not those things in the church It's not hard to see how applicable this passage is to life today. Jonathan has already referenced how obvious these tribalisms are in our world today and in our country in America today. As with so many of the commands in the New Testament, the question isn't whether we struggle with tribalism, but how. Right? We need to work hard to put off racial and ethnic tribalism just like the Colossians did. Right? We need to recognize that in the church. We don't judge one another or show partiality to one another based on race or ethnicity or cultural affinity groups. Right, ever since the Tower of Babel, mankind has done that. They have judged one another on these things. But in the house of God, these attitudes and behaviors and ways of thinking have no place. Now, it's important though that we make that we don't make a common mistake that people make when they come to this verse and others like it in the New Testament. Especially when it comes to conversations around race and ethnicity. Sometimes well-meaning Christians will say things like this, and you may have said this yourself, so it's not an attack. I've said it myself. Uh sometimes well-meaning Christians will say things like, I don't see your skin color, I just see you as a human. Right? Now there's something good and right and true about the intent that's usually behind that statement. And we're gonna talk about that in a minute. But what it can unintentionally communicate is that a person's skin color or ethnicity doesn't matter at all. And therefore their experience within that particular ethnicity or skin color also doesn't matter either. But here, this is where we need to remember Christian anthropology 101, right? According to Scripture, mankind is both soul and body. We are both. Our body and the skin color of our body is a significant aspect of who we are. That is not to make the mistake of reducing humans to their skin color, but simply to acknowledge That is an important part of our experience in this world. And in God's created order, the multiplicity of hues of melanin across the people groups that cover the earth. Testify to God's creative power and wisdom. All humans are beautifully, wonderfully, and mysteriously made Every shade of skin color, every texture of hair, everything that is true, good, and beautiful that flows out of the different ethnicities and cultures on earth. Is a testimony to the wisdom, glory, and power of our Creator. That's why I want to point out again Trillian Newbell's book, God's Very Good Idea as a Great Resource for Parents. To teach their kids about God's creative glory displayed in mankind's beauty. But to all the kids, and especially thinking about the preteens and the teens, I want to get your attention on this point. You should never, never make fun of people because of how they look, whether it's their skin color. or the type of hair they have, or because they're from a particular ethnicity. To do that is to make fun of God Himself, who made all of mankind in his own image. But I also want to take it a step further for the kids and for all of the adults here. Right? You remember last week when we talked about slander, I said we don't just want to put off slander, we want to be the type of people who stand up for others when people are talking poorly about them in our presence. In the same way, kids and adults, we need to put off tribalism. By being the type of people who speak up for those who might be being insulted in our presence because of how they look or because of what culture they're from. Kids, I say this especially, this isn't a thing, this isn't a question about if you experience this. You will experience this in life. So you need to be the type of kids who, when you experience it, when you hear other kids making fun of others because of how they look or what culture they're from or what they sound like because of their language, you speak up for them. You say, hey, that's not right. God made all mankind in his image. Every skin color is beautiful and brings glory to God. Every culture has good things about it and sinful things about it. We're fallen creatures. Every culture has sinful aspects to it, but there are also beautiful things that flow out of all of the cultures on earth. And you'd be the type of people who stand up for others and praise God for his creative power. And here's where I'm going to tie it back into the statement, I don't see your skin color. In a fallen world that doesn't recognize God's wisdom and creative power in the beauty of all mankind, humans have done terrible things to one another based on skin color and based on ethnicity and things like that. And to say, I don't see your skin color. Can unintentionally communicate that the pain of those embodied experiences doesn't matter. Instead, in the church, we should be the type of people who say, I see your skin color. I see your ethnicity. You are gloriously made, and I'm gonna lament with you the terrible ways that you've been treated. Because of how you look or where you are from. Here, in this house of God, I am committing to not judge you based on how you look. I am committing to not show partiality because of where you're from. I am committed to you as my brother or sister, regardless of where we fall on the social spectrum. And it's not just regarding ethnicity or race or skin color that tribalisms rise up around, right? You have social tribalism. You think about the ways that you might think about other members of the church. This creeps up in subtle ways in our thinking. You think to yourself Oh, they have a much higher uh education level than I do. They have a much better job than I do. They must not want anything to do with me. Or you think to yourself, Uh they they don't have the types of degrees that I have, they don't have the type of job that I have. I just don't know how we're going to get along, right? This this way of thinking about one another by categories of the flesh, right? Judging one another according to the flesh. can creep up in our thinking. And we want to move past that. And we want to move towards one another in love. There's all sorts of social tribalisms that we can have. Think about Christians who think about homeschooling or sending their kids to private school or sending their kids to public school. You can have tribes that rise up around that. We also need to be aware of political tribalism, right? Being the type of church where only one particular party, people from that party attend. Or the type of people who maybe there are both parties existing in the church, but they don't talk to one another. They don't interact with one another. That's political tribalism finding its way into the church. That's not to say that those conversations about politics and policy that that they aren't hard or that we won't have disagreements about them But it's being the type of people that when we have disagreements about them, we show one another the benefit of the doubt. We assume the best in others We show charity and grace even in the midst of disagreement. You think about the passage at Sunshine read from the book of Isaiah. What did the nations do? When they came to Jerusalem and the law went out, that's the Lord Jesus Christ, right? That's the New Testament age that Isaiah is predicting when all the nations flooded to the mountain of the Lord to hear the preaching of our God. What did the nations do? They took their swords and they beat them into plowshares. The things that we use as weapons prior now become tools to work together. So when we run into disagreement, when we run into uh places where we don't understand one another or there's friction in our friction in our relationship around things like social tribes or political tribes or ethnic tribes. We need to move towards one another. Assume the best. Forgive Forgive one another. If you offend another person or have been offended by them because of something they said, we gotta really turn the dials down on how easily offended people are in our culture. Right? We live in an outraged culture, and to be different from the world, to say, hey, no, God's kingdom on earth in the church, we're not going to get outraged if people offend us because they say something we don't like. Even if they say something sinful We're going to extend grace. We're going to extend forgiveness because that's what God has done to us. And we're going to work towards unity in the church. Paul is saying that in the church, a new mankind has been formed by God's grace. And that new mankind is no longer to be divided by the tribalism that divides society. That new mankind is no longer to judge one another, discriminate against one another, or show partiality towards another based on what tribe we might be in. These tribal divisions are no longer ultimate. They no longer define us because we have taken on a brand new identity. Which is what brings us to point two. Put off tribalism because we've been united in Christ. Look again at verse 11. Paul says, here, there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave free. But Christ is all and in all. What an epic statement. Christ is all and in all Christ is all simply means Christ is all that matters. He is over all and through all. He is ultimate. That's the whole point of Colossians. Christ supreme over all creation, the firstborn and preeminent Lord of creation and Lord of the church. He is ultimate and he resides in all of us who've put our faith in him. He is all and in all. That is to say, the spirit of the Lord of all creation who created mankind dwells in all of his people, regardless of what worldly categories or tribes we may be a part of. He dwells in all in equal measure. Each of us individually and all of us corporately are God's temple. And our shared identity in Christ is far greater than any ethnic, cultural, or social identity groups we might exist within, right? In the New Testament, all other identity groups are relativized and subordinated to our identity in Christ. Right, so thinking about myself, John Joseph. I am first a Christian. Before I am a white American male, husband, father, church member, and pastor. I'm still all of those things, I'm still all of those things, but I am all of those things in Christ. Even Jesus taught how those who put their faith in him would form a community whose ultimate identity in him would supersede even the bonds of family, right? You think about the gospel of Matthew. When his own mother and brothers came to seize him, because they thought he was crazy because of what he was teaching, he said to his disciples, Who is my mother? And who are my brothers? Those who do the will of my Father in heaven are my brothers and sisters and mothers. Our common faith in Christ Brings us into a common identity in Christ that binds us together more powerfully than any tribe or identity group. in this world. In the world of climbing, climbers tie ropes together to ensure they don't fall when they're ascending or Descending the side of a mountain or rock face. And one of the knots that they used is the double fisherman's knot, which is ironic because it's actually never used in fishing. In the world of climbing, it's known as the impossible knot. And it's called the impossible knot, not because it's impossible to tie. But because it's basically impossible to untie. It's used to tie two ropes together and then when pulled from opposite ends. The knot essentially seals on itself, making it impossible to untie. Jesus is the impossible knot that binds all Christians together. Our our identity in Him is far greater. and more ultimate than any identity group we exist within. And recognizing that we are all one in him is what fuels our ability to put to death the sinful attitudes that fuel sinful tribalism in the world. And Jesus' power to unite people from all walks of life, from a bunch of different tribes. Isn't just a gospel add-on, a side benefit of faith in Christ. It is literally central to God's plan. What Paul is teaching here is at the heart of the gospel itself. It is central to the storyline of the entire Bible You just go back to the book of Genesis, right? After the flood, after Noah and his sons had children and they had children, all humanity was one. One people with one language. They were one tribe. And they said Let's build a tower and make a name for ourselves, right? Rather than worshiping the Creator who had made them, they chose to build a tower to exalt themselves. and worship themselves. And so, God seeing that this is not good for mankind, that they worship themselves rather than Him, He cursed them. with languages, judging them for their sin. And they now were confused by the language with one another, and around those language groups Ethnicities were formed and cultures were formed and people multiplied across the face of the earth. And what happens in a culture where you don't understand language and there are now different ethnicity groups? Fear Misunderstanding, partiality, prejudice, hatred, and war become the norm. Sin brings division. Division from God. And division from one another. But what does God do to rectify this plan? To rectify what's going on on the earth? He calls out of the nations one man. Abraham, through whom an offspring would come, a child would come, through whom the nations, all of the nations would be blessed. And that seed, that offspring is Christ. Jesus came to bring unity where there was disunity, right? He came to bear the punishment for our sins, our sins of hatred. Of prejudice, of fear, and partiality, and all the tribalism that results from those sins. And on the cross, Paul says, the dividing wall of hostility was torn down. He created one new man in place of the two, so making peace and thereby killing the hostility. The hostility that existed between us and God, and us and us. And after his ascension into heaven, God sent his spirit to gather a people from every tribe. and tongue and nation to gather them together into a new humanity who would bring glory to God by our counter-cultural love that places as ultimate over everything. Our shared identity in Christ. And friends, that shared identity in Christ has the power to tear down and destroy all tribal hostility. Paul is not naive. You need to think about this. This isn't just some naive instruction, like, oh, I hope it happens. No. By the power of Christ. We can put off the old self. We can put off tribal attitudes. We can put on unity in Christ. He means this really and powerfully. Think about the keep the people that he is talking to. The Jews had both conquered and been conquered by Gentile people. The people that they are standing together now in church, listening to this instruction, they had both conquered and been conquered by the Gentile people, the uncircumcised. There was two millennia of tribal hatred between Jew and Gentile as they battled for possession of the promised land. Or think about the history between Greeks and Jews specifically. In the time period between the Old and New Testament, the Greeks as a people ascended to world power. And one of the people groups they conquered were the Jews. It was the Greek ruler Antiochus Epiphanes who oppressed the Jews and desecrated their temple when he brought a pig into the temple. Which is peak unclean in Jewish culture, right? And then he sacrificed it on an altar to Zeus in Yahweh's temple Look at what this Greek man is doing to our temple. Right? Greeks and Jew. There is no longer Greek and Jew in God's house. Antiochus then pushed the Hellenization of the Jews, essentially trying to turn them all into Greeks, which led to a Jewish revolt and more war and more bloodshed. Paul isn't naive about the history between these people. He knows the history full well, but he also knows the spirit of Christ. The preeminent Lord of all creation has power to unite the ununitable, to bind the unbindable, to be the impossible knot between people who would otherwise never be tied together. And the reality is, through faith in Christ, we are already united together fully in him. But at the same time, on this side of the new creation, we still need to work for unity. Until Christ comes and gathers his people and establishes the new heavens and the new earth, we are going to have to labor together to pursue unity and the bonds of peace. This is why Paul commands the Ephesians. Work and pray. Not just pray. Not just work. Work and pray. Pray to God and work hard for unity. I want you to think about the ways that you can do this as a member of CBC. Or perhaps you're not a member of CBC, but you exist in relationship with other Christians. One of the best ways you can do this is by getting to know people who are different from you. Think about again what Paul says in Ephesians. What glorifies the wisdom of God even to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places? It's not just people living together in a local church, but Jews and Gentiles. With nothing in common. The world is supposed to look at the church and say, how on earth is this happening? When it happened in Judea and Samaria to the ends of the earth, the culture around the church was just like What is going on here? How are you people now tied together, bound together in love for one another? You hated each other months ago, days ago, weeks ago, whatever it might have been. How is this happening? Well, the Spirit of Christ, in and amongst the people who are different from one another and don't stay apart from one another, but move towards each other in relationship, displays power. To the world and to the powers in the heavenly places that are opposed to God. You've got to think about our congregation. It's made up of young and old. Over-educated and maybe not very educated at all, people from different ethnicities, political affiliations, nationalities, and personality types. And what's going to be most natural for you is to build relationships with people who are mostly like you or just like you. And there's really nothing wrong with these friendships, right? It's part of human nature. And those real those relationships will be really good for you. But if all your friendships are with people just like you, the power of the gospel. Isn't being displayed in quite the same way as if you had relationships with people who were very different from you. Right? Part of what it means to be a church. is loving people who are different from us. Where getting to know them is a bit more work, feels awkward and uncomfortable. I had an experience in my own life early on with getting to know a brother who was very different from me and I still remember to this day. The first time we went, we hung out, we took a walk, and it was like three minutes in, just terribly awkward silence. Like, I don't know what we're gonna talk about. And I'm sure he felt it too. But we both continued to press in, and now he's one of my best friends, one of the guys I know and love most in this world. We need to We need to commit to those relationships where it takes a little bit more work to get to know people and may feel uncomfortable. These are the types of relationships that require charity and patience. That's why Paul commands things like charity and patience because he assumes Christians in relationship with one another are going to have friction, there's going to be differences, and now they will need to display the fruits of the Spirit in their lives. Right? So take stock of your relationships periodically. Think about who you're spending time with. Do all of your friends fit into the same mold? Then think about making an effort to break that mold. And when you come to church on a Sunday, one of the most helpful bits of advice I heard from Dave Russell, a pastor in North Carolina, is that he instructs his church regularly. Hey, after church or before church, just when you come to church Commit to talking to one person you don't know. Go up to them, say hi, start a conversation, get to know them. Bit by bit, over time, those relationships will build, right? Seek to draw people into your life from all sorts of backgrounds. What we're seeking to do now in the church is to live as an outpost of that future kingdom. To live what it will be like in heaven on earth now to the best of our power by the Spirit of Christ. An outpost of that new humanity who no longer regards one another according to the flesh. And who wait in hope for the day when the tribalism that divides humanity now is done away with forever. Not because the tribes have been done away with. But because the sin that infects our hearts will be done away with once and for all. What does John see in the book of Revelation when he gets a glimpse of that heavenly city? When that vision is fulfilled, he says, people from all nations, from all tribes and peoples and languages Will stand together as one and cry out with a loud voice: Salvation belongs to our God, shared, our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Friend, that day is coming. Let us work and pray for the unity of the Spirit so we can taste more of that heavenly city now. Let's work and pray for that in our lives. So do conflict assessment frameworks help? Does mediating relationships help Well, in some sense, those things do help and they're they're good for us to pursue. But apart from the Spirit of Christ Putting to death tribalism. Really a futile effort. We need Christ to come in, to give us new hearts, to open our eyes, to recognize. That we have standing in the church, not because of what culture we're from, what ethnicity we're from, what social class we're a part of, but because God has shown us grace. So let's show that grace to others. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, this does seem like it is too much for us to pull off on our own. But we know that Paul wasn't naive. And we believe that the Spirit of Christ has the power to unite what is ununitable. Lord, help us to be a people who repent of tribalism in our own lives. To look first inward at how we might be guilty of tribalism in overt or subtle ways, to repent and to be the type of people who move towards one another in love. Who are quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to become angry. Our anger does not produce the righteousness of God. God. Lord, we want to be righteous in your sight. We want to have this unity now. So help us to enter into the uncomfortable. to do so with charity, with grace, with kindness, and with the Spirit of Christ binding all together in love. Please do this here. Please do this in all of your churches that Christ might be glorified on earth. In his name we pray. Amen.