Good afternoon, friends. It is a joy to be with you today and to have this opportunity to open God's word together. I'm going to go ahead and pray one more time briefly and then we will dive into God's Word together. Let's pray. Teach us, O Lord, the way of your statutes, so that we might keep them until the end. Give us understanding that we may keep your law and observe it with our whole heart. Lead us in the path of your commandments, for we delight in them. Incline our hearts to your testimonies and not to selfish gain. Turn all of our eyes from looking at worthless things and give us life in your ways And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in his book, The madness of crowds, gender, race, and identity, Douglas Murray noted the following. As one of the consequences of the death of God Friedrich Nietzsche foresaw that people could find themselves stuck in cycles of Christian theology with no way out. specifically that people would inherit the concepts of guilt, sin, and shame, but would be without the means of redemption, which the Christian religion also offered Today, we do seem to live in a world where actions can have consequences we could never have imagined, where guilt and shame are more at hand than ever, and where we have no means whatsoever. Interestingly, it was Nietzsche who pushed so hard in his own personal philosophy and professional philosophy to kill God That is to remove the thought of God from all human thought. Yet after doing it, he realized that a world devoid of God is also a world Devoid of redemption. And Nietzsche's philosophy is just one example of the many types of empty philosophies. and religions that the apostle Paul warns the Colossians about in our passage this morning. So I want to invite you to turn in your Bible to Colossians chapter 2. We're going to be looking at verses 8 to 15. In our passage today, we find Paul telling the Colossians to watch out for false teaching that promises fullness that can only be found in Jesus Christ. I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage for us. You can follow along in your Bible. This is God's word. See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit According to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you Who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him Having forgiven us all our trespasses by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him There's a lot of different imagery going on in this passage. But as we'll see, the message is straightforward. Paul is telling the Colossians. Don't be manipulated by empty false teaching because you are already full in Christ. Don't be manipulated by empty false teaching because you are already full in Christ. That's the main point of Colossians 2, verses 8 to 15. And we're going to look at this passage under two headings. Don't be fooled by empty false teaching. That's point one. Because you're already full in Christ. That's point two. You might uh recognize some similarities in the content of some of the topics I address in point one if you were here a couple weeks ago. Uh and that's because we're in a section of Paul's letter to the Colossians that's really dealing with False teaching that was prevalent in Colossae, and because we want to take God's word and apply it to ourselves today, we're going to think again about some false teachings that are prevalent in our culture today. And we want to think really well about them And we want to think about how we we already have fullness in Christ and how that helps us address some of these things today. So, point one, don't be fooled by empty, false teaching. Go ahead and look at verse 8 with me. Paul says, see to it that no one takes you captive When he talks about being taken captive, the word for being taken captive there can also be translated as uh as don't be deceived. Or don't be manipulated and taken control of. But the image of captivity is really powerful And powerfully communicates that the result of being deceived by false teaching is essentially to return to a state of spiritual bondage, which God has already brought you out of. Right? And that's why he tells them to watch out. And what does he tell them to watch out for, to not be manipulated by? Well, if you're looking at verse 8, he he calls it philosophy and empty deceit. The way that it's phrased there might make you think that he's talking about two different things, but he's really just talking about one thing. He's just saying, don't be fooled by empty and deceptive philosophies. He goes on to describe them there as according to human tradition. They are according to human tradition. That is They are man-made ways of trying to build a kingdom only God can build. They are man-made ways of making oneself right with God. They are man-made systems. Of determining what behaviors and what people are clean or unclean And these human traditions we also see if you're looking at verse 8 are also according to the elemental spirits of the world. We're not going to spend a whole lot of time on this phrase. It is an extremely rare phrase in the Bible and in all of Greek literature English translations of the Bible translate it basically three different ways. If you're using the ESV, you'll see that it's translated as elemental spirits. That is, there are spirits standing behind this false teaching, which Paul definitely teaches elsewhere in the New Testament, that false teaching is demonic. Or it's translated as elemental principles, which could be translated or interpreted as referring to the elementary, the basic ways that mankind tries to make himself right with God. Or the third way it's translated as elemental materials, referring to the physical world. That is, these philosophies were emphasizing the material physical world, earth, air, wind, fire, over and above the spiritual world. What's the right translation? I I just don't know. I'm not sure, honestly. But that really doesn't keep us from understanding the thrust of this passage. Because there's enough information elsewhere in this letter to the Colossians to know exactly the type of teaching Paul has in mind. It's any religion philosophy or worldview that seeks to offer a coherent view of reality and of how we can be made right with God that is not aligned with Scripture or the gospel. And how do we know that? Because he says finally, if you're looking at verse 8, these teachings are not according to Christ. It's really the most stinging rebuke and critique he gives of these teachings. They are not rooted in the person and work of Christ They don't agree with Scripture's explanation of reality that Christ is the creator of all things, visible and invisible They don't accord with the triune God's existence and creation of the world. They don't teach that all of mankind equally shares in the image of God And equally stands before God as under condemnation for our sins. They don't teach reliance on Christ's atoning work. They don't teach about the forgiveness and freedom we have in Christ. We could go on and on They are not according to Christ. And insofar as we come to be manipulated by the various teachings that can be described as empty and deceptive philosophy. the more danger we are in of returning to a state of spiritual captivity. That's why we're supposed to watch out for these things. And that's why Paul told the Colossians to, watch out, right? Have your head on a swivel. And that's because they were surrounded by these false teachings. It was part of the warp and wolf of their culture, right? All of the various forms of Gnosticism that existed. There's just like endless forms of Gnostic belief. There were Judaizers telling them that they needed to adopt the Mosaic Law and uphold the Mosaic Law if they were genuinely going to be on good terms with God. There were also Greek and Roman philosophies that attempted to explain the world Not to mention all the religions of the nations around them. But these empty and deceptive philosophies. didn't only exist in the first century Greco-Roman world. They have existed in every nation on earth since the beginning of time. Why is that? The reason is because mankind is by nature a religious being. Our religious impulses are not a leftover relic of evolution that needs to be discarded. It is who we are. We were, you were, created to worship. And we will all worship something. The knowledge of God is in our hearts That is, we come into the world understanding that there are categories of clean and unclean, of righteous and unrighteous. Of just and unjust. We come into the world recognizing that there are categories such as sin and forgiveness and cleansing and redemption. But we also come into the world born in spiritual darkness. And what do people who are intrinsically religious But living in spiritual darkness end up doing. They create systems, philosophies religions that offer an explanation of the world, that define what is clean and unclean, what is righteous and unrighteous, what is just and unjust. We create systems for ourselves, for cleansing ourselves from sin, for forgiveness, for redemption. Think of the Hindu practice of bathing in the Ganges River, which is supposed to endow forgiveness and salvation to the person who bathes there. Right? But these systems, all of them, all of these world philosophies are not according to Christ. We could very easily look to the religions of the world to show how this is the case, but we need only look as far as our own culture to see these empty systems on display. Right? We have the empty and deceptive system that encourages us to put our hope in a political ruler who will build a kingdom here on earth for his constituents. And that views any opposition to his plan as opposition to the will of God itself. And any failure of his to build his kingdom is a result of deep-state conspiracies. These views are held with religious fervor. Or in post-Enlightenment Western civilization, the pursuit of self-realization has become a religious axiom. Spiritual awakening occurs through finding yourself. Which ultimately fuses with identity politics to form a system of thought that has a clearly religious structure. There are clean and unclean identity groups There are just and unjust people groups. There are righteous and unrighteous segments of the population. Just to see this worked out in real life, take for instance the way the genders of male and female in our culture have been divided along the lines of righteous and unrighteous men. Are intrinsically evil, so it is thought, and inherently given to domination and oppression, while women are inherently virtuous and righteous. This way of thinking is what led to the popular Twitter hashtags believeWomen and KillAll Men 2020. That is a real hashtag. Because men are inherently evil, thus they need to be killed, and women are inherently virtuous, thus they should be believed. Now listen, I don't want you to mistake what I'm saying. That hashtag came out of women coming forward and describing the sexual abuse that they had suffered at the hands of men. And so many of these cases were proved true in a court of law. And that is despicable. No woman should ever be abused or oppressed or taken advantage of in that way. Yet the Christian must say. It's not right to say believe women, believe all women, because all of us are corrupted from the fall A better hashtag would have been honor all women. Uphold, protect all women. Right? But you see the working of righteous and unrighteous. Believe this group, kill this group. Right. That's how it's worked out in our culture today. This division of identity groups also occurs along political lines, right? For those on the left, those on the right are unclean. For those on the right, those on the left are unclean. For Antifa, capitalists are unclean. For the alt-right, socialists are unclean. And the author of Ecclesiastes tells us there is nothing new under the sun, right? This is especially true when it comes to dividing humanity along ethnic group lines. Let's move out of America for a second. In India, it's the Dalits, the lowest caste system in India, who by virtue of the fact that they were born Dalit are untouchable and can never be redeemed. If you were a Hutu in Rwanda, it was the Tutsis who were unclean. If you were a Tutsi, it was the Hutus who were unclean. It happened in Germany, the pure-blooded Germans were clean and the Jews were unclean. It happened in America when thousands upon thousands of blacks were treated like property, and then after being given their freedom, they could only use certain water fountains. Use certain bathrooms, live in certain neighborhoods, and attend certain schools. Whites were clean, blacks were unclean. These are all lies from the pit of hell. And this deceptive philosophy is alive and well today in America and around the world. This same empty and deceptive philosophy is at work in any teaching. That ascribes intrinsic evil to an ethnicity or gender. And we need to watch out for these ways of thinking because they lead not to spiritual fullness But spiritual bondage. And because we're surrounded by news outlets that are constantly inundating us, And through their inundation of this type of teaching, encouraging us to adopt this way of thinking, we need to consider whether or not we've been taken captive by it. Right. We need to consider whether or not we've been taken captive by how do you know if we're being taken captive by this way of thinking? Consider some of these questions. You immediately assume that another person commits particular sins because they belong to a certain group. Or you believe that because a person is part of a particular group, they are therefore guilty of particular sins. Or you instinctively distrust the motives of people in other groups than your own. Or you hold on to notions of what must be true about them in the face of evidence to the contrary These are just a few ways that we can know if this empty and deceptive philosophy is taking hold in our thinking. And we shouldn't be surprised if it is, right? We are not above Letting our minds be taken advantage of or manipulated by these ways of thinking, right? But to ascribe cleanness or uncleanness to a person because of an identity group that they belong to is an empty deceptive philosophy. It's a way for humans, this is the religious structure of it, it's a way for humans to justify themselves By belonging to the identity group that is righteous in their own eyes, therefore being able to look down on others. It is everywhere in our culture, and it is a human tradition. It is a human way of thinking. And it's not according to Christ. According to Christ, all identity groups are unclean. All have sinned, men and women, Republicans and Democrats, whites, blacks, Asians. Indians, no matter what ethnicity or identity group we are a part of, none are righteous. No, not one. Paul says. Because we all share in the common identity group of being fallen Adam. And not only should we not be deceived by these philosophies because they're empty, we shouldn't be deceived by them because we are already full in Christ. Why should you not be fooled by empty philosophies? Because if you've repented of your sins, you are already full in Christ. How can that be? Look at what Paul says about Jesus in verse 9, and we're going to be looking at the remainder of the verses here. For in him that is Jesus. The whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, and you have been filled in Him. Notice the artful contrast in Paul's writing. You can have empty philosophy, or you can have the fullness of Christ. How full is Christ? In him, the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. All of God is in Jesus Christ. And the staggering reality that Christians forget each day is that we Have been past tense have already been filled in Him, filled with the same fullness of deity. Not that we have become God ourselves That's not what I'm saying. But all of God has filled us. He has given to us his spirit. And he dwells in our hearts through faith, filled with the same fullness of deity. And then you ask you a question, kids, but can I ask y'all a question? You can shout it out. Does God need anything? Shout it No, that's a I like the loud corner back there. God needs nothing. If he needed anything at all, he wouldn't be God God is full in and of himself, infinite in his perfections, lacking nothing and in need of nothing. He is the full one. And you and I have Been filled with that same fullness. Since God lacks nothing, and God has shared his fullness with you, if you've repented and put your trust in him, you lack nothing. But what does that fullness consist of? Is this just some abstract idea that I'm supposed to like love and hold on to? Or is there some content to it that I can sink my teeth into? Good news for us today, there's solid content for us to sink our teeth into. Paul goes on to explain what this fullness consists of. There are three things he touches on. First, we are full in Christ because we have been made new. Look at verses 11 to 13. Paul uses two different images here. Circumcision and baptism, both of which point to the same reality. In Christ, we have the fullness of being made into new creations. Circumcision was a physical procedure performed on Israelite males showing, meant to display, that they were members of the nation of Israel. Yet While it was a physical procedure, it was also intended to sp uh to symbolize spiritual realities, like John read from us this morning in Deuteronomy. Your heart is supposed to be also set apart to the Lord. Right? This is why there are numerous passages in the Old Testament in which God calls the Israelites to circumcise your heart. Show yourselves to be my people spiritually by your love of me and your love of neighbor. That's how Christ summarizes the law, right? But the problem was that neither the Israelites nor any other person on earth can circumcise their own hearts We are spiritually dead and need God to give us new hearts, to circumcise our hearts for us. And this is exactly what he has done. Look at verse 11 You were circumcised, past tense, with a circumcision made without hands. God reached in with his spiritual hands. removed your heart of stone, gave you a heart of flesh to love him and walk with him. This is the circumcision of Christ that Paul is talking about. Not only that, but look at verse 12. Your baptism, when you put your faith in Jesus and then were baptized, your baptism symbolized that your old self was buried with Jesus when he was buried And when you came up out of the waters, you were raised to new life. Now look at verse 13. He puts the exclamation point on it. You Who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with Christ What good news for the Christian. The fullness of needing to be made into new creations has been done for us. You've been given a new heart. You were buried and raised with Christ. You were dead and made alive. You are a new creation in Christ. Now, how does that happen? How do we receive that new life? How can we be made new? Look again at verse 12. You were buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith. When you put your faith in Jesus Christ, the Bible teaches God removes your heart of stone, gives to you a heart of flesh. You are Buried with Christ in his death and then raised to resurrection life. You were dead, and God makes you alive. God gives you the fullness of being made into a new creation. Kids, I want you all to think about it this way. It is God who makes us new, right? We don't make ourselves new. We can't do it. And to try is really hopeless because we're spirit not even spiritually alive. And there's a story that a businessman by the name of Lindsay Clegg tells that illustrates this really well. He owned a huge warehouse. I don't know if you've ever been in like a huge building that's cavernous and is really messy and old Right? He owned a huge warehouse, but his warehouse was old. It had been empty for a long time. And when things are empty for a long time, they fall into disrepair. Right? It had been damaged by people. Windows had been smashed out, spray paint on the walls, trash was all over the place. And he was showing the property to a prospective buyer. And Mr. Clegg assured the man, hey, don't worry, I'm going to replace the windows. I'm going to bring a cleaning crew to come in and clean up the garbage. And the man replied, Forget about the repairs. When I buy this place, I'm gonna tear it down and build something completely different. You coming in and sweeping up after yourself and you know clean cleaning some of the windows or replacing some of the windows That's not what I'm getting after here. I'm tearing the whole warehouse down and I'm building something new in its place. Kids, when we try and clean up ourselves like we're Mr. Clegg telling God, don't worry. I got the windows. I got the spiritual windows. I know there's some spray paint on the heart and I've been doing some bad things. God's like, clean up Clean up. I'm tearing the whole thing down and I'm building up something new in its place. We don't clean ourselves up to come to God. God reaches down by faith. When we put our faith in him, he reaches down, tears down the old structure, and builds a brand new one in its place. That is the fullness of Christ. New creation. Empty philosophy. New creation. That's what you can have in Christ. But that's not all. There's so much more that he's done in filling us with Christ. We also have the fullness of being forgiven. Look again at verse 13. You who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. Let that sit for a second. Having forgiven us all our trespasses. How? By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This record he set aside, nailing it to the cross. Like if you're the type of person who says yeehaw, this is where you say yeehaw. Like if you're the type of person who shouts amen. This is amen content. This is hallelujah. All of your sins forgiven, record of debt, canceled, set aside, nailed to the cross. It is finished. The fullness of Christ forgiven. Forgiveness with Christ. In Christ, your sins, all of them have been forgiven. The record of debt that stood against us Towering over us, ominously looking down on us, was set aside. This infinitely unpayable debt of breaking God's commandments over and over again, that has been carefully recorded by God is gone. Imagine being in court. Right? Like this is how I've been picturing it this week. I don't know, like you those old, I don't know if they were fax machines or whatever they were, but they used that accordion paper. It was paper that was perforated and attached to itself. So it's this large stack you can like lift up one sheet, but then you're like, oh, there's a whole stack here. Like imagine being in court. And God is the judge, and God's like, hey, somebody read out the charges against John Joseph here, and God's court-appointed official picks up the stack and then lets it drop, and the whole thing just keeps going forever. That is what the record of debt against us is. All of these legal commands that we have broken, right? Bring them forward and read aloud the charges for all to hear. We have 150,000 counts of first-degree idolatry, Your Honor. We have 200,000 counts of serving other gods before you We have 500,000 counts of taking your name in vain. 30,000 counts of not keeping the Sabbath holy if you factor in an 80-year life time span and that many Sabbaths in it. 75,000 counts of not honoring father or mother, 600,000 counts of murder, 100,000 counts of adultery, 250,000 coun of stealing 1 million counts of bearing false witness and 750,000 counts of coverting. That's probably far short of what my record would actually read. That is the record of debt that stands against us. That has been set aside, put away, canceled. How? It was nailed to the cross. God took the fullness of the full one, the eternal Son of God, who is perfectly righteous, and he said, give it to me. I'm going to take all of their sins, not just John Joseph, all of CBC, all believers on earth. I'm going to put them on my back. You can pour out your wrath on me. I am perfect and sinless and righteous and holy, and I am gonna take their sins and bear them away on the cross. Forgiven, nailed it to the cross. Do you realize God doesn't sweep sins under the rug? He is both just They will be paid for, and the justifier they can be paid for by uh by Christ if you would put your faith and trust in him. He is both just And the justifier. He loaded our sins onto the back of his beloved son, and the son went to the cross according to his own will, because he loved us And this is why it's necessary for Christ to be fully God and fully man. We cannot cancel the record of our own debt because whatever sacrifice we attempt to offer God is stained by our sins. Only a perfect, sinless, and holy sacrifice can satisfy a perfect, sinless, and holy God. Only God could pay the God-sized debt that we owed him and that stood against us. And he had to be man in order to read Represent us. That's why the blood of bulls and goats won't work, friend. They're not human. They didn't commit the sins that you did, right? Christ became man in order to represent us before God I will take their punishment. I will stand in the gap for them. I will do once and for all what is needed to bring them back to you. The record of debt that stood against us. Ominously towering over us has been set aside, put away forever. And this is plain as day in Scripture, right? As far as the east is from the west, so far does he do what? Remove our transgressions from us. Though your sins are like scarlet, you are stained through and through with them, they will be made white as snow. He will have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities underfoot. He will cast our sins into the depths of the sea. Gone forever. In Christ, we have the fullness of complete forgiveness. There's one more thing that we also have. have. We have the fullness of being victorious in Christ. Look at verse 15. Through Jesus' death on the cross and his subsequent resurrection from the dead, God disarmed Defeated, crushed, mocked, and triumphed over all the spiritual powers at work against him. We know these are spiritual powers because everywhere that Paul uses rulers and authorities together, he's referring to the spiritual realm. And you gotta love the power and irony here. Paul says God disarmed the spiritual powers and put them to open shame. Why is this so powerful and ironic? In ancient Rome, when the Roman army returned from victory in war, They would parade their prisoners around Rome, and their prisoners would often be stripped naked in order to humiliate them. As Christ was stripped naked, humiliated, and nailed to a cross, Satan seemed to be parading Christ around as his prisoner, but ironically, in fact, in Christ's stripping and humiliation, God the Father was stripping and shaming Satan and all his forces, triumphing over them in him, winning complete victory. So not only have we been made new, not only have we been forgiven, but we also share in Christ's victory over Satan and all the powerful aligned with Satan against God. That's why Paul says in Romans 16, the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. Your feet. You see the fullness that we have in Christ. New creations. Complete forgiveness Ultimate victory over our greatest enemies, Satan, death, hell, in Christ Do you see now how God's how different God's ways are from human traditions? In our current cultural moment, some want us to put our ultimate hope in fallen rulers and political parties to rescue us from our enemies and provide us with a kingdom here. On earth. But what human ruler can provide the fullness of a kingdom that cannot be shaken and the defeat of all the spiritual rulers aligned against us? None. None can. Christ can, though. In our current cultural moment. Sins are not forgiven and forgotten. They are dredged up from the past so that people might be held accountable for every sin that they have ever committed. In our current cultural moment, sinners are not brought back into the fold. They are canceled, doxxed, lose their jobs, friends disown them, they're put outside the camp. True forgiveness and redemption, like Nietzsche said, do not exist. This is the culture we live in This is the culture we must stand against as citizens of a greater, more glorious kingdom, and hold out true hope for those who are trying to find their way in this world. This is the culture we live in. It has and is full of empty and deceptive philosophy that is according to human traditions. And it is not Not according to Christ. We put our hope in Christ because only Christ truly saves. We forgive because God first forgave us. We welcome all sinners with joy because we were welcomed by God with joy. We don't hold past sins over people's heads because God doesn't hold our past sins over our heads We don't judge because God has not judged us. That is the gospel according to Christ And it is truly good news. And only that gospel provides the fullness we need. And if you have repented, the fullness you already need That's pretty. Father, thank you for the new creation. We did not want anything to do with you. But you chose to give us new hearts. We could never offer a sacrifice sufficient to pay for our sins So you sent your son in love to rescue and pay the penalty for us. We could never have gained victory over one another, let alone spiritual powers. But you have given us victory in Christ. We are full. Help us to know that fullness today. And in the days to come. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen