In eighteen seventy-nine, the USS Jeannette set sail from San Francisco. And they set sail with the hopes of becoming the first expedition to successfully reach the North Pole. At the time, little was known about the Arctic Ocean, and that was because of how treacherous the ocean could be. Every attempted voyage up until this point into those perilous, freezing, and utterly unforgiving waters had failed miserably. And often those foy voyages had failed miserably at the cost of the lives of the people who undertook them. At the time of its sailing, the USS Jeanette was captained by a one George de Long DeLong was a naval officer trained right down the road in Annapolis at the Naval Academy. And because DeLong had survived an already failed mission To explore the Arctic Ocean, he was well aware of the dangers that awaited him as he traveled there. And so when it was time to say goodbye, to his beloved wife Emma, both George and Emma knew his return was not certain, not in any way. As the ship pulled away, a reporter from the San Francisco Chronicler said this about its departure. The Jeannette became a long dark pencil of a shadow standing up straight against a vivid sunset. Then She was gone. Three years from now, Captain DeLong will probably announce his return. We hope for his return But for the present, he is lost to the world. He has sailed out into the dark, and the world can only watch the edge of the darkness for the first glimmer of the the Jeanette's whitening sails. DeLong's wife, Emma, was left with a gaping hole in her heart and her life The one that she had loved so dearly sailed off into the darkness. And she didn't know when or if she would hear from him again. Days turned into months. Months turned into years. Emma longed for some letter, some news about her husband's well-being, but the news never seemed to come. There was no Twitter back then. There were no satellites roaming outer space so that we could keep in contact, constant contact with one another. She had to do the seemingly impossible thing today to us, to wait, to wait to hear from her husband. husband, but the news never seemed to come. Her life would never, could never return to normal, not until she knew that her husband was okay. Can you imagine being Emma? Can you imagine being in her shoes today? Would your life ever return to normal? I assume all of us would walk around with some hole in our soul until we knew that the person that we love so dearly was okay. What's it like? What's it like when the person you love most has disappeared? And all that you want is to hear from that person again. Well, please turn with me in your Bibles to the the Gospel of Mark, chapter 1, verses 1 to 13. If you're using the Black Pew Bibles around you that are in the seats, uh please open to page 876. It's where you'll find our passage for this morning. We're going to be looking at this passage constantly, looking at what it says. So I'd encourage you to have a Bible open as we read along today. And today, as we set sail in the Gospel of Mark, we're introduced to a people who had lost someone that they loved, someone they expected to return and were longing to hear from him. Right, so let me go ahead and read the passage for us. This is Mark chapter 1, verses 1 to 13. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey. And he preached, saying, After me comes one who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open. and the spirit descending on him like a dove, and a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. And he was in the wilderness 40 days, being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals. And the angels were Ministering to him. This is God's word. In our passage this morning, we find that a people who had been waiting for 400 years to hear from God And God had been silent for 400 years. We experienced in our passage this morning the reality-shattering news breaking into that deafening silence. God has returned to the earth. God has come back to his people, and we see this drama unfold in three scenes in our passage this morning. Prediction, preparation, and identification. Scene 1. Prediction. Look at me at verses 1 to 3. Go ahead and look at your Bibles where Mark gives us some background to the drama that's about to unfold. But if you've ever seen a Star Wars movie, then you're you're kind of familiar already with what what Mark is doing here, right? Each of the movies begins with a backstory. Giving you the context of what's gonna what's about to happen in the movie that's to come. That's exactly what Mark is doing here. He doesn't want you to be bewildered when he drops you right in onto the action, so he lets you in on some major background info. But different from Star Wars, Mark's intro is breathtakingly brief. But it is jammed full of important information. Right? He's like a guy who goes on a an overnight trip, takes a small bag, and then is like, no, I'm gonna take one article of everything I have and stuff it into this bag. He's just jam-packed these first verses with information that is so important for us to understand So look at verse 1. We see this is the beginning of the gospel. The word gospel means good news. And in Mark's day. In Mark's time, the gospel referred specifically to the promise in the Old Testament that God would one day return to rescue, save, and redeem his people. So Mark is saying that day has come. Oh my gosh, that's wonderful news for us. And now he tells us a little bit more about this gospel. It's coming true with the arrival of Jesus Christ. The Son of God. So if you're not really familiar with that Bible and you're not really that familiar with Jesus, Jesus Christ is not his first name and his last name. Jesus is his first name, if you would call it that. But Christ is a title. It means Messiah or Savior. So sometimes in the Bible you'll hear him called Christ Jesus or Jesus Christ. They're saying Messiah Jesus The Savior Messiah, the one who is to come. The Messiah was the divine person predicted in the Old Testament who would come to rescue God's people. And so that there's no mistaking it, Mark goes ahead and clarifies that comment. He calls him the Son of God. Right? So already mentioned this morning, the entire point of the Gospel of Mark is to prove to us. To prove to everyone who would open up this gospel that Jesus Christ, he is a great teacher, he is a wonderful man, he is all those things, but he is also the Son of God. And in Jewish culture, that wasn't to say he was a step removed from God. In Jewish culture, that was meant to say he is God. Which is why Jesus was crucified for claiming to be the Son of God. The Jews understood that to be blasphemy. He made himself equal with God. And there's some kind of self-deprecating humor, I think, in this verse. Right? Because what we find when we open up the Gospel of Mark, and we'll see in the weeks to come, is that this gospel is full of account after account after account of everyone getting it wrong. They see they see Jesus do amazing miracles and they're like, great teacher. They see him calm the wind and the waves and they're like, good man. And Mark's like, no, no, no. Son of God, the man with all power to do all things. And so right at the beginning, he's giving us this great kindness. As we open up this gospel, we find out. Jesus is the Son of God. Now I don't have to be mistaken as I read through this book. And I mentioned that Jesus' coming was predicted, and that's what we see in verses 2 and 3. Mark quotes from the Old Testament to show us that the story that's unfolding here has been thousands of years in the making. Thousands of years in the making. He attributes the quote to Isaiah, but it's actually from three different places in the Old Testament, and this wasn't a mistake. It was common in Mark's day that if you quoted from a variety of authors, you would attribute the whole quote to the most prominent among them. And for Mark, that was Isaiah. So he attributes it. to Isaiah. But the quotes actually come from three different places. You have a quote from Exodus 23, Malachi 3, and Isaiah 40. And what Mark is doing here is he's creating a mosaic. If you've ever seen one of those mosaics, you have like a picture created of a person's face that's made of a thousand different portraits. That's what Mark is doing here. Each of these verses tells us something unique about the Messiah to come. And so to the kids, here's a tip for you guys. As you're reading the Bible, And you're getting to learn what it you're trying to figure out how to read the Bible well. What I would encourage you to do is when you come to verses like this where the Old Testament is being quoted, you should like hover your spiritual mouse. over those verses and click on them, treat them like a hyperlink. When you click on them, you want to go back to the original verse, the original passage, right? And you want to read what's going on around the verse that's quoted because the author here would have been wanting to call to mind everything that happened and was happening. happening around those verses. Just an encouragement to you as you guys read the Bible. And what what's utterly mind-bending about these verses when you turn to them and read them in their original context You find that they, these verses, are talking about Yahweh returning to his people. Yahweh. The covenant God of Israel, the one true God, Lord Almighty, is the one who the messenger will prepare the way for. And so Mark is saying that Yahweh is Jesus. Jesus is Yahweh. If you know somebody who is a Jehovah's Witness, if you happen to be here this morning, you're Jehovah's Witness, I'm glad that you're here. I think one question, one fair question to ask them as you talk to them, is why Mark, one of the oldest of the New Testament manuscripts that we have, one of the earliest writings in the New Testament. why Mark would identify Jesus with Yahweh. Right? So many people say that the divinity of Jesus was a later creation of the church that came hundreds of years after the New Testament, but that is completely untrue. When you open up the Bible and you read the New Testament especially, you see the earliest writings and Jesus' disciples calling Jesus God. And this is a great example of that. And we should stand back in awe of what Mark is doing here with these quotes, right? He's drawing from the book of Exodus, written around 1400 BC. And he's drawing from Isaiah, written around 800 BC. And he's drawing from Malachi, written around 400 BC What is he saying to you? It doesn't matter how old God's promises are, they always are good. Right? God's promises don't need born-on dating. You don't need to check it and look at it to make sure it's not going to spoil. It's not like fruit or clothing or cars or houses or human bodies. His promises don't fall apart. They are always good. It doesn't matter how long, how much time has passed. Right? And you see, like people today, especially Americans and our culture, we desperately need a word that we can trust. It seems like it's impossible to trust anything today, right? You have fake news. How can I believe anything that's going on? And not only when you have fake news, you turn on the TV, and it's difficult to trust the station that you're watching completely because it seems like every station has a particular agenda that they're trying to push. It's something, some truth that they want to put forward Not only that, but you hear people talk today, and everybody has their truth. You know, what's true for me is true for me. What's true for you? It's true for you. But the problem with that way of thinking is we all know ourselves, right? How many times have you been mistaken about something in your life? So just being honest, I've been mistaken, I don't know, well over a million times. Every day is proof to me that I'm mistaken about something. What's my point in that? Why should I believe that my truth is correct? How should I know that what I've arrived at is not mistake free? Friend, it could be possible that the truth you've constructed about the way that the world works isn't exactly Correct. I think it's honest and humble of us to say that. What we need is a trustworthy source to help us find truth. We need the author of truth, the God who is truth to point you to the truth. So friend, if you're here and you're searching for true truth, let me encourage you to look to Jesus. Read the Bible See the ridiculous number of predictions about him made hundreds of years before he came and lived come true in his life. And if you want to do that, if you're interested in learning more about the Bible and about those promises that have come true in the life of Jesus, I would be happy to do that with you. Just find me after the service. We'll find a time to get together and read the Bible. God's promises always come on time. time. They are never late. They never fail. But you see, don't you, what this means for you if you follow Jesus. There may be, there may be long stretches in your life when it seems like God is doing nothing at all. Think of the 400 years between Malachi and Mark 400 years that God was completely silent. How many generations of faithful believers do you think lived And died without ever hearing from God or seeing him move in any major way. Yet the fact that they didn't see God at work and didn't hear from him didn't mean that he had forgotten about them or that he wasn't at work. You see, as God is working on his masterpiece A masterpiece that he will unveil at the end of history when Christ returns and all things are seen in their proper light, we'll realize that in God's masterpiece, his painting There are lar large swaths of his canvas that are covered in darkness that are just used for shadows. And they're used for shadows in order to bring glory to the Lord Jesus Christ when he is. revealed. We'll find that those places on his canvas that he seemed to be not doing anything were actually there to make it more clear when he did act decisively in his son. So if you're struggling today and you're feeling like, is God even around? Does God even hear our prayers? Why does it seem like he's not doing anything today? Friend, just know. Just know that you're looking at things from our perspective. You're not looking at things from the Lord's perspective. In the 1800s, Pastor George Pentecost visited a lady who was in deep trouble. Because she was suffering great afflictions at the time. She was facing various trials. When he went into her home, she was working on a bit of embroidery. And as he talked with her, she happened to drop the embroidery and she dropped it wrong side up. And there it lay on the ground in a Massive crude work, right? It was it was flipped the wrong way, so it was a bunch of tangled yarn. I think yarn is what's used for embroidery. Correct me if I'm wrong, anyone who embroiders. Right? But he looks down at the embroidery that had fallen to the ground and he says, Well what is this that you're engaged at? Oh, she replied, it's a Christmas gift. He remarked, I should not think you would waste your time on that. It looks tangled, without design or meaning. Surprised at the abrupt change of subject and his opposition to her work, she exclaimed, Why, Mr. Pentecost? You're looking at the wrong side. Turn it over. Then he said, oh my friend, that's just what you're doing. You're looking at the wrong side of God's workings with you. Down here they seem tangled. But up there, he is working from the right side. Friend, what may seem like a tangled mess in your life, God in his sovereignty will use it to bring glory in the end to his son Jesus Christ. There are no mistakes in God's plan. The life that he has you living right now, he intends for you to live. And when you get to heaven, when you get to the throne room, you are gonna look back at your life and you are gonna say, yes. That is exactly the life that I should have led. Everything you chose for me was right because you are using it and have used it to glorify yourself. Friends, be comforted with that today. If you feel like God is distant or your present circumstances aren't what you would have chosen. Be comforted with this fact that the story is not over yet. The ending to the story is far greater than you and I could ever possibly imagine. God's predictions always come true, and we see that his prediction to return to his people also included a messenger to prepare his way. Scene 2. Preparation In verses 4 to 8, we're introduced to this long-awaited messenger who would prepare the way for God's long-awaited arrival. And in verse 4, we learn that his name was John. We know him today as John the Baptist. Well, sometime around the year 30 A. D. , this John the Baptist exploded onto the national scene He exploded onto national scene. He was what we would call a rock star. Not in his lifestyle. Not in his lifestyle, but certainly in his popularity. Look at verse five. It says all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to see him. This guy was straight up famous. And like a lot of famous people in our culture, John had a unique sense of style and a unique diet. Look at verse 6. He wore clothing made of camel's hair with a leather belt, and he ate locusts and wild honey. Now, as odd as his attire and diet may have been, Mark isn't drawing our attention to it for no reason, right? John's outfit and his diet bear a striking resemblance to one particular Old Testament prophet. Any of the kids want to shout out who they think that Old Testament prophet might be, who wore camel's hair and had a leather belt. And ate wild honey and locusts. Who is it? What Old Testament prophet does he resemble? Who wore specifically this same outfit? Lois? Lois, well done. Elijah! Elijah! Right? And it's important that Mark draws our attention to this because in the Old Testament, after the prophet Elijah was taken up to heaven. God predicted in the Old Testament that he would send Elijah to prepare the world for his arrival. And John the Baptist is this Elijah-like messenger. So even later in the Gospel of Mark, John will say, or Jesus will say about John, he is Elijah. He is the one who will prepare the way to come. And like the prophets of old, John's message to the people of Israel was one of repentance. All throughout the Old Testament, when you open up the prophets, what you hear the prophets saying If we're going to summarize it, you can often open up the books and they seem odd. It's hard to figure out what's going on. But what you see the prophets doing is they're saying to the people of Israel, stop turning away from the Lord. Return to him. Stop continuing to abandon his ways. Return to God. And that's what John is doing here. He's lining himself up with the prophets of old. So after the 400 years of silence, God has broken through the silence with a prophet of his own to prepare the way for his son. And notice as we look at these verses that John was preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. He had a baptism of repentance. As far as we know, the baptisms that John performed were unique in Israel at this time. And while they may have been unique, A unique idea of cleaning oneself with water, the idea of cleaning oneself with water to an Israelite would not have been that unique Right? So they didn't practice baptism, but they did practice all manner of ceremonial washings. And they would use these washings to clean themselves before they went into the temple. To be present before God. So they recognized that they had to they had to clean themselves. They had to prepare themselves to go into God's presence. But what is shocking about John's baptism is he's saying to them, because they are coming to him in the wilderness, and he's baptizing people out in the wilderness. away from the established religion of the day. He's saying your established religion and your ceremonial washings are meaningless. Because you clean your hands to go into the presence of the Lord, and then your lives are just marked by sin. These things should not be. And he's calling them out into the wilderness for a fuller cleansing, to point them forward to the day when God would come and baptize them with the Holy Spirit. He's saying, all your ceremonial washings are ineffective. You need to turn back from your empty ways, turn to follow God. Right? The word repent. That's what repentance means Repent has fallen on hard times in our culture, hasn't it? That word? Right? Because I think when you hear the word repentance in our culture, what I think of is the guy who drives the truck down by the Capitol. It's the This red, really beat up pickup truck, everything is painted red. I think he's trying to communicate like hell is coming. It's real it's It's not a great witness. And every all the boards connected to his truck say repent like repent exclamation point. Hellfire, hellfire. Right? That's what we think of when we think of repentance today. And there is a sense in the Bible in which repentance is meant to be communicated with sobriety, but repentance in the Bible is also filled with beautiful imagery. Right, when we hear repentance in the Bible, we should think of a child who has wandered from home, recognizes the foolishness of their ways, and returns to their family. The prodigal son is a beautiful story of Repentance. So what does it mean to repent? It means to turn. Right? I'm going this way. God calls me to turn. I got to turn this way. I need to go back to him. So when you're calling people to repent, you're calling people to return to the Lord. And if you're here and you're wanting to know what it means to follow Jesus, there may be no better word for you to understand than repentance. Without repentance, there is no true faith and there is no true forgiveness. The Bible is clear that someone can say they're a Christian all they want, but unless there's an active turning from sin, And a pursuing of God in their life, then their profession of faith, according to Jesus, isn't genuine. And that means there is no true forgiveness God is not fooled by superficial professions of faith. He knows our heart. He knows the condition of our heart. He sees what's going on. He knows who's truly turned from their sins and who hasn't. And according to Jesus Only those who've truly turned are forgiven. Repentance. Repentance means recognizing that you've sinned against God. It means recognizing that I can't clean myself. I need you to do it, God. And the people in our passage are a wonderful illustration of that Why do you think they came to John? They recognized they were dirty. And they recognized they needed to be made clean. And when they came, look at verse 5. Notice how they came. They came confessing. Their sins. And as they came confessing their sins, John gave them great encouragement that the Son of God, who was coming, would have the power to cleanse them of all their sins. Notice in verse 8 how he says, I have baptized you with water. But he, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. This baptism of the Holy Spirit It's just another piece of evidence that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. Because in the Old Testament, God alone could baptize people with the Holy Spirit. John is likely even reflecting here on Ezekiel chapter 36, Ezekiel the prophet, when God promised to give his spirit to his people so that they would be moved to follow him. But what I want us to take note of before we move on is John and his humility. Right? John certainly seemed to have a ridiculously successful ministry, didn't he? He'd been chosen by God to be the first prophet, the last prophet before Jesus, and the first one in 400 years He'd been called to prepare the way for the arrival of the Son of God. And thousands, thousands of people were flocking to him. And yet with all that success, he never got a big head. He never got full of himself. He says right here, I baptize you with water, but one who is coming after me is greater than me. Oh, I cannot even untie the strap of his sandal. The power of humility in that statement may not land on us the way that it should because we are so far removed from the culture that John lived in Right? To take off someone's shoe or sandal was an utterly humiliating task because of how filthy people's feet were back then when they walked around the streets that were filled with dirt and animal stuff. Right? It was a task reserved for the lowest of servants. Yet this rock star pastor, this celebrity preacher, John says, I'm not even worthy to do that for the one who is coming. Now, friend, you recognize that as a follower of Christ, this life is not about you making much of yourself. This church is not about us making much of ourselves. My preaching is not about me making much of myself. We are all supposed to be going like this. It's him, not us. It's about Jesus and not us. This is a type of humility that should mark all people who are in the ministry of the word. We are merely messengers. One pastor summed up John's ministry in three words. Not me, him. That's a great summary of John's ministry. Not me, him. When William Carey, who was a great missionary to India in the 1800s, was dying, he was visited by another missionary named Alexander Duff, and they spent some time talking And Duff spent time talking with Carrie about his life as a missionary and all the great things that he had done. And finally, the dying Carrie, as he was on his deathbed, said to Alexander Duff, Pray, pray for us. So the man knelt down, prayed, and then got up to leave. And as he was walking out of the room, the dying carry spoke up and got his attention one last time, and he said, You said much in your prayer about me. When I am gone, say nothing about me. Speak only about my Savior. That's the type of humility that God is calling us to. This life is not a place for us to hold up our accomplishments. We're not supposed to put on our tombstones after we live all the great things that we did. Our lives are supposed to point to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let that humility mark you in the week to come. That should be the summary of our lives as well. Not me, him This is not about us, but about Jesus Christ, because Jesus is the one who was predicted would come. Jesus is the one who John prepared the way for, and Jesus, as we'll now see, is the one Who is identified as God's true son. Scene three. Identification You'll notice that Mark has structured these verses in such a way that he's leaving no room for us to mistake who is who, right? So verses two and three, you have the prediction of the messenger to come, and then John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness. He is the messenger. And then John says, one who is coming after me, who is mightier than I, I baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee. I'm not leaving any room for any mistaking who's who here. John is the messenger. Jesus is the Son of God. Right? That's what John wants to do. Mark, Mark isn't mincing any words in what he's doing here. Jesus arrives. Jesus is baptized in verses 9 to 11. And as he's baptized, some utterly wild stuff happens. Look at verse 10. When Jesus comes up out of the water, what happens? The heavens are torn. In the Old Testament, the image of the heavens being torn open is always associated with God returning to the earth. So Mark is drawing on Isaiah chapter 64 here, chapter 64, verse 1. He's drawing on Psalm 144. If you want to read that this afternoon, bow the heavens, O Lord, and return to the earth. It's where both Isaiah and David call on God to part the heavens and to come down to restore justice on the earth. Then, as the heavens are torn open, what happens? The Spirit descends on Jesus like a dove. Mark is drawn on a number of images from the Old Testament, right? He's bringing to mind first and foremost the creation account. In Genesis chapter 1, where the spirit hovered over the waters. Then in the account of the flood, right? What bird does Noah send out in search of dry land? A dove. And not just the accounts from Genesis, but Jesus here is clearly the Spirit-endowed Messiah from the book of Isaiah. Jesus, the Spirit-endowed Messiah, is bringing about a new creation. That's what's going on here. A new creation is coming about in the life of Jesus. And then the confirmation keeps going. The climax comes in verse 11 when the Father speaks from heaven. You are my beloved Son. With you I am well pleased. Beloved son of God. Mark is calling to mind here, the nation of Israel, right? After they were rescued out of Egypt and brought out into the wilderness, God referred to the nation of Israel as what? His beloved son. Israel was brought out of Egypt, passed through the waters of the Red Sea, and God called them his son Jesus goes down into the waters of baptism, comes up out of them, and after he passes through the waters, God pronounces him my beloved son. You'll also recall that in the Old Testament, after Israel passed through the Red Sea, they went out into the wilderness where they were tempted by Satan, and they failed. And that's why Mark immediately transitions us to verses 12 and 13 to prove that Jesus is God's true Son. Immediately after his baptism, he comes up out of the waters. He's led further into the wilderness to do battle with Satan. But you see the parallels here. Jesus is the new Israel. Jesus is God's beloved Son. And if you're familiar with the other gospel accounts, you know that they give a lot more time to the temptation period where Jesus is tempted by Satan. But we know the one thing from those accounts, that Jesus is victorious over Satan. Where Israel failed against Satan in the wilderness, Jesus succeeded. Right, these first 13 verses in Mark's gospel are loaded, loaded with massive fulfillments of the Old Testament storyline, and they all They all come to fruition in the life of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the one who the messenger would prepare the way for Jesus is the answer for the heavens to be parted and for God to come down. Jesus is the Spirit-endowed Messiah bringing about a new creation. Jesus is the Son of God who after passing through the waters of baptism went out into the wilderness and defeated Satan. This is the finale of the fireworks show at the very beginning. Mark loves fireworks, right? And he's he's front-loaded his gospel with the finale. So that you don't miss. We don't miss who Jesus is. Jesus is the Son of God. Now you may say, wow, that that's amazing. That's amazing. What on earth does that mean for me today? That's a good question if you're asking it. Here's what I think it means for you. If you look at the accounts of John the Baptist's ministry in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, you'll see that Mark does not include John's teaching that the one who was coming after him was bringing judgment. Mark doesn't include that. And that's because Mark wants us to see the grace and mercy of Jesus. in this account. Here's what I mean. Do you notice how prominent the wilderness is in this passage? A voice of one crying in the wilderness. John came baptizing in the wilderness. Jesus came to the wilderness. Jesus was sent to the wilderness. John's ministry was there. The people had come to Him. The wilderness was a place loaded with symbolism from Israel's history. You see, when we think of wilderness, you know, when I think of wilderness, what comes what comes to mind for me is the northwest. Like big, gigantic trees, huge mountains, rushing rivers, fish, bears, a place that's teeming with life. That's not the wilderness in the Bible. In the Bible, the wilderness surrounding Israel was a place of utter barrenness. You should be thinking the badlands of Utah, Nevada, if you've ever seen pictures of those. It's a place where life cannot, does not exist. It's a place devoid of life, a place of hunger and thirst and loneliness. It's a place where God strips away every pretense that man can provide for himself. And he does it in order to show us that he alone provides It's the place where hope goes to die. I wonder if there are things in your life that you've been putting your hope in. And they just seem to not be providing the fulfillment that you thought they would. Maybe it's a job that just isn't bringing meaning to life like you thought it would. Maybe it's a difficult marriage that seems hopeless. Maybe you've lost someone Or someone you know has been given terrible news about their health. A place where hope dies, certain problems with a child of yours, or maybe just maybe life just isn't what you thought it would be. Maybe you just feel hopeless. If that's you, this is what I think the wilderness means for you. I want you to be comforted by what Mark is teaching us here, and that's this. If you are in a spiritual wilderness right now, you are in exactly the place that you need to be for God to reveal himself to you. This is exactly what's going on here. He's going to show you that you don't have the ability to provide for yourself, but that he does. And he won't leave you. He won't leave you to die in the wilderness. If you turn to him and call out to him to rescue you, he will show up. up because John called for people to come. And did you see who came to the wilderness? In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee. Jesus does not leave his people in the wilderness alone. He comes to the wilderness to be together with them. With them. Jesus, God in the flesh, came to the wilderness and he came to identify with the broken and the repentant. He came to identify with those who confessed that they needed him. That's the point of Jesus' baptism. Jesus isn't being baptized because he needs to be cleansed of sin. Jesus is baptizing because he's saying, I'm going down into the waters with all my people who go down into the waters. I will share in their struggles. I will share in their brokenness. What does Hebrews say about him? How he personally identifies with his people? He is a sympathetic high priest. Those same waters that you have gone into, I will go into, he says. Those same sins that you're tempted by, I will also be tempted by He knows your struggles. He knows your sins. And what is good news for you and I today is that he overcame Satan. And through Christ and in Christ, we also will overcome Satan. Oh, this wouldn't be. This is what's amazing about this scene. This wouldn't be the last time that Jesus would personally identify with his people. No, in his three-year ministry, what would he do? He would spend his time with sinners. He would spend his time with the broken, with the needy. He would heal the lame. He would heal the blind. He would heal lepers. And he would do this to show them how gracious and merciful and powerful he is. And yet shockingly, these acts of love were met with hate. A small group at first plotted to kill him, and then they convinced a larger number of people to join with them in murdering him. Yet, as we'll see in Mark's gospel, Jesus knew this would happen. He predicted it would happen. And he predicted that it would happen in order To prepare the way. To prepare the way for him to identify with his people in a way that none of us could ever fathom. Because Jesus taught that as He just as he identified with the sins of His people by being baptized, He would identify with the sins of His people by taking the punishment for our sins on the cross. In his flesh, in his body, he bore the wrath and punishment for our sins. And he paid our debt completely, totally, so that we could be cleansed and forgiven. If you're here today and you don't follow Jesus, I want you to know that if you turn to Jesus, if you confess your sins and you follow him, he will not be ashamed of you. He will identify with you. He will love you. And we know that three days after he was murdered, Jesus rose from the dead. He was seen by hundreds of people. We need to deal with this evidence. He was seen by hundreds of people. And his resurrection served as further proof of his identification, that he truly was the Son of God. And we know then that Jesus ascended into heaven. Like the USS Jeanette, he went to a place where he could no longer be seen. Which brings me back to Emma DeLong. Those days that turned into months and the months that turned into years finally turned into the heartbreaking news that her husband had not spoken. And while that story is heartbreaking, we need to recognize that story and all other stories are part of a larger story. The one that God is writing. And even though Christ sailed off to a place where he cannot be seen, we can be certain that we will hear from God. him again. He has predicted his return. He is preparing the way for his return, even now as we tell others about him. And when he returns, he He is returning to make all things new. And when he returns, he will identify with his people once again. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you and we give you thanks that when you speak, we can trust your word. We praise you, Father, that regardless of the thousands of years that may pass between your promises occurring and when they are actually fulfilled, we know that to you a day is like a thousand years and a thousand years are like a day. Oh Father, help us to be patient and to wait on you. Help us to prepare the way by telling others about Jesus Christ. And we look forward today, Lord Jesus When you return and you identify with your people, help us to hold fast to that today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's right for God's people to identify with the Lord Jesus by singing songs of praise to him. And we're going to close our time by glorying in, singing praises to our great Redeemer. And we'll do that in our final hymn or our next song on page 7 in your bulletins. I will glory in my redeemer. Let's stand together and sing.