As we think about the passage this morning, I am reminded, as I'm sure you all are, of the 1984 NBA draft. With a third pick in the 1984 NBA draft, the Chicago Bulls selected Michael Jordan from the University of North Carolina. The Bulls had been a pretty dismal organization for some time, and they were hoping that Jordan would help them improve and perhaps become a key player in their organization in the years to come. Jordan obviously would do much more than that. He didn't just become a key player, he became the greatest player in basketball history, which I maintain to this day. He entered into a league full of stars, and he became the biggest, brightest, shining star by a mile. Even the greatest players like Magic and Bird in the league at the time told stories about his greatness and his status as the greatest was proved by his record. Between 1991 and 1998, over the course of seven seasons, Jordan led the Bulls to six championships, in which he was named the NBA Final MVP six times. If you're thinking to yourself, John, six times in seven years, well, he wasn't perfect because he didn't win seven. That's correct. But the one year he didn't win a championship was because he didn't play basketball that year. Six times he appeared in the finals, six times he won the finals, and six times he won MVP. He was, in other words, transcendent. He was supreme. He was preeminent in the NBA, which made the owners of the Bulls decision. To move on from Michael Jordan and not sign him to another deal in the 98-99 season, one of the worst decisions in sports ownership history. The owners of the Bulls thought they could move on from Michael and still achieve the same type of success they had with him. And they were wrong. The team and organization crumbled after moving on from him and have, for the most part, Been a losing organization since then. There have been a few bright spots, but nothing like what they achieved with Jordan I want you to go ahead and turn with me to Colossians 1, verses 15 to 20. I bring up that story because it is a small illustration of the situation that was facing the Colossian church. After having believed in Jesus for salvation from sin, the Colossians were being taught by false teachers that they needed to move on from Jesus. To find spiritual fullness in things other than him. And so Paul pens one of the most majestic passages in the New Testament about the preeminence of Jesus To teach the Colossians that there is nowhere else and no one else who can provide the salvation The wisdom, the sanctification, the fullness, the spiritual fullness they need, because there is no one else who is preeminent over all things like Jesus. I want you to go ahead and look down at the passage. I'm going to read it for us now. This is Colossians 1, verses 15 to 20, and this is God's word. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities All things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things. And in him all things hold together And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven. Making peace by the blood of his cross. There are few passages in the New Testament that compare with this one in its description of the exalted status of Jesus Christ. You can't miss it, right? Paul reels off Exalted description after exalted description of Jesus' identity, his nature, his status, and his works, and then he tells us why he is telling us all these things about Jesus. Look at verse 18 again. Paul is putting the final touches on Jesus' resume, and he says, and he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything. He might be preeminent. Paul, Paul, why are you telling us all these things about Jesus Because I want to impress upon you Jesus' greatness, his transcendence, his supremacy, his preeminence over all things. There is simply no one greater than Jesus, and so continue believing in Him Don't move on from him. There are no other saviors. There are no other gods. If you move on from him, you will be lost. The point of verses 15 to 20 is to teach us Jesus' preeminence over all things. And by all things, Paul means over all of creation and all of new creation, the church, and the life and kingdom to come. This week we're going to look at Jesus' preeminence over creation, and next week we're going to look at Jesus' preeminence over the new creation. So I want us to look now at what Paul teaches us about Jesus in order to prove that he is preeminent over all creation. And we see four things basically. We're going to look at each and then consider what they mean for us. The first thing Paul tells us to prove Jesus' preeminence over all things is that he is the image of the invisible God. And Paul is making an obvious and clear connection with Genesis 1 here, where we're told that mankind is made in the image of God. Genesis 1. 26 and following says, then God said, let us make man in our image. After our likeness. So God created man in his own image. Over and over we are told that mankind is made in the image of God. That we are made in his image presses home the distinction between God and man. We are made in his image. And so in certain ways, mankind reflects God's nature. We were to be portraits of God, mirrors reflecting the attributes of God. to the world, but we were not and are not God. We are made in the image of God. That tiny two-letter preposition in The image of God communicates to us an uncrossable chasm between God and man. He is divine. We are human. He is the creator, and we are the creatures. We are made in his image. We are replicas in a sense. But Jesus is no replica, he is the original. He is not made in the image of God. He is the image of God. So whereas mankind, Adam and Eve, are the sculpture, he is the model. Whereas Adam and Eve were shadows, he is the substance. Whereas Adam and Eve were depictions, he is the living God. The invisible nature and attributes of the living God have been made visible in Jesus Christ, he is the image fully and completely. But that's not all, Paul tells us to prove his preeminence. Look again at verse 15, at the second thing Paul tells us to prove Jesus' preeminence. He is also the firstborn of all creation. In the third century, a pastor, Christian pastor, he was at understood himself to be at the time, he would since be called a heretic. In the third century, a pastor by the name of Arius Began teaching that Jesus was not God, but that instead he was the first of God's creations. And so while exalted, He didn't share equality with God. And one of the places that in Scripture Arius would turn is Colossians 1, verse 15. But it's not just Arius in the third century who made this mistake. Even today. Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons make the same mistake, claiming that Jesus is a created being and relying on verses like this one. to make their case. But that is the last thing Paul is teaching about Jesus in this verse. We need to understand the way that the Bible uses the term Firstborn to understand what Paul is teaching about Jesus. In Scripture, the term firstborn can refer to the first child born to a family But it's also used to describe someone who was not born first in their family, who is being who is having ascribed to them supremacy, rank, preeminence, and power. So for instance. In Psalm 89, verse 27, God says about King David, I will make him the firstborn. The highest of the kings of the earth. For the kids out there, can you tell me? Was David the firstborn child in his family? You can yell it out. Was David the firstborn child in his family? No, he was the last. Also for the kids, was David the first king in Israel? No, he was the second, right? God gave to David a place of preeminence, rank, authority, and supremacy among all the kings of the earth, even though David wasn't the firstborn in his family, nor is he the first King of Israel. He was the second. But God gives to him, he calls to him. He is the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. He received preeminence, rank, and authority from God. And that is what Paul is saying about Jesus. Not only is he the very image of God, he is the ranking, ruling, supreme, and preeminent king of all creation. And how does Paul go on to show that Jesus is the firstborn king of all creation? The third thing he tells us to prove Jesus' preeminence over creation, he tells us that Jesus is the creator of everything. Look at verse 16. For by him all things were created. Everything in heaven, up there, and on earth. That's the universe and all that is in it Not only that, Jesus created everything that's visible and invisible. And by invisible, Paul means: look at verse 16: thrones, dominions, rulers, and authorities Elsewhere in the New Testament, these refer to personal, fallen, angelic beings who are opposed to God and his people. And Paul wants us to know that Jesus created them too. Jesus is supreme over the entire angelic realm, the entire spiritual realm. The entire physical realm, the entire universe, and all that is in it. Right? Whenever we go to the store and we buy products, you turn the product over, if it's a shirt or a piece of clothing, you pull the tag out. And it will tell us where it's made, right? Made in the USA, made in in China, and so on. Everything and all of creation From the cat's eye nebula to pulsars and quasars, to the earth and every creature in it All of creation, if you pulled the tag on it, says, made by Jesus. And because he made all, he owns all. And because he owns all, he rules all There are no borders or boundaries that limit the exercise of his authority. There is nowhere to seek asylum from him. And in order to press home this reality that Jesus created all and is therefore supreme over all, Paul repeats himself. Look at the end of verse 16. Visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, he says again, all things were created through him and for him This is why Abraham Kuiper famously said: There is not a square inch in the whole domain of our human existence over which Christ, who is sovereign over all, does not cry, mine. Mine. Mine, mine. All of it is his. But Paul isn't done yet listing off the son's accolades. Not only is he the image of God, the firstborn preeminent creator of creation, the last thing he tells us to prove his preeminence over creation is that he is also the eternal sustainer of all creation. Look at verse 17. And he is before all things. Put all things into a box, and Jesus won't be in that box. He is outside of that box. He made everything in that box. He is before all things. Or to put it In Jesus' words, in the Gospel of John, before Abraham was, I am. He is the everlasting God. Who existed from eternity past in an ever-present state of being, the I am Fullness of life, without change, boundless, free, eternally existent. This is the Lord Jesus Christ. But not only is he before all things, look again at verse 17. In him all things hold together. Apart from Christ, nothing exists. And apart from Christ, nothing continues to exist. He is the universal superglue the ever-present gardener tending to his cosmic vineyard, and apart from his constant attention, our cosmos would turn to chaos, the orbiting of the earth around the sun. The falling of the rain, gravity, the hydrologic cycle, laws of thermodynamics and entropy, and millions of other processes that are still undiscovered by us. Are at work this very moment because he is manifesting his supreme, preeminent, eternal, sustaining of all things. He is holding all things together He is the image of the invisible God, sharing fully in the divine nature and every divine attribute. He is the firstborn creator of all creation. The eternally existent God who presently sustains all things, so that in everything he might be preeminent Now, if you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, some of this may be surprising to you When I became a Christian ten years ago, I thought I knew basically what there was to know about Jesus. But passages like this took me by total surprise. I had no idea that Christians understand that Jesus created the universe. Things like that. But of all the surprising things we learn about him in this passage, There's one thing you might have missed that I think you should consider today. If you have your Bible in front of you, look back with me at verse 16. That's where Paul tells us that Jesus created all things. Notice what Paul says at the end of that verse. He says, all things were created through him and For him, you were made for him You were made to love him, trust him, walk with him, glorify him. We all were. But none of us has lived for him as we should. After our first parents, Adam and Eve, made the unbelievable choice to tell God, no thanks, we'll live for ourselves. Sin and all of its terrible effects came into the world. And one of the worst effects is that we all live for ourselves instead of him. And that is why he came into the world to die. By his perfect life and death and his resurrection, he is reconciling us to God and restoring us. to God, causing us to be born again by his Spirit so that we can live for Him. But to receive that reconciliation and to be restored by his spirit, you need to repent. You need to consciously, rationally choose to stop living for yourselves And turn to live for God through Jesus Christ, to trust in Him. Just see what this passage is telling you about Jesus. He is eminently worthy of your trust. He is the king of all creation. And for the teens who are here, I want you to consider this as well. You were made for Jesus. That's why you're alive. You were made for him. Paul's going to go on to say in chapter 2 that in Jesus are hidden all of the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. That's that sounds that's one of those things that when I read it, I'm like, wow, awesome. What does that even mean? In him are hidden all of the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. What that means is if you want to understand this world correctly and how you should live in it, It will only come through a living relationship with the preeminent Jesus, who will share with you his wisdom and knowledge by which he created all things. I want you to imagine some something silly with me for a minute if you're if you're teen or pre-teen here. I want you to imagine with me that I take a shaving razor. You know, one of those razors used to shave my face. Instead of using it to shave, I try and clean our our wood floors with it. What's gonna happen to our floors? They're gonna get destroyed. So is the razor, right? They're both gonna get ruined. Why? Because that is not what the razor was made for. When used rightly, the razor accomplishes its purposes. When used wrongly, it gets ruined, and so does whatever it touches. What's the point? You were not made for sin. When you sin, you are living contrary to your purposes. And by sin, you ruin yourself and whatever you touch, like that razor. You were made for Jesus. You were made to live for Him, to glorify Him. Think about it, right? The creator of the thing tells the person trying to use the thing how to use it. We took our lives and we're like, you know, we're going to just throw away the instructions and do it ourselves. And God's like, no, read the instructions. Read the instructions. This is how life is going to go well for you. In him, Jesus, are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. You want to know how you're supposed to live in the world, what you were made for. Look to him Listen to him. You were made for him. Let him teach you how to live in this world so that you can fulfill the purposes for which you were made And all of us need to consider the preeminence of Christ. Paul wants us to know there is no one greater, no one more supreme, more preeminent than Jesus. He wants us to know that if we think we'll find spiritual fullness after moving on from him, we are sorely mistaken. And moving on from him and seeking spiritual fullness and things other than him is something we're all tempted to do, isn't it? And some of us are tempted, just like the Colossians, to move on from trusting in Jesus to find spiritual fullness in your own obedience to God's commands. You don't need Jesus to save you, you'll save yourself. Thank you very much. The danger of moving on from Jesus to find spiritual fullness in your own obedience is that it fills you with the false fullness of religious pride and self-righteousness. That's if you think you're doing well. If you try to live by your own obedience and you do poorly, that will fill you with fear and anxiety, self-hatred. Right? You will not find spiritual fullness in your own obedience. And suddenly over time you stop trusting in Jesus and start trusting in yourself. I wonder if you find yourself looking down on others Judging others for their behavior or decisions. Maybe you think you have more in common with Jesus than you do with other Christians. These may be signs that you've moved on from Jesus to find fullness in your own obedience rather than in Christ Now, there's nothing wrong with obedience, it's a good thing, but obedience that honors the Lord is obedience that flows out of the fullness that comes from recognizing you could do nothing to save yourself. And that you were so far gone that it took the preeminent king of all creation to leave heaven, come down to earth, and die on a cross to save you from your sins. That should just be proof enough. No, you could not save yourself. You need him. And he offers himself to you fully in all of his preeminence. Others of us may be tempted to find fullness in religious knowledge. You've traded the fullness of knowing Jesus for knowing all about Jesus Pride yourself on having the right doctrine or knowing all the right answers. But what happens is your relationship with Jesus has been reduced to a set of facts about Jesus. You may find yourself looking down on others for not knowing as much about the faith, but this too is a false fullness that feeds the ego and breeds contempt for other people. The person with true religious knowledge not only knows that they are nothing before the Lord, but their knowledge results in a genuine humility and gentleness towards others who are still growing in the faith. And like obedience, knowing right doctrine is good. Growing in understanding the faith is good, but not as an end in itself. True religious knowledge is that which drives us further into the fullness of the preeminent person of Christ. Who died to reconcile us to a living and active relationship with God Himself. And still others of us are tempted to move on from Jesus to find fullness in this world. Whether it's in acquiring more stuff or pursuing physical comfort and pleasure, these temptations are all around us But when we give in to this subtle temptation, we're actually trading the fullness of knowing the preeminent giver of the gifts for being filled with the lesser glory of the gifts themselves. Right, the path of finding fullness in the stuff of this world is littered with the spiritual corpses of all who've walked it. It is literally a road to nowhere because this world is not an end in itself. The created world should draw our eyes upward to the glorious and supreme creator of the world, who is Christ, so that we would worship not the gifts, but the giver. So that we would find our fullness not in things, but in him. He is the image of the invisible God. He is the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible. All things were made through him and for him, and in him all things pulled together So that in everything he might be preeminent. Move on from Jesus Move on from Jesus to find fullness somewhere else? To whom, I ask you, will we move on to? Let's pray. Holy Father. We are a people who are constantly wandering, looking to other things to find fullness. We pray that you would forgive us for that We pray that you would impress upon our hearts the true majesty. We know this from a human perspective. We see kings and rulers arrayed in all their glory, and we think, wow! Help us to look upward to the Lord Jesus Christ arrayed in all his glory. And to think even more than wow. Help us to give our lives to him, to live for him as we were made to do. Grant us your spirit to do this, we pray, that we would find all of our fullness in him, for he is preeminent over everything. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen