Well, good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with you and to have this opportunity to open up God's Word together. I'm going to lead us in a brief word of prayer, and then we will begin. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we give you thanks. We give you thanks because your works testify to your power and all of your wisdom. And we give you thanks that your word reveals to us your special plan of redemption and how we might be saved from our sins and find rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. Open our eyes and our hearts now to receive your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. What do you find praiseworthy in this world? What are the types of things that so fill you with gratitude that you overflow with praise? What are the types of things that you think are so so wonderful, so glorious and awesome that you can't help but but point them out, talk about them and and tell others about them? Like this thing is amazing. I want you to know about this. I want you to see this. Maybe it's a sports highlight. Some amazing act of athleticism. Maybe it's something like El Capitan in Yosemite National Park or the Grand Canyon, something awesome in nature, something awe-inspiring that is praiseworthy. Maybe it's a story about someone sacrificing themselves for the good of another, some act of heroism or selflessness, or for the boys in the room. Maybe it's dude perfect. And they're amazing trick shots, right? After they make the shot, you run around screaming like, I can't believe he just made that. I want you all to see this. What do you find praiseworthy in this world? I ask because our psalm this morning is about some things that are worthy of our praise. And they're not just on par with sports highlights or the beauty of nature or acts of heroism or dude perfect. No, our psalm directs our attention To some things that are worthy of ultimate praise. Every day, all day praise. And what are those things? Well, I'd like us to find out together, so please turn with me in your Bible to Psalm 92. If you're using the Bible we've provided, you'll find Psalm 92, and I have a note on my page that says on page X, because I didn't find out what page it's on in the Bible in your seeds. What page is it on? 498, if you're using the Bible that's in the seat nearby, I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage, and then we'll look at it more closely. This is God's word. A song the Sabbath It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High. To declare your steadfast love in the morning and your faithfulness by night, to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre. For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work. At the works of your hands I sing for joy. How great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep The stupid man cannot know. The fool cannot understand this: that though the wicked sprout like grass, and all evildoers flourish, They are doomed to destruction forever. But you, O Lord, are on high forever For behold, your enemies, O Lord. For behold, your enemies shall perish. All evildoers shall be scattered But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. You have poured over me fresh oil. My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies. My ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants. The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord They flourish in the courts of our God. They still bear fruit in old age. They are ever full of sap and green to declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him If you're taking notes, I think the main point of Psalm 92 that it teaches us is that every day and all day We should praise God for his mighty work of redemption. If you're taking notes, uh I I normally would have a number of points to work through the sermon. But I don't have the same type of structure that I normally would. What I plan to do is just teach through the psalm, explaining what it would have meant in its original context. Then I want us to see how wonderfully this psalm is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And then we're going to talk a little bit about what that means for us. So let's go ahead and look at the psalm together. And I want to encourage you for the type that opens the Bible for the reading and then closes it. I want to encourage you to open have it open before you uh for the whole sermon because we're going to be referencing the text often. And especially as we're thinking about how it's fulfilled in Christ, wants you to see it there for yourself. So I think the first thing that we should notice about this psalm is that the author tells us When this psalm was to be used. Look at the superscription again. This psalm is a psalm for the Sabbath The Sabbath was the most important day of the week in ancient Israel. After God saved Israel out of slavery in Egypt, he gave them his law, the Ten Commandments. And one of the commandments that they were called to obey as his people was to remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. I just want to pause real quick and ask the kids a question if I can get your attention. Teens or kids, can you tell me What were the Israelites not supposed to do on the Sabbath? Just raise your hand if you know the answer. We'll go Jack up front. They weren't supposed to work. The Sabbath was to be a day of rest. So they were to rest. But teens and kids, I'm just asking another question, as they were resting on the Sabbath, what else were they supposed to do? What was that day to be used for? Dorothy in the back. Praising God. Yes, the psalm tells us to do. The Sabbath was to be a day of rest and worship, a day of rest and remembrance. God commanded the Israelites to take one day a week to rest from their physical labors and remember what God had done for them. And in Deuteronomy chapter 5, Moses tells the people exactly what they should remember on the Sabbath. What should we be remembering, Moses, on the Sabbath? You shall remember. That you were a slave in the land of Egypt. And the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day The Sabbath day was to be a day of worship when the people of Israel remembered God's mighty work of redemption and responded in praise. For his glorious salvation. And that's what we find in Psalm 92, this song for the Sabbath It's a pattern of sorts for how the people of Israel were to worship God on the Sabbath and what they were to think about and do. And what should their worship of God on the Sabbath have consisted of? I want you to look with me at verse 1. They were to give thanks to God. They were to spend time expressing their gratitude and their gratefulness to God for all that He had done for them in rescuing them out of Egypt. And that thanks was to overflow into song. Look at the second half of verse one. To sing praise, to sing praise to your name. O Most High. And we see that in verse 3, we see that those songs were to be accompanied by a variety of instruments. So on the Sabbath day, what's envisioned here is the people of Israel gathering. To play beautiful music and sing songs of praise and thanks to God. But what are they giving thanks and praise for? Look at verse 2 They were to declare God's steadfast love in the morning and his faithfulness by night, morning and evening The Sabbath was to be an all-day affair of songs and praise about the steadfast love and faithfulness of God. The steadfast love and faithfulness of God are an aspect of his special covenant love towards his specially chosen people, Israel. They were to sing about God's covenant love for them. After God rescued Israel out of Egypt and gave Moses his law that formed the basis of his covenant with them, he then revealed to Moses his name, which is to say, he revealed his nature, his character, and his power by revealing his name to Moses. And this is what he said about himself. The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God. slow to anger and abounding, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Out of all the nations on earth, God chose the nation of Israel to make his very own people, a people who would know and experience his steadfast love and faithfulness. A love that he showed them by rescuing them from Egypt, and that he would continue to show them by forgiving them when they sinned against him. And that's what fills the psalmist with gladness and joy. Look at verse 4. You have made me glad by your work At the works of your hands I sing for joy. And then again in verse 5, how great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep. Now, in the Old Testament, the works of God's hands can sometimes refer to God's awesome power revealed in the created world, in nature. So if you were to look at Psalm 8, which we're not going to do now, you would see the phrase used that way there. When I look at the works of your hands, O Lord. Lord, what is man that you are mindful of? And that's that's Psalm 8. But I don't think that's how the phrase is being used here. One, because of the reference to God's steadfast love and faithfulness, which is an expression of his saving, redeeming love for his people, but also because throughout the Old Testament, the works of God's hands refer more often to God's power displayed in salvation So if you want to look at examples later on today of this, you can look at Psalm 10 verse 12, Psalm 21, verse 8. Psalm 44, verse 2, or Psalm 109, verse 27, and there's many other places where the works of God's hands are his hand being revealed in redemption and salvation. The Israelites were to spend the Sabbath. Singing songs of praise to God for how God had saved them. And that focus on how God had saved them continues in verses 6 6 to 9, as the psalmist meditates on the fact that God, in saving them, will bring judgment on all who do evil. I want you to go ahead and look down at verses 6 to 9 with me. In verse 6, he describes those who do evil as the stupid man and the fool. Now it's really important for us to recognize that those descriptions have absolutely nothing to do with their cognitive abilities. Instead, these descriptions are indictments on their spiritual state. So if you were to look at Psalm chapter 14, we read that the fool says in his heart, there is no God. What makes him a fool? The fact that he denies the existence of God. It has nothing to do with his intellect. He may be a brilliant person, right? These people may be intelligent, even brilliant, according to the world standards. But because they've rejected God and refused to acknowledge his power, they walk around in spiritual darkness. And ignorance. They can't see the spiritual reality that is right in front of them. And what is that reality that's right in front of them? Judgment is coming. Look at verse 7. Even though the wicked sprout like grass and appear to be flourishing, appearances can be deceiving. Their flourishing is only temporary, but their destruction will be forever He repeats himself in verse 9. Look there. Yahweh's enemies will perish and be scattered. To be scattered is another way of saying they're gonna be exiled, exiled from God's presence forever for their rejection of his rule in their lives. And this His judgment of those who oppose him and reject him was to be cause for praise from the people of God on the Sabbath. They were to praise God for the fact that he wouldn't let sin go unpunished. That might seem like it might feel really uncomfortable, right? Because we recognize that that we also have sinned and we also have been spiritually darkened and uh could also be described as the foolish and and stupid man. But but it's right for God's people to praise him for his justice because it Didn't punish sin, he would be unjust. It is right and good for God's people to praise him for the fact that he will not let sin go unpunished. He will eventually bring about a perfect judgment on all who've done evil. Right? And that even though it seemed like the wicked got away with their schemes, we learn from Psalm 92, they would eventually experience true Ultimate and lasting justice and judgment. And it seems from Psalm 92 that that judgment Would be administered by the psalmist himself. Look at verse ten He says that God has exalted his horn like the horn of a wild ox. Throughout the Old Testament, animal horns symbolized power and salvation. The one whose horn has been exalted by God in the Old Testament is given power by God to secure the salvation of the people that he's seeking to secure the salvation of. And it seems this psalmist was not only did not only have his horn exalted by God, but he was also an anointed king. Look at the second half of verse 10. He says, You have poured over me fresh oil. Whenever a man assumed the throne in Israel, he was anointed with oil to show that God had chosen him and given him authority to lead the people of Israel. And we don't know if this was David or one of David's sons, the psalm doesn't tell us, but it does hint at the fact that there will be something different about how this king rules. Notice that God has poured over him fresh oil. To say he won't be anointed with the oil that the other kings of Israel were anointed with. There will be something new about this king and his kingdom. And what this exalted and anointed Psalmist king wants to focus our attention on is his victory over his enemies. Look at verse 11. My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies. My ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants. Do you notice a subtle shift there? In verses 6 to 9, these were God's enemies. But the psalmist so closely identifies with God that he describes them as. his enemies. And he has been completely victorious over his enemies In Israel, the welfare of the nation and people were directly tied to the success of the king. If he prospered, the nation prospered. If he failed, the nation failed It's no wonder then that after describing his victory over his enemies, that this exalted and anointed Psalmist king goes on to describe the flourishing of God's God's people. Look at verse 12. He says, the righteous flourish like the palm tree. He calls them the righteous. Jonathan already mentioned this. We just have to remember that in the Old Testament, the righteous aren't righteous. Because they were super holy and pious in and of themselves. In the Old Testament, the righteous are simply those who've trusted in Yahweh's promise to send a Savior who would crush the serpents. Head. The righteous are those who live by faith. And because they've trusted in Yahweh by faith, they flourish. Look at the images he uses. They flourish like the palm tree and grow strong like the cedars of Lebanon These images communicate abundance, vitality, and strength. And the reason that they flourish and grow strong is not because of their own strength, but because of where they're planted. Look at verse 13. They are planted in the house of the Lord and in the courts of our God. The house of the Lord and the courts of our God both refer to the temple. The place where God dwelled among the people of Israel. So these righteous who've trusted in Yahweh by faith, they grow strong and flourish because they trust in God and they dwell in his presence. And because they trust in God and dwell in his presence, they're spiritually fruitful. Look at verse 14. They bear fruit even in old age. Growing old doesn't prevent these saints from bearing fruit. They are ever, always full of sap and Green. What a glorious image that is. Planted in the house of the Lord. Even as their body fails and grows old, the inner man is always full of sap. and green spiritual abundance through faith and dwelling in the presence of the Lord. We shouldn't miss the imagery from Eden here. These Psalms are they're all drawing on what came earlier in the Old Testament. The images that they're using are drawn from the Old Testament. So when you see these images, you should think to yourself, he's making it sound like they've returned to Eden. And what was Eden? The lush green place that marked off the land in which God dwelled personally with his people They experienced his presence. There was spiritual and fruitful abundance around him. And now those images from Eden. Describe those who dwell in God's presence by faith. It's no wonder that these saints declare God's praises. Look at verse 15. They declare that the Lord is upright. He is just and righteous in all his ways. Looking back on the judgment of their enemies. Looking back on the judgment of those who do wicked and do evil, they are praising the fact that it's it's not them who's going to carry out judgment on the world. It's It's the Lord their God who's going to bring judgment because he is just and upright, righteous in all his ways. And the psalmist joins in the Sabbath praise, declaring that Yahweh is his rock. There is no unrighteousness in him. No shadow, no darkness, no hint of evil in the Most High God. On the Sabbath, the Israelites were to praise God for his salvation. They were to praise God for his just judgments And they were to praise God for the blessings he poured out on his people. That's the message of Psalm 92. I think if you were in Israel and the psalmist explained, hey, what's my point? That's what he would have said. This is the point for you Israelites and for me as an Israelite. This is what this psalm means for us. Every Sabbath, this is what we should be doing. The sad reality though, that the people of Israel never experienced the fullness of life that's held out in this psalm. They were never like palm trees and cedars, evergreen and always full of sap. While individual Israelites here and there were faithful to Yahweh, the nation as a whole could never be described this way. Neither could any of their kings say in any ultimate sense, My eyes have seen the downfall of enemies. There was a brief period of peace at the beginning of Solomon's reign, but before long Israel's enemies returned And Israel was eventually dragged off by their enemies. None of the kings of Israel had their horn exalted in the way this psalmist describes. And perhaps most tragic of all is that Yahweh's promise to scatter his enemies in verse 9 came true. But it came true. When he scattered his very own people, the nation of Israel. They were Scattered among the nations, dragged off by their enemies, sent into exile because of the abundance of their sins against Yahweh. They did Keep the covenant. They broke God's laws and commands. And one of the commands they constantly broke was the command to keep the covenant. Sabbath and to treat it as holy. See, throughout the Old Testament, after Israel comes into the land. And has a period uh uh where they dwelled in the land for the while for a while, the prophets start coming in. You read the prophets, they're all prophesying in Israel. Their ministries take place at different points throughout the history of Israel, but one of the most common Common complaints of the prophets against the nation of Israel is what? You have profane the Sabbath. You are not resting in the Lord your God. You're continuing to work. You're oppressing people. You're not honoring the Lord. You're bowing down to wooden and metal idols on the Sabbath, the day the Lord has made for you to remember how He saved you out of Egypt. And you're not doing it. You've profaned the Sabbath. So what does God do to his enemies? Scatters them. Scatters them among the nations. They didn't take time to remember how God had saved them. They didn't give thanks to him or praise him for his steadfast love and faithfulness. They didn't meditate on his mighty works of redemption. And rather than trusting in Yahweh by faith, dwelling in his presence and declaring his praises We bowed down to man made idols. And yet this song Eventually did come true. Eventually, Yahweh did exalt the horn of his chosen and anointed king. Not David, not Solomon, not Asa or Jehoshaphat or any other of the kings who walked in God's ways but Jesus. What did Zechariah prophesy about Jesus just before his birth in Luke chapter 1? Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for He has visited and redeemed His people. Visited and redeemed. When else did God visit and redeem His people in Egypt? In the Exodus, a new Exodus has come. God is doing the same work, but a greater work that He did for Israel. A new Exodus has come. A greater Redemption has come. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people and has raised up a horn of salvation for us. In the house of his father David. Jesus is the one whose horn exalted by God. Not only that, but Jesus is the anointed king of Israel. Right? What did the wise men ask Herod when Jesus was born? Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? And when Jesus' public ministry began, Luke tells us that he himself stood up in the synagogue and read from the scroll of Isaiah. And what passage did he read of all Isaiah? The spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me Jesus is God's horn of salvation. Jesus is the king who was anointed by God with the Fresh oil of the Spirit, a new and different king, bringing about a new and different kingdom. And yet he came not To bring destruction on his enemies, but instead to save them. I want to pause here and just ask you a question. Just take a look at the psalm again. Just let your eyes fall over it. Who do you identify with in this psalm? We read about the stupid man, the fool, evildoers, and enemies of God. And we read about the righteous Who do you identify with? Which one of those describes you? I ask, because rightly identifying who you are in this psalm will help you to know why it's good to give thanks to God. God and to sing praise to God most high. Why is that? Friends, none is right. Righteous. No, not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. That's us. None is righteous. No, not one. You and I are the stupid man and the fool. That stings, but it's true All of us have rejected God. All of us at one time suppressed the truth in unrighteousness, and even though we knew God, We did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. And we became futile in our minds. And our foolish hearts were darkened. That is Paul's description of everyone on earth that has ever lived We were the stupid man and the fool, and yet we are not doomed to destruction. We will not perish and we will not be scattered. Why? Because God is born of salvation, his anointed King Jesus. Came to save sinners and not destroy them. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. And he accomplished our salvation in the most astounding way. He bore our sins in his body Our sins, your sins and mine, of spiritual ignorance, of suppressing the truth about God, of not giving thanks to God, and he bought our sins in his body. so that we might die to sin and come alive to righteousness. Come alive to daily remembering how God saved us To daily giving thanks to God and singing praises to his most high name and to daily being made glad by all of his works for us. Friends, that is what Christ came to do for you. It is good to give thanks to God, to sing praises to your name, O Most High. But to my non-Christian friend, you're here, you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus. Thank you for being here. I hope you understand what this psalm means for you, though The foolishness and the lack of spiritual understanding described in this psalm are not simple and understandable mistakes that God will just look at and say, oh yeah, you tried hard, but you just didn't see that I made the world, and that's okay. Right? This lack of spiritual understanding described in this psalm is rooted in a willful and intentional rejection of God. And is the cause of all the calamity, horror, pain, and suffering that we find in the world. But these sins are not just somewhere out there. If you have not repented and put your faith in Jesus, this is you. This is the state of your for everyone here who has repented in G of Jesus. We're not looking at you and saying, you're wrong, man. Like you got problems before the Lord. This was us too. This is the state of all mankind. Your heart is full of unrighteousness and sin. And I say that in love so that you might turn to Jesus and be saved. Because while Jesus did come the first time to bring salvation, he taught that he was coming again. And that when he came the second time, he was coming to bring judgment. And when he comes the second time, he will see the downfall of all his enemies, of all who have not hoped in him through faith in his son But Jesus offers himself to you now as Savior. And as the perfect Savior, Jesus also gives us true spiritual rest. You see, the rest that the Israelites were supposed to enjoy on the Sabbath was only a foretaste of the true spiritual rest we now enjoy by faith in Christ. Remember what Jesus said to the crowds who were around him in his ministry? He said, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, friends Jesus is our true Sabbath rest. And in him, this song that was sung once a week on the Sabbath is transformed into a song that Christians today can sing every day. We can give thanks to God every day because we always have rest in Jesus To the teens, I want to just impress this upon you a little bit more. True spiritual rest is one of the most glorious blessings. That Jesus gives to his people. And the years that you're in, the stage of life that you're in, it's probably filled with lots of unrest. spiritually, right? Waiting to wanting to find acceptance from others, wanting to do well in school, wanting to do well in sports and things like that. And you need to understand that even as a Christian, that doesn't, that kind of spiritual turmoil and unrest doesn't entirely go away. But what should change in your life is how that unrest affects you. It should no longer rule, and it should no longer rule over you because in Christ you are forgiven by God. accepted by God and already have in your possession the promise of a future heavenly rest with God. None of that can ever change if you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And so in the midst of all the turmoil of life, there is actually reason to rest. And give thanks to God for whatever has come in your life. And not only has he given us rest, but he's made us fruitful See, Jesus is the true temple of God. He is the one in whom the fullness of God dwelled. And through faith in Christ, we've been united to Christ, planted in the house of the Lord. You see, God doesn't just save us and leave us as we are. He gives us his spirit, makes us new creations. And causes us to bear the fruit of the Spirit, and we bear fruit even into old age Though our outer man is wasting away, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day You are ever full of sap and always green. Not only have we been planted in the house of the Lord, but in Christ, God is building us into a temple that he will dwell in himself One of the things that stood out to me most about this passage this week was that description of the righteous, that they flourish like the palm tree and they grow like a cedar in Lebanon, planted in the house of the Lord. I had just read 1 Kings. I had just read about the building of the temple. And in 1 Kings chapter 6, verse 18, the writer of 1 Kings says that the temple in the temple All was cedar. There was no stone in it. All was cedar. The righteous are like cedars of Lebanon. The righteous are like the building materials of the temple that God would dwell within. And you, like living stones, are being built up into a temple. that God will dwell in forever. And why are we being built up into a temple that God will dwell in forever? What does Peter say? to declare the excellencies of him, brought you from darkness and out into the wondrous a light of his Son. What do the righteous do who are planted in the house of the Lord? They declare that the Lord is upright. He is not only Jesus' rock, friends, he is our rock. He is our salvation. With Christ, we can say God has exalted our horn. God has anointed us and brought us into his kingdom And when the day comes that we pass from this life, our body will fall into the ground like a seed. And at the resurrection, we will burst forth from the ground like palm trees, like cedars of Lebanon And then we will be planted in the house of the Lord forever. And we will experience the fulfillment Of the fruitfulness and rest that God has promised us. And we will declare on one unending Sabbath, it is good. To give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to God most high. The Sabbath was a day for Israelites to rest from their labors and in Christ our true Sabbath. We rest from our works today, knowing that he has accomplished all that was needed to bring you and me to God. So what should you do today? Rest in Christ. Look forward to that future fruitfulness. And today, give thanks. Sing praises to his name What do you find praiseworthy in this world? What are the types of things that so fill you with gratitude that you overflow with praise? There are likely lots of legitimate answers, but all of them are a distant second to what God has done for us in and through the Lord Jesus Christ. It is good to give thanks to the Lord. To sing praises to your name, Most High. Let's pray. We thank you, our Father in heaven. We thank you for your wondrous works of redemption. And we say, along with the psalmist, Your thoughts are too deep for us. Grant us greater understanding. Grant us greater insight and wisdom in Christ that we would give thanks and praise more and more. And we pray this all in the matchless name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.