Good morning. It's a pleasure to be with you and to have this opportunity to open up God's word together with you. Before we do that, I'm going to lead us again in a brief prayer. So would you join me now as we Pray to God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you now and ask for your blessing on this time. And we pray, Father, that you would help us to submit ourselves to your word, to be instructed by your word. To cherish your word, to recognize the goodness of all of your word and all that it commands us to do. We ask also for an outpouring of your Spirit to enable us to walk in your ways. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends, I want to go ahead and uh ask you to turn with me in your Bible to Colossians chapter 3, verses 18 and 19, as we continue our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. Throughout chapter three of Colossians, Paul has been pressing home all the ways the new life that they've received in Christ should transform their lives. In verses 1 to 4 of chapter 3, if you just want to let your eyes kind of fall over that portion of Colossians 3, we see that the Colossians and us today should now seek Christ and his kingdom Rather than chasing after the world. Then in verses 5 to 11, we see that new life in Christ leads to putting off the old self. We're called to put off all forms of sexual immorality. We're called to put off all forms of anger and all of the different ways that we sin with our speech. But new life doesn't include just putting off the old. If you look with me at verses 12 to 17, you see that new life also leads to putting on the new self. We're to put on the character of Christ. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ. We're to be filled with God's word. We're to do everything in life to the glory of God. New life in Christ. Brings with it powerful transformation to all of life. And what we find in this next section of Colossians Is that new life in Christ should also transform our marriages, our parenting, and our work life And we're going to look at each of those over the next three weeks. Just want to give a special heads up to the kids here, kids. Each week I try to talk to y'all and teach you guys from the from the particular passage about how what this passage means for you. I just want to give you a special heads up to look forward to next week because next week, half of the sermon is just going to be me talking to y'all, helping you understand what it means for kids to obey their parents, asking and answering questions. So Just think and look forward to next week especially and be prepared to take notes and answer questions. But this week, we're going to think about how new life in Christ should transform our marriages. Now, if you're currently not married, you might think that this passage Doesn't have anything to teach you then, right? But I want to encourage you to stick with me. Because what we're going to see this morning is that marriage has something powerful to say to each of us. About our own relationship with God. So, how should our new life in Christ transform our marriages? I want you to follow along as I read Colossians chapter 3, verses 18 and 19. Wives, submit to your husbands. Is this fitting in the Lord Husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them New life in Christ should lead to new marriages in Christ marked by submission and love. Wives submit to their husbands, and husbands love their wives If you're taking notes, those are going to be our two points this morning, putting on the new self in marriage. Looks like wives submitting to their husbands. and husbands loving their wives. So first, putting on the new self in marriage looks like wives submitting to their husbands I just want to go ahead and acknowledge up front that this instruction may be hard for some to hear because of how they've either personally experienced Or seen others experience men legitimately abusing God, the authority that God has given them And if that's you, I want you to know that that is a lamentable and grievous reality. It is lamentable and grievous when men legitimately abuse the authority that God has given them. And yet, Christians living in a fallen world need to fight to distinguish between God's good design. And man's distortion of God's good design. We need to continue fighting to affirm and live out God's good design for marriage because how He calls us to live is always good. So if at the end of the sermon you still have questions or concerns about how this passage, how I'm explaining this passage or applying this passage. You just want to know what it means for you a bit more, just have questions in general about what it means, please come find me after the service. I'd love to talk with you about that. But I want you all to go ahead and look with me again at verse 18. Paul says, wives, submit to your husbands Paul tells wives that putting on the new self in marriage for them looks like submitting to their husbands. A couple things that we have to notice about this passage. First, all women are not being called to submit to all men. Nor are all wives being called to submit to all husbands. No, if you are a wife, you're being called to submit to only your husband The second thing I want us to notice is that Paul isn't telling husbands to command their wives to submit. Paul, speaking by the Spirit of Christ. is speaking directly to married women and telling them to submit themselves to their husbands. The word submit in our culture especially has authoritarian connotations. Right? You might be imagining now in your mind what Paul is commanding is something like a military officer screaming at a subordinate. To submit to his commands. But that is not what is in view here. The Greek verb here is in what's called the middle passive Which communicates an action that a person does to themselves. They're not coerced externally to do it. It's an action that a person chooses to do themselves. When Paul tells wives to submit to their husbands, he's telling them to willingly place themselves under their husbands' authority without being coerced or compelled. Paul is saying to wives, Putting on the new self for you in marriage looks like submitting yourself, personally entrusting yourself to the loving leadership of your husband. But I want you to also notice he tells wives why they should submit to their husbands. Look again at verse 18. Wives, submit to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord, which is just another way of saying submit to your husbands because It is fitting in the Lord. Why is it fitting in the Lord for a wife to entrust herself to the loving leadership of her husband? I mean, there are two reasons that Paul has in mind. And those two reasons are because it reflects her recognition of God's good design for marriage. And it displays the wife's trust in God himself. I want to unpack those a little bit with you so that we can better understand this command. Right? First, it's fitting in the Lord because it reflects God's good design for marriage. Let's just think about the broader context of Colossians, right? In chapter 1, verse 13, we learn that God has transferred us, all of us who've put our faith in Christ, He has transferred us. from the kingdom of darkness and into the kingdom of his beloved son. And now he wants us all to know how we should live as citizens of his kingdom. That's what all of chapter 3 has been about. And in God's kingdom, wives are called to submit to their husbands. And husbands are called to love their wives. And this was God's design from the very beginning You just think back to Genesis 1 before the fall. God creates man and woman as the pinnacle of his creation, the only creatures made in God's image, right? Which means that both man and woman are completely equal in dignity, worth, and value, completely in every way. Yet To those completely equal creatures, he gives different gifts, physical and spiritual, to equip them to carry out their different roles. The man was given the role of being the head of his wife, to lovingly lead and provide for her, and the woman was given the role of being a helper to the man. To come alongside of him, to help him carry out the mission that God had given them. This is the only perfect marriage that ever existed. And that didn't last for long, right? What did Adam and Eve choose to do? They chose to reject God's law. Sin then came into the world, distorting the good order of God's creation. And now the relationship between the man and the woman is marked not by perfect harmony, but by a power struggle What does God say in the curse in 315 and following? The woman will try to subvert the authority of the man, and the man will treat the woman with harsh authority. Broadly speaking, and broadly speaking That dynamic comes to characterize marriage in the kingdom of darkness. But Through faith in Christ, we are no longer citizens of that kingdom. God has delivered us from the kingdom of darkness through faith in Christ. He has filled us with his spirit, now empowering us to live out God's good design for marriage. Marriages characterized not by a power struggle, but by the loving submission of the wife and the loving leadership of the husband It is fitting in the Lord for the wife to place herself under the authority of her husband because it shows her recognition of the goodness of God's design for marriage And God's design for marriage is good. It is good that God has made the man the husband of the wife, calling them to loving authority. And it is good that he made the wife to be the husband's helper, calling the wife to loving submission. And we just have to recognize. That that is an exceedingly counter-cultural thing to say today. But that doesn't mean Christians shouldn't say it. No matter what culture the Bible is dropped into around this world, doesn't matter what culture you're in, an Eastern culture. A Western culture, an American culture, a European culture, an African culture. No matter what culture the Bible is dropped into, it will collide headfirst with that culture in different areas. And when that happens, the temptation for Christians is going to be to soften the Bible's teaching in that particular area. Or reinterpret it in ways that aren't as offensive to the culture. But when we do that, we run the risk of idolatry. We run the risk of making a God in our image who never says anything that we don't understand, don't agree with, or that offends us. And that really points to the second reason. It's fitting in the Lord for a wife to submit to her husband. It's fitting because it ultimately displays her trust in God Himself. When a woman chooses to willingly place herself under her husband's authority, she is showing her trust in God In Ephesians chapter 5, that Susan read for us already, think about what Paul says to wives. He says, wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. The loving submission of a wife to her husband is not ultimately because the man is worthy, but because God is worthy. Her submission to her husband shows that even when the husband falls short, she knows that the Lord never falls short Right? To the women of this congregation who are married, I want to remind you also that you are a daughter of the God who sees. He sees. Right? You remember the story of Hagar in the Old Testament when she's cast out into the wilderness, left for dead? By Abraham and Sarah, basically like get rid of her and the child that's with her. She goes out into the wilderness and she's left with her son to die, and God comes to her aid Provides water for her. And what does she say about God? She says, you are a God who sees. God sees all of the sacrifices that you have made. God sees the ways that you have willingly let go of particular dreams or desires to follow your husband. He sees He sees you, and he is pleased by your willingly entrusting yourself to the loving leadership of your husband Submitting to your husband is fitting in the Lord because it displays your trust in the Lord Himself. But I think we also need to just take a step back and recognize submission isn't something that only wives are called to While submission does uniquely characterize the relationship of the wife to the husband, submission is something all Christians do at one level or another, right? Husbands are called to submit to Christ. Children are called to submit to parents. All Christians are called to submit to the governing authorities. Congregations are called to submit to their elders, and we submit in all of those ways, in all of those areas of life, as a display. of our ultimate trust in God, that his ways are better than our ways. And the submission of a wife to her husband Displays that same trust that God's ways are better than our ways. But just because we recognize that God's ways are better than our ways doesn't mean that all of a sudden how a wife should submit practically to her husband becomes clear. Right? It's not always clear what Submission should look like in practice. And my guess is that's where things really come to a head in all of our different marriages. What does it look like practically? Just recognize Paul is clearly not diving into specifics He's speaking generally, broadly, about what should characterize marriage. It may look different from couple to couple, and it might also depend on the unique circumstances and dispositions of each person in the marriage. But an analogy that I've used before that I do think is helpful, not perfect, because no analogy is, but helpful in describing what it looks like in practice. is the way a captain of a ship and a crew of a ship work together. Right? I was in the Coast Guard for a while, so this one is maybe a bit more acute for me. uh in my own experience, but uh the captain of a ship sets the destination, charts the course, right? But then Works together closely with the crew to reach that destination. And inside of that, working together with the crew, the crew makes a whole host of decisions and uses their expertise To ensure the ship reaches its destination, right? The captain is ensuring all the big plans, concerns, and moving parts have been addressed and that everyone is on the same page, and then also releases the crew to do their work. Right? Now notice about what submission might look like in practice. Notice what this analogy teaches us about what submission isn't. Submission isn't silent acquiescence to the desires of the husband Just like a captain would be insane not to solicit and heed the opinions and input of his crew, so a husband would be insane not to solicit and heed the input of his wife. Wives. Submission doesn't mean you shouldn't share your opinion. You should voice your opinions to your husbands. And husbands, you should carefully consider your wife's input. Neither does submission mean the husband makes all the decisions, right? Husbands should look for ways to free their wives up, to make decisions for the good of the family, especially in areas where they might be particularly gifted. Right? The best possible example I can think of this is of the wife in Proverbs 31, who is, uh, shall we say, industrious And making decisions for the good of her family, right? Think about what Proverbs 31 tells us that she went out and does, or she goes out and does. She provides food for her household. She considers a field and buys it. She's making real estate deals. She plants a vineyard. She sells her merchandise. And she does all of that because the heart of her husband trusts her. husbands entrust authority to your wives so that they are freed up to make decisions for the good of your home, especially And those areas and those spheres of responsibility that impact them the most. Neither is submission agreeing on everything. Wives, of course, you will not agree with your husbands on everything. It's inevitable that there will be disagreements in everything What do you do if you disagree with your husband about a matter of consequence? We're not talking about like where to go to eat after the service, but a matter of consequence in your marriage I think what you should do is invite other people in to help you think through it, right? If after talking through the disagreement you're at an impasse with your husband. Bring in other people you're close to to help you think through the issue. That's part of what it means to live in church community. It may be that the wife should submit to her husband. But it also may be that the husband might need to put aside his desires in order to let to love his wife as Christ loves the church. And bringing in trusted counselors Can help to shed light on the on which of those is the best course. Yet I will also say at the end that on matters of consequence for husbands, On matters of consequence, it should be exceedingly rare to make a decision that your wife disagrees with. I'm not saying never, but I think it should be exceedingly rare. And neither does submission mean following your husband into sin or putting yourself in harm's way. If your husband ever encourages you to sin, right? Cheating on your taxes. Defrauding a neighbor, lying to an employer, you should not submit. In that case, submitting to him would be sinning against God. And if you're in a situation where your husband is putting you or your children, if you have them, in harm's way, you should seek to protect yourself. and your children by leaving the home to look for some sort of assistance to intervene. And if you are in a situation like that this morning or at this period in life, I want to encourage you to come talk with one of the elders so that we can help you Think through that in your own life. Now the submission of a wife to her husband should be marked by a joyful willingness To entrust herself to the loving leadership of her husband. But because wives are sinners, just like husbands are, that doesn't always happen Wives, if you've yelled at your husband, if you've insulted him because of his failure to lead the way that you want. If you've spoken poorly about him to others, I'm not talking about sharing with a counselor or a friend to help you work through issues, but you've spoken poorly about him because you're you're frustrated with him. If you've held his past mistakes over his head, If you've quietly or coldly refused to acknowledge his leadership, that's not okay in God's sight That's not fitting in the Lord. And you should repent. It pleases the Lord when wives submit to their husbands Putting on the new self in marriage looks like wives willingly entrusting themselves to their husband's loving leadership. Which brings us to point two for the husbands now. If wives are to submit to their husbands, how should husbands relate to their wives? Why don't you look with me at verse 19? Husbands, love your wives. Husbands are to love their wives. The love that a husband shows to his wife Just think about the context of Colossians 3 that we're in. Think about the chapter that we've already heard. The love that a husband shows to his wife should be characterized by All of the traits that Paul has already listed in verses 12 to 14 of chapter 3. Why don't you look at verses 12 to 14 again with me? We're to love with compassion. Not coldly, callously, or dismissively. We are to love with kindness, not rudeness. We're to love with humility and not pride, thinking that we don't need the input opinions and help of our wives We are to love with meekness and gentleness, not trampling our wives down or being like a military officer. Do this because I said it, right? We're to love with meekness. We're to love with patience. Not getting upset or annoyed when our wife has a different opinion than us or disagrees with us. What I want you to think about the ways that we love from 1 Peter. What does 1 Peter tell us as husbands? We're to love our wives by living with them in an understanding way. I don't know that I don't know if you've noticed, uh, but I'm guessing you have. Men and women are different. Men and women are different. Unfortunately, it's no longer politically correct to say that, but not saying it And trying to act like men and women are interchangeable is an offense to God's glorious wisdom in creating men and women the way that He did. Women are different physically. Emotionally and even spiritually, not in their essence, they are the same human nature that we are, but in their experiences. They experience the world differently from men. And that is good. God made men and women that way to complement each other. So when wives raise concerns, bring up things that they're thinking about or care about, husbands, you love them by not dismissing them, but engaging them. And seeking to understand where they're coming from. But not only do we love our wives by living with them in an understanding way, we also love them by sacrificing for them. It's impossible to talk away about the way that a husband is called to love his wife from the Bible without talking about Ephesians chapter 5. Don't you just go ahead and turn with me there in your Bible so that we can look again at it. We're looking at Ephesians chapter 5, verses 25 and following, where Paul really double-clicks on his instructions here in Colossians. I think the first observation that I also want to make that I think is always helpful, I make this observation whenever whenever I am in doing premarital counseling with a couple. Always open up to Ephesians chapter 5. I think it's just useful to take a step back and look at looking at verses 22 to 33 and recognize. Who does Paul spend the most time speaking to? Husbands. Right? I think he dedicates 47 words to the women and something like 120 to the men. He has a lot to say to the men about what it looks like to love your wife as Christ loved the church. So if you as a husband are thinking, my wife needs to submit, my wife needs to submit, my wife needs to submit, Paul is saying, you need to love, you need to love, you need to love. The thing that you should be thinking about most as a husband is not how can she submit to me better, but how can I love her better? Making her submission to me easier. Right? Paul's emphasis there is to husbands, but look with me at verse 25 and following. Husbands should love their wives As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. State the obvious, husbands, you cannot die for the sins of your wife. Right? Not the way that Christ died for ours, but you can love her sacrificially This will no doubt look different from couple to couple, but the thread of sacrificial love should be present in every marriage from a wife to the uh from a husband to the wife So to the husbands, are you loving your wives sacrificially? Have you organized your family's life in such a way that your wife is carrying the heavier physical and spiritual load? Or are you carrying the heavier or physical or spiritual load? Are you studying your wife? To see where she tends to get stressed, overwhelmed, angry, or anxious. When your wife tells you about the ways that she's feeling consistently overloaded in certain areas of life, is your your response, sorry about your luck, or are you looking for ways to take some of that load off where possible? Does your wife feel like she bears the burden of always being the one to initiate important conversations about your marriage finances, sex life, work life, children, schooling, and on and on. Or are you loving her? by sacrificing your time and energy to think about your family and about what your family's needs are and then initiating those conversations. Now, that's not to say that the husband should always be the ones initiating conversations or that wives should never bring up conversations, but I'm just asking: where does that balance fall in your marriage? Right. Other husbands though are prone more to take charge and make decisions without involving their wives You know, abdicating authority or not not coming up with the conversations that need to be had is just not a struggle for them. Their struggle is taking charge and making decisions without involving their wives. Is that you? Possibly you might need to pull back on the throttle. Sacrificial loving might look like, in your case, ensuring you're bringing your wife into conversations. God has given her to you as your chief counselor, apart from his word and spirit. You sacrifice by bringing her into those conversations and seriously considering all that she has to say. Are you sacrificing for your wife by helping around the house? Right? If you have kids and your wife stays home to take care of them, when you get off of work, do you count that as me time? Or are you sacrificially serving your wife by helping with the dishes, cleaning the kitchen, helping with laundry, picking up the kids' rooms? The husbands just need to recognize that if you go out for work, if you're you're working in your office all day and you you get off of work and you're like this is This is me time now, and your wife is staying home with kids. Recognize that your wife never gets off of work. She's been at home all day working And when you get off of work, you're now joining her in that work to care for the family. Are you sacrificing in those ways? Are you sacrificing by leading your wife and family spiritually? I want you to look again at Ephesians chapter 5, this time verse 26 and following. Christ died for the church that he might sanctify her. Washing her with the water of the Word. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as themselves Again, you can't sanctify your wife the same way that Christ does, but the sacrificial love in view here entails sacrificing by spiritually leading your wife and children if you have them. Are you initiating? Asking your wife how she's doing spiritually. Are you asking her regularly how you can pray for her? Are you praying with her and for her regularly If you have children, are you sacrificially loving your wife by carrying the burden of your kids' spiritual care? That's not to say that you the wife never teaches the Bible or talks to them about spiritual things. Not at all. Wives should be doing those things. But are you husbands? taking initiative in those areas. You know, when you think about it, the two commands that Paul gives to wives and husbands is interesting After telling wives to submit, you would assume the natural command to husbands would be to exercise authority. But the counterpoint to the wife's submission isn't wielding authority, but using that authority to lay down your life like Christ did for the church. Using that authority. For love. Which is why Paul clarifies what he means when he tells husbands to love their wives. Look again at the passage with me. He then commands them to not do love's opposite. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them. This command clearly shows how the gospel restores marriage to its original design. Right, after sin comes into the world, God says that in marriage, the man will now rule over the wife. He will be tempted to a domineering spirit of wielding his authority to get his own way. He will be tempted to be harsh with her. But in Christ, Harshness is now part of the old order. Harshness is characteristic of the kingdom of darkness, not the kingdom of light. Harshness belongs to the old man, but you are new in Christ If you have put your faith in Christ, and so if you put your faith in Christ, you need to put off harshness towards your wife The fact that God has made husbands the head of the wife does not mean the husband assumes the role of a military officer who gives commands to his wife and expects her to do everything that he says. That's what Jesus calls Lording it over others. Do it because I said it. That's what the Gentiles do. That's what the kingdom of darkness is characterized by. Instead, husbands are to take their cues from Christ. Who Paul in Philippians 2 says did not count equality with God something to be grasped. He didn't count his capitalize on his authority as God by lording it over others, instead he humbled himself to death on a cross. Husbands who seize on their authority for their own gain and to be harsh to their wives mock Christ and are not obeying the call to love their wives as Christ loved the church. Husbands, how are you doing? Not being harsh with your wife. Do you treat her like she's dumb Do you roll your eyes when she expresses concerns or fears? Do you just walk away and act like the things that she has shared don't matter? Do you insult and demean her? Do you dismiss her and neglect her input and opinions? Do you remind her that you have authority and that she's called to submit Do you treat her like a dude? Tell her she needs to suck it up. Brothers, if you've done those things, you need to repent. You are not loving your wife as Christ has loved the church. We are called to nourish and cherish. are wise. Ask them after the service, if you're married, do you feel nourished and cherished by me? And then live Listen. Own it. And she responds. And if there's room for repentance, repent. Forgiving one another, seeking forgiveness from one another. Right? In the same way that the Lord has forgiven us, we also should forgive, which means for the person who's wronged, they should seek forgiveness Because we've been forgiven in Christ. Right? Think about Christ. We're called to nourish and cherish our wives. Jesus is the sympathetic I preach. Who sympathizes with us in our weakness. A bruised reed he would not break. And a smoldering wick, he would not snuff out. He is not harsh towards us. Why would we be harsh? Young men and boys? Y'all can listen up. Doesn't matter how young you are or how old you are, teenager, younger, you can be begin preparing now to potentially be married someday by treating the women women in your life with love. You should never yell at your mom. You should never be harsh to your sisters or treat them rudely if you have them. If you have, you should ask for their forgiveness If you've yelled at your mom, disobeyed her, disrespected her, if you've done that to your sisters, if you have them, done it to classmates, girls in your classes, right? Seek their forgiveness. The way that you treat women now. Will impact them, impact them when you get older. You will end up treating them in the same ways. But marriage has something to teach all of us, married or unmarried. In Ephesians 5, we learn that a wife's submission to her husband and a husband's love for his wife mysteriously depicts for us the love of Christ for his church The wife's submission to her husband is to display the church's submission to Christ. Just as the wife willingly entrusts herself to her husband, so we all who have put our faith in Christ entrust ourselves to Christ. And why do we do that Not because he came wielding an iron rod demanding our submission, but because he laid down his life for the church He used his authority as God to lay down his life for his people, dying on the cross for our sins. rising from the dead to newness of life and sending the Spirit to give us new hearts that we might all walk in his ways And we do that. We walk in his ways by submitting to his rule in every area of life, married or not. So consider your own life today, whether you're a husband or a wife or not. How are you doing willingly and trusting yourself to Christ and how he calls us to live? We can all agree that marriages, Christian marriages on this side of heaven are imperfect. And sadly, some Christian marriages are terrible distortions of God's good design for marriage This doesn't mean, though, that we should abandon marriage altogether, but that we should today strive by the Spirit to do all that we can do to honor God by obeying how He calls us to live as husbands, as wives, as Christians. And listen, after hearing all of this, if you're married, you might be looking at your marriage and just thinking, oh, I am just overwhelmed and condemned. But listen here, all of us have failed. All of us have fallen short of the glory of God. All of us have failed to perfectly submit to Christ as husbands, as wives, and as Christians. But this is what makes the gospel such good news. Right? There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus If you're feeling condemned today by your failings as a husband, as a wife, or as a Christian, let that drive you to the cross to be amazed by God's sheer mercy and grace to you in Christ. Jesus said, it is finished. The mercy of Christ is new for you each and every day God says to all of his people, those who have failed, your sins have been cast into the depths of the sea, separated from him as far as the east is from the west And let that new mercy that's new for you every morning propel you to pray all the more for your marriage And for your friends' marriages and for all of us to submit ourselves to the perfect love of our loving Savior Ultimately, marriage should cause us to look all the more to the perfect marriage to come. When Christ returns to gather us to be with him, then the church Will lovingly and perfectly entrust herself to Christ, and we will know the perfect love of the true and perfect husband forever Father, help us to live as you've called us to live. We pray that you would help the wise. The submit to their husbands as is fitting in the Lord. We pray that the husbands would love their wives and not be harsh with them We pray that all of us as Christians would look at our lives and submit ourselves entirely to Christ's rule And in all the ways that we've failed, be reminded by Christ's perfect love for his bride, that he has died to cover over all of our sins. past, present, and future. Father, we look forward to the day when we will be presented blameless before the throne. Cause that day to come soon. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen