Amen. Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you all. I'm excited to open up God's word with you, but before we do that, let me pray for us again briefly. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we just sang, and we shall reign with him, with Christ, for he lives. Christ is risen from the dead. We are reminded of what Paul teaches in the New Testament, that if Christ did not rise from the dead, Our faith is in vain, and our beliefs are foolish. But Christ did rise from the dead, and so what we're doing here today is not in vain. You speak You speak to us through your word, through your spirit, through your son, and we pray that as we open up your word, now you would speak to us and you would show us how you are a God. Who is so sovereignly powerful that nothing can stop you from keeping your promises to your people to save, not even our own faithlessness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends, I want to encourage you to go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 12. If you're going to use the Bible we provided, you'll find Genesis chapter 12 on page 8, pages 8 and 9 actually, as we continue. Our study through the book of Genesis. Yes, that's right. I said we are continuing Our study through the book of Genesis. That might be a surprise to some of you because there haven't been any sermons in Genesis recently. So, what series are we continuing? Well, we're continuing the series in Genesis that we hit pause on eighty-nine weeks ago. 89 Sundays ago in this room, we stopped that series because There was a global pandemic and we had to figure out what we were doing with our services and then our services got a lot shorter and I thought there's no way that I can preach whole chapters of Genesis in like 30 minutes. And so we hit pause. We preached through Colossians and we did some other things in there, but we are picking up again. In Genesis chapter 12, which is where I left off. We left off in Genesis chapter 11. I'm picking up in 12, and we're going from there. And we are going to continue through Genesis at about the rate of a chapter at a time. Uh some weeks will be a little bit different until we finish it. There are going to be some other breaks here and there for guest preachers and things like that in the year to come, but Lord willing, we will finish Genesis by the beginning of 2023, maybe January 2023, I think. So we made it all the way through Genesis chapter 11 If you weren't here for those sermons, I would encourage you to go back and listen to them. They're available on our website, or you can find them on Apple Podcasts, the Chevrolet Baptist Church podcast there. But since we're picking up after such a long hiatus, I think it's right to provide a brief recap of what we've seen thus far in the book, so we have a better understanding of what's going on in Genesis. chapter 12. So if you rewind to the beginning of the book, in the first three chapters we saw God's creation of the universe and mankind. We saw Satan's deception of Adam and Eve and their fall into sin, which then plunged all mankind into sin. Yet immediately after their fall into sin. God reveals his plan. His plan to restore and save mankind. In Genesis 3, verse 15, God promises to send a seed, an offspring of the woman who would crush the serpent's head. and rescue mankind from sin. And everything, everything that follows in Genesis Is about how God sovereignly acts to fulfill that promise So after Adam and Eve leave the scene, we meet Noah. In the days of Noah, mankind was so wicked that God looked down, and you remember that phrase, God was grieved, he was sorrowful that he had made mankind because they had become so wicked, and so God brought judgment on the world. through the flood wiped everything, every living creature on the earth off the face of the planet But if he judged the whole world, then how would this promised seed, this promised offspring come into the world to save us? Well, the answer is that God saved Noah and his family through the flood. Noah would be the one through whom this promised seed, this promised offspring would eventually come. But then the same thing happens in the generations after Noah that happened in the generations after David or after Adam, right? Mankind spreads on the earth and adva as mankind spreads So does sin. Mankind was so sinful that they gather together to build a monument to their own greatness, right? The Tower of Babel. That's in Genesis 11. Rather than worshiping God, mankind collectively gathered together and said, let's worship ourselves because we are so great. And God responds again with worldwide judgment. See the same pattern. Repeat. But not in the form of a flood this time. Kids, can any of y'all tell me how God judged the world in Babel? Adonaiah. Yeah, that's right. He made he judged them with languages. Kind of an odd judgment today. From our perspective, but everyone spoke the same language, and God judged them by sending different languages. And so because the people couldn't understand one another, they separated into distinct people groups All the families of the earth are formed. And now today we have countries and nations and ethnicities where there are different languages. That judgment is still present among us today. But just like after Adam and Eve fell into sin and after Noah came off the ark, God moves immediately. to restore, reaffirm his plan to save mankind in the wake of the judgment on Babel. And that brings us to Genesis chapter 12, where we learn that even though mankind persisted in sin, and even though God judged them for their sin by giving them different languages, Casting them across the face of the earth, his promise to send a seed, an offspring to save us from our sin had not failed. But how How would he keep that promise? Well, we learn the answer to that in Genesis 12. Let me go ahead and read the passage for us now. This is God's word. Now the Lord said to Abram Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation. And I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abram went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was 75 years old when he departed from Haran. And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan, Abram passed through the land to the place at Shechem, to the oak of Morah. At that time the Canaanites were in the land. Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your offspring I will give this land. So he built there an altar to the Lord, who had appeared to him. From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to the Lord and called upon the name of the Lord. And Abram journeyed on, still going toward the Negeb. Now there was a famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai, his wife, I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance. And when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife Then they will kill me. They will let you live. Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake When Abram entered Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house And for her sake, he dealt well with Abram. And he had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels. But the Lord afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. So Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me she was your wife? Why did you say she is my sister so that I took her for my wife? Now then here is your wife. Take her and go And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him. And they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. If you're taking notes this morning, what I hope to persuade you of today is that God will keep his promises to his people In spite of our faithlessness and our foolishness. Or to put it another way, if you are in Christ, There is nothing you can do that has the power to prevent God from keeping his promise to save you. That is the point of what we learn in Genesis 12. We're going to unpack that a bit so that I hope you see this. We're going to look at this passage under two headings First, God makes his promises. That's in verses 1 to 9. And second, God keeps his promises. That's in verses 10 to 20 So first, God makes his promises. I want you to look with me again at verses 1 to 3. I'm going to read those three verses again. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation. And I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And so coming on the heels of the account of the Tower of Babel, in which God judged the people of the earth and divided them into separate families, we see that his judgment isn't final. He promises to bring blessing to the families of the earth, and he would do that through the man Abram Broadly speaking, God makes four promises to Abram here. He promises him land, people, kings or royal fame, and blessing. Just look at these promises with me. He promises him land. Verse one, go to the land that I will show you. This doesn't sound like a promise, but go ahead and look with me real quick at verse 7. After Abram goes to the land, God promises him. To your offspring, I will give this land. So he promises Abram land for his offspring to live in But what offspring? It's just Abram and Sarai at this point. Look at verse 2 at the second promise. I will make of you a great nation. God is promising to Abram and Sarai, who have no children at this point, so many descendants will come from them that they will form into a great nation that will fill this promised land. Now look again at verse two at the third promise. I will bless you and make your name great. It sounds like God is promising to make Abraham famous. And I think in one sense He has fulfilled that promise, right? We are talking about Abraham 4,000 years after the man lived. All over the planet, people claim Abraham as their Father, God made Abraham's name great, regardless of whether those claims to Abraham being your father is true. We can stand back and take an appreciation of the fact that God did make Abraham's name great. But there's a another sense in which we should understand this promise. This promise occurs again in 2 Samuel 7, verse 9, when God promises to make David's name great when he's promising him an eternal throne. This promise is a pro promise of royal fame. Abraham will be a royal figure, which we'll actually see kind of foreshadowed in Genesis 14. He'll be a royal figure from whom future kings will come. Now look at verse 3 at the fourth promise of blessing. You will be a blessing I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed God intends to bless not only Abram, but the whole world through Abram. And that blessing would be secure. Based on a person's relationship to Abram. If they bless or honor Abram, they will be blessed. And if they curse or dishonor or oppose Abram, they will be cursed. The promise of a land, of a great nation, of royal fame and of worldwide blessing should grab our attention as we're reading through Genesis, right? These promises to Abram are like sirens and flashing lights to signal that his promise of a promised seed who would crush the serpent's head will come from Abram And the nation that will come from him, and that seed who comes from Abram and from his nation will bring blessing to all the families of the earth. These are glorious promises. Glorious promises that we can say literally The entire Bible is concerned with unpacking for us so that we better understand them. But we also have to recognize that coming to share in God's promises of salvation is Costly. It is costly. Look again at verse one. Notice the commands that precede the promises. Lord said to Abram Oh. From what? Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house. Prior to this point in Genesis, there has been no interaction whatsoever between this man, Abram, and the Lord This is the first interaction between Abram and the Lord in the book of Genesis. In the New Testament, we learn that Abram, at the time of this calling, was an idol worshipper when God called him. He had no knowledge of God. And yet God calls him and tells him to leave his country, leave his kindred, and his father's house. That's another way of saying Abram. I know we just met. Leave everything. Leave everything you know, everyone you know, everything you've ever known about your culture, your people, your kindred. Your father's house and go. Go where? To a place I'll show you. You don't really need to even know yet. What, Lord? The call to share in the promises of blessing and salvation Are costly. They are costly. Friends, coming to share in these glorious promises that God has for his people is costly. I want you to think with me about what Jesus says in Luke 14 to see how this pattern holds throughout Scripture. What does Jesus say to his followers? Or to people who are thinking about becoming his followers, a bunch of little Abrams who are considering whether they're going to go to that land. Jesus says, if anyone comes to me, Or salvation. And does not hate his own father and mother, and wife and children, and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. Jesus is teaching the same thing that that God is implicitly teaching Abram in Genesis 12. If we're going to follow him, we can have No higher allegiance than him. No, no country, no kindred, no father's house. We follow the Lord bar none He has complete ownership of our life. It is costly to come to share in the promises of salvation that God has for his Coming to share in the promises that God has made to us in Jesus is costly. And I want to dwell on this for a minute with my pre teens. And my teens who are here today, following Jesus is costly. It is costly. In past generations in the US, there was social capital, popularity, good stuff, blessings to be gained by saying you follow Jesus. But those days are either quickly passing or are altogether gone, depending on what part of the United States you live in. And I would say the area that we live in, they're pretty much gone. You don't gain credibility or popularity or great status from saying, yeah, I follow Jesus. Following Jesus is costly. It can be costly to your reputation, teens. Right? It may not be the case now, but at some point in your life, many of your peers likely won't share or appreciate your beliefs. You'll feel like a stranger in a foreign land. You may be made an outcast. You may experience Insults or other forms of persecution. Following Jesus can be costly for your reputation. Following Jesus is also costly because of what you're called to give up You're called to give up living for yourself. That's not easy to do. That is a cost to bear. It's a cost to count if you're thinking about following Jesus. Am I gonna really give up all the things that I want to do with my life to to submit them to the Lord and see what he wants me to do with my life. No longer is life about living for yourself. It's about living for him. But you're called to give up making self-expression or self-actualization your God. You're called to give up doing whatever makes you happy or whatever whatever feels Good to you, right? We're called to cut off sin, deny self, and turn away from the world. In short, we're called to take up our cross and follow Jesus. Following Jesus is costly. But here's what you need to know. Whatever it costs you to follow Jesus. God will repay in full and then some. Notice that God promises to provide Abram with everything. Point for point that he is giving up, and then he just tacks on more. Abram, leave your country. I will give you your very own country. Abram, leave your kindred and your father's house, and I will make you the father of your very own. nation of people. More than that, kings will come from you. More than that, the entire world will be blessed. Through you. Every time God asks us to give something up for him, he does so with the intention of replacing what we've sacrificed with something far greater than we could ever imagine. He asks us to sacrifice sin to replace it with righteousness. The greatest trait of all time. If you're here and you're wondering whether it's worth following Jesus. God will take out of you sin, He will ask you to sacrifice sin to turn from it and He will give you His perfect righteousness Greatest trait of all time, will never depreciate in value. You don't lose righteousness throughout the rest of the days of your life. He gives it to you in full. His own righteousness becomes your own. He asks us to sacrifice love of the world, and he replaces it with the love of God. He asks us to sacrifice worldly comfort and he replaces it with the promise of heavenly, eternal inheritance. He asks us to sacrifice a life of wandering in spiritual exile, which we all come into the world doing and replaces it with membership in his household. This is exactly what Jesus taught in the New Testament There is no, and I think Jesus has on his mind here, Genesis 12. There is no one No one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands For my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now, in this time, point for point, he will replace what you sacrifice with something far greater and In the age to come, eternal life. Friends, it may be costly to follow Jesus But let me be very clear. It is worth it. It is worth it. And could consider with me. How much more glory. And I even as I think about how how worth it it is, I'm reminded of a conversation I was having with my son Jack recently We had a trip, uh, we were going to Florida with Leah's brother. They generously offered to invite us down to Florida to stay with them. And because of that, Jack was gonna have to miss some school time and loves recess. What boy doesn't love recess? Just thinking about how hard it's gonna be to sacrifice recess and the time that he got to spend at recess which is like you know over the course of a week it's like forty five minutes of recess time maybe an hour right and it's like hey I get it I love recess time couldn't get me to pay attention for what in elementary school but once it was recessed I was locked and loaded Right? That's like the time of the life uh for for young boys. But we were going to Disneyland or Disney World, but a couple days there he had never been. First time going, doesn't know what he's got in store for him. So just try to try to explain to him, Jack, you are gonna sacrifice something that you really enjoy. Recess is awesome, right? This is great, but whoa The magical kingdom is coming. Just wait. Like you have no idea, friends, the magical kingdom pales in comparison to the heavenly kingdom. And that's what God, when He calls us to sacrifice, to turn from sin. It feels like we're leaving everything we've ever known, and in a sense we have, but we are headed to something far more glorious than we could ever imagine. I just want you to think with me about how much more glorious the promises God has made to us are than the ones He made to Abram, right? In Christ. We have the promise. That we have already been completely forgiven of our sins. Right? Romans 8, verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Not only has he promised to forgive us and justify us, he has promised to sanctify us. He who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion. And when we stumble and fall into sin, he has promised to forgive us again and again. For he is faithful and just and will forgive us of our sins. He has promised to never turn us away, to sustain us when we're weak, to comfort us in the midst of trials. to give us rest in the midst of weariness, to keep us from stumbling. And after we have died, he has promised that he will raise us from the dead. And present us blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, while we will enter into his eternal rest forever. He has promised to us all of this and more and in Christ Jesus all the promises of God are all the promises of God are yes and amen Done and done yours through faith in Jesus Christ. It's costly. So worth it. So worth it Right? And God makes this abundantly clear in His Word, and especially in the account of His call of Abraham. But we also have to acknowledge that sometimes God's promises are hard to believe in light of our present circumstances. Don't you look at me at verse 4. So Abram went as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Get this detail. Abram was 75 years old. Right. Now look back at chapter 11, verse 30. What do we learn about Abram's wife? Now, Sarai was barren. She had no child. God promised a 75-year-old man with a barren wife that he would become a great nation. And that all the families of the earth will be blessed. Like enter into the humor of it for a moment. It's just like, yeah, thank you, but this is ridiculous. There's no way these promises can come to pass, right? This is peak hard to believe And he promised to give this 75-year-old man with a barren wife the land of Canaan. But notice what verse 6 tells us about the land of Canaan Chapter 12, verse 6. As Abram is traveling through the promised land, it says, at that time the Canaanites were in the land. Why is that random detail here? Moses wants us to see that Abram is surrounded by all the people who will oppose him as he journeys through the promised land. The Canaanites weren't just going to give him the land. Right? Everything about his present circumstances screamed. There is no way God can make good on these promises. I wonder if that's how you feel today. Thinking about the circumstances in your life and the promises that God has made to you. Maybe you look at the present circumstances of your life and you wonder how on earth God is going to bring about what He's promises. Right? You look at God's promise to sanctify you. And yet you keep struggling, seemingly, in a constant struggle against a particular sin or sins. and against temptation and feel like you're always kind of walking on the edge of falling away. Or you look at God's promises to always provide for his people. But you've been struggling with unemployment, and the savings account is running down, and it doesn't seem like any jobs are on the horizon. Or you look at God's promise that the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. But you look around the world today and you see what seem like successful attacks on the church, both at home and abroad. What do you do when you're surrounded by circumstances that appear to be directly opposed to the promises that God has made to you and to the church? You do what Abram does. You walk by faith. But this entire first section casts Abram as a man of faith. Abram, go! And Abram went. You don't even hear any questions from him. We don't know if he's asked any question. He he goes. He leaves country, kindred. And Father, he journeys through the land. He erects altars in the presence of those who would oppose him to worship the Lord. Regardless of how incongruous his circumstances are with God's promises, he knows that God is able to do what he promised. In the same way, God calls us to walk by faith, believing in his promises, even when our circumstances seem utterly inconsistent with them. You take another step, and then another step, and then another step of faith, remembering that with man, it is impossible But with God, all things are possible, including the fulfillment of all of God's promises to you All of it is possible. Furthermore, God puts us in these circumstances and puts men like Abram into these circumstances, which we will see just completely wildly unbelievable circumstances and then accomplishes his purpose in order to show yes these circumstances are hard but I am showing that your salvation is clearly from me and not from you. That is what God is doing in the midst of our lives. So we continue walking by faith. And it's good news that all things are possible with God, because as we see in the passage, If God's promises were entirely dependent on us, we would fail. Which brings us to point two. God keeps His promises. Point one was God makes his promises. Point two, God keeps his promises. And he keeps his promises even when we are faithless. Look with me at verse 10 and following. After Abram took up residence in Canaan, there was a severe famine that struck the land, and as a result, Abram journeys to Egypt. If you just kind of let your eyes scan over these verses, you'll see all of that there where food is apparently still available. But the focus in these verses isn't the famine, they're just kind of the presenting circumstances Rather, the focus is Abraham's faithlessness in the face of fearful circumstances and God's continuing to keep his promise in the midst of Abram's faithlessness. As they approach Egypt, Abram is fearful. Fearful of what the Egyptians are going to do to him. And he fearfully devises a foolish scheme that will jeopardize the promises that God made to him. He's concerned that the Egyptians will see how beautiful Sarai is and kill him so that they can have her. So he tells her to say that she's his sister. Hey, just say that you're my sister and uh it'll go well. And that that would apparently result in them letting him live, but you can really see the faithlessness in his motives. Notice the self-interest in his motives. Look at verse 13. Say you're my sister, so that it may go well with me, not you, because of you, and that my life might be spared for your sake. He's concerned more about his own welfare than about how his plan might impact her or intersect with God's promises to him. And impact her, it does. Whether we have any idea if Abram could have foreseen what would happen, we don't know. They end up not killing him, but they take her into Pharaoh's house. Where the implication is, she becomes part of Pharaoh's group of wives. He even says she became my wife. I took her as my wife. Right? All the while Abram is prospering. Here Sarah is in subjection to the Pharaoh. Abram's prospering, getting oxen and camels and donkeys and all of that stuff that was valuable in his culture. Verse 16 tells us all about how Abram was blessed by Pharaoh because of Sarai, but we have to realize what's going on here to appreciate how Abram's Faithlessness and foolishness have completely, from a human perspective, jeopardized God's promises to him. God's promises to Abram are dependent on Abram and Sarai having children Apart from them having children, they won't become a great nation. His name won't become great, and there won't be an offspring Through whom all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And here Abram is essentially handing Sarai over to become one of Pharaoh's wives, who will undoubtedly have children with Pharaoh. Abram's faithlessness and foolishness have completely jeopardized the promises that God made to him. And it's not like these promises are in the distant past that Abram might be forgiven somehow because they were made so long ago, and I kind of forgot them a little bit. I was a little rusty, right? God just made these promises to him. Like literally just minute. We have in the first 11 chapters of Genesis, we have covered 2,000 years of human history. And over the next 10 chapters, 12 to 22, we cover 25. Everything has slowed down. God just made these promises to Abram and the faithlessness that Abram shows shortly after receiving God's blessing and promise Is a pattern that we've already seen in Genesis, right? We saw it with Adam and Eve. God creates them, blesses them, gives them one rule to live by, which they seem to immediately break. Then God chooses to save Noah through the flood, brings him out of the ark. He's like a new Adam on a new earth. God blesses him, gives him rules to live by, and he immediately gets drunk. Then God calls Abram to make him into a new nation after the judgment at Babel, blesses him, makes glorious promises to him, and he immediately shows he's not up to the task. If salvation is going to happen Friends, it cannot depend on us because if it depends on us, it will never happen. But praise God. Salvation doesn't depend on us, but on God. Did you notice how emphatically God underscores that he will be the one who fulfills his promises to Abram? Right? Just look at the promises again in verses 2 and 3. What do you see repeated there? I will, I will, I will, not you will, I will do this. I will do this even when you are faithless and foolish. I will bring about the accomplishment of all of my promises. God is taking total responsibility for ensuring these promises come to pass. And if this passage teaches us anything, it's that God will protect and keep his promises to save his people in spite of our faithlessness. Look at verse 17. God afflicts Pharaoh with plagues to protect Sarai. And in doing so, he keeps all of his promises to Abram. Especially his promise that through Abram and Sarai, not Pharaoh and Sarai, an offspring would come who would bring blessing to all the families of the earth, the same offspring who God promised would crush the serpent's head. And what the rest of Scripture makes abundantly clear is that God would overcome His people's faithlessness again and again to keep every one of his promises to Abram. We heard read this morning, Isaiah chapter 1. Not an easy chapter to read. Why? Because of how graphically it recounts the faithlessness of God's people. And yet, working through a faithless people, over and above a faithless people, sovereignly over a faithless people, Isaiah teaches us that God will keep his promises to Abram. He kept his promise to make him into a great nation as his descendants formed the nation of Israel. He kept his promise to make his name great as kings would come from his lineage. He kept his promise to give him a land as a nation of Israel would eventually come to possess the land of Canaan. And he kept his promise. To bring blessing to all the families of the earth through Abram. And he kept that promise by sending his Son, Jesus Christ, the promised seed. The offspring who would crush the serpent's head and bring blessing to all the families of the earth. You get to the New Testament in Galatians chapter 3. Paul cites God's promise to Abram in chapter 12, verse 3, that all the families of the earth will be blessed in him, and says that in that promise, God preached the gospel to Abram because of how clearly that promise was fulfilled by Jesus Christ, the offspring of Abram. Jesus came to crush the serpent's head by dying on the cross for our sins and bringing salvation and blessing, salvation from sins. and heavenly divine blessings to all the families of the earth, to anyone from any nation who would turn from sin and trust in him. And friends, we just gotta un we gotta understand, Joel has pointed it out already. how we are inheritors of that promise made 4,000 years ago to Abram through Jesus Christ. You look around this room While some of us might look the same as one another, others of us are gonna look different from one another, but I trust that if you go back through our ethnicities You will find many nations, many tribes, many tongues represented in this room, but through faith in Jesus Christ, the earth who was scattered at Babel has now been united in Christ, and we are all one in Christ through faith in him. The blessing of Abram has come to us through the promised seed, Jesus Christ. And In this room, all the families of the earth are blessed. And this room is being multiplied today around the world. As saints from every nation gather to worship God through his Son Jesus Christ and to show how God keeps his promises, even when his people are faithless. And though God's people at times showed great faith, like Abram did, as they awaited the fulfillment of these promises, they also showed great faithlessness. They struggled to believe God. They devised foolish plans. They sinned and rebelled. And yet, in spite of their faithlessness, God was faithful and kept all of his promises to them. And if God could keep his promises to Abram and to His people over the 2,000 years between Abram and Christ, 2,000 years riddled with his people's faithlessness, then he can keep his promises to you and me over the 2,000 years that have passed since Christ. 2,000 years and 2,000 more, if that's how long it takes till Christ comes, God will keep his promises to his people in spite of our faithlessness. And our foolishness. Neither our faithlessness or our foolishness can stop God from fulfilling his promises to us in Christ. And I don't say this to you to give you grounds to now go throw caution to the wind, to sin that grace may abound. I say this to you so that you would throw your hands up in praise to God. Because while we're counted as Abraham's children because we share in his faith, at times we also share in his faithlessness and his foolishness, but neither our faithlessness nor our foolishness will prevent God from keeping his promises to us. No don't wrong we we can sin. We can make foolish decisions that can have wide-ranging negative impacts on our lives and the lives of others. And we'll be tempted to do so because like Abram. We'll be faced with circumstances that cause us to fear, that cause us to doubt whether God has the power to help us. And that that that might potentially tempt us to devise sinful and foolish schemes. I wonder if you noticed how similar Abram's experience is to the experience his offspring have after him. His life here in this chapter becomes a pattern of sorts for his children, right? His children and his grandchildren sojourn like he did in Egypt as strangers in a foreign land. Pharaoh enslaves them. But since they are the nation of promise, God protects them, afflicts Pharaoh with plagues, and brings them out of slavery. And that pattern that we see Throughout the Old Testament holds even into the New Testament. How are believers described in the New Testament? Sojourners Exiles, strangers in a foreign land. We live in the midst of a spiritual Egypt where we will be tempted to doubt God's promises and power Yet we learn from this passage that we can and we should walk by faith even in the midst of temptation and fearful circumstances, knowing that God can And will keep his promises to the church. And what are those promises? They are the ultimate fulfillment of the promises God made to Abram. What do I mean? God promised to Abram the land of Canaan, but he has promised to us The new heavens and the new earth, the city of the living God, where we will live in perfected and glorified existence with God and with the Lamb forever in his land. Let that Canaan come. God promised to Abraham a nation, but he has promised to us the church, fellowship in and with the redeemed of God. throughout time and space, who will one day be brought together around the throne, a throng of perfected saints singing songs of praise to God, with only joy and gladness in our hearts. We will one day worship with Adam and Eve, with Enoch and Noah, and Abram and Sarai, and Peter and Paul, and Lydia and Phoebe. We will worship with Augustine and Athanasius, with Catherine von Bora and Idolette Calvin, with Spurgeon and Sproul, Lloyd Jones and Packer. We'll worship with Tom Bennett, and we will worship with every other loved one in Christ. who has gone on before us a great nation of all who have forsaken this life for the sake of eternal life with Christ. God promised to Abram that through him all the nations would be blessed, and we have come to share in that blessing through faith in Jesus Christ, and now we have the privilege. of holding out that blessing to all the families of the earth to tell them to come and to forsake that life to find eternal life in Christ. And we know. We know That just as God judged Pharaoh for endangering the people of his promise, God will send Jesus to bring judgment on the ruler of this world Satan and deliver his people from this spiritual Egypt once and for all. Friends, God will do this. Even in spite of our faithlessness. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny self. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are so faithless. There's so much spiritual fruit that we also see in our lives, evidence of your spirit at work in us, but we also fail. And fall short, forgive us, Lord. Help us. Help us today and in the days to come to believe that you will keep every one of the promises that you have made to us. Help us to continue counting the cost and taking up our cross and following Jesus. Help us to look forward to that greater land, that better land that awaits us on the other side of the heavenly Jordan, where we will dwell with you forever. We pray this in the matchless name of Jesus Christ. Amen.