Good afternoon. It is a pleasure to be here with you and an honor to open up God's Word together. I'm going to pray for us one more time briefly, and then we will dive in. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you spoke. And brought all things into creation. Your word is powerful We pray that you would be pleased to speak again through your word now, here, today, that new creation would occur in our hearts For those who are dwelling in darkness, we pray that your word would bring light, the light that shines in the face of your Son, Jesus Christ. And to those who have been brought into the kingdom of light, we pray that you would sanctify us in your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, according to Wikipedia, uh a threat assessment is the practice of determining the credibility and probability of a potential threat and then deciding the steps needed to prevent the threat from becoming a reality. Now the phrase threat assessment is a relatively new one, but the practice of conducting threat assessments is really as old as mankind. We see this especially in the building of ancient fortresses and cities which were built to protect against external threats. conducted a threat assessment. They thought we we need to be uh aware of those people over there and that tribe over there and this danger coming from that direction and we need to build our fortress or our city in such and such a way to protect against it. So think about some real life examples. The ancient city of Masada in Israel is perched atop a plateau high above a basin in the Judean desert. Being perched high above the basin made the fortress nearly impossible to attack without its enemies experiencing massive loss. Or you have the uh fortress of the Murudjan off the west coast of India. This was built in the 16th century. It's epic. I'd encourage you to check it out when you get home. Just look at pictures of it. They were concerned about threats to the western coast of India, India, and so they built this marine fortress. And in its heyday, the Mura Janjiris sported 572 cannons and is widely considered the strongest marine fortress ever. Never. Never succumbing to an attack from any enemy. But threat assessments aren't only reserved for the building of cities, right? Today we have home security systems like Nest or Ring to fight against the threat of intruders. We have two-factor authentication to protect against hackers. We have codes to protect our smartphones from the threat of random people gaining access to them. In a world like ours, we need to be aware of the threats around us. But threat assessments are not only for your home, or your smartphone, right? Or your bank account, there are spiritual threats That you need to assess as a Christian. And we see in our passage today that growing in maturity as a Christian means growing and being aware of the threat of false teaching And knowing how to defend against it. So I want to encourage you to go ahead and turn in your Bible to Colossians chapter 2 We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 5 today as you're turning there. Let me go ahead and provide some context to our passage So far, we've seen that throughout chapter 1 of Colossians, Paul has been emphasizing the power of the gospel, right? The gospel in all of its power has been spreading around the world. And at the heart of the gospel is the powerful and preeminent Jesus, who is the creator and sustainer of the world and who died to reconcile us to God. And at the end of chapter one. Paul describes for the Colossians that the goal of his entire ministry, all of his laboring, all of his toiling, all of his struggle struggling to preach the gospel Is their maturity in the faith. That's what he wants to produce in them through preaching the gospel. I want you to look at verse 28 of chapter 1 again, real quick, just to set this context. Paul writes, Him we proclaim. Warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this, your maturity, I toil. Struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Now, what he's going to do in chapter two is he's going to continue talking about his struggle to present the Colossians mature, but rather than talking about his own ministry. He's now going to describe the marks of maturity they should expect to see in their lives individually and as a church. I want you to follow along as I read Colossians chapter 2. Verses 1 to 5 for us. This is God's word. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you. and for those at Laodicea, and for all who have not seen me face to face, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love To reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit Rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ We're in our third and final week of looking at these verses. Two weeks ago, we saw that maturing as a Christian includes growing and being encouraged in the faith. And last week we saw that maturing as a Christian includes growing and being united in love. And this week we see that maturing in the faith looks like being filled with the riches of Christ. And being on guard against false teaching. So those will be our two points today. If you're taking notes, maturing as a Christian looks like being filled with the riches of Christ. Point one. And to being on guard against false teaching. First, we see that maturing as a Christian Looks like growing and being filled with the riches of Christ. In verse 1, if you're looking at the passage, Paul is describing his struggle to present all Christians mature in the faith. He says, I want you in Colossae to know how great a struggle I have for you. and those at Laodicea, that was another town in the same region as Colossae, and for all Christians who have not seen me face to face. He wants all Christians to mature in the faith. And in verse two and beyond He tells them the marks of maturity that they should be striving after. So look at verse 2. You'll see those marks of maturity again. Two weeks ago we saw that it looks like being encouraged in the faith. What Paul says there their hearts may be encouraged. And last week we saw it looks like being united in love, being knit together in love. Now look at the third thing that he wants to see. He wants to see them Reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Now, real quick, the the first thing that I want to mention is that the way that this verse has been translated into English, at least in the ESV Makes it sound like Paul wants them to be encouraged in the faith and united in love in order to reach all the riches of Christ. If you're looking there, he says, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding. But the two there doesn't express purpose. It's the Greek preposition for direction He wants them to be encouraged in the faith, united in love, and moving towards, moving into, being filled with the riches of Christ. It's a separate idea. Maturity in the faith looks like being filled with the riches of Christ. Sounds so good, right? What exactly does he mean when he says to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge, right? Like he's just piling up awesome description after awesome description. But what does it actually mean? How does it land in my life? How do I reach these riches and possess these treasures of wisdom? And knowledge, what does this mean? Well, what he's telling them is that their maturity entails being filled with a greater and greater understanding and knowledge Of how God's plan of redemption is fulfilled in Jesus. Just look back again at the phrase. You'll see it right there in the middle of the phrase. He wants them to have a greater understanding and knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. We talked about this when I preached on verses 24 to 29 of chapter 1. God's mystery refers to the unfolding of God's plan of redemption in the Old Testament. It's described as a mystery here because before Jesus came and died and rose again, it wasn't clear how all of the various prophecies and promises of salvation in the Old Testament would come to pass. Right? So if you imagine being Isaiah and you get this prophecy of the suffering servant who is high and lifted up, but will also bear the punishment for his people's sins. He'll be like a lamb who was slain, a lamb who was slaughtered, he'll be silent before his shears. But then he'll rise to save his people. Like you get you got to think, Isaiah's mind would have been would have been blowing like, Lord, how can these things come true in one person? Right? And that's just one of hundreds of examples that we could come up with. But when Jesus came, suffered, died, and rose again, that mystery was revealed. Which is why Paul says that God's mystery is Christ. All of the various promises. Prophecies, shadows, and types meet in him. What Paul is saying to the Colossians and to us Is that I want you to bury your roots deeper and deeper into the person and work of Christ, both in the Old Testament and understanding how it's fulfilled in him and then in the New Testament looking back on and explaining his work on the cross. And Paul saying, as you do that You will inevitably find that he is an infinite bed of soil for all of our roots. Our roots will never stop growing deeper and deeper in him because he is An infinite treasure for us to possess. You cannot plumb the depths of the treasures and riches of wisdom and knowledge that are in Jesus Christ. And why should we give ourselves to understanding and knowing Christ? Right? Look at how Paul describes him. In him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge, not some, not a few, but all of them Are hidden in him. Hidden, not in the sense that they can't be found. So kids, if you think about like you're trying to hide something from one of your siblings, you're hiding it because you don't want them to find it, right? The treasures of wisdom and knowledge that are hidden in Christ are not hidden in that way. It's simply to say that he is the central bank of all of them. He is the source of all true wisdom and knowledge. If you want true wisdom and knowledge in this life, you come to him. All of them are hidden in him. And he gives them freely to all who would come to him to find them. What exactly does it mean that he is the source of all wisdom and knowledge? How do we understand that? Can I be wise apart from Jesus? Can I have knowledge and know things apart from having a relationship with Jesus Well, I think our answer has to be yes, we can know facts about this world, right? We can know things about life. Here's what I think Paul means when he says that he is the source of all wisdom and knowledge. He means that in Christ are found all the wisdom and knowledge that we need to truly understand creation and salvation In Christ are found all the wisdom and knowledge that we need to truly understand creation and salvation. Think about this. It means that in him are found all the wisdom and knowledge that we need to truly understand creation. Now, am I saying that you have to believe in Jesus to understand the table of elements or biological processes or physics or strength theory or any other aspect of the natural sciences? No, but I am saying that you can't truly understand them apart from Christ How can that be? Well, an illustration by John Lennox, uh he's a Christian apologist, uh, who's also a Cambridge and Oxford-trained mathematician, is really helpful here. He he calls this illustration Aunt Matilda's Cake. And it goes something like this. You have to imagine it. He's like a Santa Claus type guy with an English accent, so I'm not going to do it justice, but if you can imagine me saying it that way, he says, Perhaps a simple illustration will help convince us. That the knowledge offered by the sciences is limited. Let's imagine that my Aunt Matilda had baked a beautiful cake, and we take it to be analyzed by a group of the world's top scientists. I, as the master of ceremonies, ask them for an explanation of the cake and they go to work. The nutritionists will tell us about the number of calories in the cake and its nutritional effect The biochemists will inform us about the structure of the proteins, the fats, the carbohydrates, etc. The chemists will tell us about the elements involved and their bonding. The physicists will be able to analyze the cake in terms of fundamental particles, and the mathematicians will no doubt offer us a set of elegant equations to describe the behavior of those particles. Now that these experts, each in terms of his or her scientific discipline, have given us an exhaustive description of the cake, can we say that the cake is completely explained? We have certainly been given a description of how the cake was made and how its various constituent elements relate to each other, but suppose I now ask the assembled group of experts a final question. Why was the cake made? The grin on Aunt Matilda's face shows she knows the answer, or she made the cake, and she knows the purpose for which she made it. But all the nutrition scientists, biochemists, chemists, physicists, and mathematicians in the world will not be able to answer the question. And it's no insult to their disciplines to state their incapacity to answer it. their disciplines, which can cope with questions about the nature and structure of the cake, that is answering the how questions, cannot answer the why questions connected with the purpose for which the cake was made. In fact The only way we will ever get an answer is if Aunt Matilda reveals it to us. But if she does not disclose the answer to us, the plain fact is that no amount of scientific analysis will enlighten us. Here's what Paul means when he says that Christ, in him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Only Christ can shed light on the why of creation. And until you and I come to know the why of creation through him, it simply does not matter how many facts we know. We can never be truly wise or possess knowledge in the truest sense. As C. S. Lewis put it this way famously, he said, I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen. Not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else. Jesus Christ is the sun who shines light on the darkness of the world around us, so that we understand why it was made and why we were made. Go back to Colossians chapter 1. Paul says, you were made for him. Why? For him. That's the purpose of your life That's what it looks like to seek wisdom and knowledge in Christ. To go to Christ, to better understand who He is, who you are, and the world around you. That is to seek wisdom and knowledge that is found in Christ. And in him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. But understanding Christ as creator is only half of the equation. To truly possess wisdom and knowledge, we must come to also worship Christ. If you're not a Christian and your assessment of Jesus is that he was just a good moral teacher, then you can't be truly wise If your assessment of yourself is that you're not all that bad, of course you make mistakes, but don't we all, then you haven't obtained true knowledge yet. And I say that in love. The reason that you're not truly wise and I've not yet obtained true knowledge is because you're disagreeing with what God says about Jesus and what God says about you. God says that Jesus is fully God. He is the image of the invisible God. Right Not just a good moral teacher, the creator of the universe, the Lord of all the nations, the judge of all the earth, the exalted Jesus who sits at the right hand of God. And God also says that you and I have not just made mistakes. We have fallen far short of his standard. We've sinned against his holiness and are under his judgment. And you and I have a decision to make. We can unwisely reject God's offer of forgiveness through his son Jesus, or you can repent. In the Old Testament, it talks about repentance in the turn in terms of the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? Wisdom. Repentance is the beginning of wisdom. It's saying, Yes, Lord, I agree with your assessment of me. I am in need of salvation. I am in need of forgiveness, and you are the only one I can come to because in you is eternal life only. That is wisdom. That's the path of beginning in wisdom. Put your trust in Jesus, and in him you will have access to all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. You will have access to God Himself in Christ. But for those who've chosen to follow Jesus, repentance is only the beginning of wisdom. Right? Our room for growing and knowing the riches of Christ is limitless. Jesus offers inexhaustible treasures of wisdom and knowledge to those who seek them out, and we're called to be filled with the riches of Christ. by pursuing him throughout our days. I wonder, what are you striving to be filled with? How are you doing in striving to be filled with the riches of Christ? Now listen for most adults in the room, life is extremely full. Right? For many of us, that includes work. Marriage, parenting, home projects, errands, basic life responsibilities that you can't escape. The question that I want to ask you is. What do you slip into the nooks and crannies of your day? In your limited free time, where are you turning What are you reaching for? Are you reaching for your phone? Your computer? The TV remote The video game controller. There's nothing inherently wrong with any of these things. But I wonder what does the balance look like in your life at the end of each week? The end of each month. The end of each year. For the teens. I know that you all feel busy. I don't know if your parents have said this yet. If they have, I'll just add my voice to the chorus. Trust me when I say, life is only gonna get busier. You all have a little bit more time now to spend on fun and leisure. And I want to encourage you to think about the steps that you can take now to set a lifelong pattern of filling your mind with the riches of Christ. And no, just like for the adults, it's going to take discipline and work, right? You can get stronger muscularly if you're disciplined and put in the work at the gym. You can fill your mind with the riches of Christ if you are spending time with Christ in his word and in prayer. Right? I think we all are naturally going to reach for what's more comfortable. in life. So when I say develop a pattern now, it means a discipline that you're going to have to consciously work on. But trust me when I also say that you will never regret filling your mind with the riches of Christ. It will pay dividends in the future that you just can't expect now. Consider it like planting an oak seed in the soil, right? How long is it going to take for that oak to be gigantic and dropping acorns on its own? It's going to take years But eventually the fruit will bud and it will bear fruit of its own. And you'll have shade for your yard and acorns that fill your backyard for a lifetime. Right? Invest in the Lord now. Set a pattern now. Be filling your mind with the riches of wisdom and knowledge that are in Christ now. And it will bear fruit in the future. But we also should notice why Paul wants them to be filled with the riches of Christ And we see in the passage is because it also protects us from being deceived by false teaching. Which brings me to my second point. Maturing in the faith includes being on guard against false teaching. I want you to look at verse 4. Paul goes on and says, I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. When Paul says, I say this, I think he's referring to everything he's just said about how all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are in Jesus. And he says those things in order that No one may delude you with plausible arguments. As you grow in being filled with the ri with the riches of Christ, you will also grow in being on guard and better protected against false teaching. Notice the correlation. The more you give yourself to being filled with the riches of Christ, the less likely you are to being deluded with plausible arguments. That word deluded there also means deceived or tricked, right? And Paul doesn't want them to be deceived or tricked by plausible arguments. He doesn't want them to be led astray by fine-sounding logic. He doesn't want them to be duped by persuasive speech. Let's just take a step back and recognize what Paul is not concerned with. He is not concerned with teaching that is self-evidently ludicrous. Right, one pastor said, you don't get far with crazy. Relatively speaking, very few people are led astray by patently ridiculous teaching. Paul's not worried about teaching that is just preposterous. On the face of it. He's worried about teaching that is deceptive because it sounds so reasonable. It sounds plausible. It's when arguments sound plausible. That they become dangerous. The more plausible they sound, combined with how false they actually are, the more dangerous they become. He's worried about teaching that is deceptive because it sounds so reasonable. Right. Charles Spurgeon made the same observation when he said, discernment is not knowing the difference between right and wrong, or right and crazy. It's knowing the difference between right and almost right. And the Colossians needed discernment because the false teaching they were hearing sounded almost right. It was plausible. We learn a bit more about these plausible arguments as the letter unfolds. Later in chapter 2, he calls them man-made philosophies and empty deceit. Then chapter 2, verse 16, and following, he goes on to specifics. Some of these false teachers seem to have been Jews who were claiming to follow Jesus, but were teaching the Colossians that they needed to obey the Old Testament law to truly be saved. That is, Christ plus works. Right? Not saved by grace alone. You also need to become a Jew if you're going to be saved is what they were teaching. Other teachers were coming around. Telling the Colossians that they needed to sell all their belongings and punish themselves physically and have in have visions and worship angels Right? A ton of ink has been spilled to try and figure out exactly what this false teaching was, but I think the best way to view it is not as false teaching, but as false teachings. I think Paul is somewhat vague in his descriptions because there were numerous forms of false teaching, plausible false teaching, that the Colossians needed to be on guard against. It wasn't just one thing. Right? So you have the two examples in Colossians. You look at Paul's other writings. There were other false teachings, so-called Christians who were saying, teaching that because God forgives sin, you could go on sinning as much as you like, that God's grace may abound. Paul's like, that's crazy. That's not what the gospel is, right? And then there was the false teaching of the Gnostics, which John focuses on in his letters, which took a number of different forms. All of which centered though on secret knowledge that one could only possess if one were part of the specially chosen group But what all of these false teachings shared in common at their root is that they pushed a wisdom and knowledge that was contrary to Christ. Be wise by obeying the law. That's contrary to Christ. Be wise by selling all your goods and worshiping angels. That's contrary to Christ Seek true knowledge by joining our sect. We possess the secret knowledge that is not available to all, contrary to Christ. And while all of these systems of teaching might sound plausible, they ultimately lead Christians away from Christ and to destruction. And in that, you see how all of these systems at their root are ultimately satanic. Why do I say that? What did Satan promise Eve in the garden? He promised her secret knowledge. The serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. You will become wise. And you will be like God, possessing the knowledge of good and evil. Right. It was promising a wisdom that was contrary to Christ. But these satanic systems of secret knowledge, these deceptive and plausible false teachings, were not And are not relics of a bygone era. Church history is literally riddled with examples of false teaching. And these deceptive and plausible false teachings exist today. There is nothing new under the sun. There has never been a time when the church hasn't been afflicted by false teaching, and there will never be a time until Christ comes when the church isn't under the threat. of false teaching. The question isn't, is there false teaching today? But what are the false teachings threatening the church today? Like in Paul's day, there isn't just one, there are many. From the plausible prosperity gospel that misinterprets God's promises to the nation of Israel. rips other passages out of context in order to teach that if we just have enough faith, God will bless us with material health and wealth. That may seem far-fetched among us today, but it is the fastest growing religion in the world. It's spreading all over Africa and other parts of the world, but it's not just the prosperity gospel. Secular understandings of racism. and identity and oppression have made inroads into the church by way of using biblical words with unbiblical definitions. The sin of racism has been redefined away from partiality, which all people can be guilty of, to something only those in power can commit against those who don't have power. Or the category of identity, in which people are grouped and then subgrouped based on ethnic, cultural, national, sexual, and gender identities, and then pursue solidarity within those groups based on how many shared categories they have. Now there's nothing wrong at all with having an ethnic or cultural identity. God has also made us male and female We exist within identity groups. Paul often talked about being a Jew, but his ethnic and cultural identities were relativized. They were subordinated to his identity in Christ. Paul understood himself to have more in common with a Christian Gentile than a Jewish unbeliever. And if we are going to be filled with Christ's wisdom and on guard against false teaching. We need to view our identity in Christ in the same way. All of our cultural, ethnic, gender, if you're a male or female, all of those things are relativized to the oneness we have in Christ. We have solidarity together in him, cleansed by his blood, right? Not black, white, right, like covered by the red blood of Christ Made cleansed in him, together as one people. That is our identity. The other ones exist, but are relativized beneath it, subordinated to it. We are one in him Or categories of oppressors and oppression that have been redefined so that certain individuals and ethnic groups are automatically oppressors or oppressed by virtue of their being a particular gender or ethnicity. Or you have the redefinition of the kingdom of God to refer specifically to America and so guarding the American way of life And the Constitution requires idolizing certain public officials, and that all becomes inextricably intertwined with guarding the gospel. We need to be on guard against the ever-present threat of false teaching. On guard because so many of these arguments seem so plausible. Imagine if someone came up to you and said this: join us in our war against oppression. What's your instinct as a Christian? Sure. Oppression's terrible. God hates oppression. God's opposed to oppression. I'm also opposed. To oppression, right? You're probably instinctively going to agree because God is clearly against oppression. But the question you need to ask is: what do you mean by oppression? And does it align with how God defines oppression? So many Christians today are being persuaded to believe plausible arguments on both sides. Because biblical terms are being redefined in unbiblical ways. And so to be filled with the riches of Christ and the wisdom that Christ gives means asking the questions. What do you mean by justice? What do you mean by kingdom of God? What do you mean by oppressor? What do you mean by oppression You compare their definition with Christ's definition. What does God say in His Word about these things? You need to be so steeped in the Word that the slightest deviation of definitions sets off some alarms. Not that you immediately like flee from the person and like condemn them as a false teacher. That's not what I'm encouraging, but if there's a deviation in definitions That can lead ultimately to long-term devastation. Paul talks about friends of his in what is it first Timothy chapter one, one of his friends or a couple guys got all caught up in like pursuing arguments about the law, and they made shipwreck of their faith by getting involved in it. Right? The slightest deviation can have devastating consequences. If you were to to depart a flight on a flight around the globe from Washington, D. C. , and you were aiming to land back in Washington, D. C. But when you took off, you were just one degree off. By the time you got back around the globe, you would miss DC by four hundred and thirty-five miles. Slight deviation over a long trajectory, low, miss just missed the mark entirely, right? That's why we need to be concerned about these things. These plausible arguments, we need to dive into them and understand them. That's why Carl Truman's book is on the back table for free for you. It's going to help you understand these things. So it's why Sharon James's book on gender ideology is on the back table. We want you thinking about these things. Tony Rinkey's book, Competing Spectacles, is going to Compare the riches of Christ with all of the things in this world that seem glittery, but don't ultimately redu uh result in wisdom and knowledge in a Christian. We want you to be thinking about these things. Talking with one another, talking with us because it's important. That's why Paul wants them and us to grow in being on guard against false teaching. But I also want to match what Paul seems to be saying to the Colossians in his letter and say to you. I am so encouraged by the way that I see this happening already at CBC. Right? I feel the same way about you all that Paul did about the Colossians. Just look at verse 5. He says, I hey, I'm rejoicing. In your good order and the firmness of your faith. It's not like Galatians chapter one where he's just like, he's heated. Like how could you make the mistake that you're making? He's looking at the Colossians, he's saying, You're doing a great job. Just be aware of these things. Be on guard against these things. Fill yourself with the riches of Christ. So I'm looking at y'all. I love you guys. I'm so encouraged by what the experience of this last year has been like. In this congregation among you all. It's a testimony to the Spirit's work in you, to the way that you have been filling yourself with the riches of Christ. And I just want to say, keep going. Keep doing it, right? Keep going in that direction. Paul wanted the Colossians to continue growing in maturity, and I want the same, and the elders want the same for this congregation. He wanted them to do that by conducting a threat assessment. Right? By being aware of the false teachings, they were susceptible to believing, and by protecting themselves from those false teachings by being filled with the riches of Christ. And if we're going to continue growing in maturity as a congregation, we need to do the same. We need to be filled with the riches of Christ so that we can be better prepared to fend off false teaching. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, the threats are many We need wisdom. You are the source of true wisdom and knowledge. Father, when we come to your word, we pray that you would share the treasures of wisdom and knowledge that are in Christ with us. You would guard us through faith by your power. Keep us until that final day when Christ comes. Lord, protect your church, grow your church. We desire to see the light of Christ pierce into the darkness of this world, that many would turn to Christ. Repent, be saved, and be brought into your kingdom forever. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.