I remember the first time I heard someone use the phrase, don't judge me, humorously Uh she came over to our house and she said, Well, I've been letting the kids watch cartoons for an hour. Don't judge me. And when I told that illustration last time at Capitol Baptist, four of you came up to me afterwards and said, was that me? And this woman's humor, of course. traded on how non-judgmental Americans pretend to be. We like to think of ourselves as that. Who are you to judge who I sleep with, who I marry, whether I am a he or a she Who are you to judge how I spend my money or where I spend my kids to school? A very American attitude. The irony, of course, is that we can't get away from making judgments. Life is impossible without judgments. To judge something is to put it on the scales. It's to weigh it. It's to measure it, to assess it. Kids listening, you might remember that line in Mary Poppins. Where she pulls out her tape measure and she says to Michael and Jane, and she holds up the measure to Michael and says, just as I thought, extremely stubborn and suspicious. And then Jane giggles. He holds up the tape measure to Jane and she says, rather inclined to giggle and doesn't put things away. Of course, Mary Poppins then measures herself. And does anybody remember what she says? Practically perfect in every way. She judged herself. Every morning we render judgment on how to best spend our day, which relationships are worth investing in, what to eat for breakfast, whether or not to come to church We can't live without making judgments. It's what we do as humans. It's part of how we image God. to assess, to measure, to render judgment. The matter of judgment is at the heart of the book of Ecclesiastes, which is what we're going to think about this morning. Turn there. If you're using the pew or the chair Bible, it's on page 553. And since we're going to be reading through Ecclesiastes in our small groups this fall John and I thought it would be worth introducing it with an overview sermon on the whole book of Ecclesiastes. Some of you heard an earlier version of this sermon at Capitol Hill Baptist, but I assume you probably didn't memorize it. So now's your chance to hear a version of it again. Ecclesiastes as a whole has been called the black sheep of the Bible. When you read it For the first time, you may have had the response that many of us had, which is, what is this thing doing in the Bible How does this fit in? It's so different. In many ways, you feel like you're reading the rantings of a depressed. 19th century nihilistic philosopher. Begins meaningless. Everything's meaningless. Doesn't sound like Bible, does it? What's going on there? The book also provides realism about life that people I think so deeply appreciate. For instance, turn to chapter 7, Ecclesiastes 7, verse 21. Do not take to heart all the things that people say, lest you hear your servant cursing you. Your heart knows that many times you yourself have cursed others. Imagine a father saying to his daughter, going to school, coming home from school, people are talking about me. Responding, yeah, they're probably talking about you. So just don't even think about it. Because come on, honey, you know you do the same That would be a forthright father. And that's how he's talking right here. Which again, I think, is why people appreciate the book. Let me offer a few other introductory remarks before getting back to this theme of judgment. We don't know for certain who wrote it. Look at 1-1, chapter 1, verse 1. It's introduced as the words of the preacher or the teacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. So does that mean the book was written by King Solomon, son of David? Well, maybe that word son could refer to him or could refer to any number of generations of son, grandson, great-great-grandson, and so on down uh from David. And in many ways the book, as it describes the riches and the vineyards and the harem of of this king, it it sounds like Solomon. But the Holy Spirit, for one reason or another, didn't think we needed to know that exact answer to get what we need to get out of this. Book. If this very first verse frames the book, turn to the end, the last chapter Where this same narrator-like figure concludes the book as well, providing the other frame. Look at chapter 12, verse 9 Besides being wise, the preacher also taught the people knowledge, weighing and studying and arranging many proverbs with great care. The preacher sought to find words of delight, and uprightly he wrote words of Truth. Now, besides these two bookends, it's it's it's hard to discern a really clear super clear structure or outline for the book as a whole. Flip back to chapter one You see, just scanning your eyes over the page, verses 1 to 11 provide a kind of prologue, and then verses 12 and 13 set up the rest of The book, verse 12, I, the preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem. And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom all that is done under heaven. And the next couple of chapters describe this search for wisdom. And then you just sort of get chapters of Proverbs and parables and sayings and thoughts and observations that the preacher has. It's not entirely clear why are they in this order rather than some other Still these first two verses tell us a lot. What is the plea Ecclesiastes about? Well, it's about the preacher's heart searching out wisdom. And searching out wisdom about all, everything that is under the sun And that phrase, under heaven or under the sun, is crucial in the story of Ecclesiastes. If you think back over scripture, what you have again and again is kind of God revealing himself, right? He reveals himself to Adam and then Noah. Abraham, Moses, and then so on all the way to the New Testament apostles. Ecclesiastes reads more like a guy who's just sort of. Standing and looking around and making observations about what he sees under the sun. And in part, it's this observational posture which makes it sound so different than the rest of the Bible. He spends the book observing and struggling to understand what He observes what he sees. Look at chapter 8, verse 9. Chapter 8, verse 9. All this I observed. while applying my heart to all that is done under the sun, when man had power over man, who is hurt. So the book describes the experience of the average non-Christian and Christian alike under the sun. Now in the last couple of verses, it offers a brief over-the-sun perspective. We'll see that in a moment, but principally he concerns himself with what life looks like, sounds like, feels like, we experience. On this planet, under the sun. And unlike again most of the Old Testament, it's not just a book for Israelites. There's no talk of sacrifices or priests' covenants instead. Ecclesiastes is a book about Being human. What being human is like with God's curse upon us from Genesis 3. Look at chapter 1, verse 13. Chapter 1, verse 13. It's an unhappy business that God has given to the children of man, not children of Israel. Think back to uh Genesis 3, which Lawn just read for Where God curses the woman's womb, the man's soil. Bringing pain and futility to their their respective realms of labor. Pain, there's futility in each And then it says her desires are going to be contrary to her husband's, and he will rule over her. And sure enough, injustice in all sorts of ways. Well, what we get with Ecclesiastes is sort of a playing out Okay, let me let me show you what this is like. This is what life under the curse looks like, feels like All these ways. And that gives the book a very different vibe than, say, the book of Proverbs. Both are book of wisdom, but As you think about Proverbs, Proverbs gives us sort of principles of creation as God designed it. There is a cause-effect relationship, a sowing-reaping relationship throughout Proverbs. Work hard, you'll be rewarded Listen to wisdom, you'll flourish. Meanwhile, the the author of Ecclesiastes is standing back and he's he's looking at that and he's saying, that's not my experience. It's a little different. Look at chapter 8. Chapter 8, verse 14. There's a vanity that takes place on earth That there are righteous people to whom it happens according to the deeds of the wicked, there are wicked people to whom it happens according to the deeds of the righteous. How does that make sense? What happened to sowing and reaping, Mr. Proverbs? Asks Ecclesiastes Let me say, friends, this is, I think, however, just one more example of the beauty of Scripture. One book, Proverbs. Provides us the wisdom of creation as God intended it, showing us how to live. Meanwhile, right next door, Ecclesiastes provides the observation of life under the fall as we experience. And there is a tension between the sowing reaping Principle of one and the observational realities, the second. Could it be that God intends? this tension. Very deliberately intends this tension. Well that brings us back to the question of judgment. The two basic under the sun observation the preacher makes in this book are number one, Everything is futile. And number two, many of this world's judgments don't make sense. Observation one, everything is futile. Observation two, many of this world's judgments don't make sense. sense and so we're going to explore these two observations which I think will give us something of a sufficient overview of the book as a whole and then we'll consider three lessons. I'd encourage you to keep your Bibles open because I'm going to keep jumping around verse to Verse in Ecclesiastes. Observation number one: everything under the sun is futile, meaning nothing can be gained. Everything under the sun is futile, meaning nothing can be gained. Look at chapter 1, verse 2. Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Why is everything vain? Well, verse 3. What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun? And the key word here is gain. Life feels vain and futile because nothing can be gained finally in this life, no matter what you do. Everything eventually goes to death. So the writer is not a pure skeptic about life in general. He's not skeptical about wealth or wisdom or beauty or goodness or nature in and of themselves. He prizes all of these things. Rather, he realizes that because of death, nothing can finally be gained From all of these things under the sun. That's the result of God's Genesis 3 curse, and then our sin, which follows from it. And the natural world is offered as an illustration in verses 4 to 7. Look there. A generation goes. Then a generation comes, but the earth remains. Nothing changed. Nothing's gained. The sun rises and go down. The wind blows to the south and blows around to the north. All streams run to the sea, but the sea is not full. The place where the streams flow, there they flow again. In other words, it's not like the oceans fill up. Rather, they go back to the rivers and they just kind of keep going in this endless feudal cycle. Luke had a great prayer. Those dishes in the sink just keep filling up again, right? And what we see in these illustrations of nature or our kitchen sink is true of all of life. The preacher conducts several investigation in the ensuing chapters to see if anything could be gained. Look at chapter 2, verse 2. He he investigates pleasure and industry. I said in my heart, come now, I will test you with pleasure. Enjoy yourself. Verse 3, I searched with my heart how to cheer my body with wine. Heart still guiding me with wisdom. And how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was good for the children of man to do under heaven during the few days of their life I made great works. I built houses and planted vineyards for myself. I made myself gardens and parks and planted them all kinds of fruit trees. I made myself pools from which water to water the forests of growing trees. I bought male and female slaves and had slaves who were born in my house. I also had great possessions of herds and flocks, more than any who had gone before me in Jerusalem And on and on he goes through verse 10. And what was the result of this investigation of pleasure and industry? Verse 11. I considered all that my hands had done and the toil I had expanded in doing it, and behold, all was vanity. And striving after wind, and there was nothing to be gained. under the sun. Ever tried grabbing the wind? Gained much. And so the author then turns to investigating wisdom and folly. Chapter 2, verse 12. So I turn to consider wisdom and madness and folly. And here he discovers, look at verse 13, there is more gain in wisdom than in folly, as there is more gain in light than in darkness. The wise person has eyes in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. But at the same time, there really isn't game. Both end up in the same place. Verse 14 again, and yet I perceive that the same event happens to all of them. And then I said in my heart, what happens to the fool will also happen to me. Why then have I been so very wise? And I said in my heart that this also is vanity. For of the wise as of the fool, there is no enduring remembrance, seeing that the days to come all will have been long forgotten. For the wise dies just like the fool. Well we can understand what he can what he's saying, right? I mean after all, how many of you can name your great-great-grandpa, grandma? I can't And we don't have to be philosophical about it. Very plainly, how many books have you read that you just like, yeah, I think I read that. Don't remember anything in it For your high school trigonometry. Anyone using that these days? So much? How many, again, as you prayed, how many work projects and memos have you written and it just kind of goes unread? We think about things like age and arthritic knees. We think about roller coastering hormones, about mental fragility. And then of course there's all the injustices of life, everything from 9-11 to recent shootings in synagogues. So what do we do with all of that? And the fact of futility, the fact that there's just like, yeah, there's not really much of an explanation for that, leads the author of Ecclesiastes to despair. Look at chapter 2, verse 17. So I hated life. Because what under the sun was done under the sun was grievous to me. For all is vanity and a striving after the wind. I hated all my toil, in which I toil under the sun. 20. So I turned about, gave my heart up to despair, over all the toil of my labors under the sun. I so appreciated again, Luke. I keep referring to your prayer. I appreciated the lament. Friends, when we pray, we should lament. God, that just doesn't make sense. I don't understand. It's a good thing to pray A Washington Post article came right out after the Rio Olympics had the head had this headline. Olympians struggle to adjust to life beyond the ring. In other words, they come home, they spent their entire life dedicated to this one thing, and then whether they won a medal or not, now they're home. And it's like What do I do with my life? And so there's high accounts of depression and even some cases attempted suicide among former Olympians. And friends, I want you to be honest. Do the frustrations of job and career leave you bearing and frustrated? Do they leave you depressed sometimes? Do you ever find yourself saying that? Profound frustrations in marriage. Changing the fifty-seventh diaper this week. I hate this. That's interesting. Is the book of Ecclesiastes, the Bible, the Word of God, comes along Yeah. That's really tough. Doesn't make sense. Or it isn't. Is this Holy Spirit inspired? Almost more than anywhere else in the Bible, Ecclesiastes meditates on, feels, and robes itself in the effects of the Genesis 3 curse. along with our participation in it, sends following after it. Right now, under the sun, everything feels vain and futile because You can't gain anything. Except weight. Everything. Ultimately, toilet bowl spirals Down to death. That's an honest picture. Yes, honey, the kids at school probably are talking about you. Don't pay attention. They do the same thing. Connected to this first observation is a second one, observation two, many of this world's judgments just don't make sense. And as you read through the book, it almost feels like a catalog of these inverted judgments, like measurements that don't make sense. Look at chapter 2, verse 16 again. The wise dies just like the fool. Judgment is that. The world's mismatched judgments show up in the place of justice, in the courts. Look at chapter 3, verse 16. I saw under the sun that in the place of justice, even there was wickedness. The measurements we expect don't show up in politics. Look at chapter 10. Flip over to chapter 10, verse 7. I've seen slaves on horses and princes walking on the ground like slaves. Why are these people in charge? Why aren't they? The measurements don't work in your job. Look at verse 9 of chapter 10. He who quarries stones is hurt by them, and he who splits logs is endangered by them In other words, you work hard, you do a good job, and your job kills you. How's that? For a reward for an honest day's labor, your job kills you. So few measurements or judgments of this world are what we expect them to be. Look at chapter 9, verse 11 Again I saw that under the sun the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the wise, nor riches to the intelligent, nor favor to those with knowledge. But time and chance happen to them all. Or look at chapter four, verse one. standing in the face of the world's most profound tragedies. Again, I saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun. And behold, the tears of the oppressed. They have no one to comfort them. On the side of the oppressors, there was power. And there was no one to comfort them. I I think of a woman who whose parents prayed for her, husband. She prayed herself and for husband and sought out wisdom and getting married and then he married a man who turned out to be emotionally abusive. Does that make sense? God, what happen what happened to all of her parents' prayers for her? What happened to all of her prayers? She was seeking out something good. That makes sense. Supposed to measure out like that. It feels vain, futile, meaningless, NIV transfer. translates it. And this leads to despair and grief, says the author. There's a sense also in which this under the sun perspective The most that you can hope for in this world is simply to enjoy what you have while you have it. Again, I appreciate this realism in the book. Look at chapter 8, verse 15. Verse 14 describes these inverted judgments. So the wicked gets the righteous reward and the righteous get Wicked's reward, and then what do we do? Well, verse 15, I come in joy, for man has nothing better under the sun but to eat, drink, and be joyful. For this will go with him in his toil through the days of his life that God has given him under the sun. And frankly, friends, this is just good practical advice. There's a time and a season for everything, chapter three tells us. A time to build Time to tear down, and you might as well thank God for the labor that he gives you while you're at it. Look at chapter 10, verse 19. Chapter 10, verse 19. Bread is made for laughter. Wine gladdens life. Money answers everything. One of my close friends calls that his life verse. Sitch that one on a pillow. But even then, Ecclesiastes is not saying to live a goofball, Adam Sandler kind of movie life. Look at chapter 7. It commends sobriety amidst it all. Verse 2, chapter 7, verse 2. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all Mankind. Under the sun observations. Well, what do we do with them? Well, I think Ecclesiastes has three lessons for us. Lesson number one, God's judgment, good news Therefore, fear God. God's judgment is good news. Therefore, fear God. Turn to the last verses of the book Chapter 12, verse 13. The end of the matter, all has been heard. Okay, we're gonna sum up now. Heard it all. Sum it up. Main takeaway. Here it is Fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing. whether good or evil. In light of all of these proverbs and sayings and observations of sitting there looking around under the sun This is our whole duty. Fear God, keep his commandments. Why? For God is the judge, and he will judge not just some deeds, it says, but all deeds, not just revealed public. Deeds and things, but hidden secret things. Not just good deeds, but bad deeds. All of it. Everything Did you think life would conclude otherwise? History would conclude otherwise. You're sitting there looking at all this, despairing. Did you think, were you tempted to think? God's not going to show up with his measuring. Yes. Why would I say that's good news? Well, it's good news because now, under the sun, the measurements don't make sense We know that a day is coming when heaven and earth, sky and ground, will fly away We'll all stand before the throne of God. As I said, he will measure everything. He will rebuild reveal everything. A perfect explanation. And measurement will come to everything. Because everything will be seen for the first time as it really is, but before, according to the measure of his glory. Ah, I thought this was important, but I see really now it's just this. I thought this was unimportant, but now compared to the glory of God, I see actually this is significant. Everything's starting to make sense. I spent all my days worried about that. This seems so huge. Again and again, you see that Ecclesiastes emphasize the fact that we cannot presently see these measurements. We cannot explain. Chapter 8, verse 16. When I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done on earth, how neither day nor night Do one's eyes sleep? Then I saw all the work of God that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun However much man may toil in seeking, he will not find it out. Even though a wise man claims to know, he cannot find it out. But you will find out when God comes to judge. The final verse tells us one day God will use his tape measure, his ruler, his scale, and things. will measure rightly. We will see the true size and shape of things. We will see true righteousness, true justice, the true weight of things. Why did God let that woman marry that abusive man? Why did the righteous receive the reward of the wicked and the wicked the reward of the righteous? Why did that man work so hard all his days and then he was fired? It makes sense. It will be explained and revealed. Its purposes will be disclosed. And the true scale when it comes to everything. Amazing. We're going to go page by page through all of history. Right price tags. Placed on everything. This is worth this much, this is worth that much. You had it upside down. Meaning and purpose will be explained to all of our lives. It's interesting, isn't it? We fear the judgment of God, but in fact it's the judgment of God which gives meaning and purpose to every moment of of our lives and all of history. Take away God's judgment and you have nothing left but meaninglessness. Futility. Vanity. Nihilism. One big garbage ball of whatever. Apart from the judgment of God. Which tells me how ironic and frankly stupid John Lennon's song Imagine Is. Imagine there's no heaven, he says wistfully, no hell below us, above us only sky. Lennon should have read Ecclesiastes Set under the sun. That's exactly the world Lennon is singing about. Except the inspired poet. discovers that if you remove the eternal measuring tape of God's judgment, you have nothing left but meaningless and despair. That what you want, John. And so what a good and even glorious day, the day of judgment, will be, when all the true measurements and just judgments are provided. God created us No, that life should make sense. Look at chapter three Verse 11. He's put eternity into man's heart. Yet so that he cannot find out What God has done from beginning to the end. You know those metal detectors on the beach people have the sand to get find find the coins. It's as if there are eternity detectors. in our hearts. And you behold the valuable things in life. You consider your father, you consider your daughter, you consider the hard work that you've put into things. You consider true friendship and your heart is beeping with a this should last. This is eternally significant. But then you look, you observe, and you see that your father fails you. And your daughter gets sick. And your work. It's ignored, or frankly, just doesn't do much at all. So it's beeping, eternally significant, should last. Utility. There's this great tension there. Gratefully. Ecclesiastes 12, verses 13 and 14. After twelve chapters of unanswered beeping The conclusion of the matter, now that all has been heard, now that earth and sky fly away, and we're standing before God's throne, finally. The true measurements and true judgments are going to come to everything. Secret things, good things, bad things Higher life interpreted or reinterpreted in that moment All of history once again explained. Their eternal significance and weight and meaning revealed. What a glorious day. What's the lesson? Fear God. That's what he says, isn't it? Walk by faith. You can't see it now, but walk by faith, fearing God. Doesn't make sense. It's hard. It doesn't. What do I do with this? All right. God's coming. He will reveal these things. His judgments will come to the secret things, the plain things, the bad things, the good things. Hold on. Obey his commandments. Know that he's in charge. Lesson two. It's not going to be just a good day. It's going to be a bad day. Lesson two. God's judgment is bad news. Lesson one, God's judgment is good news, therefore fear God. Lesson two, God's judgment is bad news, therefore, fear God. What does our passage tell us at the end? For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil, and we have all done evil. Look at chapter 7, verse 20. Chapter 7, verse 20. Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins. Chapter 9, verse 3. Chapter 9, verse 3. The hearts of the children of man are full of evil. Madness is in their hearts while they live. It's all of us. We're all indicted. There's been the curse, but then we're all culpable, aren't we, as well? All of us have done evil, it said. Or look at chapter 8, verse 11. Chapter 8, verse 11. Because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily, the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil. Looking around, I'm seeing consequences aren't coming. I think I could get away with that, and sure enough, I'm gonna go for it too Exposing what's in my heart. But that's an interesting phrase in it. Why not executed speedily? Why not executed speedily? Well, could it be that Peter says, the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient towards you. Not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. So friend, if you're here this morning and you don't understand yourself to be a Christian, I wonder if you've ever thought about the question Why hasn't God punished me yet for my sin? Is it because God doesn't care? Or is it because God is patient? Wanting you to repent while there's still time. In fact, could it be that all the skewered measurements and inverted judgments which we've experienced in this world are in fact merciful warning signs that call attention to our own culpability in all of this. Go back to the tension I said that we feel between Proverbs Cause and effect. You reap what you sow. In Ecclesiastes. Sure doesn't look that way. Don't understand. Could it be that that very tension and the despair that we feel are meant to be like little vaccination shots to warn us of an even greater despair and grief to come When death is and futility is eternal. Here's what a broken relationship feels like. Here's what a dying parent feels like. Here's what an aging body feels like. Here's what the consequences of injustice feel like. Sure, you want this? Sure, you want to trust yourself? The lesson, once again, fear God. The New Testament language for this is repent and believe. Put your trust in God. Follow him. Woe to the man, Jesus says, who gains the whole world, yet forfeits his soul. Now here's the deal. Ecclesiastes is not the whole Bible. You do not get the whole response to all of these things in the book of Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes. You have to go on and keep reading the Bible. It does not lay out how we solve the problem of our culpability. And the guilt that we incur because of our culpability. It doesn't struggle finally with the solution to the problem of evil and and the futility of all things in this way. But it does point very subtly to the rest of the story. Look at chapter 1, verse 1 again. The words of the preacher, son of David, king. That brings us to our third and final lesson. God's judgment is great news. Therefore, fear God. God's judgment is great news. Therefore, fear God. The divine author of Ecclesiastes, if not the human author, the divine author of Ecclesiastes means for verse 1 to point us toward another son of David. Another king. One who the New Testament tells us is wiser than Solomon. You remember how I said earlier, almost more than anywhere else in the Bible, Ecclesiastes meditates on uh feels in and robes itself with the effects of of Genesis 3 and the curse. I was very deliberate in saying almost. There's another place in Scripture where the misjudgments and inverted measurements are experienced and felt even more profoundly. Prince walks on the ground like a slave. Borrow from chapter ten. Where the righteous person receives what should happen to the wicked person. To borrow from chapter 8. The effects of the curse, of course, are felt most profoundly. The cross of Jesus Christ Of Paul in Galatians 3, where he says, cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree. Christ absorbed that curse fully and entirely for us. The curse on creation was finally felt most fully by the Creator David, or the son of David, is God Himself, who takes on himself his own curse to pay for the sins of people Like us, not only he def that, he defeats the curse of sin and death by rising from the grave ushering in a new creation so that all who repent and believe too might be born again into this new creation where the curse doesn't apply. We have the first fruits of that now. As the Spirit indwells our hearts, we will receive the fullness, curse-free fullness of that one day When he comes again. As I said, Ecclesiastes does not give us the full picture of salvation. It gives us, you might say, the first step or two. It shows us something like a prodigal son. Maybe Solomon at the end of his life, sort of pushing himself up in the mud, there he is. Despairing in the mud, sort of pushes himself up. He kind of remembers, oh wait a second, I do have a father who loves me and who is over all things. I go to him. And then the screen goes black, and that's the end of Ecclesiastes. God's judgment is great news, the rest of the Bible tells us, because David's greater son would live perfectly according to God's judgments. And then receive the very judgment of God on himself as if he hadn't lived according to God's own judgments. Do you see why God's judgment is great news? Because one took it on our behalf If we would repent and believe and put our trust in Him. Friends, we can judge each other if we want, but what a complete and total waste of time. Our judgments do not give meaning. to life, our judgments will not evaluate and tie up all of history. Talk about vanity and futility to judge one another. Two days should be on our calendars. You may have heard Martin Luther say today and that day. And it's that day which will define and interpret everything on this day. Will that day be a great day or an awful day for you? Well, it depends. Will the judgment of God rest on you because you've not repented and put your trust in Christ? Will the judgment of God rest on Christ? Lord Jesus, we give you praise. You lived according to the judgments of God perfectly. You lived out Ecclesiastes perfectly. Receiving all the injustices of this world, all the effects of the curse upon yourself. For it. Drink it. Full cup of God's wrath. We give you thanks and praise. That we can be forgiven because of what you've done And we can live in hope now, even amidst these difficult days, amidst the things that don't make sense We can walk forward as Luke prayed earlier in confidence and in trust. We pray this all in Christ's name.