The sermon text today is from the book of Jude. Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you, About our common salvation, I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. Now I want to remind you, although once Although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who do not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling. He has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and per pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. Yet in like manner these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. But when the Archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand, and they are and they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively. Woe to them For they walked in the way of Cain and abandoned themselves for the sake of Cain to Balaam's error and perished in Korah's rebellion. These are hidden reefs at your love feast, as they feast with you without fear, shepherds feeding themselves, waterless clouds. swept along by winds, fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted, wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame, wandering stars for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam prophesies, saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousand of his holy ones, to execute judgment on all and to inv and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires. They are loud-mouthed boasters showing favoritism to gain advantage. But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you, In the last time, there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the spirit. But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life, and have mercy on those who doubt. Save others but save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion and authority before all time, now and forever. Amen. This is God's word Good morning, friends. This brings us to uh in the last six months or so I've done a series of sermons on the Uh New Testament epistles that are like one chapter. So we did Philemon, we did 2 John, and this morning we are looking at Jude. Uh this week I read the book with one of you and you made the observation, I I'm not really sure what to do with New Testament teaching on false teachers. I mean, do we just like wait around for them to show up? Because I I don't think there's any false teachers in the church right now. So is this just kind of a a text for later? And praise God, I don't think we presently have false teachers in our church, John. Right? If we do, friends, you need to speak up. At present, I don't think we do But the point of Jude is to help us see that false teaching is constantly swirling around us, nipping at us. Because false teaching is as much as anything about false desire, false passion The two work together. And very often, false teaching exists simply to justify The false desires that were already there. So way, way back in the 1990s when I was a single man. I remember having lunch with an older man, older married man in our church, and he was struggling with a series of doubts. And over lunch, he confessed these philosophical doubts about the existence of God to me. And I, being somewhat philosophically disposed, had a nice engaging philosophical conversation with him about the nature of his philosophical intellectual doubts And I remember we got to the end of the conversation. And I said to him, you know, I really appreciate the fact, brother, that even though you're struggling with believing in the existence of God and the exclusivity of Christianity you're still working hard to serve your wife and your children and even at church. Well you can guess where this story is going. A couple of weeks later, the elders came before the church and said, this man, we are going to recommend church discipline for him for, not doubts, but for continued adultery. Adultery and apostasy in this man's life were working together Desire and unbelief work together. That's how it goes. The false teaching, false believing, serves to appeal to and justify those false desires. Philosophers from Augustine to more recently Jamie Smith to Jesus to Jude Have made the observation that we as human beings are not just thinking things. We are more fundamentally desiring things. Worshiping things, and we use our reason to then get Justify, explain, rationalize that thing which we most want. You see how that works To help us understand this, we're going to look at four lessons about false teaching from Jude, and then five lessons for us. Before we get to the four lessons and then five lessons, take a look at your bulletin. I have placed the outline, the text and the outline of the text in your bulletin for you, pages eight and nine. And the reason I did this is I want to help you see that structures of biblical writing often serve the purpose So the biblical author will structure what he's saying in a certain way in order to convey his purpose and convey his emphasis. And you see that even here. He begins with a word of greeting, verse 1, Jude, a servant of Jesus and brother of James. To those who are called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ. May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. And then look there in verse three. He gives us his purpose for writing. It's very plain. Beloved Although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I wanted to talk about that. I found it necessary. To write, why? Appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. Why is he writing? He is a writing to appeal to us to contend. For the faith. Why is he doing that? What's the foundation for that? Look at verse 4. For certain people have crept in unnoticed. Who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of God, our God, into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. And then you see, if you just look down verses 5 all the way to the bottom of the page, verse 16, you see an explanation then for verse 4. Jonathan, doesn't rationale and explanation mean the same thing? Well, yeah, they do. So verse 4 is explaining for us verse 3. And then verses 5 to 16, which I've subdivided into these just natural divisions, these subsettings, verses 5 to 16 then explain for us verse 4. And then we get in the final lessons, you see there on page nine, three basically clumps of commands. So how do we contend for the faith? First three, contend for the faith. Why? Verses 4 to 16. Well, okay, so how do we do this? Then we get verses 17 all the way down to 23. One, remember the predictions of the apostles. Number two, look at verse 21. Keep yourselves in the love of God. That's the main command there. And number three, have mercy on those who doubt, verse 22. And and then Jude sums all of this up for us and points us to where we should look with these words of praise, the doxology at the end, appealing not just to our beliefs, did you notice? Not just to our beliefs, but to our desires. For the desires we should have, to present you blameless, to the one with glory. With great joy. What is it you should be desiring? Beholding him The one with all glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, beholding him with great joy. So what is the point of Jub? Well, the structure just shows it to us, right? We are to contend for the faith. Why? In light of false teaching and false living. And with what solution finally we desire the glory and the joy that come from God. That is, in summary, the book of Jude. But let's break this down into four lessons about false teaching and then five lessons, takeaway lessons for us. Lesson number one about false teaching, if you're taking notes. False teaching speaks for God, but denies God. False teaching speaks for God. But denies God. Look at verse 4. They pretend to speak for God. They're talking about his grace. Takes the grace of God. Speaking for God's grace. But then they turn it into sensuality. The word there is implying sexual immorality. They use grace To justify sexual immorality. And in doing so, keep looking, and they deny the lordship of Christ. They speak for God, but they deny God. Look also at verses 8 to 10. Yet, in like manner, these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, blaspheme the glorious ones But when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he did not presume to pronounce it blasphemous judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you. So these people blaspheme all they do not understand, and they are deceived by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand us instinctively. So they're relying on these dreams They're claiming a kind of prophetic word. They're claiming to speak for heaven and heaven's approval. Of course, they're doing it to defile the flesh. It says again, probably in a reference to sexual immorality again, and that's coupled, as you see in the verse, rejecting authority. The word in authority is actually the word lordship, rejecting Christ's lordship. They're even blaspheming the angels. Whether good angels or bad angels is unclear, but but they're presuming to possess God's judgment. We can pronounce judgment on these angels. They're saying. And then this presumptuous act of judgment is contrasted, look there in verse 9, with Michael's Archangel Michael's refusal to render final judgment even on the devil himself. Michael knows to leave judgment to God. The Lord rebuke you, says Michael. False teachers teach their own ideas. A true teacher appeals only to God's word. False teachers speak instinctively, kind of based on their gut. Like unreasoning animals, it says in verse 10, about things they don't understand. A true teacher is modest This is what God has said. I'm just sticking with that. The Lord gives judgment, not me I wouldn't say God never speaks through dreams. In Acts 2, you you see the promise of God speaking through dreams, yet those dreams must always be held up to Scripture. I think more common in our culture today than people presuming to represent their dreams is people claiming to represent God in some sense through reason. Through an appeal to desire Through an appeal to authenticity and what I really am. And like dreams, such appeals are used to justify various kinds of desires sexual or otherwise, to reject God's authority and and to pronounce final judgment on this or that. So they write arguments making biblical case for something like sex outside of marriage or homosexuality. Obvious examples of this. And very often, such teachers present themselves as very humble. Have you ever noticed that? They don't make arguments. Very often they just ask questions. They appeal to our instincts. They say things like Doesn't this teaching just feel a little severe to you? And you think, yeah, I guess that does seem kind of severe. They'll claim to be modest. Hey who who am I to say who God loves and doesn't love? I I don't want to presume that. Who am I to say that Jesus is the only way and that other beliefs are not the way to God. I can't claim to know everything But of course, in that very claim, they're claiming to know everything. They're claiming to know what God has or has not said. They're ignoring his word. In asking the question, does that seem severe to you? They're presuming judgment over God. If that's what God has indeed said. In denying what Scripture has clearly revealed, we act as God. Oh, but even smart Christians disagree about what the Bible says, says the voice of false humility. That's true. But that doesn't change the standard. The standard's still the Bible Christians may disagree, yes, but we're still looking for understanding what it says, lest we take judgment Of right and wrong, true and untrue, God, the universe, and all things into our hands. Do you see even the atheist who makes moral claims is making a deeply religious theological argument. Why? How? Well because that atheist who says God isn't there, therefore this is right, presumes to speak for God. You can't get away from it, friends. You're going to make moral judgments. You're going to make theological claims, and we make them on behalf of our desires. That brings us To the next point, point lesson two. False teaching appeals to our sinful desires and justifies them. False teaching appeals to our sinful desires and justifies them. As I said at the beginning, there's always a relationship between desire and belief. And sinful desire often comes first. It employs False teaching to get what it wants. You see this, just look throughout the letter. Verse 4 talks about using God's grace as an excuse for sexual immorality. Does your heart ever do that? Verse 7 refers to the people of Sodom and Gomorrah indulging in sexual immorality and pursuing unnatural desire. Interesting phrase that we don't have much of a vocabulary for these days. Unnatural desire. Verse 8, look, refers to defiling of the flesh. Verse 15, look, there refers to deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way. Look at verse 18. Refers to these scoffers following their own ungodly passions. Look at verse 23, refers to the garment stained by the flesh. This little book is short, but it's shot through with references to sinful desire as the engine of unbelief. With a special emphasis, I would say, on sexual desire. It's ironic, isn't it? The very thing that God has given us as a gift Our sexuality. The very thing God has given us as a gift we use to deny Him. Why did He give us us that gift? Well, he gave us that gift so that we might have some foreshadow of what knowing God is like and what union with Christ is like. He's given us intimacy within marriage. Just as a sign, as a shadow of knowing true intimacy and true union with Christ, which we will receive in glory. Yet we reuse that sign, that foreshadow, to deny Him How foolish we are. A few of you may have read or heard of the Philosopher Bertrand Russell, one of the most foremost philosophers of the twentieth century, who famously made arguments against the existence of God. Bertrand Russell was also known for having multiple wives, and in the midst of those multiple wives, even more numbers of affairs. This whole life was spent pursuing the next affair. Often multiple affairs at the same time. That was his life. Creating this elaborate, world-convincing philosophy. Why? The man wanted something. And he was willing to exploit and use whoever he could to get it. And so he was praised by Oxford. He was praised by Cambridge. He's a great philosopher. Not long ago, I was speaking with another Christian friend who is struggling with doubts about the Christian faith. And so I said to him, what is it you want? What do you most want? And he was a little confused about why I would ask that question. What do you want? Well, I had to explain to him. We don't use our reason Objectively, as if we were working in some clean sanitized laboratory. Instead, we use our reason to justify what we want. And I can promise you, I said to him, whatever you finally decide about God and Christianity is finally going to be determined by you giving yourself over to whatever it is you most want. whatever it is you most worship. So spend some time reflecting. I asked them, what do you want? Because the rest of the conversation is going to follow for you. Then what's tragic, therefore, is when Christian teachers and churches transform Christianity into something that gives them God But also whatever it is they most already want And so more and more churches are just getting rid. Evangelical churches are getting rid of church membership and the line of church membership. Why are they doing that? Well, because the line of church membership means asking pesky questions about how a person is living, asking pesky questions about repentance and calling people to repentance, and so as we just get rid of the line in the name of love, in the name of tolerance. Well, we don't have to do that anymore. And people can have God and whatever it is they most really want. And this is becoming more common. But friends, and let me also say throughout this sermon, you shouldn't just be looking for false teachers out there. You should be looking for ways your own heart, your own flesh lies to you. God really say? What is it you want? Lesson number three. False teaching flatters you, but doesn't bear fruit. False teaching flatters you, but doesn't bear fruit. Look at verse 16. These are grumblers, malcontents following their own sinful desires. They are loudmouth boasters showing favoritism to gain advantage. So when things don't go well, they complain. Otherwise, they're boasting in themselves and they're flattering others to get what they want. Two ways false teaching often gains traction in a church. Number one, through the evangelistic impulse, if we put it this way, non-Christians will listen. And two, often through friendship and affection. I know his teaching is a little off, but he's a good guy. I love him. He loves Jesus. So God uses God does good using evil. Satan uses good to do evil. Did I say that right? God uses evil to do good. That's what I meant to say. God uses evil to do good. Think of Joseph. Satan uses good. Like the evangelistic impulse, like love, like affection affection, to do evil. You see how that works? In the meantime, these false teachers don't produce fruit in people's lives. Look at verse twelve. These people, it says, are like hidden reefs. That is to say, they're like rocks under the surface of the water that boats can't see them the Boats come across them and hit the rocks and sink. They are shepherds feeding only themselves. So the pastor is growing in wealth and reputation, his people are growing weaker. They are clouds with the appearance of substance, but but it's not giving any rain, producing life For the earth. And this is a heavy warning to me and to John and to the other elders and to anyone who would be an elder. Who wants a position of prominence and recognition? Is it status, friends, that you and I want? Or is it bearing fruit in the lives of others? Well here's here's here's a way to test that question. How do you feel about doing good to others even when you don't get any recognition? When an opportunity comes, but no status with that opportunity, how do you feel about that? Uh to to reappropriate a phrase from Harry Truman. He says, It's amazing what you can accomplish. Let me throw in for the kingdom of God. It's amazing what you can accomplish for the kingdom of God if you don't care who gets the credit. Do we want the credit? You're not going to accomplish as much. Verse 13, they're like wild waves of the sea casting up foam. They're wandering star stars. What foam what is foam? It looks like it's substance, but there's there's Nothing there. And these stars, it looks like they're giving off light, but they're wandering. Finally, it's all deceptive. It leads people astray. Again, friends, just think to yourself. If you're an elder or a would-be elder, or leader, a would-be leader, what is your effect on others? When you're in relationship with somebody, And then you walk away, what's what effect is left behind in their life? Do they love God more? Are they pursuing holiness more? Or are they just thinking more of you? Man, he was he was wise. They love thinking more Jesus more. What's your effect on others? False teachers don't care Lesson four. False teaching focuses on today and forsakes tomorrow. False teaching focuses on today and forsakes tomorrow. That is to say, they're like two-year-olds. I want something now. Never mind tomorrow. I want it now. Everything now. Give it to me now. Grab whatever you can, never mind the consequences. Never mind the judgment of God. Look at verses 5 to 7. Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward, destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. So you remember the Exodus story, right? The amazing Exodus story, people of God rescuing the people of Israel, out of Egypt, all the plagues, the crossing of the Red Sea, providing manna in the wilderness. What happened? Well those people, that generation, started believing false things and started pursuing various immoralities. And so Jesus destroyed that generation. And then verse 6 appears to be an allusion to Genesis 6 and 6 and the angels which left the spheres of authority that God had given them and had sex with women, those Jesus judged as well. And then verse 7 gives us a final illustration of judgment, and Sodom and Gomorrah. They, of course, it says, pursuing sexual immorality and unnatural desire, now undergoing the eternal punishment. of fire, it says. In other words, the stakes are very, very high indeed. Judas coming up to us. He's grabbing us by the lapels. And he's saying, friends, forest fire threat level red. This is dangerous. What does this sound like today? Well, it sounds like the psychologist saying that our natural desires are good. And that God means to be for us to be honest about our desires, not to repress them. Repression leads to shame and self-loathing and even trauma And God's love and grace, don't you see, is all about self acceptance and about the acceptance of others, acceptance of our children in the ways that They have different desires than we do, and that may not necessarily conform to our own religious understanding or understanding of God. And so then Jude responds to all of this. He walks into the psychologist's office. He walks into the university classroom with its talk of sex positivity. He walks into the church and to the elders who are thinking about loosening what they teach about sexuality. And he says, friends, do not be deceived. By false teaching and wrongful desires. Just like those people coming out of Egypt were Yes, sexuality is a good gift from God. Read the Song of Solomon. Yes, you should teach your adolescence That those new desires they are beginning to feel are good and God-given. Teach that to your children as they come of age. But also teach them that those desires are given to excess and are inclined to go wayward. And are grounded in selfishness. Must teach them both those things. Don't be deceived by the serpent. You won't die. Don't turn the grace of God into an excuse for sensuality. The promise of judgment occurs in verses 14 and 15, too. You see that. It was about these also that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment on all. And to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way. How many times is the word ungodly there? And of all the harsh things these ungodly sinners have spoken against Him false teaching outside the church, inside the church, inside our very brains can feel dominant It can feel like the right side of history. It can seem natural and wise and good. False teaching will make sense at some level. If it didn't, there wouldn't be any threat. Yet it is an immature mindset that measures everything according to how it feels or looks today. A mature mindset always takes a long view. The maturist mindset, that is to say, the godly mindset, measures everything today according to The measurement given on that day. On the day of judgment. So what is what is Jude saying? He's saying, remember the day of judgment As you assess, as you measure, what you're believing and desiring today That was the four lessons of false teaching for us. Let me offer you five lessons about what we should do, and these will move more quickly, I think keeping in with the amount of ink. Jude gives to each. Lesson one. Five lessons for us. Lesson one. Contending against false teaching is every member's job. Contending against false teaching is every member's job. We see this very clearly in verse 3. I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith. Contending for the faith, friends, is not simply John's job, the elders' job. Those who go to seminary's job, the ordained people's job. Contending against false teaching, if you're a member of this church, is your job. What you are called to do Are you contending for the faith? Ask yourself that question. Am I, do I understand that part of my work as a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church is to contend for the faith in view of false teaching? Do you practice at that? Do you study that? Well, well, how do we do that, Jonathan? Good news, Jude tells us in our next three points. Lesson two, remember the Bible's predictions. Lesson two, remember the Bible's predictions. Look at verse 17. But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you in the last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. We should expect false teachers, say the apostles. So don't be Naive, were to be wise as serpents, Jesus said. Now, I knew one guy in seminary who referred to himself as the heresy hunter. I am not commending that kind of posture. This is the guy. Who is always getting into theological arguments? Who is always seeking out falsity. That's not what I'm commending to you. But I am talking about a posture. That recognizes that the world, the flesh, the devil are still at war inside the church and too often inside of our hearts. A college friend of mine just last week emailed me, my friends in the army, he emailed me about another college friend of ours who just went to prison for fraud. And I tried to reply in a way that showed some level of grace and understanding that all of us are capable of falling into this kind of dramatic sin, that we shouldn't, in that sense, be surprised. And my friend. In the army, then replied to me back, and he said this. He said, You probably recall that I'm not religious. But something I have noticed over the years is that chaplains in the army are always the least surprised when decent people make appalling and exasperating choices. To take it a step further, he says, the more thoughtful chaplains expect these events with some frequency. I've never heard them say a variation of, huh, I never would have expected that sort of behavior from that guy, or dang, I didn't see that coming. You know the things that I usually say. Which of course seems in keeping with your understanding of sin and human nature. But praise God for these army chaplains. They were responding as it were, they were living as if okay. Remember the apostles' predictions. Friends, this we're all susceptible to this. We're susceptible to false teaching because we live inside of too often in the flesh false desiring. So number one, or lesson two, remember the Bible's predictions. Lesson three, keep yourself in God's love. Keep yourself in God's love. Verse 20. But you, beloved, building yourself up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. So the main command grammatically here is that one in verse 21, keep yourself in the love of God. Does that mean we keep ourselves in a place where we're loving God Or does that mean we keep ourselves in a place where God is loving us? Because the grammar, love of God, could could be interpreted either way. I would say those just might be false alternatives. Jude has been warning of those who thought they knew God's love, like the Israelites coming out of Egypt, but then They didn't really continue to love God, did they? And so they forsook God and received judgment. They were failing to love God So they walked away from his love of them. We can walk away from it if we are not God's. So Jude tells us to keep ourselves in God's love. Just as you might say to a husband, do not stop loving your wife, thereby forsaking her. And turning her against you and embittering her against you. Likewise, friends, we are responsible to keep ourselves in the love of God. Loving God, remaining within God's love. How do we do that? Well, look at the three participles, the three verb forms there, both before and after our verse. We keep ourselves in the love of God. Look at verse 20. By Building yourself up in your most holy faith, praying in the Spirit, and look at verse 21, waiting for the mercy of Christ. How do we keep ourselves in God's love? Building Praying. Waiting. Building yourself up in the most holy faith doesn't mean looking inward. I gotta believe more. Rather, your most holy faith is referring to that body of teaching, that body of doctrine, that is Christianity. The teaching of Christianity. The verse is telling us to grow in our understanding of the faith, to learn the Bible, to learn doctrine, to sit under good preaching. We are to build ourselves up by pursuing a knowledge of the gospel, by studying the gospel, by preaching the gospel to ourselves every day. Okay, false things are tempting me. False desires are leading me astray. I'm feeling dry in heart towards God. Look to the gospel Preach the gospel to yourself. Meditate on the gospel. Remind yourself of who God is. Remind yourself of who you are. Remind yourself of what Christ has done. We must do this daily. We must do this weekly as a church. God is God. We are sinful. But God loves us. And he sent his son to receive the punishment that we deserve. and then rise from the cross, defeating sin and death, so that we can receive forgiveness if we repent, turn away from our sins and believe, so that we can be presented blameless, filled with great joy. Let me put it like this. Look at verse 25. To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority. What is the gospel? Well, one way to say it. Is to say that Jesus has decided to share his own glory His own majesty, his own dominion and authority with sinful but forgiven people Remember what I said to my friend, well what is it you want? How about wanting this? Glory. Majesty. Authority. Dominion. Not your own, but that which is given and shared with the people of God. How is that for a desire? Desiring to share in the glory of God, in the majesty of God, in the authority and dominion, because you're now a son. You're now a daughter, and what belongs to the Father belongs to the Son and to the daughter by inheritance. What do you desire? That's what the gospel addresses. So how do you build yourself up in the faith? How do you keep yourself in the love of God? Number one, you go back to this gospel again and again. We m set our hearts upon that. Second, we keep ourselves in the love of God by praying in the Spirit. Our our knowledge of the gospel then turns into prayer. Of course we're going to talk to this One, we pray continually. We pepper prayer throughout our days. We pray to keep ourselves in the love of God. And then third, we keep ourselves in the love of God by waiting for the mercy of Christ. By fixing our minds and our hearts on heaven and the revealing of God in heaven and the being of God in heaven. What is it you wanted this week? Were you setting your mind on heaven? And the glory of God in heaven this week. Think about it like this. We're in Christmas season. Kids, you know what it is to look forward to Christmas. You know what it is to focus on that day and what you're going to get on that day. And something I've noticed about kids is kids can even be a little bit more obedient Leading up to Christmas, they're a little more focused, aren't they? Well, what happens when we're waiting for the glory of God in Christ to be revealed? Well we're A little more focused. Walking as we should. So friends, right now, just ask yourself, is your heart feeling dim or dry? In love for God. Well, have you been daily rehearsing the gospel? Have you been giving yourself to daily prayer? Have you been fixing your heart on heaven and the coming of Christ? And if the answer is no, Is there any surprise that you feel dry? I feel kind of distant from my spouse Are you spending time with your spouse? No. So why do you think you feel dry? Why do you think you feel distant? There is no shortcut, friends, to spiritual growth. There is no mystical moment that eludes you. That you will allow you to experience God in some way that solves all of your problems. No, we are to do the regular and daily and weekly work of building Praying, waiting. Friends, I confess I know what it's like to have a heart that feels dim and dry for the Lord. Too often I live in dryness and lack of love for the Lord. I know that. Would you say the same thing to me? Jonathan, I feel like I'm going on. My heart doesn't love the Lord like it once did I feel overwhelmed by temptation, those desires are stronger than they were. And if I'm really honest in my kind of quiet moments, I'm willing to wonder, is this stuff really true? Is hell really there? Is Jesus really the only way to God? Well I'm gonna ask you. Have you been meditating on the gospel? Have you been pursuing a knowledge of the gospel? Growing in your understanding of the gospel? Have you been praying in the Spirit? Have you been setting your affections on heaven? And the revealing of God and mercy that is to come. Well, no, not really. Well If we fail to attend to these things, friends, there will be consequences on our soul and in our lives. So neglect these things for a month Neglect them for a year, neglect them for five years, neglect them for 15 years, what do you expect will happen Your heart will dry up. And even if your your feet keep walking into church Heart going elsewhere. And stay in church for the rest of your life. Or, as is often the case, you'll eventually stop coming to church. You might start believing other things. You might start pursuing other things and leaving those old ways behind. Friends, keep yourselves in the love of God. We need to exhort one another. As long as it is called today, says the author of Hebrews. Keep yourself in the love of God. Attend to your soul. Attend to your relationship with God Like everything else in life. Put yourself into it. Lesson four Show mercy to others. Lesson 4. Show mercy to others. Verse 22, and have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others, show mercy with fear, hating even the garment. stained by the flesh. J Jude puts a lot of things in threes, and again he has three groups in mind in these verses. First, have mercy on those who have been impacted by these false teachings, and now are wavering in doubt. And brothers and sisters, it is in that sense normal to struggle with doubt. If you struggle with doubt, share it with an elder. Share it with an older brother or sister in the faith. And if someone shares doubt with you, have mercy. Lean in, show compassion. Assure them of your love. Assure them of God's love. Remember, though, that those doubt odds aren't merely a matter of the intellect. They're matters of the heart and what the heart desires. And second, he he points to those, he says, save those who have fallen into this even deeper bad teaching and bad living. Verse 23, those who are already falling into the fire. Same thing. Show mercy. Be patient. And then the third group, interestingly are people who are healthy But even they, it says, when showing mercy, need to fear the deceitfulness of sin and make sure they are not sucked into the whirlpool of evil. It is so easy, isn't it, to be cavalier. About standing near sin, can't we? Oh I know I can watch these things, I can talk about these things, I can spend time with that, and I can not get sucked in. I'm mature I'm self-controlled. That's not Jude's attitude. Be fearful of getting sucked in, he says. As if you don't even even want to touch the the clothing stained by sin. Not that the clothing is actually bad in itself, but just I know how weak I am. I'm a healthy one, but I I remain weak. I can get sucked in. I can be deceived. Leave a lot wide birth. Even as I'm having compassion on mercy on those who are there. Do both somehow Friends, contending for the faith and against false teaching means being involved with others. Keeping ourselves in the love of God means being involved with others. It means showing mercy and compassion. But it also means being extremely careful that we don't get drawn into sin. Lesson five, and finally, rejoice because God will keep us. Rejoice because God will keep us. Verse 24 Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, authority. Before all time and now and forevermore. Amen. So a moment ago from verse 21, I told you to keep yourselves. Jude tells you to keep yourselves in God's love. That is a command. You are responsible to do it. But did you notice what verse 1 says? Look there. We are those who are called, beloved, kept. We are kept And then look at verse 24 again. He is able to keep us. You and I fail to keep ourselves in the love of God. But praise God. That his love for us Not like our love for him. How often do we forget and fail every day And yet his love keeps us and is able to keep us if we are his. These may be the most encouraging words in the book. We do our best going to work keeping ourselves in Loving God and being loved by God, but we know that we forgive him and fail. Yet Jude stops and says, Oh friends, rejoice. God is going to keep you. Because he is able to keep you. You are called, beloved, loved, and kept. So the command, keep yourselves, unsettles us But then the promise assures us He is able to keep you This morning, maybe you're saying to me, Jonathan, I've not kept myself in the love of God. My heart is dry. I'm not going through my week thinking about how much I love God. I can think back in my life in times when I did love him more. And today I'm just, this week, this month, for the last couple of years, honestly, I've just kind of been going along, getting along. distracted with work, distracted with kids, distracted with what's next. I've let my heart stray. I can feel it hardening. Those temptations seem stronger. That false teaching seems a little more alluring. What do I do? Friends, it's really simple. Look at the first three words of verse twenty-four. Now to him It's really simple. Look to him. Don't look inward. Don't look to how much you're believing, just stop stop looking at yourself, look to him. To him He is the one who is able to keep you. Look to him. He'll keep you. Look to him. He'll present you blameless. I'm not blameless. I know that. Look to him. He'll present you blameless through the blood of Christ, through the Spirit, blameless, with great joy. Presents you blameless with great joy. John, my John, my heart's dim. Look to him. He's able to keep you And presents you blameless with great joy. He is the only God All others will fail you, all others will lie to you, all others will disappoint you. He is the only God and Savior. Look to him The one who has all glory and majesty, authority, and dominion. Look to him Pray. Wait. That's the Christian life. Study. Pray. Wait. Let's pray. Father God, we confess we are so quickly allured by other things, forgive us. We so quickly believe in false things, forgive us. Help us to keep ourselves in your love by looking to you, by praying to you, by waiting for you. Give us right hearts. Lord, you tell us you are able to keep us. And so, Lord, we pray, keep us We will abandon you unless you keep us. So keep us. We ask, please, Lord. And we trust that you will. In Christ's name, amen.