Well over the last three weeks as we've been preparing for opening to the public For welcoming visitors into this body. We've been using each of the sermons to hold out traits that I would hope come to characterize this church and this people. In our first week together, we talked about being a people who are willing to suffer for the gospel, that we would not be ashamed of suffering for the gospel, but that we would boldly proclaim it, regardless of what may come. And then last week we talked about being a people who are marked by weakness. That is a people who do not boast in their strength but boast rather in their weakness so that the power of Christ may be clearly seen in our lives. So week one was That we would be a people who are not ashamed to suffer for the gospel. And week two was we would be a people who boast in our weakness. And in this final sermon, I want to hold out one more trait. that I hope comes to characterize us as a church. And what is that trait? Well that trait is humility that we would be a humble people. So if you have your Bibles, please open with me open with me to Philippians chapter 2, verses 1 to 11. If you're using the Black Pew Bible around you, you can find Philippians chapter 2 on page 980 And Philippians is a letter written by the Apostle Paul, and he's writing to a spiritually mature church. A church, I think, maybe similar to CBC. A group of individuals who had been maturing in the faith and were bearing much fruit in their lives. And he was writing to them to exhort them to continue growing in their faith. So though they were mature in their faith, Paul seemed to be aware of certain dangers that threatened to disrupt their life together. And so he stresses the importance throughout this letter of staying the course. If you have the passage open in front of you, look at the first word in chapter 2, verse 1. The first word there is so, so. So for us, that means we're dropping in on the middle of a conversation that's already going on. Now that word tells us that Paul is about to instruct them on something that he's already told them. And what is that thing that he's already said? Look at me at chapter 1, verse 27. Chapter 1, verse 27. Paul says, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. If you remember chapter 4 of Ephesians, Paul says, walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called, and then he goes on in the rest of Ephesians to instruct them on what that looks like. And he's doing the same thing here in Philippians. He says to them, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. And so in the rest of the book, Paul is going to teach them how to do that. How do you live a life that's worthy of the gospel of Christ? And our passage is the first major section of teaching on how to live a life worthy of that gospel. Let me go ahead and read verses 1 to 11 of chapter 2 for us. So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, Any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy. Complete my joy by being of the same mind Having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit But in humility, count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So how is God calling you to live a life that is worthy of the gospel? He's calling you to live a life that is worthy of the gospel by calling you to pursue unity through Christ-like humility. He's calling you to pursue unity through Christ-like humility Humility. And I have two questions that I want us to answer this morning. And these two questions will form the outline of our time. These will be our two points if you're taking notes. First, why should we pursue unity? Why should we pursue unity? And second, how should we pursue unity? How should we pursue unity? Now first, why should we pursue unity? Well we find the answer is that we should pursue unity because we've already been united Well, look at me at verse 2 where Paul calls them to pursue unity. Notice the emphasis in verse 2. Same mind, same love, full accord, one mind. Right? You can't miss what Paul is saying here. Paul is calling the Philippians to be united. Now he's not saying here that they need to have the same opinions. or the same preferences as one another. What he's saying is that they shouldn't let these opinions or preferences create division Right? The unity that he's calling them to, the same-mindedness, the same lovedness, the full accordness, the same-spiritedness, is a unity of purpose. It's a unity of purpose that the greater goal they share as Christians of making the gospel known to the world should at all times transcend and be elevated above and rejoiced in by Christians as the same mind that they should pursue together. So all other opinions and preferences fit should fall to the wayside in that But that isn't the only goal and the only reason that we should pursue unity. In fact, the main reason Paul gives them in this verse is in verse or in these verses is in verse 1. Look there with me. Paul says, so if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, Right, though, though Paul, though, though it may seem like Paul is questioning whether these things exist when he says if, if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation. He's not questioning whether it exists. He's using that word if as since. He's assuming that those things exist. So it's as though he's saying since. There is encouragement in Christ, since there is comfort from love, since there is participation in the Spirit. Complete my joy. Because of these realities, complete my joy. Pursue unity. Oh, friends, we should not miss. We should not miss the massive and life-altering realities that are present in this verse and to which Paul is pointing us. Right? Don't read over this verse quickly and just think it, oh, he's just saying a couple nice things. If you read over that verse one slowly, you hear echoes. of Paul's Trinitarian benediction that comes at the end of 2 Corinthians, right? Remember what he says at the end of 2 Corinthians. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ And the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. And why could Paul say be with you all to them? Because it was with them in Christ. They had those things in Christ. Notice the parallels in our verse. Encouragement from Christ. Comfort from love. Participation in the Spirit Since there is encouragement in Christ. If you need to be encouraged this morning, let me encourage you to draw from the bottomless well of encouragement that is in this phrase. in Christ. Encouragement in Christ. Paul is referring to our union with Christ, a union that brings with it. every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, right? In Christ we were chosen. In Christ, you have redemption through his blood. In Christ you have the forgiveness of sins. In Christ, you have an imperishable inheritance. In him we have been sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Do you have encouragement in Christ this morning? Of course you do. Think about what your union with Christ means for you today. And not only encouragement in Christ, but comfort from love. You also have comfort from love. Paul is directing us here to consider the love of God the Father that is ours. in Christ Jesus. Do you need comfort today? Consider the love of God the Father. It is in the Father's love for you that He predestined you for adoption as sons and daughters into His family. And his love for you was and is so powerful that he would not even spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, that with him we would also freely have all things. He sent his son in love into the world that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Comfort from love. And you also have participation with the Spirit that having been united to Christ And now knowing the love of God the Father, we have been gifted with the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. He regenerates us. Dwells with us, sanctifies us, brings conviction of sin, teaches us God's word Bears witness with our spirit that we are sons and daughters of God, so that we cry out, Abba, Father. And through him, we are united to Christ and united to one another And if we have known encouragement in Christ, if we have known comfort from love, if we have known participation with the Spirit, how can we not be filled with affection and sympathy for one another? That's the affection and sympathy that Paul's pointing to. Because of these realities, we have affection and sympathy for one another. We participate together in these realities. Friends, see this. Paul isn't giving them some superficial command. Just pursue unity. Just do it. That has no basis for it for its meaning, right? No, the launching pad for the for this union that Paul is commanding us from is The union that we have with Christ and the love of God the Father and the participation of the Holy Spirit. He's saying to them, Since you have experienced the incomparable salvation that has come to you in Jesus Christ Let your differences be consumed and quenched in the blazing light of this glorious salvation. Right, A. W. Tozer, reflecting on this on this passage here, said this. He said, has it ever occurred to you? That 100 pianos all tuned to the same fork are automatically tuned to each other. They are of one accord by being tuned not to each other, but to another standard to which each one must individually bow. So 100 worshippers meeting together, each one looking away to Christ, are in heart nearer to each other than they could possibly be, were they to become unity conscious and turn their eyes away from God. and there and and strive to closer fellowship with one another. By being tuned to that great fork, the Lord Jesus Christ, we become tuned to one another. By nature of that. That's what Paul's pointing to. So let us be a people who are tuned to our Lord and so being tuned to Him, live in accord with one another. So if we should pursue unity, because we've already been united, how should we pursue it? How should we pursue unity? We see that Paul gives us two ways in our passage that we should pursue unity. The first is by humbly putting others first. Look at verse 3. Paul tells him to do nothing out of selfish ambition or conceit. Selfish ambition is a self-centeredness that leads a person to fight over every little thing so that they can get their way. That's what selfish ambition is. is pointing to. I think it's kind of one of those things we all kind of intuitively know. Selfish ambition. Yeah, we know it when we see it. And the root of selfish ambition is conceit. And Paul sees that this type of selfish ambition, this self-centeredness, is at odds with unity in the church. That's why he's telling them, do nothing out of selfish ambition because that will destroy unity in the church. Selfish ambition and conceit corrupt our relationships. And they not only corrupt our relationships within the church, they corrupt us as well. The word that's translated as conceit literally means empty glory. Do nothing out of selfish ambition and empty glory. When we're selfishly pursuing our own way at the cost of those around us, we do so out of the delusion that getting our way will bring us joy and peace, right? But it never does It never does because serving ourselves is an empty pursuit that provides an empty glory. And look, selfish ambition, pursuing our own way, and receiving empty glory, this is something that we all struggle with. Right? If you're human, you struggle with selfish ambition. What you need to ask yourself this morning is, where are you particularly tempted by it? Because in all of us, it's going to manifest itself in different areas of our lives. But for some of us, it's going to be fighting to get our way in our marriages. Right? So what are the ways that you're particularly tempted to selfish ambition in your marriage? For others of us, we're most tempted to walk on others to get our way at work. For some of us, we must want our way here at church. We want our preferences to be expressed. We want our opinions to be those that are put forward and then acted upon. And this attitude can look very different in different people, right? So selfish ambition doesn't just manifest itself in one personality all the time. So I think when I think of selfish ambition or conceit, I think of somebody who's like walks around like a blowfish, right? Like you've tickled their belly and now they've puffed up with air and they're walking around puffed up all the time But that is not what selfish ambition always look like always looks like. You might have somebody who does walk around who is just like obviously boastful and proud. Right? That's one type of selfish ambition But there are subtle types of selfish ambition. While others openly contend for their own way, there are people who struggle with working behind the scenes in private conversations. to subtly manipulate and get people to do what they want. So ask yourself, ask yourself this. Are there areas in your life in which you're always getting your way? Are there areas in your life which are always getting your way? Whether that's marriage, work, home, whatever it is in the church, are you always winning? Are you always winning? That's a question you might ask yourself. If your preferences are always the ones that get expressed, you're likely doing what Paul says not to do. And friends, there is no place for this in the church, in his people. Look at what Paul says. He says, do nothing. Do nothing, not do some things, not a little, not here, not there. He says, do nothing So we need to be a church that makes war on the selfish ambition that disrupts unity. And if we're going to do that, it's going to happen by each of us Each of us individually cultivating the type of humility that puts others first. Look at verse 3. Paul just said to them, he gives this be he basically gives them a negative and then a positive, right? If you're looking at this verse, don't do this, do this. Replace this type of action with this type of action. Replace selfish ambition. With in humility, count others more significant than yourself. The remedy to selfish ambition is humility The remedy to selfish ambition is humility. Humility is the path on which unity walks. Humility is the path to unity. And just so that we don't get tripped up on the idea of humility, let's think carefully about what it is. Let's think carefully about what it is by thinking about what it isn't first. We often think humility means being self-deprecating, acting meek, acting lowly. But that's not what humility is. Self-deprecating people can be amazingly self-focused people because they're constantly thinking about what they can't do. Oh no, no, I can't do this. I'm not that great. I'm really not that good. Right? Self-deprecating people can be amazingly self-focused people. Humility, on the other hand, the truly humble person, on the other hand, as C. S. Lewis said, will not be thinking about humility. The truly humble person will not be thinking about himself at all. Right? Or as one other person put it Humility is not thinking less of yourself. It's thinking of yourself less. It's not thinking less of yourself. It's thinking of yourself less. Thinking of yourself less and thinking of others more. Notice what Paul says. Count others more significant than yourselves Now he's not saying that you should actually believe that other human beings made in the image of God are more valuable than you. We all share the same value being made in the image of God. He's just saying, consider the needs of others ahead of your own When you walk into church on Sunday, ask the question immediately. Your first question should be, what can I do to serve someone else today? Not hey I need this or hey this is something I want done right ask the question what can I do to serve someone else today? Don't just ask it on Sunday because we're not just a church on Sunday, ask it every day of the week. How can I wake up today and serve others? He's saying consider the needs of others ahead of your own. In fact, that's what he goes on to say in verse 4. He says, look to the interests, the needs of others. Notice how active that command is. Look. Notice. Be aware of. We should be actively looking for ways to care for and serve others. So some of the more frustrating moments. in my marriage or when I'm trying to have a conversation with Leah and the boys are running around. Whether we're at home or in the park or at a restaurant, I'm trying to have a conversation with Leah. And I can't get her attention because the boys are running around. So I start a sentence and then she looks away and I have to stop. And she I start a sentence and she looks away. I have to stop. This happened last night in our kitchen. I was reading to her the sermon, asking her for help on you know certain things that I should, how should I say this? How should I say that? And I couldn't get her attention. Because the boys are running around. She's looking, she's looking. She's wanting, she's paying attention to them. And because I'm self-centered, I'm like, hey. Me pay attention to me right look hey if you've ever had a conversation with a young mom who has kids around you know what I'm talking about This is just what it's like to talk to them Right, it is. But look, they are a beautiful picture. They are a beautiful picture and illustration of what Paul is talking about because what are they doing? They're looking. Is my child okay? What do they need? They're listening up. They're looking for ways to serve. They're looking to care for their young children. And that picture is a picture that we should all look to as an example of how we should live with one another. So I'm not saying that after the service today, when you're talking with somebody, you should just like be looking past their shoulder the whole time. Listen to them and look for ways to serve them. How can you care for that person? How can you pay attention to what they're saying and figure out ways that you can serve them? Those young moms are a beautiful picture of the attentiveness that we're to have to the needs of others. But if we're going to look to the interests of others. Right? We're going to need to ask about the needs of others. So to cultivate this culture of humbly serving one another, we're going to have to cultivate a culture of spiritually deep relationships, right? Be humbly intrusive. Ask people how they're doing. If they're struggling, if they're in a difficult period, ask how you can serve them. Hey kids, if you're if you're thinking if you're listening this morning, one of the ways that you can follow Jesus Christ is by looking to the needs of others. And I think some of the people that God may have given you to practice that around the most is your siblings. Right? How can you think about serving your siblings this week before serving yourself? Right? Following Jesus means you are a servant. As we're going to see later in this passage, Jesus actually took the form of a servant, the very nature of a servant, when he took the form of mankind. What we're seeing there basically is that it is in the nature of humans to be servants. We are servants by nature. So kids, how can you serve your siblings this week? What can you do to put their needs ahead of your own? And while Paul's emphasis here, one more thing that I want to mention, while his emphasis here is on humbly serving one another, I want to say briefly that humility also means that when we're struggling, Whether it's with a particular sin or we're just in a particularly difficult season of life, humility means that we are willing to talk about it. Humble people don't want to hide those things. That's what proud people do. Humble people share those struggles. They let other people in to help them. So that's another way you can express humility in your life. Humbly look to the needs of others. I think Leah and I have been overwhelmed by the kindness of this congregation in the that difficult stretch that we've been in as a congregation. a family. Right? So whether it's been meals that have been brought to us, or babysitting that's been offered to us or people just reaching out to encourage us. We have been so encouraged and have benefited by being loved by you all in such a way that it makes us feel more united to you. We feel a stronger bond with you through that. And the love that we've received is a type of love that I want to encourage to be multiplied among us more and more. Keep doing that, friends. Keep looking for ways to serve others because one of the ways we'll build up unity in this church is by actively looking to serve others. And the second way we'll build up unity in the church is by looking to the humility of Christ. Looking to the humility of Christ So after calling the Philippians to pursue unity and humility, Paul holds out a glorious and moving portrait Of the humility of Jesus Christ. And we see that in verses 6 to 11. These verses contain some of the richest and most profound theological truths in all of Scripture about who Jesus is. This portrait that Paul holds out follows a clear progression as he moves from who Jesus was before his incarnation in verse 6. To his incarnation and life in verse 7, to his humiliating death in verse 8, before moving, to his ascension into heaven, and his reign at the right hand of Father, of the Father, in verses 9 to 11. So let's look briefly at each of those verses. In verse 6, we see who Jesus was before he became a man. He was the eternal son of God. Sharing in the glory and power and honor of the Father. That's what the word form means there. The word sounds confused, and it sounds like Jesus is putting on a costume and trying to be God, but the word morphe. which is translated form, also means nature. Jesus was in very nature God. Paul then goes on to refer to equality with God. So Jesus, being in very nature God, shared equality with God. He is, after all, the co-equal, co-eternal Son of God. But even though he shared equality with God, he didn't consider his godness to be something something to be seized upon, grasped, and taken advantage of. Right? So Jesus, you see Paul here is already setting up a contrast between Jesus and the selfishly ambitious person who seeks their own way. Jesus being equal with God did not grasp upon that equality, that godness, to use it to his own advantage. But he set it aside and instead of seizing upon his equality with God, he chose, if you follow along, instead to empty himself. This verse is so often misinterpreted to as grounds for thinking that Jesus took off his divinity. He he emptied himself of it and he he he set it aside, but that's not what the text says. What does the text say? He emptied himself by taking on something, by taking on the nature of a man. He emptied himself. He made himself nothing by becoming a man. Becoming a man. We see Paul use the same word form there again in verse 8. He who was in very nature God became in very nature man. And as a man, he humbled himself. He humbled himself. God of God humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. God from God. Light from light. True God from true God. The eternal, all-powerful, all-knowing, all-seeing, all-perfect Son of God chose to make use of his privileges by becoming a man and humbling himself to suffer an utterly undeserved and humiliating death for you and for me. He embodied Paul's teaching by looking not to his own interests, but to the interest of others. He looked to our interests, to us who lived in darkness, who walked in ignorance, who were dead in trespasses and sin. He left heaven and the presence of God the Father in his perfect communion. to serve us by humbling himself to the point of death on a cross. Oh look at the picture of putting others before himself that you see there And because of his completing the rescue mission he was sent for, he returned to heaven and was exalted to the right hand of God where he reigns. Yes, he reigned with God in eternity past, yet in a unique way, his obedient submission to the Father, and carrying out the mission for which he was sent. uniquely displayed his power as the eternal son of God and he was enthroned beside God at his right hand, the Father. Who else has the Father said? Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And at the end of time, when we're all brought before him, we will bow before him, and there will be no denying that Jesus Christ is the Christ to the glory of God the Father. Now friends, we need to consider, consider the hideousness. The hideousness of our selfish ambition and envy and pursuit of empty glory in the light of the humiliation that Christ suffered for us. And in the light of his exalted reign at the right hand of God, does he not prove? Does Jesus not Prove that humility precedes glory. Humility precedes Glory. Selfish ambition produces empty glory, but humility produces eternal glory. Let us be a people who don't selfishly seek our own way. What place does that have among us? Right? Let us humbly put others first. And let's be a people who look to and follow Jesus Christ. Let's be a people who look to the wondrous mystery of the eternal Son of God, humbling himself to death on a cross that he might serve. And not be served. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we rejoice in the great salvation that you have worked for your people and the unity that you have given us in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are one So Father, we ask that you would help us today and in the week to come to live as though we are one by humbly putting others first before us. Let us put to death selfish ambition. Let us look to the interest of others and let us look to the humility of the Lord Jesus Christ and so be conformed to his image, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, as we contemplate, we should as we contemplate the wondrous mystery of Christ becoming man, let us continue to contemplate and rejoice in it as we sing our next hymn. Come behold the wondrous mystery. which is on page six in your bulletins. Let's stand together and sing.