Well, fear and anxiety are a common experience in a fallen world. And I think it's for good reason, right? Just consider life. the natural disasters that happen, or evil acts committed by other human beings that happen. Or tragic accidents. All of these natural disasters and evil acts and tragic accidents seem ever present in this life. But it's not only those things, right? I'm sure if we took the time To sit here and talk with one another, we could come up with countless examples of trials that don't fit neatly into those categories that might cause us to be fearful or anxious. And since trials can take so many different forms, it's no wonder so many people struggle regularly with fear and anxiety. And because there are so many who struggle with fear and anxiety, there are no shortages of treatments for them. One method, one particular treatment for overcoming fear and anxiety is not a is not a medical thing like a pill or uh some sort of treatment like that, but it's a a method uh put forward by therapists for overcoming fear and anxiety and it's known as the AWARE method. It's an acronym The word aware, it's an acronym that stands for A. Accept the fear and anxiety. Don't try to fight it W. Watch the fear and anxiety. Just watch it and when you notice it, scale your level of fear and start to breathe longer on the outbreath. A, AWA stands for act normally. Carry on talking or behaving as if nothing is different. This will send a powerful signal. to your subconscious mind that its overdramatic response is actually not needed because nothing unusual is going on. R. Repeat the above steps if necessary. And E Expect the best. One of the greatest feelings in life is the realization that you can control fear much more than you thought possible. That's the aware method for overcoming fear and anxiety. And I'm highlighting the aware method, not to poke fun at it, not at all. Fear and anxiety are a terrible experience. They are a terrible thing to experience and to be gripped by. I'm drawing our attention to the aware method because of the seriousness with which it's offered as a solution to fear and anxiety. And I want to ask the question, is the aware method sufficient? Is the aware method sufficient to deal with fear? Let me put it a different way. This past week there was a tragic accident in Branson, Missouri There was a tour boat out on a lake in Missouri that had 20 some odd people on it. They were caught in a storm. The boat flooded and 17 people died. Fearful experienced. Good acting normally and expecting the best have seemed like sufficient solutions to the gripping fear that you would have experienced if you were on that boat. Well, I think the obvious answer is no. No, they those wouldn't be a sufficient solution. And this may be a sobering way for us to start a sermon, but the reality is all of us at some point in life will suffer. All of us will endure trials, even severe trials. We will all face gripping fear in the face of those trials. And the question I want you to consider this morning is, is there a solution to overcoming fear? Is there a real solution to overcoming fear? Is there something or someone that we can be so confident in that we no longer fear even the worst trials? That's the question I want to pose to you this morning. And we're talking about it this morning because the Bible deals with life's toughest questions head on. It doesn't skirt around them. And in our passage this morning, we find that the Bible deals with our tough questions. about fear and about trials and about what a possible solution to those trials is and that fear is. So let me invite you to open in your Bibles to Mark chapter 4, verses 35 to 41. If you're using the Black Pew Bible, if you're using the Black Pew Bible, you can help me out and tell me what page it's on. 839. You can find it on page 839. If you don't own a Bible, if you don't have a copy for yourself, I want to encourage you to take our copy. It's a gift from us to you We think there's nothing more important for you than to own a copy of God's Word because God's Word does deal with life's toughest questions. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us. Again, it's Mark chapter 4, verses 35 to 41. On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us go across to the other side. And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him. And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion. And they woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. He said to them, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? This is God's word. Well, the first thing that this passage teaches us this morning, if we're following along, is that trials are inevitable. Trials are inevitable. Look with me at verse 35. Look at verse 35. On that day when evening had come, he said to them, Let us go across to the other side Alright, so if you haven't been here with us the past couple weeks, what started in chapter 4, verse 1? Jesus was teaching a crowd of people from a boat uh on uh the Sea of Galilee, somewhere south of Capernaum. He's been teaching them all day, and then evening comes. And he says to his disciples, let's leave the crowd. We're going to travel across the Sea of Galilee. We're going to go to a place that we find out in chapter 5. It's called the country of the Garrisones. We're leaving. We're going to go there now. All right, so he's teaching that crowd, comes to an end, taught for a large portion of the day, and then evening comes, he wraps up his teaching, tells his disciples, we're heading out, they come, they pick them up in a boat, and they go So the disciples pick him up out of the boat that he was in. That's what it means when it says they picked him up and took him with them just as he was. So Jesus was out in a boat Teaching the crowd on the shore. His disciples were likely on the shore. They got another boat, came out into the water, he got in the boat with them, and they left. They took him with him just as he was. And they began making their way to the eastern coast of the Sea of Galilee. And the Sea of Galilee, at its widest point, is about seven miles across, but Jesus and his disciples are moving at an angle southeast across the sea from Capernaum, just slightly northwest of the northernmost point of the Sea of Galilee, southeast across to the region of the Garrison. So I would go this way for you guys that you could see. And with most estimates, so that in normal weather, that trip should have taken about two or three hours. They would have rowed for about two or three hours in the boat that they were in. But we see in the passage that the weather is anything but normal. So look at verse 37. Look at verse 37. Mark says. And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling. Other translations, if you have the other translations, they call it a furious squall. Or a fierce storm, right? This wasn't a normal rainstorm. This wasn't like being out on the sea. I know, it's just raining a little bit, but we're gonna we're gonna make our way. This is a storm with hurricane type. Power. And this storm is a well-attested reality of uh in life along the Sea of Galilee. Right? So the Sea of Galilee is roughly 700 feet below sea level But 30 miles to the northwest of the Sea of Galilee, there are mountains that extend almost all the way up to 10,000 feet. So you're looking at a difference in elevation of 10, 10,500 feet in 30 miles. And so what happens when that cold air comes downward, rushing eastward across the Sea of Galilee, and it hits the hot air on top of the sea? That cold air and that hot air explodes and it causes furious storms, right? These storms are brutal and they can be sudden terrifying and life-threatening. So fishermen on the Sea of Galilee today have a name for that evening Easterly that comes down from the mountains and it's called Sharkia. Which in Arabic means shark apparently. Because those storms are as sudden and terrifying and life-threatening as a shark attack These storms come up on you. And you see the suddenness of the storm in his description in verses 37 and 38, right? Mark gives us hints at how quickly it came on. The great windstorm arose. It came on them quickly, so quickly that water was already filling the boat. The storm came on them suddenly. And It was terrifying. Terrifying. Let's grasp what's happening in this scene. They are not on a cruise ship. They are not on an aircraft carrier. They are on a first century fishing boat. I wonder what would that have been like? That's a really good question. I had the same question, and you know what happened in 1986 When the seas re- the seas went back from the shores just outside of Capernaum, about five miles south of Capernaum, they found in the mud, archaeologists found in the mud a first century fishing vessel much like the one that Jesus and his disciples would have ridden on. And that vessel was 25 foot long, 7 feet wide, and 4 feet high. So it was probably the length of this aisle where the seats are It was slightly wider and about as high as the seats are, about four feet high. That vessel, 15 or so men were on in the middle of a hurricane. Not only that, not only that, but look at what time of day it's happening. Verse 35, on that day when evening came. This is happening in the middle of the night. So it gets dark, and then when it gets it starts getting dark and it becomes evening, the sun's going down, this storm rolls in and snuffs out any light that is left, and they are now in the middle of the pitch black being hammered by this storm and their boat is filling up with water. This is terrifying We think about even this boat in Branson, Missouri. This is what would have happened to them. The waves were crashing into the boat. It's all happening at night. They cannot get the water out of the boat as fast as it's coming in. It's filling up. One of the apostles says to Jesus, do you not care that we're perishing? It's filling up the boat. And the word that he uses for filling is complete saturation. The only other place it's used in the Gospels is when it talks about water being filled to the brim of a jar. This is how the water was filling up the boat. What happens to boats when they fill up with water? They sink. And what happens to the people on the boat? They die. This is terrifying. Right? So having personally spent just under a year out to sea when I was in the Coast Guard, I can empathize with the terror that they would have felt. Because I was stationed on a boat that was, if you if you pull back this divider, this is this room is about a hundred feet in length. I was on a boat that was twice the size of this room. It was a 225-foot boat It was meant to be out to sea in the middle of large storms, and we regularly encountered 20 and 30 foot seas. And I can tell you something. Before I joined the Coast Guard, I thought the sea was a wonderful, beautiful, and expansive place. And I can promise you now, I am more petrified of the ocean than I was before I joined. And do you know why? Because the ocean is a monster. It can raise up in the split Second, it can stir up like a monster that cannot be tamed, and it will thrash you and show you just how small you are, and you have no hope against its strength. This was a terrifying experience. I personally don't ever want to go back to the ocean because it owns you. You can do nothing to keep from its power Right? This is they're on this boat in the pitch black as the storm clouds roll in. This hurricane comes in, smashes them with wave after wave, filling up the boat with water. Sheer terror sets in as they realize. They are perishing. They don't say to Jesus, it's possible that we're going to perish. They say we are perishing. Death is coming for us. It is licking our face. What does this tell us about what the Bible thinks about trials? The Bible doesn't shy away from the reality that trials Severe, sudden, and life-threatening trials exist and are a part of life. Not only does it not shy away from it, but it faces that reality head-on and teaches us how to engage with those trials and whether or not you're a follower of Jesus. If you're here, you can follow Jesus or not. If it hasn't already happened yet, you will likely face severe trials, possibly even life-threatening trials trials that will cause you to experience intense fear in this life. Right? It's the type of fear that grips you when you're suddenly laid off from your job, you don't have money in the bank, and you have no idea how you're gonna buy food for your family. It's a type of grief and fear that that grips you when the phone rings and you find out that a family member has suddenly died. It's the type of fear that grips you if you're a parent and you think about all the possible ways that your children could be hurt or lose their life Think about the type of fear that you can experience in this life. Kids, kids even, I wonder for y'all, think about this. What is something that you're afraid of? I put a question on your sheet for you guys to fill out. What's something you're afraid of? I would love for you guys to fill that out. You can come tell me what that is after the service. I'd encourage you also to talk to your parents after the service Because I bet your parents can relate to you. I bet they've experienced the same types of fear and can help you think about how to deal with that fear. In the same way the Bible teaches us to deal with those fears. Right? Trials are inevitable. And if we have any hope of facing them without fear, then we're going to need someone who has the power to bring us through our trials. That's the second thing this passage teaches us. We need someone who has the power to bring us through our trials. Kids, if you're following along, that question's there on your sheet. We need someone who has the power to bring us through our trials You see, trials and suffering have a really unique way of destabilizing us, right? If you've ever been in the middle of a severe enough trial, then you know what it's like. Everything in life feels disordered. It's like you can't find where you are in the orbit of your own life. Everything seems disoriented. And so what do we do? We reach out for something or someone. to help us, someone to orient us, someone to help us make sense of the chaos that envelops us in the midst of these trials. And that sense of chaos that comes when you experience trials like this, that that disorienting power that trials seem to exercise over us can't really be avoided. It just happens. You hit the trial and then everything is out of order. It seems like you you understood life before and now everything seems foreign to you. But we see that chaos, that disorienting power even symbolized in the storm the disciples are experiencing. That's what the storm symbolizes. In the Bible, the sea symbolizes. This is what the Bible teaches about the sea, that it symbolizes the chaos and rebellion that are at war with God in the world. The sea is a force of chaos. It needs to be tamed. by God. And from the beginning of the Bible we find that God has the power and authority to rule over the seas and the chaos that they represent, to control them, to subdue them. So let's think about where we see this in the Bible, in the creation account in Genesis 1. God is present, the Spirit is present, hovering over the waters, subduing them, putting them into their proper place within the created order. And yet though they're put in the created order in their proper place, the seas and the oceans rage against God and thrash and threaten to flood the entire creation. And so we find in Job and Proverbs that God determines the boundaries of the chaotic waters. He says to them, There you will go and no further. He sets limits to where they can cross. on the face of the creation. And then in the Psalms we see that God himself has the power to stop the roaring of the waves and the chaos that they represent. Which is what makes what happens in this passage so shocking. Right? If you have been a Christian for any amount of time, you read this passage, you're like, yep, got it It was a bad storm. Jesus stood up, said, peace be still, and it stopped. When was the last time you stood out in the middle of a hurricane and said stop? And it did. Right? Nobody has this power in a panic. The disciples shout at Jesus, giving you a clue that they still have no idea who he is, even though they're going to tell you at the end of the passage. Teacher Right now. If you've been here in the study of the Gospel of Mark, you see right here they're already making a mistake. Teacher! No. Lord, God is what they should be calling him. But they teacher, do you not care that we're perishing? And I think they're not asking him to do anything because they call him teacher, not God. I think they just say to him, what's wrong with you? We're all dying here. Wake up. Right? They say to him, don't you care that we're perishing? Get out of the get off the cushion and help us bale water. And what does Jesus do? He wakes up. He may maybe he stands up. You've ever seen those paintings. He's at the front of the boat doing this, right? He's kind of Leonardo DiCaprio on whatever the That the Titanic, right? And you know when he's sailing on the front of the sea, you see Jesus like this. I don't know if that happened because Jesus was sleeping on the back cushion of the boat. I think he may have just woke up, turned over, said, peace, be still. Mark says here, he says, he rebukes the wind. Do you notice that? That's an odd choice of words. Who rebukes immaterial creation? It's wind. You don't rebuke it. But what is he saying to the storm? Sit down and shut your mouth. That's what he's saying to the storm. Sit down, shut your mouth, and stay quiet. It's a present progressive verb. It's be quiet and stay quiet. And what happens? The wind stops and there is a great calm. In the Greek, it says there was a mega calm. Just some insight into the Greek there. A mega calm. The greatness of the windstorm, remember, there was a great windstorm that arose is matched by the greatness of the calm that Jesus brings. Great windstorm, great calm. Jesus displays his power by stopping a hurricane in its tracks. And if you're familiar with hurricanes, you know that you can say, oh, it just passed. It just moved on. It died down. Well, if you're familiar with hurricanes, then you know that waves come in for days afterwards. But that's not what's happening here Immediately the wind and the waves cease. Crystal clear. Face reflecting off the ocean. That's the type of peace that comes through Jesus' power I don't want to see, do we have any Harry Potter fans here? Raise your hand if we have Harry Potter fans here. Adults, raise your hand. I'm not thinking of just kids. Now I think this is where this is true. We need to be transparent as Christians. I want y'all to notice this. Notice that Jesus doesn't use incantations Jesus doesn't use a wand. The text doesn't say that Jesus stood up and pulled out his wand and said, Expel the Armis! Right? It's his own word that has the power. He doesn't need an incantation. He doesn't need a wand. He speaks, and all of creation obeys him. And what this says about Jesus is what the Old Testament says about God and only God, which is what means for us this morning is that Jesus is God. Jesus does what only God can do in the Old Testament. Psalm 65. By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, who stills the roaring of the seas and the roaring of the waves. Psalm 89. O Lord God of hosts, who is as mighty as you are, O Lord, you rule the raging of the sea. When its waves rise, you Still them. Psalm 107. The Lord made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed. Jesus is none other than the Lord Almighty, who with a word has the power to storm, to still the raging storm. And here's what this means for you today. If the the raging of the seas symbolizes the chaos that's present in life that comes in the midst of trials and Jesus has the power to still the seas and to draw boundaries around them, then Jesus has the power to still the trials in your life and to determine the boundaries to which they will not affect you. He says to these trials in your life, stop. Right there. No more. So what it to whatever extent you're experiencing a trial in this life that is causing you to fear. You can know that the Lord Jesus Christ understands that trial and has set boundaries for that trial because Jesus Christ is the Lord God Almighty who rules over the oceans. Just because he has the power to stop the trials we're experiencing doesn't mean he always will. Right, see, some people think that if a person believes in God and follows Jesus and nothing bad should happen to them, and when something bad does happen to them, that must mean that God doesn't exist. No, Christians are even guilty of thinking this way because we can respond to trials the same way that the disciples do. What's wrong with you? What are you sleeping? Don't you even care about? Do you not care that I'm perishing? Maybe in the midst of your trials, maybe in the midst of your trials you've thought those very things about God that he doesn't care about you That he must be he must be up there sleeping, right? He must be sleeping. Following Jesus doesn't mean that you won't experience trials. In fact, in fact, he may lead you directly into trials Why do I say that? Why do I say that? Notice. He says to the disciples, let's go to the other side. Has Jesus not already proved in the gospel the mark that he knows all things? He knows that the storm is going to come. And he doesn't say to them, hey guys, there's a storm coming. So we're going to hang out here on the shore for a couple days and let it pass. Or he doesn't say to them, hey, we're going to take a different route. We're just going to go somewhere else so that we don't hit the storm. He says, let's go. And he leads them right into a storm. Jesus knows what's going to happen. And the storm and those trials. Serve as an opportunity for his disciples to be put in an impossible position In a position where they feel like they are perishing. And these disciples were in fact going to perish. But he does that so that he can show that no storm is too large and no trial too great. for him to rescue his people. Right? You see, faith in Jesus doesn't end your trials. Faith quiets fears in the midst of trials. Not because faith has something magical in and of itself like faith. If I just have faith. God will do something great for me. No, the faith is in the object of your faith. If you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, then you know that He has infinite power to calm a hurricane. He can stop the trials in your life. Faith does not end trials. Faith quiets fears in the midst of them. Jesus has the power to control the entire creation with a word. Raging winds, perilous waves, driving rains, all of them bow at the sound of his voice There is no storm too great for Jesus of Nazareth. There is no trial that you are going to experience that he cannot handle. And because Jesus alone has the power to bring us through our trials, the third thing we learn is that we can face trials With the confidence that God will care for us through them. Look at verse 40. Look at verse 40. After calming the storm, Jesus turns to his disciples and says, Why are you so afraid? You know, I'm gonna be, if I'm one of the disciples, I'm gonna be pretty annoyed at this point. Why am I so afraid? The boat is filling up with water and we're in the middle of a hurricane. What are you crazy? That's why I'm afraid. We're about to die. Right? This is the point though, isn't it? God, God is not troubled by what appear to be dire circumstances in our eyes Dire circumstances, whatever they might be, should be no cause for fear in those who follow Jesus, because those who follow Jesus know that he has the power to call all of creation to obey him. Right, to let fear outweigh faith in the midst of trials is to think and act as though God is less powerful than the trial you're experiencing. That he doesn't actually have the power to save you from them or sustain you through them. And you see how just gently And convictingly, Jesus lays bare the true root of fear, right? Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? See the connection there. Fear is a plant that grows from the seed of faithlessness. Fear is a plant that grows from the seed of faithlessness. So I just want to ask you this morning, how are you doing with fear? and fear in the midst of the difficult situations that you may be facing in your life. What do your fears say about your faith? And what do your fears say about Jesus? I want to be careful here also, though. We run into some danger sometimes when Christians, as Christians, we read the Bible and we see the way that Jesus responds to his disciples. And we think that we should also respond to one another the same way. And there are some ways which I would say that's true, but I would say that this situation In this instance, this passage, this is not something that we should model with one another. Right? So if somebody comes to you fearing a situation in their life, fearing some trial, please don't ever say to them what Jesus says. Jesus always raises the stakes on following him. Jesus always raises the stakes, but we are not Jesus You should never ask somebody that question. You should never be like mystified. How could you be experiencing fear with that? That's such a small thing Please don't ever engage with one another in that way. When people express fear to you, you should come alongside them as a fellow human being who also experiences fear. fear because all of us do and let them know the ways that you can sympathize with them. Jesus lays bare our struggle with faithlessness and fear because he is the Lord and He's teaching us about Himself. When we engage with one another, let's be kind to each other. Because all of us is going to struggle with fear in different ways, right? I look at the things that Leah tells me, I'm just like, I would never worry about that. But then I come to her panicked over stuff, just like I I I don't know what to do with this situation. I don't know what to do. And she's just like, babe, it's okay. Wait, she never responds to me the way that I respond to her. I'm always like, huh? That's not you don't need to be afraid of that it's because I'm uh a fool most of the time, right? But we should we should Sympathize and empathize with one another. If you face fear in any type of situation, then you can sympathize with another Christian or another person who's facing fear over something in their life. And I'm drawing this out because it's the case that in a fallen world, all of us No matter how strong our faith will continue to experience fear. Ed Welch noted that the most common command in all of Scripture is the command to not be afraid. Do not fear, do not be afraid, and that's because becoming afraid and being fearful is something that we all struggle with to one degree or another So the question might come up in your mind, is it the case that Jesus says, why am I so afraid? Is it that every time I fear, does this become an example of my failure to live up to Jesus' standard of fearlessness? And does that mean that God is unhappy with me? Well no. Here's what I think is wonderfully encouraging about this passage for you, especially if you're struggling with fear today. But it's going to be encouraging for all of us because we all struggle with it Every time we fear, it becomes an opportunity for us to marvel at God's mercy to us in Christ. Here's what I mean by that. When we follow Jesus, he doesn't just pay for our sins. He doesn't just pay for our sins. He also provides for us the righteousness that we so desperately lack. the righteousness of being obedient to every one of God's commands. And one of those commands that Jesus was obedient to was the command to not fear. To trust God completely and not fear the circumstances of his life. And we see that lived out perfectly in this passage. Did you notice? He is sleeping in the middle of a hurricane. How is this possible? Well, I think what he's doing is he's showing us in living color in human form that it is possible to trust God completely in the midst of life's worst storms. He is sleeping. It gives new meaning when you turn to the Psalms and the Psalms say he gives to his beloved. Rest. Jesus is God's beloved, and he gives to his beloved rest and the righteousness of Christ that enables him to sleep in a hurricane. is applied to you. It is imputed to you. You receive his righteousness so that when you are struggling with fear You do not need to fear God being angry with you because you know that God, when he looks at you, he sees his sleeping son. His righteousness is yours. We're all going to continue to struggle with fear in this life. But that fear, God does not treat us according to that fear, but according to Jesus' fearlessness and trust in him. Now some of you, I'm sure, may be thinking, if you're here, maybe not a follower of Jesus, that you'd be happy to put your faith in Christ, the man who can calm storms, if only it were true. But clearly, this is all a legend, right? This is just myth, right? Nobody can actually do this. Well, if that's what you're thinking, I want you to notice a few things about this passage. I want you to notice especially the details. Look down at the passage with me, verses 35 to 41. Notice the details. They took him with them, just as he was. What's the point of that detail? If this is a legend, what is the point of that detail? What is it doing to further the story? Oh, and there were there were other boats with him. There were other boats with him. Well, there's no other mention of the other boats in the rest of the story. What's the point of that detail? Or Jesus was asleep on a cushion. Not what you want to put in a story if you're trying to prove to people that this guy's God. He's asleep on a cushion. What kind of God is this? None of these details add to the story None of these details move the story along. The only explanation for them is that this account came from someone who was there Who saw what happened? These are the types of details you'd expect from eyewitness reporting and not from legends. And most scholars are convinced that Mark's gospel is largely comprised of the eyewitness reporting of the Apostle Peter. Now you might think, well, okay, the Apostle Peter just wanted to be famous and powerful, so he came up with a story that would give him power, right? This is what he's doing. He's trying to exercise mind control over people. Well, that's what you'd think. What do you make of the fact that the authors of the New Testament go out of their way to show how epically they fail. What do you make of that fact? Look at our passage. Look at verse 41. After Jesus calms the storms, the disciples ask themselves, Who then is this? That even the wind and sea obey him? I mean you should read this and think to yourself, what is wrong with these guys? They've been with Jesus for months Maybe even years at this point, he's been doing amazing miracles, casting out demons, healing people, and now he calms the wind and the sea, and he's given them personal one-to-one teaching about how he's bringing the kingdom of God. And they're saying Who then is this? Who could this possibly be? I just, I just, all right, man, he's an interesting teacher. You read the gospel of Mark up to this point and you just think like, what is wrong with these guys? Nobody trying to sell a religious story would fill it with their own failings unless It was true. Unless what they were saying about Jesus was true. Now here's why I bring this up. Here's why I think this is actually important for each and every one of us here today. Each of these disciples would continue to go on failing and being filled with fear. Up to the point that when Jesus was arrested, you remember what did all the disciples do? Scattered. Fearing for their lives. I don't want to be associated with that guy, because then I'll get killed too. Even deserting Jesus when he was arrested. But then one day everything changed. They went from being men who fearfully deserted Jesus when he was arrested to being men who gave their lives Preaching the good news about Jesus no matter the cost. And the cost for these men, most of these men, would be their lives. Church tradition and history even holds that the Apostle Peter was crucified. For his preaching of the gospel, but he was crucified upside down because he refused to be killed like his Savior. He wasn't worthy of it What would change a man who deserted Jesus and caused him to be one who would give his life to follow him? What is it that changed in each of them? I think what change is their understanding. Their understanding of who Jesus was and their understanding of his power to rescue them from the worst trial. Not the calming of the storm, though I'm sure that was on their minds, but another trial You see, Mark's account of Jesus' calming of the storm bears an unbelievable, even supernatural resemblance to another count in the Bible of a storm being calmed. Christine read it for us this morning from Jonah 1. I don't know if you noticed in Jonah 1, think of these parallels. Both Jonah and Jesus are on a boat, and as soon as they get on the boat and set sail, they are overtaken by a storm, and the language used in each account of the storm is identical. A sudden and terrible storm overtakes them. Both Jonah and Jesus are asleep during the storm. Then in both accounts, the sailors on board the vessel come to them and say to them, what's wrong with you? Don't you care that we're perishing? Wake up and do something. And then finally, in each account, there's a miraculous intervention by God to calm the storm. And in each account, after the storm is calmed, the sailors on both boats are filled with Fear. Interesting. Great windstorm. Great calm. Not great joy. Great fear. Why? Because they understood that they were in the presence of the living God. See the parallels between those stories. There's only one difference in them. Jonah tells the sailors that if they throw him into the sea, it will appease God's wrath for his sin of fleeing from the Lord. Jesus, though, doesn't get thrown into the sea in this account because Jesus has no sin to be guilty of. But there's one more similarity. You see, Jonah's willingness to be sacrificed so that others would be saved to appease God's wrath points us to Jesus in another way. You see, the greatest trial that any of us will ever face in this life is when we stand trial before God. And he looks at our lives, and he takes account of the ways that we've sinned against him. And because we've sinned against him, he will pour out the full fury of his wrath. Upon us. It will be a great storm. But Jesus chose to bow his head That cast himself into the full fury of that storm, that you and I could be saved. So that we could experience the great calm, that we would know God's great peace, and that we would feel Fear God greatly. And when the disciples came to understand that Jesus had rescued them from that great trial They were able to face the trials of this life, knowing that Jesus did care about them. And if you follow Jesus, then you can know that he won't abandon you in your time of need. He won't abandon you in the storms that you're facing in this life because he didn't abandon you in the greatest storm you would ever face. He gave himself in your place so that you could know the peace and joy that comes with following God. We began by talking about the aware model of overcoming fear. I don't think it's sufficient to get you through life's greatest trials without fear. But there is another type of awareness that will becoming aware of what God has done for you in Jesus Christ. And in coming to know that you can face life's trials Not filled with great fear, but you can fill face life trials knowing that God will take care of you through it. Consider this. Consider where he is taking us. For the new heavens and the new earth where there will be no more see. The chaos, the fury of the storms, the sea will be gone. We will only know peace and joy with God Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning overwhelmed by Jesus' love for us. that he would cast himself into the storm of your wrath and fury for sin. And in doing so, He would calm that storm for us so that we could see the sunshine of your face and know your presence and the peace that comes through it. Lord, fill us with a knowledge of this truth today and help us, God, to overcome our fears. Yet as we continue to struggle with fear, help us to know that Christ has conquered us. all our fears and to rest in him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.