I'm sure all of us at one time or another have had the cringeworthy experience of seeing someone in public that we know that we should know because we've met them before, but for some reason we can't quite remember why we know them or what their name is. That's kind of a common human experience. I think as I reflect on those types of situations, usually one of three different things happens, right? The first thing that happens is the first thing that could happen is you never actually realize that you've met them before. And so you carry on a conversation with them as though it's the first time you've met. You've probably already had that conversation with them, and they maybe realize that, but they're too polite to bring that up to you. And it's only after the conversation ends and you Go on from that meeting that you realize oh no I know that person and I've had that conversation with them before Oh my gosh, they think I'm so rude for not remembering them. Well, the second thing that may happen is that you realize that you've met the person before. You realize like, okay, I know I know this person, but I don't know why. And so you just act really happy to see them. You maybe try to stay away from using their name, so what I do is I'm like, hey, man It's so good to see you, brother or sister. How are things going? Then you try to get somebody over to introduce, you know, you try to introduce somebody to them so that you can hear their name and remember who they are. Right? The entire time you're talking to them, you're racking your brain trying to remember who the person is while simultaneously not giving away the fact that you don't actually remember them Or there's one other thing that may happen. You see this person from a distance, you realize that you've met them before and you don't remember them, and you do everything in your power to avoid them. So that it doesn't become clear that you don't know them. Right? Not recognizing someone you should is a cringeworthy experience that we can all relate to. And in our current study through the Gospel of Mark, we're looking at the life of Jesus Christ, trying to learn something about him So that we recognize him for who he is. So see if you have your Bible with you, let me ask you to go ahead and open to the Gospel of Mark, which you'll find on pages 836 and 837 if you're using the Black Pew Bible. This morning we're going to be in Mark chapter 1, verses 21 to 39. If you're unfamiliar with using a Bible, the big chap, the big number one, the big bold number one is the chapter number. And those smaller numbers are the verse numbers. So you're going to look for the smaller number 21 and verses 30 to 39 that follow that. That's what we're going to be looking at this morning. So far in the Gospel of Mark, we've seen Jesus declared to be the Son of God by the Father in heaven. At his baptism. So you recall at his baptism, Jesus came up out of the waters, and the supernatural happened. The heavens parted. The spirit descended on him like a dove, and the father said, This is my beloved Son. And then he goes out into the wilderness and proves that he is the Son of God by defeating Satan in the wilderness. And then after his victory in the wilderness, he comes into Galilee, proclaiming what? The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the good news. And we saw in our last study two weeks ago that he called four fishermen to be his disciples. And in our passage this morning, we find that this Jesus of Nazareth, who came proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom of God, is clearly no mere man. Let's go ahead and read the passage. I'm going to read it aloud for us. You follow along with me. This is verses 21 to 39. And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority and not as the scribes. And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent and come out of him And the unclean spirit convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice came out of him. And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching with authority He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her. And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up. And the fever left her. And she began to serve them. That evening at sundown they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons, and the whole city was gathered together at the door. And he healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons. and he would not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him. And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place And there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him, and they found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you. And he said to them, let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also. And for that is why I came out. And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons. So who is Jesus Our passage this morning teaches us that Jesus is the authoritative exorcist, the willing healer. And the dependent son. Jesus is the authoritative exorcist, the willing healer, and the dependent son. So the first thing we learn about Jesus is that he is the authoritative exorcist. Look at me at verses 21 to 28. So Jesus comes into Capernaum So Capernaum was a city in the region of Galilee where Jesus resided. It probably wasn't far from where Jesus called those first disciples. We'll see even uh in our in the verses that we're about to look at that Simon and Andrew live nearby. So after going to the synagogue in Capernaum, they go to Simon and Andrew's house. And he comes into Capernaum on the Sabbath. And because on the Sabbath Jews met in the synagogues to hear from God's word, Jesus goes right to the synagogues and begins teaching. And without any other information, if we're looking at the passage, Mark tells us that the people were astonished. They were amazed. They were flabbergasted at Jesus' authority as a teacher. And I think one of the most natural questions to ask as you read a passage like this is, okay, so what is it that made Jesus so authoritative? But as we look at the passage, we can see that Mark doesn't tell us what he said or how he said it. Right? So if you think back to our to the passage two weeks ago when he called the disciples, Jesus calls them and they leave their families and their jobs to follow him So Mark he mark doesn't give us any other information. Mark is just creating this theme throughout the Gospel of Mark of Jesus' apparent authority to control situations. He has an authority that's inexplicable. He does, however, give us one clue about the authority of Christ. He says there that Jesus taught them as one who had authority and not as the scribes. So the scribes were basically professors of the Bibles. They were men with M. Divs, you could say. They were given the task of understanding and explaining the law of God and the scriptures and teaching the people of Israel to follow them. But often when the scribes would teach, they would quote a portion of Scripture, or they would quote another person quoting a portion of Scripture, and then give their own possible insights into the meaning of the message. But it's clear that Jesus is different. Here and throughout the Gospel of Mark, we find Jesus speaking clearly and authoritatively about the meaning of the scriptures. And so when Jesus speaks throughout the Gospel of Mark, both here and an opportunity in the instances to come, he makes it clear that he speaks for God because he is God. And it's that authority, that clear presence for him to say, thus says the Lord, this is what the scriptures mean It's clear that this authority shocks and amazes the crowd. But we also see in our passage that his authority doesn't just shock the crowd, right? His teaching draws out an enemy Look at verse 23. Look down there with me. A man with an unclean spirit is outraged, and he accosts Jesus. So unclean spirits, also called evil spirits or demons, are angels who joined with Satan In rebelling against God in the beginning, and who we can see possess and afflict mankind. They are at work in the world, and they are utterly opposed to mankind and to God. And as this demon accosts Jesus, notice what he calls him in verse 24. Look at verse 24. He calls him the Holy One of God. The Holy One of God. Alright, so this is a remarkable confession for this demon to make. The Holy One was a title in the Old Testament that was given to God Himself. It was a title given to God Himself in the Old Testament. And holiness. We need to understand holiness. The holiness of God refers to his sinless perfection. His untainted purity. He's like a consuming fire. He's unapproachable in his glory. And this demon recognizes that this Jesus is the Holy One of God. In Jesus, all of the holiness, all of God's sinless perfection dwells in bodily form. And this Holy One, because he is the Holy One, has all power to destroy the demon. But rather than destroy him, Jesus just rebukes him. And the demon comes out of the man. Just by speaking to the demon, Jesus is able to drive him out of the man. And I think even here we're seeing something of the amazement that the people would have had at this. So in this culture, uh you would have had people who were like wonder workers, shaman, people that we think of as like magicians doing witchcraft, and they would carry out exorcists. They would cast demons out of people, but the way that they would do it is by these elaborate rituals. They would have to spend gobs of time doing chants and incantations and casting spells, but Jesus just speaks. And the demon is gone. The demon flees. So Jesus is setting himself apart from other workers of his day. His authority is unique. And we need to not lose how crazy this would have been. Like we can't lose the just how odd and peculiar and amazing this event would have been. To see Jesus stand up and say, Thus says the Lord and teach from the Old Testament. And then to see a demon jump up and say, You're the Holy One of God, have you come to destroy us? And then he rebukes the demon, and the demon convulses the man and leaves. Like That is crazy. That's not something that happens in our experience every day. And it wasn't something that happened in the experience of those people every day. That's no wonder that they respond again Right? They basically say to themselves, whoa, what is this? A new teaching with authority. This guy commands demons and they leave This passage obviously provokes a number of questions for us about whether we should expect to experience things like this today I mean we could very easily do an entire series on what the Bible teaches about spiritual warfare, right? But we're not going to do that today But what I want what I do want to say is as we go through Mark, we're going to have three more accounts of exorcism. So we're going to talk about this a little bit more. So we may not have all of our questions answered today. So we're going to see Jesus exercise a demon in chapter 5, chapter 7, and chapter 9. So we're going to talk more about it. But what I would like to say now is that whether or not we've ever personally experienced anything like this The Bible gives us absolutely no reason to believe that experiences like this don't still happen today. They just may not have happened in our experience. What the Bible would say is that Jesus is not currently walking on the earth casting out demons, so in that sense we wouldn't experience it today But it gives us no reason to believe that demonic forces or evil spirits are not still presently at work in the world. The Bible is clear that a spiritual realm exists And Mark even just takes it for granted. Right? So Mark isn't trying to teach on spiritual warfare here. His point isn't to teach on the nature of exorcisms, though I'm sure we can learn something from this passage about it. What Mark is teaching here is that in the spiritual realm, Jesus is completely sovereign. He has all authority. He is different from all other wonder workers, all other miracle workers. He has an authority about him that was unmatched. And that's what Mark emphasizes in this point. The people were amazed at his authoritative teaching. Right? So you might think that it would be easy to be amazed at somebody who stood in front of you and cast out a demon. So you're sitting here today and you're like, well, John, yeah, of course. I would be amazed too, and I would listen to his word if I saw him cast out demons. But what the Bible says to us is even though Jesus has ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God, he has given us his word. The Bible is Jesus' word. Jesus speaks. Where the Bible speaks, the word of Christ is speaking. And it's authoritative for us today. Even though Jesus isn't bodily present with us, he has given us his word until he returns as an authoritative guide to our lives. And so a question for you. Do you view his word as authoritative? Now I'm sure all of you are just shaking your head inside saying, well, of course, John, we're Christians. Of course we view his word as authoritative. But I wonder, if we spent some time around you this past week, would it look like Jesus' word was less authoritative in your life and more just suggestive? Is that what your life would have taught us this past week? Maybe that Jesus' word is just a suggestion to you? Oh yeah, yeah, sure. Jesus does command me to let no corrupting talk come out of my mouth, but clearly he doesn't realize that my kids need to be yelled at, or my spouse needs to be demeaned for the way that he or she has been acting. Yeah, yes, of course, Jesus does command me not to lie, but it doesn't mean that I can't bend the truth or tell a white lie every once in a while, or maybe just tell a lie, because hey, Jesus will forgive me for it. If you're tempted to justify your disobedience as I'm pro to, friends, if you looked at my week my my life this past week, you would find that there were plenty of times where it seemed like Jesus' word was not authoritative in my life. So I come alongside you as one who's struggling along with the same things. But what I want to say to us today, and what I want us to learn from this passage, and just be kind of punched in the gut by, is that I hope we're all instructed by our dear demon in this passage. Why do I say that? Look at verse 27. Notice what the people proclaim. He, Jesus, commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. Even the demons obey Jesus. As I've been meditating on this passage this week, these are the three words that have just hit me over and over again. Even the demons obey him. Oh friends, what excuse do you and I have to not treat Jesus' word as authoritative in our lives when even a demon obeys Jesus? We should also note what this passage teaches us about Jesus' victory over the powers of darkness in this world. There's a lot for us to learn here. So immediately after preaching that the kingdom of God has arrived, Mark relates to us an account of Jesus exercising a demon by the power of his word. And it's no mistake that Mark is putting this account here. He's teaching us to show us that since the kingdom of God has come. The powers of darkness that are at work in the world are being driven out by Jesus. Jesus is striking the first blow in a cosmic battle that he will ultimately win. Did you even notice it the demons questioned him, right? What does the demon say to him? Have you come to destroy us? Right? So the demon knows that Jesus has set a time when he will come and destroy all the powers of darkness that work in the world. And the demon is wondering, is this the time? Is that what you're doing right now? Have you come to destroy us? Friends, there is a day coming When Jesus will reign over the powers of darkness completely and totally. There is a day coming when the satanic opposition to God that is at work in and through mankind will be completely overthrown and completely destroyed. So think about this. All forms of racism will be destroyed. All forms of sexism will be overthrown. All forms of classism will be completely undone. All forms of physical abuse and sexual abuse. All hatred, all murder, all the works of the devil will be completely destroyed by Jesus Christ, the great judge. And this account is a foreshadowing of that great day when by the power of his word he will silence all who oppose him Also friends, if you have ever been one who has experienced racism or sexual abuse. Or physical abuse. Or you've been the victim of someone else's hatred. If you've just been hurt in this world that has suffered beyond measure in this world, take comfort in this passage today. This victory that Jesus has over the demon in this synagogue is a foreshadowing of the day when all of the powers of evil at work in this world will be overthrown. You have that assurance today in Christ. So while pain and anguish still exist in this world, there are still great evils committed We can look forward as Christians to the day when Jesus Christ comes and ushers in completely, fully, and totally his kingdom. And because Jesus has appointed a day when he will return and will finally judge all who oppose him, we shouldn't lose heart Right? We shouldn't lose heart. As Christians, we should continue by God's power to do everything in our power to see Satan's work undone in this world. So whether it's in our home or in our neighborhood or in our workplace, we should be agents of justice and mercy to those who are oppressed. What does God say about true religion? What type of worship does God desire? But to love justice and to do mercy, to care for the downtrodden and the oppressed. We cannot ignore these things as Christians. God has called us to a living and active faith, a faith that is accompanied by good works in his name. And what better way for us to do that in our life than to expose the works of Satan? And to see them overcome. We serve a God who is so sovereign over all things. And he can help us in that task as we wait for the coming of his kingdom. Because Jesus Christ is the authoritative exorcist. But we also see in his word that he is the willing healer. Look at me at verses 29 to 34. Verses 29 to 34. Notice in verse 29, Mark just keeps us on the move and immediately. So if you haven't already noticed in the Gospel of Mark, you will come to notice that immediately is one of Mark's favorite words. He uses it like 40 different times. in the Gospel of Mark. And it's one reason that one commentator called Mark's gospel the panting gospel. Because you're constantly running from one scene to the next He's just giving you snapshot after snapshot of why Jesus is the authoritative Son of God. And so immediately they leave the synagogue and they enter Simon and Andrew's house. So this is happening on the same day. Jesus leaves the synagogue, but ministry for Jesus isn't over. Ministry for Jesus is something that happens all day, every day And when they arrive at Simon and Andrew's house, they find that Simon's mother-in-law is ill with a fever. So you and I are probably thinking she's got some bacterial infection. And the fever is a symptom of that, and her body's trying to bake out the infection, right? This is what we think of when we think of fever. She needs to maybe take ibuprofen. It existed, it doesn't exist at this point. But that's what we're thinking of. But that's not what fever is in the New Testament. During this culture, uh the Israelites would have regarded a fever as a disease in and of itself. And it was often the result, and they thought it to be a result of divine punishment. So if you look at the curses for disobedience in the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 28. You see that God says, I will send wasting diseases upon you and a fever. And so this fever would have been looked at by Simon and Andrew as some sort of divine punishment from God, maybe for her disobedience. We don't know from the from the text. But because it's a divine punishment, what does that mean? That means it need it requires divine intervention to heal. It requires divine intervention to heal. And that's what we see happen in this passage. Look down with me at verse 20 Or verse 31. It requires divine intervention and we see the divine come. Jesus came. Takes her by the hand, lifts her up, and as she does that, she's healed. I want you to be encouraged by this. If you're a Christian And you're here, and you've really struggled with sin this past week, and you are thinking of God as though God is someone who doesn't want me around him. I've failed him. I've sinned against him. He's standing at a distance. He's got his arms crossed. He's scowling at me because I've what because of what I've done against him. Whether or not this was a situation of divine punishment, what we can see here from this passage is that God does not stay at a distance from those who have sinned against him. God does not stay at a distance from those who are hurting. What does he do? He comes to you. Right? He comes to you I hope this image in Mark's gospel of Jesus coming to the woman shatters this idea in your head of God being one who is scowling at you, who wants nothing to do with you. Jesus comes to those who are hurting. He doesn't stand far off. He doesn't scout. Notice a tenderness that's communicated, right? He even takes her by the hand. Throughout Mark's gospel, we're going to see this personal touch in the healing accounts in Mark's Gospel. You're going to see Jesus touch the people. That he is healing. This personal tenderness is extended by Jesus to those who need healing. Over and over again And he lifted her up, right? So literally the word that Mark uses is the same word that's used to describe Jesus' resurrection. She's been lifted up as from the dead And don't miss this. Notice how much time passes between Jesus lifting her up and the fever leaving. None. It's immediate. As soon as he lifts her up and resurrects her to new life, the fever is gone. There's no lag time. She doesn't have to have her fluids replenished. She doesn't have to lay in bed and recover. When Jesus heals, his healing is immediate. So if you still feel shame for past sins that you've committed in life, that you you know that you follow the Lord Jesus Christ, but you can't bear the weight of the sins that you committed, know this, that when Jesus heals a person, When he raises them from spiritual death, the healing is complete and it is immediate. Your chains have fallen off. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Throughout the gospel, these healings are evidence of Jesus' power to heal and to bring the kingdom of God. But they also symbolize a deeper reality. These healings are meant to symbolize the deeper reality of healing and spiritual reconciliation with God. So if you're here today and you follow Jesus, realize that this tender, compassionate pursuit is what he's done to you. He's come to you. Taken you by the hand, each by name, lifted you up and made you new. Jesus makes dead sinners new. And what should our response be to that? Well, what did Simon's mother-in-law do? Look at what she does. She serves him immediately. There may be no better picture in the entire Gospel of Mark of the purpose and effects of salvation than Simon's mother-in-law. Jesus heals her and she begins serving You were saved to serve. You were saved to serve. And as I consider this congregation, I want to commend and encourage my sisters. Many of you are serving tirelessly at home or at work. And not only that, you somehow find time to make meals for others. to serve in the church, to serve in the community. And that's evidence of God's spirit at work in you. And I praise God for that. And if you're feeling like today, you're one of those sisters who's serving you, feel like, I feel like I'm not being noticed, that there's no there's no purpose in me doing this. I want to know that I want you to know that God notices what you're doing. Now consider what Jesus says in John chapter 12. He says, if anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. I want to encourage you all to keep going in your service. Men as well. I've been so encouraged by this congregation. And the way that you guys have been laying down your lives to see this church planted and giving up your time to do the things that are necessary for us to hold service each week Not only that, but you're loving your neighbors throughout the week. I want to encourage you to keep doing that. It's a sign of God's spirit at work in you, and God notices it, and God will honor those who serve Him. And to the kids in the congregation, let me just talk to you all for a minute. I want you all to recognize that to follow Jesus means to put other people first. And I've got to let you know, this is one of the hardest things that that I find most difficult about the Christian life is putting other people first. It takes work for me to focus on other people. But what I want to encourage you guys in is that as as I've been a Christian and I've been praying for God to work in my heart to make me a servant, I've watched him over time. Kill my flesh, kill my desire to serve myself. And he's made me slowly over time more and more of a servant. So what's the point of that for you? I want to encourage you, if you feel like you're struggling to put your siblings first or to listen to your parents or to serve your friends, pray to God God loves to answer prayers that are in line with his will, and there may be no prayer more in line with God's will than for us to pray to serve him. And if you pray for that, I'm confident God will answer those prayers. And then you can look for opportunities this week to serve your friends and your siblings and your parents. Well, I want us to look back at the text. Look at verses 32 to 34 And it's clear just how quickly Jesus' fame has spread. The entire city has gathered at the door of Simon and Andrew's house to see Jesus. The sick want to be healed. And those who have demons need those demons to be cast out. So people have brought them to be freed. But we notice in verse 34 that seemingly odd statement that Jesus would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him. Alright, that seems counterintuitive, doesn't it? Isn't the whole point of the gospel for Jesus to tell people who he is and to teach people who he is? So why is he stopping this demon from proclaiming who he is? Well, I think one of the things that we learn, and we're going to see this happen again in weeks to come, one of the things that we learn is that the people were so mistaken about what the Messiah would do. They thought the Messiah would come to establish an earthly kingdom and to give Israel victory over the other nations. That Jesus wants to silence the demons because he is going to have to work throughout the gospel to teach people the true work of the Messiah. That the Messiah was not coming to set up an earthly kingdom, but that he was setting to come sp he was setting he was coming to set spiritual captives free Those who are blind or those who are in bondage to sin, who cannot see God for who he is. And that's the work that Jesus is coming to do. So he's going to have to work against those false notions of the Messiah which we'll see play out in the Gospel of Mark to teach people who the Messiah is so that they understand his work on the cross. And I think that's one of the reasons that he's silencing the demon here But I also want us to notice something else in these verses. In verse 32, it says that the people of the city came to him at sundown to be healed. Right, so we need to recall this is happening on the Sabbath. This is the same day as the synagogue teaching. And the Sabbath ran from sundown on Friday to sundown on Saturday evening. And so it's likely that it's Saturday, and Jesus was at the synagogue, then he healed Simon's mother-in-law, and the people wait to Saturday evening to come to be healed by him. Right, so the Sabbath was a day for rest for the people, but what happened is that over time, you know, the command to keep the Sabbath was given a thousand years earlier by God to the people of Israel. But what had happened over time was the religious authorities in Israel started creating all types of man-made laws to help people keep the Sabbath, but the laws that they were created got in the way of what God was trying to do on the Sabbath. They were creating man-made traditions and laws that actually kept people from coming to be uh to know God and to understand the Sabbath. And we're going to see later in the Gospel of Mark. That Jesus rebukes the leaders for preventing people from being healed on the Sabbath He actually does healings on the Sabbath in order to show them your man-made laws are not in line with what God is teaching. So what's the point? Why do I want to draw this out for you? The point is that the people were waiting to come to Jesus for healing and they didn't have to. They didn't have to wait until sundown for sundown to occur. They could have come at any time for Jesus and he for Jesus to heal them and he would have healed them. So if you're here today and you're a Christian and you've sinned against God and you think you need and you're not a Christian and you sinned against God and you think you need to clean yourself up before you can come to present yourself before God, I want you to know you need to kill that thought You need to kill that thought. You cannot clean yourself up good enough to come to God. Sure, you can fix things in your life to make it look like you have your life together, but the truth of the matter is all of us have sinned against God And our sin puts us at enmity with God and causes us to be spiritually dead. And we need to come to God to be healed, to be restored. And so you can't wait to come to God. There's nothing you can do. There's no reason to wait to come to God to clean yourself up. You should come immediately to ask God to forgive you of your sins. Forgiveness of sins is something that only God can do. If you come to him and ask him to forgive you through the Lord Jesus Christ, he will do that. Repent of your sins. Don't wait another moment. Don't think that you can clean yourself up good enough to finally come to God. Only God can do that work in your life. Repent of your sins and know the forgiveness of the willing healer. the Lord Jesus Christ. But not only is Jesus the willing healer, he's also the dependent son. So look at me at verses 35 to 39. After spending most of the night healing and casting out demons, Jesus got some sleep. Then he wakes up early the next morning before it was light. And I'm sure that most of us, if we look up from our Bibles right now, we're tracking with him. Of course he got up early. This is DC, right? He got up early. There's work to be done. People to be healed. Demons to be cast out. That's why Jesus got up early, isn't it? Because he had more work to do. No, no, that's not what the passage teaches. What does he do? Jesus got up early before it was dark, leaves the hustle and the bustle of the city to go? And pray. Notice where he goes. He goes to a desolate place, right? This is the same word that was used earlier in chapter 1 to describe where John the Baptist was doing his ministry. It's the same place that Jesus went to defeat Satan and overcome him. And we talked about how the wilderness represented a place where a person encountered God and all of his providing power. So here you see the Son of God going out into the wilderness to commune with his Heavenly Father. More important than healings and exorcisms, more important than the endless tasks that added up on Jesus' to-do list was His relationship with the Father. It's more important than all of that. You see, Jesus understood that opportunities for ministry and for serving were good, even very good. But nothing, not even healing all of the people in an entire city, was more important than his relationship with the Father We see at the heart of the Christian life is not ministry opportunities. The heart of the Christian life is not serving. The heart of the Christian life is relationship. Relationship. Your relationship with the Father precedes and takes priority over all other things in your life. That means your spouse Your children, your job, your friends. We are first and foremost reconciled and adopted children And all other roles and responsibilities in our lives flow out of and are secondary to our relationship to the Father And to neglect that relationship for other good things is to intentionally neglect the one who nourishes and feeds your soul. And that's to put yourself in a dangerous place. I think something that illustrates this well. In 1863, the U. S. military established Fort Sumner in eastern New Mexico. And given that the site was so far removed from normal supply lines during that part of the West, during the late 1800s. Because it was so far removed from those supply lines, the population of the fort was entirely dependent on the first crop of corn that was to grow And yet that year, that first year, the harvest seemed to look especially promising as thousands of healthy green stocks sprouted up over the nearly 3,000 acres of farmland that had been set aside for the corn. But just a couple weeks before the harvest, a soldier tasked with inspecting the crop noticed something strange So he went out to the field and he opened up, shucked one of the uh the corns, and found that tiny worms had infested the stalk. So he pulled off all the outer layers and he found that the ear on the inside of the green stalk was rotten. And not only that, they inspected the entire harvest and returned the devastating news that the entire field had been infested. with these little worms. But one author said this, and I think this is what illustrates our point. What made the scourge so surprising and so pernicious was that the worm did its work out of sight, deep inside the husk, offering no outward clue of the damage it was causing as the seemingly healthy stalks grew. The ears were slowly being destroyed from within. Oh, I think this is a great illustration of the danger of a life full of ministry. And full of serving and lacking in relationship with the Father. Things may appear great on the outside, things may appear healthy on the outside, but if you are not being nourished, By time, personal time with the Father, I fear that on the inside your soul is going to be like that ear of corn. Friends, there's nothing more important for you to do in your life than to spend time with the Lord. And so for the husbands in the congregation, God has called you to lead your family. God has called you to lead your family. How are you prioritizing time in the Word, time with the Father, so that you're able to lead them as God has called you to If Jesus doesn't extend himself in ministry without first attending to his relationship with the Father, why should you expect to do anything different? You should expect to do the exact same. Not only that, husbands, but let me encourage you to look for ways to make time for your wife to find time with the Lord. Lord, even if it's costly to you, if it means you have to give up other parts of your schedule to help her do that. God has called you through the Apostle Paul To wash your wife with the water of the word. And one way that you do that is by making time for her to be in the word with the Father and spending time with him. So we've seen that Jesus made time to spend with his father, yet we find that his time was interrupted. Right? In verses 36 and 37, we see that Simon, who's Peter, and a group of other people were searching for Jesus. Literally, the word that Mark uses there is hunting. They were hunting him down. And notice what they say to him when they find him. They say, Everyone is looking for you. Right? We should read this with exasperated condescension. What are you doing out here? People need to be healed. Don't you realize how many people are looking for you? And it's their question. It's their question that reveals their motivation, right? They're not searching for Jesus because he's the Son of God. They're not searching for Jesus because he has the words of eternal life. They're not searching for Jesus because he has the power to forgive sin. They're searching for Jesus because he has the power to give temporal healing. Temporal healing. And notice Jesus' surprising response in verse 38. He denies them. Basically doesn't even answer them. Let us go on to the next town that I may preach there also. For that is why I came out. So while part of Jesus' ministry was to heal and to exercise demons, those things were secondary to his primary mission of preaching the good news. of the gospel that the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, had come to pay for sins, to pay the debts for our sins, that all who would turn and trust in him would be forgiven. and would have the promise and assurance of new life, knowing that Jesus Himself was resurrected from the dead. Right? So his healings and his exorcisms were secondary to his primary mission of preaching the good news. So we should think today, we should wonder what Jesus would say to those who preach a prosperity gospel. To those who would say that God's plan for you in this life is to be healthy and wealthy. I think Jesus would say that is a satanic lie that is killing people and sending people to hell because God's purpose in this life is not for you to be healthy and wealthy. God's purpose in this life is to reveal his son as the savior of all mankind and to see sinners reconciled to him so that they might know eternal wealth Knowing the riches of relationship with God and having the assurance of eternity with him. The gospel is not about financial riches. The gospel is not about physical health. Jesus' healings and his exorcisms were meant to confirm the message that he preached with his mouth, the message of the good news. Yet there are some things that we can learn about healings today. The first thing I want us to learn about healings today, look back on the at verse 30. Simon's mother-in-law is sick. So what does Simon do? He tells Jesus because he believes rightly that Jesus has the power to heal. So if you're wondering, are healings for today? Can God heal people today? I would say God absolutely has the power to heal people today, and this passage teaches us that if you know people who are sick or are struggling with illness, you should go to Jesus and ask him to heal them. Spend time praying for those people in your life who are battling illness and disease. Be the persistent widow on their behalf. But the second thing I want us to learn about healing that we should know from this passage is pray with faith that God can heal. Because God can absolutely heal. Whether He heals through medicine or through the miraculous, God has the power to heal. And so when you pray for those who are sick, pray with faith that God can heal them. And third, remember that God doesn't always heal. Even in Jesus' ministry on earth, he did not heal everyone. He did not exercise every demon. So when we get to the book of Acts, we know this because there are people in the areas where he ministered who are still sick, who still have demons. Jesus did not heal everyone. Right? There were some people left in his time with debilitating and even life-threatening illnesses. And while Jesus may not have healed them physically, this was not a sign that he did not love them. This was not a sign that he did not care about them. And that's because physical healing is at best temporary. It is at best temporary. Friends, if you are struggling with chronic illness, I mean my heart breaks for you Being one who has experienced that in my own life and having someone dear to me who struggled with chronic illness for years I know the pain that it causes, and I am so sorry for the anguish that it may cause you. And I want to encourage you to remember, remember that That chronic pain in this life, chronic illness in this life, is temporary. What does the Apostle Paul say in Romans 8? He does not consider the sufferings of this life to be worthy to be compared with the glory that is to come. And you know what he's doing, friends? He is not downplaying the difficulty of chronic illness. He's not saying that it's not hard. He himself suffered it. He's saying that what is to come is that much greater. It is that much greater. You will spend millions of years with God in heaven, pain-free, disease-free, with the Lord of all the earth So know friend that your suffering is temporary. It is temporary. And Jesus' greater concern isn't your temporary health But your eternal wealth with him, knowing him and the Father, and being with him where he is And if you repent of sin and trust in him and follow him, if you do that, the power that Jesus displayed as the authoritative exorcist, the willing healer, and the dependent son will be granted to you to open your eyes and see Jesus for who he truly is. Because Jesus' work of casting out demons and healing disease was only the beginning of his war against the powers of darkness. And it's a war that would culminate in his ministry on the last day on his ministry on earth, on the cross. During the final day on earth, Jesus would be betrayed by one of his disciples, unjustly handed over to the authorities, wrongly tried, wrongly condemned, wrongly beaten, wrongly crucified. But Jesus did it all as part of the plan that he and the Father agreed with and agreed to, that he would come and offer his life as a sacrifice. To pay for the sins of all who would repent and turn from their sins and trust in him. So if you're here today and you have not trusted in Jesus, turn and trust in him. But he did not just offer forgiveness of sins and make it possible through his death on the cross. What did Paul say that he would do on the cross? He said To the Colossians, you who were dead in your trespasses in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. disarming the rulers and authorities and evil spirits and unclean spirits and demons and put them to shame by triumphing over them in him. Friends, this cosmic battle that started in our account ended on the cross when Jesus put to shame the unclean spirits and to powers of darkness that are at work in this world. And when he returns. The shame that they experienced on the cross will be revealed to our eyes, and we will see the Lord Jesus Christ as he is. On the cross, God made us alive, forgiving us of our trespasses, restoring us to new relationship with him, and as citizens of his kingdom, we now have the hope. of a kingdom that is growing even now and will grow until that final day when Christ appears with the new heavens and the new earth and we are welcomed into an eternal dwelling place where death shall be no more And neither shall there be any mourning or crying or pain, for the former things will have passed away. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray to you and we give you praise through the Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord Jesus, we praise you. For you are the authoritative healer. You are the one who has the power to drive out demonic forces and spirits. You are the one who has power to heal all things, and you are the dependent and obedient son. We pray that you would help us by your grace and the power of the Holy Spirit to be obedient this week. We pray that you would help us to set our sights on that new Jerusalem, that heavenly place that is coming down, that we will dwell with you forever. Oh, Father, we pray that you would grant the Spirit to empower us this week to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which we've been called. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.