Gorin Krop was a Swedish adventurer and mountain climber. And in the early 90s, Gorin decided to do something crazy. He decided to climb Mount Everest. But he decided that climbing Mount Everest would be a bit too easy. And so wanting to make it harder on himself, he decided to climb Everest with no oxygen, no oxygen tank, which is almost required to climb Mount Everest. But Gorin, being an experienced mountaineer, knew that that had been done before. Not only did he not take oxygen tanks with him, but he decided that he would ride a specially made bike from his home in Sweden. All the way to Mount Everest. If you're trying to calculate in your mind without your phone, I I even tried to put it in Google Maps last night and Google would not return a result for me. It wouldn't give me a route there. So I have no idea how we got there But the distance between Sweden and Mount Everest is 8,000 miles. He rode on his bike from Sweden to Mount Everest So you got to think about this. He's going to climb Mount Everest without oxygen and he's riding his bike from Sweden to Mount Everest. What's he taking with him? Gorin decided that to make it even harder on himself, the bike wasn't enough, the oxygen wasn't enough, he attached a 250-pound trailer to his bike. That had everything he would need to make the ascent, including his food. This is a five-month bike trip. Five months from Sweden to Everest. So in order to train for this unbelievable endeavor. Gorin moved to a gravel pit and he would set his alarm to go off at random times in the middle of the night throughout his training process. And as soon as the alarm would go off he would get up and walk thirty-five miles. And he did that over and over again. All of this to prepare his body for the brutality that lied ahead for him in this endeavor. What does all this tell you about Gorin Krop? It may tell you that he's crazy, right? You may be thinking this guy is nuts. That's possible. It is possible that Gorencrop was a little crazy. But I think we can look at it from a different angle. Goring Krop was a man who understood that to reach some goals in life requires great suffering. requires great suffering. I wonder for you, do you have any all-encompassing life goals? Is there any goal that you think you've been called to today that you want to achieve? And if so, how much are you willing to suffer to see it come true? Let me invite you to turn your Bibles to 2 Timothy 1, verse 8. Not sure what page that's on in the Pew Bibles around you, but you have those Black Pew Bibles available to you. And as you're turning there, I want to tell you a little bit about what we're going to be doing over the next three weeks. So as we prepare to covenant together as a church. And Lord willing establish a church that is preaching the gospel until Jesus Christ returns, I want us to consider three traits. Three traits that I pray will come to characterize us as a body of believers. And the trait that I want us to consider today is suffering. That we would be a suffering people. What do I mean by that? Well, what I mean specifically is that I want us to be a people Who are willing to share in suffering for Christ because God has graciously given us this gift in order to advance the gospel to Chevrolet and to all the nations. That's my big idea for the sermon. Like if you're taking notes this morning, that's what we're going to be looking at. CBC. We are called to share in suffering for the gospel. Because God has graciously given us this gift for advancing the gospel to Chevrolet and the nations. So first, we're called to share in suffering for the gospel. Look with me at 2 Timothy 1, verse 8. Paul says to Timothy, therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner. But share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God. So there are lots of ways that people suffer in this world, and there are lots of ways that we can suffer as Christians. So when Paul tells Timothy to share in suffering, We need to understand today the type of suffering that he has in mind. And he tells us, right there in the verse, if you look back down with me, he tells Timothy to share in suffering. For the gospel. That is for the good news of Jesus Christ. And he says the same thing again when he tells Timothy not to be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord. The testimony about our Lord is the gospel, right? The gospel. The message that a holy God, an awesome and all-powerful God, created the world. And the universe and all things in it. And he created mankind as the crown jewel of his creation to live in perfect fellowship and communion with him. But unbelievably, our first parents rebelled against God, falling from that wonderful relationship. Fall into a position of being in bondage to sin. And every human being that's ever been born since them is born in that same bondage to sin and under the just condemnation of God for our sins against him. There's no reason that God should save us or show mercy to us. We rebelled against an awesome and holy God. But God in his mercy and love sent his son Jesus Christ into the world to live a perfect life in our place. To die the death that we deserve, bearing in his body the punishment for our sins, and then rising again from the dead, showing that everything he taught about God, about himself, and about us is true. And you can stake your life on it. And God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, made us alive together with Christ. By grace, we have been saved. and raised us up with him, even though we were dead in our trespasses and sins. God so loved the world that he sent his one and only Son That all who should repent and believe in him will be saved. The gospel. That message. That's what Paul is telling Timothy. Don't be ashamed of that message. It's the power of God for salvation. To those who believe. So, when we talk about suffering for Christ in our sermon this morning, we're talking specifically about facing opposition and persecution for our belief in that message. And then our proclamation of that message. Because that's what Paul has in view in each of the passages we're going to look at this morning. So what does he mean by share in suffering? Well, it's pretty simple. He's just calling him to actively join in it. Hey, Timothy, don't avoid it. Participate in it. Share in it. This was one of my least favorite experiences about, or least favorite things about when we, Leah and I lived in DC was the fact that we didn't have a driveway. If you've not lived in the city, not having a driveway is a horrible experience. Right? Because this is what would happen. This is what would happen. Leah would take the boys, she would go out with them and go to Costco In Costco, they don't use bags, so she's gonna come home, right, with maybe some boxes, but a bunch of stuff scattered about the car. And so she would leave and I'd be at the home just enjoying the bliss, peace I get to listen to a podcast. I can just walk around and be silent because I don't like to talk a whole lot because I'm an introvert. I enjoy that piece. But I know that at some point Leah's coming back. And I'm dreading that moment, frankly. Not her her return, but the experience that comes along with it. So she she comes back, and I know that my phone's gonna ring, and then it does ring, and Leah says to me, Bay, hey And behind her I can hear screaming kids in the car. So I'm just like, oh no. She said, babe, can can you come help me? I'm down at 6 and A and I've got a car full of groceries and two screaming kids And I'm thinking to myself, no, I I don't want to join in that suffering. I don't I don't want to share in that suffering. You know, I'm thinking to myself, when the phone rings, I kinda want to hit silent. I want to avoid the suffering Right? That's what Paul's telling Timothy, don't avoid it. Don't avoid it. Share in suffering for the gospel. But we need to recognize the fact that the because Paul has to encourage Timothy to share in suffering. That means there was something powerful that would tempt him not to. And what was that thing? Look back at the text. Look at what Paul says before he tells Timothy to share in suffering. He says, do not be ashamed. Ashamed of what? The gospel Paul knows that as a pastor, Timothy is going to be tempted to toy with a message in order to make it more palatable to the people living in his city. Right? And the reason that he'd be tempted to do that is because the gospel is offensive. To tell people that they've sinned against a holy God who is perfectly just and will eternally condemn them for their sins against him, which is what Jesus taught? And their only hope of salvation is to put their trust in Jesus Christ, and his resurrection is offensive. Think of how Paul describes the gospel message in 2 Corinthians. What does he say about the gospel? He says it is a Perfume? No. It's the stench of death to those who are not believing. But not only is the gospel offensive, it also sounds ridiculous. That's another reason we would be ashamed to share it. It sounds ridiculous to non-Christians. Oh w wait wait wait you're you're telling me that my only hope, me, modern, powerful, technologically advanced American Is a Jewish rabbi who lived 2,000 years ago and who was nailed to a cross and then got up from the dead? Give me a break! But is the Bible surprised about that? Does the Bible warn us of that? In the same letter, Paul says the message of the cross is foolish to those who are perishing. The gospel is mocked, it's made fun of, it's ridiculed, and those who believe it and preach it are also mocked and ridiculed and made fun of. And that's why Paul needs to tell Timothy, do not be ashamed of that message. To be ashamed, it's to be embarrassed or humiliated. I don't want to associate myself with that thing because I would lose some sort of status. I would lose some popularity. These people think well of me. I want that to continue And you know what? Just like Timothy was faced with that temptation to be ashamed of the gospel, we also face the same temptation. Right? Consider how Christianity is viewed in the Academy. It's absolutely ridiculous. Or how it's portrayed on the news today. It's increasingly portrayed as bigoted, hateful, extremist Right? Or how it's viewed by some in your family or some of your neighbors. You believe what? I'm a good person. I'm a good person. God's not upset with me Yet in spite of how the gospel is viewed by the academy or the public or anyone else, I want us to be a people who are marked by our willingness to share in suffering for the gospel. Our willingness to speak up at work, to speak up at the park or at the pub or wherever it may be, and to tell people about Jesus regardless of the suffering that comes for it. But here's the thing, I want you guys to hear me on this. Hear me on this. I'm not saying, I'm not saying that to not be ashamed means that we should all leave here And start preaching the gospel in every single conversation that we have with our neighbors. That is not what I'm saying. It means to not be ashamed. That's not what it means. What I am saying is that we should look for opportunities in our conversations at work, with our neighbors, with our family. to engage with people and ask spiritually meaningful questions in the hopes of lovingly, graciously, and honestly telling people about Jesus. Even if it means they're going to think less of us. Even if it means that. So you guys have all had that experience, right? You're in the conversation. I should say it. That was uh I should really say it. I'm gonna speak up. I know I am, I'm gonna I'm about to ask the question, but I I just oh it's gone The conversation's over. Now it would just be awkward if I said something, right? You've all been there. We've all had that experience. Want you to speak up. Engage with spiritually meaningful questions that would Lord willing would lead to conversations. Because I think what you're going to find is when you ask those questions, what does Jesus say about his sheep that he has not yet called? My sheep Hear my voice. So as you walk down that road with people, I think what you're gonna find is some people, give you the stiff arm. They shut it down, and if they shut it down out of respect for them, shut it down. To not be ashamed doesn't mean you keep coming over the top, right? But you might find that as you ask these questions, there are people Who start to engage. Lydia, Acts chapter 16. She heard Paul out and she believed. So you need to ask the question. Make the comment. If it gets shut down, it gets shut down. We don't do this by our own strength. What does the verse say? We share in suffering for the gospel by what? By the power of God So if you're prone to feel embarrassed or to struggle to speak up in conversations with neighbors or coworkers, I'm going to give you two other quick tips that have helped me in the past. First, when you meet someone new Especially if it's someone you're going to see regularly, make it known that you're a Christian early on. This is a good rule to live by. Make it known that you're a Christian early on. You can figure out something to say. You know, I went to church this weekend. What did you do? Just you just get it out there. This will help you fight against fear of man because the longer you know them and you haven't brought up that you're a Christian The more they're gonna feel like you've deceived them in some way, right? Like six months down the road, you're finally like, I need to share this message with you. I've been keeping it inside for so long. And these people are like, Who are you? What has happened to my neighbor? Just let them know early on that you are a Christian, that you follow Jesus, and then move from there. A second tip that I think is really helpful. is to have questions prepared or rehearsed that you just always ask people. I have a number of questions that I always ask people. The benefit of this is that you know what questions you're you're gonna ask. So right I ask people, hey, what do you do for a living? They tell me I work in construction and because they're Americans and they're kind they're gonna say, what do you do for a living? I'm a pastor. Where do you immediately? I'm not going to hesitate. Where do you go to church? Oh, I don't go to church. Oh, so would you sh would you say that you're an atheist or an agnostic? Well, I'm an agnostic. Well, so what is it about the world that you just don't think you can know right you you just know you can work in a flow chart right do you go to church yes oh cool where do you go to church no Okay, so are you an atheist? Are you an agnostic? I'm an atheist. Okay, what's the the flowchart? Why are you an atheist? Why would you believe that? Right, just think about questions that you can ask. It doesn't have to be those questions, but think ahead about questions that you can ask because that's going to help you just sound more natural. uh in conversations. You get these questions down, it just allows you to kind of roll the conversation because you know when you have those conversations you ask the question like do you go to church and they say no and then the threshold of time for you to speak up again passes and then it's just kind of awkward and you're like I don't know what I'm gonna say now or I'm gonna have a break this silence. Right? You can just be ready with the next question. I think those are helpful tips But I do want to say, as I think about this group, I'm not as concerned that y'all will be ashamed of the gospel, right? I mean, this is a group who has longed and prayed for a church in their neighborhood so that they could raise the banner of salvation and that people would hear about the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't do that if you're ashamed of the gospel. So I'm not as much worried about that. I'm encouraged by y'all's desire to join in this effort. And there is a sense in which we are suffering for the gospel by the work that we're doing to plant this church. But I want you to notice in this text what Paul doesn't say. Notice that he doesn't say, Do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner, but instead. Show people that you can be a cool Christian. He doesn't say that. Nor does he say. Do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord nor of me, his prisoner. But show people that there is a way to lead people to Jesus without ruffling any feathers. He doesn't say that No, in Paul's mind. In the Bible, the equation is simple. Those who are not ashamed of the gospel will suffer for the gospel. But no, no, no, wait. Does this mean that every time I share the gospel I will suffer? Praise God. No. No, that's not the case. Just go back to Acts 16. Paul preaches the gospel to Lydia and she believes. There it is. There's evidence of it But it does mean that sometimes you will suffer. And what's that going to look like in Chevrolet? It's going to mean that people give you the cold shoulder. They ignore you. They spread rumors about you. It's likely you could become unpopular in this neighborhood And you need to be okay with that. We need to be okay with that. I'm preaching this message to myself I need to be okay with that because I desperately want to be popular and well-liked. It doesn't happen in the Christian life. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you have to absorb this truth. If you're going to take anything away from this message, take this away. There is no way that you can ever be bold for the gospel and universally adored. It doesn't exist. That path does not exist. If it did, Jesus Christ would have found it. But he didn't find it. He found suffering and persecution. He found faith in some. Praise God. But he found that if he was going to be bold for the gospel and tell people about their standing before God, It's gonna bring suffering. And this is where it gets even harder in a neighborhood like this one. Right? So this isn't just limited to Chevrolet, but let's think about we have so many people living in this neighborhood What happens when you share the gospel and people talk behind your back? But because it's gonna happen, it's human nature, right? What now happens when someone in the neighborhood comes to you comes to you and is speaking poorly about another member of CBC because that member shared the gospel with that person Are you gonna side with them in their frustration and say, I am so sorry? That was so rude. They they shouldn't have said that to you. Or are you gonna say, you know what? Even though I may have taken a different approach than that person took, I believe what they believe. And I was hoping, I was hoping to talk to you about the very same things. Is that what you'll say? I ask, because that is exactly what Paul would have you say. Notice, he doesn't only tell Timothy not to be ashamed about the gospel. He tells him not to be ashamed of him. His prisoner. Paul was in prison for preaching the gospel. He was in prison for preaching the gospel. He was hated by thousands. And I'm sure many Christians in his day disagreed with his approach. But Paul tells Timothy that part of what it means to not be ashamed of the gospel is to not be ashamed of your brothers and sisters in Christ who preach the gospel. Right, so you may disagree with some ways that other people go about it. And it may be that even some of your brothers and sisters in Christ need to grow in how they engage with others. But are you going to be ashamed of that brother or sister? Right? We don't want to do that. I want us to be united and sharing for this for suffering for the gospel and for one another as we preach the gospel. Right, so we've seen that Paul called Timothy and all who would follow Christ to not be ashamed, but share in suffering for the gospel. And the question that we need to ask is, why? Why would we share in suffering for the gospel? I want you to go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Philippians 1. We're going to look at verses 29 and 30. Philippians 1 verses 29 and 30. I'll read it for us. For it has been granted to you, for it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also suffer for his sake. Engaged in the same conflict that you saw that I had and now here that I still have. So why should we share in suffering for the gospel? Because it's a gracious gift from God Notice what Paul says in the verse. He says, it has been granted to you. Granted. And the word used there is graciously given. It's a gracious favor or gift. So how can Paul say that suffering for the gospel is a gift that has been granted to us? Well I think first it's it is very important to make clear. That being persecuted and opposed for the gospel is not a good thing in and of itself. Persecution of God's people is evil in his sight. It's a sin. And because God is never the author of sin, God has not authored this persecution in this way, but God in his Sovereignty in his mind bulk mind-blowing, mysterious, unfathomable sovereignty uses the persecution of his people to bring about his own good purposes, right? So just think with me. This is a, we're talking about the Bible. It's a united narrative. Teaches the same things. Things develop, but you see correspondence and consistency in the themes. Think about Joseph. What does he say to his brothers? You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good, to accomplish what is now being done. The saving of many lives. You intended to harm me. What they did was evil, and they will be held accountable by God for their sinful actions. But somehow in his amazing sovereignty, God is able to superintend the process to bring about good. And in Joseph's case, the saving of many lives. The suffering and persecuted chosen son. The Lord used that to bring about the salvation of many souls. Does it remind you of anyone else? The Lord Jesus Christ. Consider Jesus. God used his persecution to bring about your salvation. God does those things. But I want you to think about this as a it's been graciously granted to us. We need to wrap our minds around that and we need to have our minds and thoughts conform to what God says in his word, don't we? And have our minds renewed. And so when I was younger, I had a family member who will remain nameless. They're not in this room right now, just so you know, my parents are here. I had a family member who will remain nameless. See, God sovereignly knew that I was going to share this story, and he brought my parents here this morning. And now I'm embarrassed that I put it in this sermon. But this family member wasn't in my immediate family. They were in my extended family. And every year at Christmas, without fail, when their presence came, I knew I was never going to use them or I was going to return them, right? So I remember one year getting marbles. Marbles. I was a senior in high school. What am I gonna do with marbles? I stopped playing with marbles years ago, right? Well my fear is that that that's how we respond to hearing about this gift that God has granted us. Is there a store in heaven that I can return this to? Right, thank thanks for the two for one. I'll take the faith. I don't want the suffering. Right? I'm not going to use that God. But but but I think what's going on with us is that we don't recognize the good that God brings out of our being opposed for the gospel. We don't recognize a good. Here are two good things that God brings from experiencing opposition to the gospel. These are not the only two. There are many. The first good thing that God brings from our being opposed for the gospel is our own assurance That's odd. You would think that being persecuted for the gospel would cause people to doubt, but God, by his power, because he indwells us, uses our opposition to bring about assurance. We're looking at chapter 1 verse 29. Look at verse 28 with me. He says, and not frightened in anything by your opponents. Speaking to the Philippians. This opposition is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation and that from God. Do you struggle with knowing whether you're saved? Are you struggling with assurance today? Share the gospel and see how God strengthens your faith through it. He does that. The second thing that God does, the second good thing that he brings, is the joy of knowing Jesus more deeply. Right, so if you have been in a relationship with somebody and you've been through a traumatic event together, what usually happens to those relationships? They strengthen Because you share a bond through an experience that you don't share with others, right? That's kind of what happens. I want you to think about how our being opposed for the gospel helps us to know Jesus in ways that we presently do not, because we're always growing in our knowledge of Him. And so if you've been praying for knowing Christ more, be prepared for God to bring suffering your way because he's going to help you know the suffering son. Think about what Paul says in chapter 3 of Philippians. I'll just read it. You don't have to turn there. He says, indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him That I may know him and the power of his resurrection and may share in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Look, we are gonna you you're gonna face every week just constant advertisements, and because your heart, like Calvin said, is an idol factory that we constantly want, and so you're gonna have things held out to you Technology technological things, food, clothing, whatever it might be. You need to replace those desires with a desire to know Jesus because as Paul says Someone who has been through the fires with Jesus, he counts knowing Jesus as being of surpassing worth. There is nothing more valuable for you in your entire life than to know Jesus, which means that you should step into the fires of suffering for the gospel, knowing that through it you will come to know More fully the suffering son who died in your place, and you will know the power of his resurrection because when you're being beaten or mocked or ridiculed for the gospel, the only thing you are going to long for is heaven. Knowing him, counted of far surpassing worth and value. Knowing Jesus Christ is the most valuable thing you could set your affections upon. in this life. And notice how this verse completely turns our country's view of suffering on its head. Not only our country, but the West in general. How is suffering viewed? It is to be avoided at all costs. The good life, the good American life that is held out to you is one of relaxation. Comfort, upward mobility, constantly increasing salary, the acquisition of more and more material things, and dying as pain-free as possible with the most things possible Why on earth did you suffer, they say? Well, because we know something far more valuable than this world has to hold out. How contrary is that to how the Bible calls us to live? The Bible says to you, Christian, share in suffering. Share in suffering. Give up all for the sake of Christ. Endure hardship. How many of us sound like Paul I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. I desperately want to say that, but I've never said that That should be the call of our hearts to be able to pray that with Paul and just mean it. Because Paul Went through suffering. Suffering and trial after suffering and trial. And he came to know the power of the gospel more fully. And that's being held out to us today. I struggle with these things. I don't know if you feel this. I'm regularly at war with myself, wanting to know Christ. I want to know him like this, and I want to be comfortable I want them both. But Christ doesn't call us to comfort. He calls us to conflict. Look at the passage. Notice how Paul describes the Christian life in verse 30. He says that the Philippians are engaged in the same conflict that you saw that I had when I was with you. And then here that I still have So Paul views the Christian life as a battle. A conflict, a war. That can sound Really daunting. That's understanding. But let me share with you a something that some soldiers have experienced when they go to war. Some men have returned from war and recounted how being in battle was both the most frightening experience of their lives life and the most exhilarating experience of their life because when they were in battle, they felt finally for the first time that they were alive because they were so close to death. I mean, I'm not saying that war is a good thing at all. That is not what I'm saying. The only thing I want you to focus on is that when they felt their mortality, they knew they were alive because they were in the battle. I mean there's that there's a call for us there. Do you want to know that you're alive as a Christian? Step into the battle. It's right there. It's all around you. It's at your neighbors' houses. It's in your workplace. Paul views the Christian life as a battle, a conflict. I don't want you to be discouraged about it being daunting as a conflict, but encouraged to winsomely, bravely, unashamedly enter the battle. Paul says the same thing. Fight the good fight. We need to understand what this means for how we share the gospel, doesn't it? This has implications for us. When we're sharing the gospel with our neighbors, we need to encourage them to count the cost. When you're calling people to follow Jesus, as Bonhoeffer said, Jesus calls a man to, he bids him to come and die. When you're calling people to faith in Jesus Christ, you're calling them to come and die in this life for the promise of knowing Christ and his surpassing worth for all eternity and eternal life. There is a cost that we have to we have to w tell people about. Uh where is it? The Proverbs. Uh the man the man who doesn't uh The man who doesn't like set his tools out and the things that he's going to build his house with ahead of time to look at them and take account for them before he builds the house is a foolish man. That's because he doesn't know if he has what it takes to actually build the house. You have to tell people of what's what's going to be expected in the Christian life. This is what you're going to face. And so kids, I want nothing more for than you guys to follow Jesus. Right? I'm sure your parents want nothing more than for you to follow Jesus. But here's what I want I want you to know also That if you're gonna follow Jesus in this life, which is of far surpassing worth than anything else in this life, it will mean that other kids might think you're unpopular. They might not want to play with you. I've been on that playground before, I've been ignored before, and it hurts. But Jesus Christ comforts those who follow him. He's a protector to those who follow him. And you don't need to be discouraged about following Jesus because when you follow Jesus, God gives you his spirit to empower you to follow him and to endure that suffering. Just know that following Jesus Christ is of far surpassing worth than anything this world has to offer. And it's a conflict that we never retire from. Look at what Paul says. He says, Engaged in the same conflict that you saw that I had, and now hear that I still have. Paul doesn't envision retiring as a Christian. There is no pension plan for him. He wants his life to be spent fully, poured out every last drop. He's gonna keep fighting this conflict until the Lord calls him home. Right to the older saints in this congregation and to everyone, I want to encourage you to view your life this way. Say to God, God Pour me out every last drop in this life. I want to be engaged in this conflict until the day you take me home. None of us should ever desire to retire from this life, from this battle. We have a retirement awaiting us, right? Amen. Hebrews. There's a rest to come for the people of God. And you'll rest forever. Man, sure football players would like that. You just gotta like every week they gotta keep going into the battle. The rest is coming. Your souls will be healed forever. We said we should share in suffering for Christ because it is a gracious gift from God, but not only that, we should share in suffering for Christ. Because God uses it to advance the gospel. Turn with me to Colossians chapter 1, verse 24. Paul says, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake. And in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is the church So to understand how God uses our suffering for Christ to advance the gospel, we need to understand what Paul means when he says, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking. in Christ's afflictions. So first, I am filling up. That word means it means to supplement or complete something by adding what is lacking. And what is Paul supplementing or completing? He says he's completing what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. Christ's afflictions are the brutal sufferings that he endured, the the whipping and the beating, the carrying of the cross and the crucifixion. So when Paul says that something is lacking about those, it's confusing because we think that he's saying that something was lacking in Christ's atoning work. His paying for sins. What did he not cover them completely? Is that what Paul is saying? No, that's not what he's talking about. He isn't saying anything about the power of Christ's death to cover sin. If he was saying that, he would be a heretic. But he isn't saying that. He uses this word lacking in the same way that he uses it in two other places in the New Testament. And in those places, if you want to look at it, it's 1 Corinthians 16, 17 and Philippians chapter 2 verse 30, to fill up What it means in those passages is to make up for a person's absence by representing them So in Philippians, Epaphroditus represents the church in Macedonia, I believe, when he comes to bring this gift for them. He fills up what is lacking in their presence. So Paul is saying that as he suffered He was representing, manifesting the bodily sufferings of the crucified Christ to those he preached the gospel to. Right? Think of 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Paul says, I am always carrying in the body. By my sufferings, the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our bodies. So we need to remember this mind-boggling truth as Christians. That we have been united to Christ. We are one with him. We are his body on earth. And what happened to Christ's body? It was beaten, afflicted, it suffered. And if he who was beaten and crucified in his flesh, if we are one with him, Then as we are united to Him by faith, we will experience the same sufferings. We should abandon the idea that the Christian life is easy. It's not easy. It's hard. But it's worth it because you have an eternal joy awaiting you. It is worth it. And Christ's suffering, Paul says, is revealed to the world in our suffering for his sake. In the same way that God made the power of the gospel known through his son, who is willing to suffer and die, he is making the power of the gospel known here to people in Chevrolet who never saw Jesus. Never saw him persecuted, never saw him crucified, but they can see our lives and our willingness to endure suffering, to carry in the body the death of Christ, so that the power and life of Christ might be seen in our lives. We manifest to them. the sufferings of Christ. We fill up what is lacking in his presence. He's not here, but we're here, and we are his body on earth And by doing that, by suffering for the sake of the gospel, we show that we have a treasure that is imperishable. kept in heaven for us who by faith are being guarded until that day by God's power. Amen. That's what we're doing. And it's through the spirit-empowered willingness of Christians to suffer for the sake of Christ that God brings the spiritually dead to life. So let's just walk through Acts 16 again. Paul sails to Philippi. He goes, looks for a place to pray, meets Lydia, preaches the gospel to her, doesn't suffer. She believes. Amen. She follows him But then he does suffer. The girl with the spirit of divination follows him. He casts out the demon. Her owners are extremely angry. Paul's brought into the city, and they say You're disturbing our customs. The things that you teach are wrong. And they beat him and flog him and throw him in prison. Paul's willingness to suffer then brought him into who? The Philippian jailer. And God's power was made known supernaturally. And the Philippian jailer said, what? What can I do to be saved? He saw Paul's suffering and wanted to know how can I serve this God? That is gonna That's how it's going to happen in our lives. The people that you're even thinking about probably not the ones that God has in mind. Through your suffering, you have no idea who's going to come to faith in Jesus Christ. And now you might be saying, John, John, John That's in the Bible. That doesn't happen anymore. No, but I say to you, it does still work like that. I want you to consider the witness of two amazing women, Miriam Rastempur and Marzia Amarazide. I think that's how her name is pronounced. Two amazingly brave former Muslims, turned Christian converts living in Tehran, who committed their lives to reaching the lost by canvassing the streets of Tehran. Handing out Bibles and sharing the gospel. For three years they transported Bibles into the city under the cover of night because it was prohibited to have the New Testament in that city. And then they carried those Bibles in backpacks to hand out every chance they got. And over the course of those three years, they distributed 20,000 copies of the New Testament in Tehran. May God bring faith from those copies of the New Testament in Tehran today. And those women would pay for what they did. Eventually they were arrested and thrown into a detention center, but in the detention center came a new gospel surprise. Listen to what one of the women said. She said, most amazing of all We were now in the best place we'd ever been for witnessing to people hungry for the gospel of Jesus. We had spent ourselves and our resources traveling all over the country with the message of salvation, always mindful of the danger if the wrong person overheard us. Now we were stuck in jail, and God was bringing spiritual seekers in waves. The living conditions weren't very good, but we didn't have to deal with travel and traffic. And we could tell our fellow prisoners the story of Jesus openly, because no one would come into this rat hole to spy on us. We were more free inside the prison to give the message of salvation than outside the prison. When we were free, we had to pray and ask God to lead us to the right person to talk. Inside the prison, we could talk to anybody One day my interrogator came became angry and he asked, Why were we talking to the prisoners about Jesus? And I said, We talk to prisoners about Jesus because you arrested us. You put us in prison. And prisoners are curious. They all want to know Why are you here? What is your charge? So we had to explain the gospel to them. You see how God used the boldness of these women to step out in faith in a city where they could be killed for what they believed to get the gospel spread out and they suffer for it. But what happens They meet hundreds, if not thousands, of prisoners and are able to share the gospel without being bothered at all for it. Do you not think that God can use your suffering today? Of course he can. And do you not think that these women know more about God's sovereignty in an experiential way than maybe we do? Because they saw he really is a shield about me. He really does do amazing things. We step out and we learn about these things. You see that you see an account like this, and it's no wonder that Psalm 2 says that God sits in the heavens and laughs When rulers of the earth take counsel against him, why does he laugh? You can't thwart me. Put him in prison. All the prisoners are going to be saved. God can use your suffering. Let us be a people who value what these women value. Let us value the souls of sinners who are destined to perish. More than we value our own popularity, our own status, our own concerns about what people think of us Our lives as Christians are not our own. We have been bought with a price. And I want you to notice how we can see that in Paul's life. Look at what he says. Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake. Paul views his entire life as not belonging to himself. His life is to be used for the sake of others. How is your life being used? How can you use the calendar that you already have? I'm not trying to throw more on you. How can you use the calendar that you already have with the things that you're already doing to just tweak it a little bit So that you can engage with non-Christians. Because if we're going to share in suffering for Christ as a body, I mean we're not going to share. I mean, we'll we'll probably suffer together. I mean, I'll I'll be annoying over time and you guys will have to bear with me. And this is how it goes But we're not going to be we're not going to oppose one another for the gospel. We're Christians. You need to be meeting non-Christians and involved in their lives. So how can you take the schedule that you already have and get people involved in it and use your time to share the gospel? Our time is not our own, friends. Our lives should be lived for the sake of the gospel, for the sake of Christ, and for the sake of his church. Who are the people in Chevrolet that God has chosen to eternal life who haven't yet heard the gospel? Who are they? We don't know And how will they hear unless someone is sent? How will they hear unless you and I speak up and share in suffering for the gospel? Listen to what Paul says about those people in 2 Timothy 2. Therefore, I endure everything. Everything for the sake of the elect. That they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. With eternal glory. Friends, Christ has given us our goal. The goal of our lives should be to make disciples, to love God, and to love neighbor. Love our neighbors as ourself. What are you willing to suffer to achieve that goal? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it's not by our power, our wisdom, our might. That we can do this, but it is by your power. Help us to remember even now that you have not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Oh God, empower us to this task. We are too fearful. I'm too fearful. I need help. We all need help. Lord, empower us to share in suffering for the gospel. That we might see our neighbors and all the nations come to know you and rejoice in you and to experience the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. We pray this to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, in our last hymn, we're going to sing about how we as a church should respond to this call to share in suffering for the gospel. Not only that, but to reflect on the glorious truth that God will empower us for this work. Let's stand together and sing our final hymn. Oh, church arise.