Well, good morning friends. It's good to see you all here. How's everybody doing today? Excellent, excellent. I'm gonna pray for us one more time before we get started. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are utterly and completely dependent upon your mercy Through the Lord Jesus Christ and by the power of the Holy Spirit to do anything of eternal value today. We cannot receive your word apart from your work in the Holy Spirit. We cannot look to Jesus Christ as our Soul and sufficient Savior without your help. And so, Father, we pray as your people gathered in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, desiring for him to be present among us, knowing that he is present among us, asking For you to help us in this time. Help us to receive your word with joy, we pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, summertime. Summertime. It's a season of travel for many, whether traveling to the beach or to visit family or to return to your Hometown, it's a time where many people take breaks and they travel. They go on vacation. And since summertime is a season of travel, That also means that it's a season of planning and hacking, right? All of us in our various ways plan for the travel that we take during the summertime. Right? So we book our flights. Or we pull out Google Maps and we plot our road trip. What are we going to stop and see? What are we going to look at along the way? And then when we figure out what we're going to do where we're going to go, we figure out what we're going to do when we get there, right? So some of you may be the type you just like to fly by the seat of your pants. Hey, when we get there, we're gonna go where we go. But maybe your traveling partner or your spouse is the more organized one who likes to plot out hour by hour, minute by minute, what the family's gonna be doing And that can always cause a little bit of friction. But the reality is that all of us plan in one way or another for our travel. Right? So my wife. keeps our family alive on trips by her carefully curated checklist of things that we need. I approach trips like, hey, we're gonna be fine. We'll make it. But she's like, no, that's not actually how it works. We need to look and make sure that we have all the things that we need for our kids so that they don't die on this trip. And why do we do these things? Why do we put in this planning and this preparation? Well, it's because we know innately that when we travel, it helps to be prepared. When we go on our trips, it helps to plan and be prepared for what's to come. So that we know what to expect when we're on our trips. And in our passage this morning, what we find is that the disciples of Jesus are being sent out on a journey by Jesus And so Jesus takes some time to help prepare them for the trip to come, to prepare them for what they should expect. So if you have your Bibles open, please go ahead and turn with me to Mark chapter 6. We're going to be looking at verses 7 to 30 this morning. If you're using one of the Bibles that we provided, you can find our passage on page 841. And if you are at all unfamiliar with reading a Bible, you don't have to worry about that at all. Chapter 6, you're going to be looking for the big, bold number 6. And then we'll be looking at verses 7 to 30. So look for those smaller numbers after the big bowl, number six, verses seven to thirty. Again, Mark chapter six, verses seven to thirty. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage. For us now. This is God's word. And he called the twelve and began to send them out two by two. And he gave them authority over the unclean spirits. He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff, no bread, no bag, no money in their belts. but to wear sandals and not put on two tunics. And he said to them, Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there. And if any place will not receive you, and they will not listen to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a testimony against them. So they went out and proclaimed that people should repent, and they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil many who were sick, and healed them. King Herod heard of it, for Jesus' name had become known. Some said John the Baptist has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him. But others said, He is Elijah, and others said, He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old. But when Herod heard of it, he said, Don, whom I beheaded, has been raised For it was Herod who had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because he had married her For John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death, but she could not. For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he heard him gladly. But an opportunity came when Herod, on his birthday, gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee For when Herodias' daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guest, and the king said to the girl, Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you. And he vowed to her, Whatever you ask me, I will give to you, up to half my kingdom. And she went out and said to her mother, For what should I ask? The head of John the Baptist. And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter. The king was exceedingly sorry. But because of his oaths and his guests, he did not want to break his word to her. And immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's head. He went and beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother. When his disciples heard of it, he came, took his body, laid it in a tomb. The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught. One thing I want to highlight before we begin that may help you better understand Mark's gospel in your own study, in your own personal time, is a particular uh literary technique. That Mark employs throughout his gospel. That may help you understand why we're looking at the verses we looked at uh just now And this literary technique is lovingly known by scholars and pastors as a Markin sandwich Actually the technical term is interpolation, but everyone prefers to call it a Marken sandwich because it brings to mind a nice meaty Sandwich and a Mark and sandwich is a pattern that the author of the Gospel of Mark employs to draw attention to certain things that he wants to teach. So what he does is he introduces a certain topic Then he immediately interrupts that topic and brings up a seemingly unrelated topic, only to return to the topic that he first started with. So the first topic. is then followed up at the end. It's the bread and the meat in the middle is the seemingly unrelated topic that's been brought up. It's a uh a sandwich of sorts and there are nine different sandwiches in mark's gospel and we've seen three already we've seen three already so we already think about Jairus, how Jairus came to Jesus, asked him to come and heal his daughter, and then Jesus goes and he's interrupted by the woman with the discharge of blood Before finishing up with Jairus' daughter again. You think of the cursing of the fig tree in chapter 11 that we're going to look at later. Jesus curses the fig tree And then he goes to the temple and cleanses the temple, and then he teaches on the fig tree. You go to the parable of the sower. He has a parable of the sower. Then he teaches on the purpose of the parables, and then he explains the parable of the sower. And what Mark is doing is he's showing that there is a connection between the bread and the meat. They are meant to help interpret one another. And what we see in our passage this morning is a connection that Mark is wanting to draw out for us. Look with me at the structure of this passage. Verses 7 to 13. You're looking at your Bibles, verses 7 to 13, Jesus sends out the apostles on their missionary journey. Then in verses 14 to 29, he interrupts the sending out of the 12 to tell this seemingly unrelated story about John the Baptist and his death, which if you read Mark from beginning to end is just kind of odd. It seems totally out of place in Mark's gospel. There's no other narrative like it. But then, right after the account of John the Baptist, he finishes with the return of the apostles from their missionary journey. And the connection that he's wanting us to see is that in sending out the apostles, the apostles need to be prepared to even die for their following Jesus Christ. You see that connection between the missionary journey and then the death of one who followed Jesus, who taught the message of the kingdom, who gave his life for preaching the gospel of repentance and faith? And then the return of the apostles, he's making a connection for us. He's wanting the reader to understand the danger and even deadliness. of going out to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the main thing he wants us to take away from this sandwich that he's created. And there's something that we learn in particular about this passage, about those who carry out Jesus' mission. And there's three things that Mark wants us to know that those who carry out the mission of Jesus Christ will share in. First, they will share in his power. Those who carry out Jesus' mission will share in his power. Second, they will share in his suffering. They will share in his suffering, and third and lastly, they will share in his victory. They will share in his victory. So as we're looking at the passage, the first thing that we learn is that those who carry out Jesus' mission will share in his Look at verses seven to nine. In verse seven, Jesus calls the twelve apostles. This is reminiscent of his calling of the twelve originally in chapter three where he commissions them as apostles and he gives them two tasks as apostles. They are to be with him and then he's going to send them out to preach And to cast out demons and to heal. So they've been with him from chapter three up until now. And now he's sending them out for that second part of their task with him. He's sending them out. To cast out demons. That's what Mark tells us there. Mark says that Jesus gave them authority over the unclean spirits Now there's a couple things that I want us to see here. First, I don't think Mark is saying to us that the only thing he sent them out to do was to have authority over unclean spirits or to cast out demons. That's his way of summarizing the whole mission of preaching, of exercising demons, and of healing. Jesus gave them authority for all of it. You can even look down. Look at verses twelve to thirteen. So they went out and they proclaimed that people should repent and they cast out demons and they healed people. And this is the totality of Jesus' ministry. What has he been doing to this point? He's been preaching the message of the kingdom. He's been exercising demons, and he's been healing people. And that's what's remarkable about this empowering of the apostles. The entirety of Mark's gospel up until this point has been to underscore the authority of Jesus Christ, right? His authority as a teacher. Chapter 1. What is this authority that's been given to him? This man is an amazing teacher, right? His authority to exercise demons, the demoniac and garasa. He casts out thousands of demons from this man with a word. His authority to heal. He heals a paralytic. He raises Jairus' daughter from the dead. It's all about Jesus' authority. And Jesus is giving this authority to his apostles. Jesus is sharing his power with them to enable them to carry out the mission that he's given to them. Now this concentrated power that the apostles have, that Jesus shares with them, sets them apart from all other people in the history of the church. They alone were personally empowered and commissioned by the Lord Jesus Christ. to preach the gospel and to work miracles. And they were given this power to testify to the truthfulness of the message that they were preaching about Jesus. So remember, we've already been talking about this. The works that Jesus do are meant that he does are meant to point to the fact that he is the Son of God. So as he teaches about himself as the Son of God and does these miracles, the miracles are meant to point. To him as the Son of God. And so now, as the apostles go out to work miracles and to act by his power, it's meant for them to testify to the message that they're preaching about the Lord Jesus Christ And while the type of power that Jesus shared with these men is unique, the reality for us is today that he's shared his power in a different way with all who follow him. You see, this scene foreshadows for us the Great Commission. And what happens at the Great Commission? The risen Jesus Christ. Commands his disciples to go out and to make disciples of all nations, and he promises to share with them the power of his presence. What does he say to them at the very end? Lo, I am with you even to the end of the age And we need to be reminded today of how remarkable this is, because if we are following the Lord Jesus Christ, then this promise by Jesus to be with us To share with us the power of his presence is for us today. He is personally present with us today in his spirit, and this is remarkable for us. Because we got to think back about the the history of salvation throughout the Bible. Think of the Israelites in the wilderness. Were they able to come into the presence of God? No. No, God told them after he brought them out into the wilderness, stay back from Mount Sinai. keep back lest you be consumed, because I am a holy and consuming God. The only one who was able to come up to his presence was Moses. And what did Moses have to do to come into the presence of God? He had to climb a mountain. He walked all the way up Mount Sinai to see the Lord and to dwell in his presence. And not only Moses and the Israelites in the wilderness, but think about how God gave to his people the tabernacle and the temple. Where his presence would be among them, but even with the tabernacle in the temple, they weren't allowed to come inside. They had to stay outside Of the tabernacle and outside of the temple. And the only person who could go in in behind the curtain where the presence of God dwelled was the high priest. And even he was only able to do that once a year God's presence, though it was among his people in Israel, in the tabernacle and the temple, was mediated and separated. The people couldn't come immediately into the presence of God, but we today as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ have his presence among us. This is something that we cannot lose sight of. Friend, you as an individual follower of Jesus Christ are his very temple. He dwells in you by the power of the Holy Spirit. And not only that, we are the body of Christ. So as we're here together today in Gladys Noon Spellman Elementary, worshiping the Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ says he is present with us for where two or three are gathered in my name There I am with him. The Lord Jesus Christ, by the power of his spirit, has shared his presence with us in a way that no one else in salvation history before the coming of Christ and before his death and resurrection was ever able to experience. For thousands of years, people lived on earth without being able to experience the immediate presence of God. And you today, friend, if you are following the Lord Jesus Christ, have his Spirit dwelling within you. When we come together on Sundays, the Lord Jesus is with us. We are his body on earth. And that is happening around the world. And nation after nation after nation as believers are gathered together this morning. Whether they've already gathered today or are gathering right now, his presence is with his body on earth as his kingdom is being extended. He shares with us the power of his presence. He shares with us the power of his presence, experiencing the presence of uh of God from the Garden of Eden until the coming of Christ was always mediated. But now we have his immediate and personal presence among us. And we cannot lose sight of this. But not only has he shared with us the power of his presence, but he also shares with us his providing power, his providing power. Look at verses eight and nine. Look at verses 8 and 9. Jesus gives them specific instructions about what they can and can't take on their first missionary journey. And what does he say? They can take a walking staff A belt, sandals, and one tunic, but not two. One. So a walking staff, a belt, sandals, and one tunic. But there were things that they couldn't take. And that's what Mark emphasizes here. There were things that they couldn't take They're not allowed to take any bread, nor a bag to carry all their extra stuff in, nor were they able to take any money. Right, think about I I don't know I who I heard say this, but this is a great a great visual. Think about the travel that you just took this summer. If you took travel, if you went on vacation. Think about you packed all your bags, you've got them setting on your bed You got everything laid out that you're gonna take, and now you have to leave it all. Imagine how distressing that is. This is stressful. Like what are we gonna do? Well, we don't have the wipes for our kids or the diapers, and I have my extra undershirts, and what are we gonna do? Right? This is the type of stress that the apostles would have been feeling. Who is going to provide for us? How will we eat How will we pay for anything? And if you if you have any doubt that that is what they are thinking, all you have to do is look at our very next account, which we're going to look at next week, where Jesus feeds the 5,000 miraculously, and what do they say to him? Where are we going to get all the food? Who's going to provide this? We've only got some bread and some fish. They are thinking to themselves, what is going on here? How is it possible that we're going to be able to take this missionary journey without bread? And without money and without a bag, without all our extra stuff in it. What's Jesus doing here? What's he doing? Why is he doing this to them? Why isn't he allowing them to take these things? He's stripping away from them everything that they would naturally look for look to for comfort and security so that they would come to experience his providing power. You don't need to worry about what you will eat or what you will wear Or how you will buy the things that you need. I am the Lord of all the earth. I can provide bread from heaven. I clothe the flowers of the field. I can clothe you with more tunics if you need more tunics I own the cattle on a thousand hills. You need money for something? I'm the Lord of all the earth. I can provide you with whatever you need. You don't need to be stressed out because I am going to share with you my providing power. He's telling his disciples, you are my disciples. It is impossible for you to be in need Because you are mine and I own everything and I can give you whatever you need. There is no such thing as having a need when you have your Savior as the Lord Jesus Christ. He provides whatever you need. And there is a lesson for us here as a church, as a church, not just as individual Christians, right? So if you're just visiting with us, we've only been meeting now for about six months, seven months. So we're just kind of getting off, starting out on this journey, and we're super thankful that you would take your time to be here with us this morning. But as we're beginning on this journey as a church to see the gospel go out in Chevrolet and the surrounding areas with other Christians in this area, we need to be reminded that God Will provide everything we need. He will provide everything we need. He will share with us providing power So right, we're meeting in elementary school. We're so thankful for the for Gladys New Spelman allowing us to meet here. It is unbelievable the kindness that they've shown us. But some of us are thinking about a building. How are we going to get a building? Where is it going to come from? Where will the land be? Where will the money come from? We serve a God who owns the earth. If he wants us to have a building, he will provide the place for it. He will provide the funds for it. He will provide the parking lot for it. He'll provide the construction workers. He will build it for himself because it's him that's building his kingdom. Everything that we need as a church, we want to think about the fact that it's God who will provide. We serve a God who delights to provide for his children. As I've been thinking about this passage, my mind just keeps going back to the widow in Zarephath, the one with the empty oil jars. What happened to those oil jars? They would get filled up every day by the Lord. And she didn't look at the jars and say, okay, now that they've been filled up by the Lord, I need to ration it out and figure out how to save this oil so that it doesn't run out No, she had to spend it because she had to make bread to eat it. But what did the Lord do? Every night she lay down, every morning she woke up, and the jar was full. So as we think about our own church and especially our own finances, I think it's possible and even happens in this world where churches wisely start to save money. But then they start to look at that money as their security blanket. Ah, we don't want to let it go now. This this nest egg has gotten uh it's gotten really big and and we don't want to we don't want to part with these funds Now, I'm not telling us as a church that we should just spend money unwisely, but as a church, as the Lord provides for the things that we need, we should also be giving our money to see the gospel go out, trusting that if we are doing God's will, In seeing the gospel spread and giving money to those things that will get the gospel out and we're loving people, we can trust that God will continue to fill up our oil jar. Does that make sense? The Lord delights to share with his people, his providing power. And why is it important for us to know that Jesus' followers share in his power as they carry out his mission? We need to know that we have his power because we will also share in his suffering. We will also share in his suffering. Look at me at verses 14 to 29. Some of us may be suffering right now from this light bulb overhead. I trust this isn't the type of suffering that's in mind. It's uh I hope I don't have a seizure, but we're gonna continue on, right All right, look at me first at verses 10 and 11. Look at look at verses 10 and 11. Jesus continues giving the apostles specific instructions for their missionary journey So he's just told them what they can and can't take. And now he's going to tell them how to conduct themselves on their journey. First thing he tells them is, hey, whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from it. In first century Galilee, hospitality was something that was held in high regard, and so there were rules of conduct, codes of conduct of hospitality. And it was just totally, it was just a faux pas to show up in a town and accept hospitality from somebody, but if you didn't really like their house and you wanted to get to a better house, you could You kind of jump around and try to find the best accommodations. Jesus is saying, don't do that. When you show up in a town, if somebody opens their home to you, you stay there and you stay at that house until it's time for you to leave. I don't want you jumping around, you know, defaming my name and making my gospel seem uh like it can't be believed because of how you're acting. But then he goes on to say. That if any place or town will not receive you and won't listen to the message I've given you, when you leave that town, shake the dust from your feet as a testimony against them. That was a way of visually communicating that in rejecting the messengers of God, the town or the place was rejecting the God who You sent them and in rejecting God, they were now bringing judgment on themselves. So this is like a visual parable. You're going to be shaken out by the Lord for rejecting Him. And it's something interesting going on here. This isn't something that you should do in your uh interactions with your neighbors. This isn't if they don't believe in Jesus, this isn't for you to do to them. What's going on here is there's a specific thing that is unique to these disciples on this journey. So it was common for Jewish people that when they traveled through Gentile lands and picked up dust on their clothing, remember the Gentiles According to the Jews are unclean and separated from the presence of God. They have no hope in this world. They're without hope because they're not part of the nation of Israel And whenever Jewish people would travel through Gentile lands and pick up dust on their clothing and on their sandals, it was their practice, it wasn't part of their ritual law, but it was their practice. to shake themselves out before they went into their home or into somebody else's home. That's their way of saying even the dirt from Gentile lands makes us unclean. We're going to shake it out. So what Jesus is saying here is that on your mission in Galilee, among Jewish people, I want you to shake the dust off your feet. And that's like saying to these Jewish people, You have become like the Gentiles, separated from God, because you are rejecting the message of the Son of God. And you only see this happen, again, in the book of Acts. I think Katie read it. There's two instances in the book of Acts. And it only happens towards a Jewish audience. And it's done by Jews, the apostles, towards a Jewish audience. It's not for your neighbors, it's not for today. But the most important thing that we need to see here is that Jesus is preparing his followers to share in his suffering. He's preparing them for the journey ahead. When you go out and you tell people about me, you will be rejected just as I have been rejected. Right for the young adults who are here. So for the kids who are kind of in the teenage years or getting close to the teenage years. If your parents are following Jesus, what I want to do is encourage you today is have a conversation with them and ask them how they deal with people not liking them because of Jesus. Because it's something that all of us face. Your parents face it if they follow Jesus. If you want to follow Jesus, you're going to face it. And dealing with rejection and the fear of rejection is something that all of us struggle with. So ask your parents, mom and dad, how do you deal with rejection? How do you deal with the fear of rejection, knowing that people don't like you because you follow Jesus, right? None of us kids Not even me, no one else in this church, not the elders, not the deacons, not the members, none of us graduate from the struggle of desiring approval. None of us graduates from that. But Lord willing, over time, God will sanctify each of us and teach us to fear him more than we fear man. But it is something that we all struggle with. And we just have to face the reality that choosing to follow Jesus is choosing to face rejection and opposition from the world. We follow a crucified Messiah. If the world hates us, we should remember that it hated him first. And that rejection, I think, in the United States is going to become more acute and more apparent as the years pass and we become more and more secular. So this idea of us suffering physically And being rejected in very open and obvious ways is something that Christians in America are going to have to get used to. I think this is our future. But here's what you can know, and here's the confidence that you can take. Not only has God shared the power of his presence with you, but this is what Christians throughout all of church history have been dealing with. Wherever they are, people have hated them. People have rejected them and people have opposed them. And you do not need to fear being rejected because you can know that there's no amount of suffering that Christ will call you to that He Himself hasn't already experienced. And that's what we learn in verses 14 to 29. There are two reasons that Mark interrupts the sending out of the 12 to tell the story of John's death. First, it's to prepare Jesus' followers for the rejection that they will face. But it's also to foreshadow for us Jesus' death, that he himself would suffer in the place of his disciples. Let's look at verses 14 to 29 real quick. This is just a disclaimer. I am not going to be able to do justice to everything that's going on in these passages right now. There is so much that we could look at. There's so many good things that we could look at to learn from. But I think today in our time, the only thing that we'll have time to look at is seeing the main point that Mark is making. So in verses 14 to 16, look down with me there. Herod Antipas, the Roman ruler of Galilee, hears about Jesus' ministry and about his apostles going out and preaching and healing and exercising demons. And you see a bunch of different opinions about who Jesus is. Some say he's Elijah, some say he's a prophet. Herod is convinced that it's John the Baptist reincarnated in some way to haunt him. I don't think he's actually saying John the Baptist has been reincarnated because Jesus and John were contemporaries. I think he's just kind of saying John has come back from the dead, and now he's in this person of Jesus, and he's going to haunt me. And why is he going to haunt you, Herod? Well, we find out that the reason is because Herod had wrongfully arrested and killed John. Verses 17 to 29 tells this story. We learn that Herod had illegally, according to the law of God, married his brother's wife, stolen her from him, even while Herod himself was already married to another woman, takes his brother's wife. And then is married to her. And so John repeatedly calls them to repent. He says it's not legal for you to have your brother's wife. And this is a summary of all there. It says he had been saying. He's saying it over and over again. You need to repent. It's not legal for you to have your brother's wife. And we learn that Herod. Herod's wife, Herodias, was infuriated by John and by his constant preaching at them. He's infuriated by it, so Herod has John arrested. And I think we're meant to see Herodias' hand behind the arrest because it's clear from our passage that Herod's a bit conflicted about John The text says that Herodias has a grudge against John and wants to kill him, but Herod protects him. Why? Because he feared him. He knew that he was a righteous man. He knows that John is a holy man. But Herodias finally finds a way to kill Don. And how does that happen? Well, there's a party that's thrown for Herod's birthday, and all the wealthiest and most powerful people have come to celebrate. These are all the wealthy noble people from the area of Galilee and maybe even beyond. And part of the celebration includes a dance by Herodias's daughter. who we know her name is Salome or Salome. She performs a dance. We have no idea what that dance was like, but it was such a dance that it caused everyone there to approve and cheer and celebrate and clap. And and Herod was so impressed by the dance That he says to her, I will give you whatever you want. Up to half my kingdom. Take it, it's yours. And that's that's kind of a proverbial way of saying, I will give you whatever you want. You just name the price, and we'll do it So the daughter goes off. She conspires with her mother. What should I ask for, Mom? I know. Your dad has said that he will give you whatever you want. Ask for John the Baptist. So she goes back and immediately with haste at once trying to like she's rushing back in there to say give me John the Baptist head. So John is exceedingly sorry. You can almost you can almost be inside of his mind. Have you ever made a vow and you didn't realize like, oh wait, I didn't realize it was gonna end up being that. I will give you whatever you want, but not that. You know, that's what Herod is thinking. She comes back and he's fearing John. He knows he's a holy man, but she asks for his head and he's He looks around, like, I've got all wealthy people here. Saw me make this vow. Fear of man, he can't stand up for what is right, and so what does he do? Wants to save face. Hills John You ever think fear of man is deadly? Fear of man is deadly. People have been killed because of it. And following John's death, his disciples come and retrieve his body. that he might be properly buried. Right, this prepares Jesus' followers that as they go out on this missionary journey, To bring the gospel of God to the nations that they will face danger and possibly even death. But I think more than that, we need to take a step back at this account and marvel. at the precision with which John's death foreshadows the death of Jesus Christ. I think that's Mark's main point here. So, follow with me along. Just like John was wrongfully arrested for calling people to repent, Jesus was wrongfully arrested by the scribes and Pharisees for preaching the gospel and calling them to repent. And as John was arrested and imprisoned by a Roman official, Herod, so Jesus was handed over by the Jews to a Roman official, who? Pilate. Pontius Pilate. Just like Herod was perplexed and amazed by John's teaching, so Pilate, remember Pilate talks to him and he's perplexed and amazed. This man is unlike any other man. He knows just like Herod knew about John. This man is a righteous man. This man is a holy man. There's something perplexing and amazing about him. And just like Herod protected John from the plots of his wife. So Pilate sought to protect Jesus from the plots of the Pharisees because he knew that Jesus had done nothing deserving death But he keeps going. Just as Herod's vow at his feast leads to John's death. So Pilate's vow at the Passover feast unwittingly leads to Jesus' death. Why? Because it was the custom of the Romans at the Passover feast The vow to give to the Israelites a prisoner who is in captivity. And so Pilate says to the crowd, hey, I've got two prisoners here. One's a murderer and an insurrectionist. His name is Baradas, and one is this holy man Jesus. Which one will you choose? And why is he doing that? Because Pilate wants to free Jesus. Because he thinks the people are just going to obviously choose the one who's holy. Why would you want to free a murderer? But what happens? Like Herodias conspires with her daughter to have John killed, what do the Pharisees and scribes do amongst the crowd? They conspire. They stir them up Say, hey, say, crucify him, crucify him. And what does the crowd say? Crucify him. And how does Pilate respond? He's exceedingly sorry. What has this man done? What has this man done? He has done no evil to you. These are the words that came out of his mouth to the crowd. But they shouted all the more. Crucify him. And just as Herod didn't want to lose face in front of his guests, so Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd. Release for them Barabbas. And having scourged the holy one, delivered him over to be crucified. And just as John's disciples came and retrieved his body so that he could be buried So Joseph of Arimathea comes to Pilate to retrieve Jesus' body, that he would receive proper burial. There is a palpable gloom and darkness that pervades the accounts of John and Jesus' deaths. The light has been snuffed out by the darkness. It's a darkness that hovers over the path that leads through the valley of the shadow of death and acts as a warning sign to all who would follow Jesus Christ. Prepare yourself for what lies ahead because John's fate may be your fate because it was also Jesus' fate Friends, this is what Jesus meant when he said, if anyone desires to follow me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. We often talk about that in spiritual terms, right? Like, okay, I'm going to take up my cross today, wife, and you can go work out, and I'm not going to work out. But that's how we talk about it, right? I'm gonna lay down my desires and I'm gonna take up my cross for you. But Jesus also understood when he said for us to take up our cross and follow him. He wanted us to understand that there may come a day where we might actually be nailed to that cross. It's not just spiritual and figurative. When you follow Jesus, death and danger may lie ahead Now, as you think about that journey, how on earth can I make that journey? What is it that's going to empower me and enable to me, enable me? to make such a journey where where I need to follow Jesus into the valley of the shadow of death and I need to take up my cross and follow him. What would empower you to do that? I think the answer that he gives to us, that not only will we share in his suffering, but we will share in his victory. We will share in his victory. Look at verse 30. The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught. Mark is actually, because of the way that he's he's structuring this sandwich, he's already told us what happens on their missionary journey. So look back at verses 12 and 13. We find out that the disciples. Who are sharing in the power of God and who also share in Christ's suffering also return from their journey. They went out and proclaimed that people should repent And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. This is Mark's way of saying that the apostles That the apostles, by the authority of Christ, fulfilled the mission to the fullest. They they they shared in his victory. So all of the work that Jesus had been doing, where he had successfully preached authoritatively about the kingdom of God and exercised demons and healed people, so the disciples have also shared in his victory in pushing back the powers of darkness that Christ has come to wage war against. And that small victory that they share in foreshadows the greater victory that they would share in when Christ conquers the power of death and darkness and hell on the cross. And then rose victorious from the grave and empowered his apostles to go out and lay the foundation of the church. And when you open up the book of Acts, do you see them losing? You see them suffering, but you also see the foundation of the church being laid. And it is the church that 2,000 years later still exists around the world. It is the foundation that they laid that we are standing on today. They shared in Christ's victory, just as we also will share in his victory. Today, in this body of believers and in churches around the world, Jesus is allowing his people a foretaste, a foretaste of that victory that is to come when we gather around his throne and worship and praise him and await his return. Now, if you're like me, you may not may not be like me because you may be more righteous than me. There are times where I look at the church and I look at myself and I say, really? Really? This is how God's kingdom is being extended throughout the world? Like for me Us? I'm not trying to insult y'all, right? Like you just kind of look around you. Like this is this is how it's happening? Right? Are we uh a bit too normal for that For God to be conquering the kingdom of darkness through us right now and through churches like this around the world. There are mega churches out there that have thousands of people where it's just like it's clear that God is winning. But like us Is this how it's happening? But what did God say to Israel? Did I not choose you? Because you were greater than the nations, more powerful or wiser? Chose you because I love you. And I chose you because I chose you. And through you, I will be victorious. And you will share in my victory. But if you're like me and you think like it how through us? How is this possible? If you've been following along at all in our study of Mark's gospel, then you've probably thought the same thing about these disciples. Right, these disciples, every time, every time these guys have opened their mouths in Mark's gospel. They've just shown how unworthy and how clearly undeserving of sharing in Christ's victory they are. You go back to chapter one, after Jesus has healed a bunch of people and exercised demons, there's a whole Crowd of people that want to find him, but he's gone off alone into the wilderness. And what does Peter do? Peter comes to him and says, hey, bro Tons of people, man. They want you. You're famous. Strike while the iron's hot. Jesus is like, you clearly, you don't get it. And then we don't hear from them again until the calming of the storm. And after the man stands up in the middle of a hurricane and tells a storm to stop and it stops and the waves are stilled, they respond by saying, whoa. Who could this be? Good question. Who could this be? Other than God. They continue to misunderstand him. Their missteps are just so obvious as we keep going through Mark's gospel. They will rebuke Jesus. They will fight with one another. Does that sound similar? They will fight with one another. They'll be self-righteous They'll continue to misunderstand Jesus' teaching. Jesus should never, ever, ever have allowed these disciples to share in his victory. And all of their missteps throughout Mark's gospel pale in their, pale in comparison to their missteps at the end of his life. Because what do they do in the last day? They abandon it. They flee. Peter's given a second shot. Come on, Peter, step up to the plate. We know you can do it. Testify to the Lord Jesus. What does Peter do? Denies him three times. I don't know that man. I don't know him. I'm not part of his ministry. He doesn't want to share in suffering. Doesn't want to share in suffering. Denies him and Jesus suffers and dies alone. For three years with these disciples They've been around him for three years and they abandon him and leave him to die alone trying to save their own necks. How would you respond to people who treated you like that? I mean that this, I would say, whoever has done you the most wrong in your life. They abandoned the Son of God in his hour of need and he died. How would you treat people who treated you like that? Thallus? Anger. I'm not gonna forgive them. You know what they did to me? Not how Jesus treats them. Not how Jesus treats him after he rises from the dead, he came back to these very same disciples, and he forgave them. And he empowered them to go out and make disciples of all nations. He didn't hold their failings over their heads He didn't continue to remind them of the terrible job that they had done. He didn't find subtle ways to just, hey, let's not forget that you aren't actually deserving. He forgave them and allowed them to share in his victory. And why is this important for you and me? Because you and me are just like these disciples. We are no different. As much as we might like to think that we're God's special agents, I'm like his SWAT team member. He's gonna like crush the powers of darkness through me. I'm not. I'm like a puddle on the ground that he's got to like pick up every day because I'm a hot mess. Right? I'm not a special agent. None of us are. We are like these disciples. We do the same things. We misunderstand Jesus' teaching. We fight with one another. We're self-righteous We complain against Jesus because of the circumstances of our life. We doubt that he's going to provide for us all that we need. Why is my life like this? I don't have the things I need, Jesus. But Jesus responds to us when we continue to stumble and fall the same way that he responded to the Disciples with mercy. With mercy Mercy is undeserved because you and I do not deserve it, but he shows it anyway. And not only does he show it, he lets it abound. He multiplies it in our life He wants to bless his children. He wants to share in his power because he knows that we're going to share in his suffering, but he wants us to look forward to the fact that we're going to share in his victory. That victory is coming. God can do that because Christ has already won the victory. He has paid the penalty for our sins. He has risen triumphant from the grave. And when we are too weak to even continue the journey He picks us up and carries us in his arm because he has promised that we share victory. And that victory is still coming, saints. If you are feeling weak today, if you feel like I have sinned against the Lord, he's got to be angry with me, finally, this time, he is not. You receive mercy. That's his call on your life. That is what he has promised to you. Mercy and grace. Mercy and grace. Mercy and grace, for he is a compassionate. Savior and you and I are in desperate need of a compassionate Savior. So how? How will you make it on this journey through life? How will you make it on this journey through the valley of the shadow of death? You will make it by sharing in his power. And by his power, he will protect you through your sufferings for his name's sake. And through your sufferings, he will bring you to see the victory that he has won and is winning. And that day is coming soon. Friends, we are already sharing in his victory even today. And one day, that victory will be complete. Pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you in the name of your Son Jesus. We rejoice. That we are able to share in your power. We rejoice that you are even present among us today. For where two or three are gathered in your name, there you are. Oh Lord Jesus, we pray that you would grant the Spirit to continue to empower us today to be able to share in suffering for your name and help us to remember that the victory that you have won already is coming. It is right around the corner. It is not far away. Help us to keep our eyes fixed on that victory, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.