Good morning. Good morning. I bring you greetings from the Capitol Hill Baptist Church and the Baptist Convention of Maryland, Delaware It's truly a joy and honor to gather with you to worship God here this morning with Chevrolet Baptist. We at Capitol Baptist Church, we miss you. We're praying for you. And uh most of all we thank you because starting this morning, uh the Children's Sunday School was relaunched uh during the course seminar hour. So praise God. But uh All joking aside, thank you so much for your sacrifice and commitment to covenant together as Chevrolet Baptist Church and making this gathering possible. We pray that your witness and proclamation of the gospel will bear much fruit and bring many people to know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior here in PG County. Let's pray and we'll begin. Father, give us wisdom as we open up your word. By your grace, tune our minds' attention and our hearts' affection toward Christ, as your word is declared. Give us ears to hear and eyes to see your truth, that we may glorify you and build each other up according to your word. In Jesus' name, amen. What is the cost of unity? How much is unity worth? In February 2018, just less than two months ago, 92 nations came together to participate in the 23rd Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongcheng, South Korea. Forbes magazine reported it cost a total price tag of $13 billion, which is actually relatively cheaper than the previous games, Olympic Games, the Beijing Summer Olympics in 2008. Cost $40 billion. The Sochi Winter Olympics in 2014 cost $51 billion. $40,000 for a single US Olympian to make it to Pyeongchang 2018, to South Korea. $109 million spent to build a 35,000-seat stadium, which will just be used four times before it's demolished. And it would cost ten million dollars per hour per use. That's just a few of the logistical cost, uh the financial aspect. But what about the political aspect In light of the high political tension between North Korea and the United States regarding North Korea's nuclear mission missile testing leading up to the Olympics. And in order to prevent what happened last time when the Olympics were held in Seoul Korea in 1988, when the North Korea uh government was responsible for bombing Korean Air Flight 858, killing all 115 passengers and crew members on board. South Korea made efforts to appease the North Korean government by offering to pay the two point million dollars for the North Korean participation in the Winter Olympic Games, covering the cost accrued by the 500-member cheerleader team, the musicians, the Tekondo performers, and all the journalists that came. And this doesn't include the cost incurred by the athletes or the price of hosting the high-level delegation, which included Kim Jong-un's younger sister. But the greatest effort toward peace was, of course, marching together as one Korea, which was more of a political precaution rather than true unity. As a Korean, South Korean watching this on TV, my eyes were welled up with tears because I know that unity wasn't real. It wasn't true unity. That unity was made up. Unity is costly. But while that unity that's produced by the Olympics is temporary and has no lasting value, Christian unity, biblical unity, on the other hand, has substantial and eternal value. The overarching theme of our passage, as you might have guessed this morning, is unity. In Ephesians 4, 1 through 16, the Apostle Paul reminds us what unity means for us as believers. And why unity is important and how unity can be maintained. So if you have your Bibles, please turn to Ephesians 4, 1 through 16. It will be found on page 977 of your black Bibles Around You. While you turn there, let me give you some context. In chapter 1 through 3 of Ephesians, Paul expounds upon the glorious doctrine of salvation. In chapter 1, Paul praises God for the spiritual blessings we have in him. How God predestined us for adoption, how God redeemed us through the blood. through his blood according to the riches of his grace, how God made known to us the mystery of his will to unite all things to him. How in him we have obtained a guaranteed inheritance, our salvation, to the praise of his glory. But in chapter 2, Paul reminds us of our spiritual state before Christ reconciled us to God at the cross. That we were dead in our trespasses and sins, but that we were saved by grace through faith. That this is not our own doing, but the gift of God. This reminder was necessary because what we are about to hear from Paul regarding our new spiritual mission May have been quite shocking for the people at the time that salvation wasn't just for the Jews. What Christ had accomplished on the cross was to break down the wall of hostility. creating in him one new man in place of two, Jews and Gentiles together. That he might reconcile us both to God in one body, coming together and becoming one family, the church. being built together into a dwelling place for God. Well, what was the reason? That's chapter three, isn't it? To bring to light the mystery of this gospel through the church a new people, a new community. This was the eternal purpose of God, that all nations, that people of all nations would come to know God through the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so Paul prays for spiritual strength, for us to understand this great love of God that surpasses knowledge. That's the end of chapter 3. And Paul then turns to the practical applications in chapters 4 through 6 with instructions on how to live out the doctrines. So let's read Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 16. It says. I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. Eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you are called to the one hope that belongs to your call One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles the uh the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and the teachers to equip the saints for the work of the ministry for building up the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of faith and the knowledge of God, the Son of God, to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves carried about about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ From whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the new body grow so that it builds itself up in love. Paul shows us, while God's gracious calling notably bestows great privileges on us, it also carries solemn responsibilities. God's calling establishes the criteria to which our conduct and actions should conform. This is the reason why in chapter 4, verse 1, Paul says, I, Paul, therefore urge you. To walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. So Christians who truly understand this salvation live their lives in a way that commend the gospel in a manner that's worthy of the calling. So what does that look like for the Christian? What does that look like for the local church? What are the primary duties that Christians have that reflect a calling that's worthy of the calling? This morning from our text, I want to share with you three responsibilities, three responsibilities that you as Christ New Community should consider pursuing together In order to walk in a manner worthy of God's calling. So here's the outline, so you know where we're headed. Unity, diversity, and discipleship. Unity, diversity, and discipleship. I pray that through this word you'll be reminded of the great cost that God has paid to purchase unity for us, and pray that you'll be encouraged to maintain the unity for the building up of Chevrolet Baptist for his glory. So the first responsibility a new community should pursue together is unity, because unity is God's goal for the local church. Unity is God's goal. for the local church. Look at verse 1 through 6 again. It says, I therefore a prisoner for the Lord urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace, there is one body and one spirit. Just as you are called to the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. See, unity is God's goal for the local church because Christian unity proclaims to the world the power of the gospel. Remember, the mystery hidden for ages, according to Ephesians 3:6, is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs and members of the same body and partakers of the promise of Jesus Christ through the gospel. Well, who are the Gentiles? It's you and it's me. How did you and I become partakers of this sacred story? How did you and I become co-heirs of this prestigious family? How did you and I qualify to become members of this local church and the eternal congregation of God? Did you do something? Did you do anything? It's because we've been united to Christ. We are one with Christ and reconciled to God. So that's why Paul now says in verse 1, therefore I urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. Well, what is Paul calling? What is the calling to which we have been called? It's that we are the children of God. The people of God, the church of God. That's our common calling, right? That we are God's people. And as his people, Christians are called to unity. Unity is our calling. Walking in a manner worthy of the calling is walking in unity. And that's why we are together for the gospel. Notice in verse 2 the common character of God's people called in unity. Verse 2 says, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. There's no room for pride and prejudice and division in the family of God. Hence unity is the Christian responsibility. Just consider some of the one-on-other commands in Scripture on how Christians should act towards one another. It's a great reminder. Be of the same mind with one another, accept one another, forgive one another, love one another, serve one another, pray for one another. And the list goes on and on and on John 13, 35 says, by this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. After all, the unity that is our calling, unity's common character, are not from us, it's from Christ We don't make unity. We don't try to conjure up unity. That's why in verse 3 it says, be eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Maintaining unity means it's already there. It's already given to us. Our testimony is Jesus Christ all in all. Our good news is his gospel. Amen? That's why in verses 4 through 5 explains our common testimony There is one body and one spirit, just as you are called to the one hope. Sorry, I lost my spot here. One hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. Every single one of us who are members of Chevrolet Baptist can testify we are one body and one spirit and of one hope. We worship one Lord. We declare one faith, one baptism, His death, our death, His resurrection, our resurrection. Christian unity proclaims to the world the power of the gospel because apart from Christ, this unity is simply impossible But Luke 18, 27 says, what is impossible with man is possible with God. That's why unity is God's goal for the local church, because Christian unity communicates to the world who God is. Look at verse 6. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. See, this is our common theology. The unity that is displayed and reflected in the church is only possible because God Himself is Trinity, which is the ultimate unity. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Together all three persons of the Trinity accomplish his eternal purpose in the local church. Now this may sound obvious to some or maybe confusing to some. But who God is and his nature has everything to do with who we are and how we live and how we co-operate as his body, the church, isn't it? Isn't it true the misunderstanding of this foundational doctrine of the Trinity is the reason why there are so many countless religions and cults around the world? When you have the wrong father, you get the wrong family. If you don't have the Trinity, you don't have unity. This is the reason why the world's understanding and claim for unity is idealistic and temporary and unattainable and just plain wrong. Just think of communism, universalism, ecumenism. It's all man's efforts to unite things that cannot be united. If you're here this morning and you are not a Christian, we want to welcome you. Thank you so much for coming and joining us here this morning. But I wonder if you ever felt like you are far from God. Or maybe you felt like God is far from you. Or maybe you have sat in a room full of people and you felt like you don't really belong. Anywhere. Maybe you felt the emptiness and the void and are weary. Well, the Bible says apart from Christ, you are alone. In fact, the Bible says you are completely cut off. You have no union with God. You have no true fellowship with His people. You have no shared blessing, no promise of hope. You have no place to stand except before the judgment of God. You see, before a holy and righteous God, no one is worthy. No one is entitled to anything. Life, health, prosperity, peace, joy, nothing. Because the Bible says we are all sinners. No one is righteous, not even one. All have fallen short of the glory of God And because of our willing, conscious, and continuous rebellion toward God, we rightly deserve just punishment The consequences of our sin, pain, death, eternal judgment, and hell is rightly deserved because we are sinners But God, God in his mercy had a plan from the very beginning to redeem you and me and forgive us of our sins. How did he do that? By sending his own son, Jesus Christ, who is fully man and fully God. To live the life that you, we could not live, to die the debt that we should have died. And he took our place as a substitute on the cross. He paid the debt that we should have paid in eternal hell. But on the third day Jesus Christ rose again from death, which meant that God accepted his sacrifice, which meant that Christ defeated sin, death, and Satan. And whoever would repent of his sins And believe in him, will not die and go to hell, but participate in his resurrection and live the abundant life here on earth and forevermore. Join together with all who call on his name as Lord and Savior. as one new people, as God's new community. So if you're here, friend, I don't know how you got here, but I know one thing's for sure, God wanted you to be here. So repent now of your sins. Confess of your need of Jesus this morning. Trust him and accept him as your Savior and Lord today. And if you want to talk more about how you can know Jesus as Lord and Savior, talk to one of the pastors or elders or talk to somebody who is smiling next to you. And I'm sure they'll be happy to talk to you. When Christians are united by the common calling, common character, common testimony, common theology, there are several important implications that we should consider corporately. See, look at verse 3 again. It says, uh uh, be eager to maintain the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. And this is a good examination for any church. To see if unity is indeed what you guys are pursuing together. Are you eager? Ask yourself, are you eager as a new community and as individual Christians to maintain this unity? How do you do this practically? Are you maintaining unity by your humility, gentleness, patience, and love? Do you regularly lay down your preferences to maintain the unity of your church by serving in areas which may not be at the top of your list? Do you humbly serve and submit to your leaders and elders as commanded by Scripture? Do you gently prevent discontent members from sowing seeds of division or gossip? Do you patiently pray for unity among diversity in your church? That CBC will more and more reflect the community of Chevrolet? Do you intentionally love those who are different than you in your church and in your neighborhood in order to be a more faithful witness of Jesus and the gospel? Brothers and sisters, unity reflects the power of the gospel and reveals who God is. The first responsibility as God's new community is unity, because unity is God's goal for the local church. Our second responsibility is diversity, because diversity is God's gift to the local church. Diversity is God's gift to the local church. Look at verse 7 through 10. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. Brothers and sisters, diversity is a trendy word nowadays in our culture. Multi-ethnicity, multicultural, multi-racial, you get the point. Yet we pursue diversity because diversity strengthens unity. Remember that diversity is not the goal. At least in the church, it's not. Unity is the goal. Unity is the end. Our goal is to see sinful man united to God, isn't it? Well, Jesus says in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Brothers and sisters in Christ, you know, at great cost, Jesus descended and ascended, incarnation and resurrection ascension in order to diversely gift each one of us that he might fill all things. The image is that of an army winning war and bringing back the spoils of war back to their countrymen. So Jesus, we understand this image to be Jesus winning the ultimate battle. And he gives the plenteous loot to the church. Except the gifts that he gives has a purpose, I think, to fill what is lacking in Christ's affliction, as according to Colossians 1. 24. See, although our atonement from sin was complete in Christ's death and resurrection, God gave the church gifts And you notice in the in our passage that the gifts refer to people and not talents. That's why verses 11 through 12 says, and he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers. To equip the saints for the work of ministry for building up the body of Christ. This is why diversity is God's gift to the local church Because diversely gifted men builds up the body in the local church and ultimately the church universal. As we see diversity as God's gift to the church, you can remove from simply receiving in the church, right? Getting what you're going to get in the church now to edifying the church by sharing your life with others. The reason why God has brought you to this very church, to Chevrolet Baptist, is in order that you in your uniqueness can build up the church toward unity. When we begin to see God's good gifts of diversity as people and not talents, when we value diversity as God's gift to the church, you cherish every single individual member as God's image bearer. You care less about meeting a certain quota or a certain percentage, but you care more about the relationship. And the blessing and the edification that having diverse relationships and representation brings to the church. Hence. Pursuing diversity is a Christian responsibility, not only because it strengthens unity, but because it also helps us to obey the Great Commission. Remember Jesus said, go make disciples of all nations. And this I'm reminding you that has it it's always been God's eternal plan from the very beginning. So what's the implications in pursuing diversity as a church? In light of all that's going on in our society regarding racial injustice and racial reconciliation, I want to ask you the question, are you in tune? I'm going to use this word, not that I support all the political meaning of this word, but are you woke to what's going on in our society? Are you aware of the cultural conversations and issues and how Christians should think and act according to the biblical understanding of diversity and justice? Dr. Kevin Jones in Removing the Stain of Racism writes, diversity is not an accident or a problem. It's a sign of God's providence and promise. If the church gets this wrong, it's not just getting race and ethnic differences wrong. It's getting the gospel wrong. We cannot obey the Great Commission without celebrating the glory of the new humanity only Christ can create. Diversity as God's gift to the church means not denying, rejecting, ignoring, dismissing. Looking down on, overly criticizing or tycasting one's own culture, preference, or privilege over another's heritage. You can't champion the Great Commission if you don't advocate the cause of minorities as significant or more significant than yours. We must see the issue of racial reconciliation not only as an American historical issue, but as a kingdom issue Furthermore, the spectrum of our fight for racial justice and diversity should not merely be black and white, but Revelation 5 and Revelation 7. every nation from all tribes and people and languages. So I'm asking you the question, are you passionate about kingdom diversity? How can we show God's love to those who are different, disagreeable, uneasy to love and lead them to Christ If we do not intentionally embrace diversity as God's gift to build up the local church, if we grow weary or passive about eagerly maintaining the unity, I'm afraid we will rightly be judged by the watching world as bigots and hypocrites. So how can we do this better as a local church? Let me share some applications. As you've already done so, pray regularly and publicly for God to gift this church with diversity, working toward unity. Don't be colorblind, but rather be color conscious. Talk about racial diversity even as a majority culture church. Talk about these things. Talk about how you can better commend the gospel. Number two, minorities mostly struggle with the social aspect of joining a majority culture church So be hospitable. Hospitality is a great way to get to know others personally. Number three, members should be encouraged to disciple, meet with, and have lunch with people who are different. Number four, be intentional to involve minority members in your worship services. Have them pray, have them read scripture, give announcements. Be intentional about this. So thank you for inviting me to preach here this morning We should be intentional about discipling young minority men to become potential elders and leaders and deacons in the church. From my humble opinion, I think a lot of the minorities that grow up in church come from unhealthy church backgrounds. So it's going to take patience and love and encouragement, but empower them, encourage them towards this end, that they can attain to be elders and leaders in majority culture contexts. Finally, the third responsibility a new community should pursue together is discipleship And they should do this because discipleship is God's plan for church growth. God's plan, discipleship is God's plan for church growth. So, unity is God's goal for the church. Diversity is God's gift to the church, in order that we can ultimately grow into maturity. Hence, our responsibility in walking in a manner worthy of the calling is discipleship. Because number one, discipleship leads us to unity of faith. Look at verse 13. Until we all attain to the unity of faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. See, it all comes back to unity. One faith in the knowledge of the Son of God, that people of all backgrounds, race, and generations will once again understand that we are of the one Creator, created in his image to glorify him. Furthermore, the purpose of discipleship obviously is for maturity, that we would grow to mature manhood. Look at verse 13, to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes, so that more people, those who are elect of God, can grow into maturity, that they will in turn make disciples to advance God's kingdom. See, growing in maturity also means that we have discernment to know what is true and what is false. Amen. Finally, why disciple? Why should we pursue discipleship as a responsibility? To grow in our dependence toward one another. Look at verse 15. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. From whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. So that we can grow into him and into one another. This is a picture of God Himself, the Trinitarian nature. More dependence on God, more dependence on one another to accomplish kingdom purposes together. How blessed are we in the church, in the body of believers, that we have been gifted with men and women who can disciple us toward maturity and discernment. Imagine the advantage of diversity of men and women God is gifted at your church. How much more will we experience the fullness of God in the local church rather than trying to grow on our own? Discipleship of diverse experiences and wisdom, diverse viewpoints and talents, covenanting together, committing together to grow in our common unity in Christ and in the gospel. Brothers and sisters, the church's growing diversity is God's gift to us toward a further growth into maturity and experiencing the fullness of God. Brothers and sisters, there are so many ways, as you know, in how to grow a church. program driven, purpose-driven, metrics, business models, attraction models, seeker-friendly models. And as a church plant, maybe some of these are appealing to you. And I don't think it is, but it can be, right? It could be a temptation, right? But all those movements have come and gone. But making disciples, discipleship is God's plan for church growth This is Jesus' final command until he returns. Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go therefore making disciples of all nations Baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I command you. And I will be with you even to the end of the age. So pray, brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptist Church, that you will continue to intentionally disciple others toward maturity. Pray that the culture of discipleship at CBC will continue to flourish, bear much fruit. Be open about reading scripture together and with people in your community, right? And pray continuously, regularly, that you'll grow in diversity in the church, that your church could be built up toward unity. What is the cost of unity? Christians know that the price of our reconciliation is Christ's death on the cross on our behalf Therefore, let's be eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Because number one, unity is God's goal for the local church. Number two, diversity is God's gift to the local church. And discipleship is God's plan for church growth. Let's pray. Father, you say in your word, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free There is no male or female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. May the love of this church through unity and diversity reflect Christ and commend the gospel for your glory and for our good in Jesus' name.