Good morning. It's an honor to be with you here today. Thankful that you would allow me to be able to share from God's Word and to allow our family to worship with you. My wife Danny Beth and our three children are here and it really is a treat. We don't get to go out and worship with other churches that often. And so when we are invited, we really consider it an honor. Uh especially when it's uh from a brother like John, uh whom I've been uh really appreciating the growing friendship that we've had over the last few years. We've been we're in a pastors group together and uh just have gotten lunch a few times and just hearing his heart for for his family, uh his desire for the church to be built up. uh and for his passion for the gospel to go forth. Uh it has challenged me, it has encouraged me. Uh and so I just want to say I I am I respect your pastor and the other elders, John, uh Klon, Dan Just so you know, our church prays for CBC and other churches, just like you you all do. And a few months ago, actually, we were praying for Uh Chevroly Baptist and for Jonathan Joseph, John Joseph. And afterwards, one of our members, a young lady, came up and said, did you say John Joseph? I said, yeah, yeah. And she says, uh can you describe him? And so I was talking about, you know, he used to be Coast Guard and everything. And she said, I I knew him. She works for the government. She says, I knew him, but I don't think he was a Christian back then And I said, yeah, tell me more. Tell me more about this. So anyway, it was really a neat connection. If you'd like to know more about that part of John's life, come up and see me after after the service. As we get started this morning, I'd like to ask you to consider a question. What motivates you in life? What motivates you in life? What motivates you to get up every morning to do what you do? To go to work, go to school. Is it a paycheck? I gotta get to work, get the paycheck. Is it your family? You love your family, you know you gotta provide, you know you gotta care for them Is it a desire to make a difference? You know, you drive downtown, you know it's it's hectic, it's crazy down there, but but you want to make a difference. You want to see lives change, you want to help our nation or help the nations. What motivates you? What is that core factor that drives you to be the person that you are and to live the life that you live. Could it be fear? Often we we are driven by the fear of what other people think, or the fear of what might happen if we don't save enough, or the fear that we won't be safe if we don't do certain things. Is it guilt? Do you feel guilty unless you act a certain way or live a certain lifestyle? Do you do good out of a sense of guilt? Or maybe it's comfort. You make the decisions in your life to structure everything in such a way to maximize personal comfort. We have to wrestle with and ask honestly, what motivates our lives? And then even more broadly, what motivates this church? What drives this church to be what it is in this community? In today's passage, Paul the Apostle gives us insight into what motivated him as an apostle and as a Christian, what drove him. And I want you to see that the big idea, the message today is we are called to live in the live. As ambassadors for Christ. Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 5, beginning in verse 11, as we hear about Paul's motivation. First point, our motivation as ambassadors. And then secondly, we're going to learn about our mission as ambassadors. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, beginning in verse 11. Paul says, Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known also to your conscience. We're not commending ourselves to you again. But giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. If we are in our right mind, it is for you. For the love of Christ controls us because we have concluded this. that one has died for all, therefore all have died. And he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to Himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them. And entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake, He made him to be sin who knew no sin. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. This is the word of God. First, our motivation as ambassadors. Paul tells us in verse 11, he says, Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord. He's referring back to verse 10 where he talks about how we will all appear before the judgment seat of Christ and give an account. See, Paul doesn't have this mushy view, sentimental view of God. Right? God's not just a man upstairs. He's not just a pal. God is Paul for Paul, God is It God is this one for whom he is in awe of that that he knows that one day he will stand before a God who is so holy so morally pure, so incomprehensible, that in God's presence all human boasting and pride immediately vanishes. He knows that one day all will be brought to light when we stand before Christ the King. And Paul says, therefore, knowing that fear, knowing that, having that awe, that respect, that reverence for God. this God of all creation, he says, I am motivated to preach the gospel and conduct my ministry with integrity. His awe of God reminds him he cannot resort to manipulation or or deception of the truth And if you read the book of Acts, you see that's exactly what Paul does. He simply and straightforwardly shares the gospel. He he helps people deconstruct false views about Jesus and Christianity, and he puts out the accurate, the clear message. Jesus lived, he died for our sins, he rose from the dead. This This is Jesus not only Messiah, but resurrected King. He was motivated to share this out of a healthy fear of the Lord. It guarded him from simply doing whatever it takes. To reach people with the gospel, he knows that it takes integrity, and that's how he conducted his life. He had a fear, a healthy fear. Not a fear that he would one day stand before Christ and be judged for his sin. We know and he knows that was already settled for at the cross. This is the same man who wrote in Romans 8:1, there is right now, therefore, no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. The New Testament teaches we will stand before God and be evaluated by how faithful we are to live in such a way to show Jesus is our greatest treasure. Paul is not referring to a judgment of condemnation, but a judgment of evaluation. The fear of the Lord is a motivator. It should be Knowing we will one day stand before God and give an account should change how we live now. In other words, what we do now matters eternally. So my question to you, and the question I wrestle with, is, is it obvious your life is shaped by eternity? Is it obvious that your life is shaped by eternity? Are your ambitions and sessions and your schedule and your spending habits different maybe even radically different than those around you because you know that one day you will give an account In verses twelve and thirteen, Paul is defending against critics who are attacking his motives And in his methods. Some people accuse Paul, verse 13, they accuse him of being out of his mind. He said, if we're beside ourselves, literally, it means if if some people say we're crazy, he says it's for God's sake. By the way, they also accuse Jesus of being crazy. Some people accuse Paul that because he didn't take a salary, he wasn't a true minister, or some accuse them because he was suffering so much and being persecuted, he could not possibly be a representative of God. And he wants to reassure the church at Corinth that he is ministering the gospel with integrity and he wants them to judge not based on outward appearances but what's on the heart. And that's why Paul says, listen, if I'm crazy, it's for God alone. And if and if you say I'm doing good, it's because I love you. In other words, he's focused on God and people. He had this selfless perspective. Can you and I honestly say that about our lives? That we are willing even to look foolish or be misunderstood because our lives and our priorities are so different from the world's priorities. In this world, no matter where you live, in America or in India or Papua New Guinea, if you live a Christian life, you will go against the stream of this world. Are we willing to be be looked at and be on the outward Paul was considered foolish by many? Are you willing to bear that for the sake of Christ and following Christ? Yes, I want to be accepted and liked as much as anybody else. I want to be winsome in what I say and do, but at the end of the day, when I say certain things, as soon as I say them, immediately people are offended. And I have to decide, can I can I say what I need to say in love with compassion, knowing there will be a cost to that. We're not called to be obnoxious. We're simply called, as Paul says in Philippians 2, to shine as lights in this twisted and crooked generation. But what would Paul what would make Paul so willing to look foolish? He says that in verse 14 and 15 He shares his motivation about the fear of the Lord, but now he shares. Look at verse 14. For the love of Christ controls us We've concluded that one Jesus died for all, therefore all died, that those who live might no longer live for themselves. So the fear of Christ motive motivated Paul, but now we see the love of Christ, it completes that motivation. The love of Christ, meaning the death of Christ and His love in demonstrating that or His love in going to the cross and canceling our sin and canceling our debt. Paul says This love controls me and compels me and drives me to share the gospel, to live in a way that is worthy of the gospel. The word in verse 14, control. It means to apply pressure to something. You see, when you apply pressure to something, something is bound to happen I studied neurophysiology in at the University of Maryland. So a lot of science background. It's sort of like the third law of Newton, Newton's third law, right? Every action will have an equal and opposite. Reaction. That's right. And so uh I have kids and they like to play with beach balls uh all the time, but especially when we're near the water or in a pool. And here's what happens when you have a beach ball and you're playing in the air, it's great. But have you ever tried putting a beach ball into the water? It's hard, right? Right. Why? Because the water is now putting pressure on the beach ball. The ball is dis Displacing the water and the water does not like that. And in fact, the further you push the ball down, the more pressure is applied to the ball by the water because the ball the water is saying no No, no, and you push it down further and further, and then when you let go, you know what happens? Phew. It shoots up because the water says, we can't take all this pressure. And it pushes it up in the air and it causes an action or a reaction. When Paul says the love of Christ controls us, he's saying, Listen, the love of Christ in our lives, in our hearts. It creates this pressure that went that actually will cause action. It will push us out. It will drive us out. Christ's love doesn't guilt us, it doesn't beat us down till we do something, it compels us, it causes us into action. You can tell when someone is being motivated by genuine love or something else. There's this moving scene at the end of The Lord of the Rings, which is one of my favorite movie series. Return of the King, Frodo, Samwise, Gamji, his best friend, his partner in this journey this epic journey and this arduous journey as as they've been trekking the Mordor to destroy the ring, right? And and they face all kinds of evil. Evil they didn't even existed in the world and they've been beaten down and they've suffered and they've seen tragic things physically, emotionally spiritually and literally they're at the foot of mount uh of mount doom and frodo collapses they have nothing left they're crying and and fro and samwise is is holding frodo and he says to to to frodo Um as as the tears are falling back, he says, Frodo, do you remember the Shire The birds, he says it's springtime now. The birds are singing. There's there's the summer barley is is about to come up. And and he says, Oh, in the strawberries, they're eating strawberries or cream. He says, Frodo, do you remember eating strawberries? Frodo says, Sam, I can't even remember the taste of food or the sound of water. The ring is consuming me and then he he he he has another fit and Sam says uh it literally he has nothing left there they don't even know how they're gonna make it up they still have a difficult Part of the journey, and Sam says, Listen, let us be rid of this. Let us be rid of this ring once and for all. He says, Come, Mr. Frodo, I can't carry it for you, but I can carry you. You see, love drove him to do what he never thought was possible. Love compelled him to action. It controlled him. Love first friend, not hatred, not duty, but love. Here's what I'm saying. The love of Christ cannot be something theoretical. It has to be real in order for it to drive us to action. Friends, Jesus came to earth for you. But that's not all. He died for you instead of you. He experienced the justice of God against your sin. He experienced the hell that you and I would deserve. Why? Verse 15. This is the crux. That those who live would no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and rose again. Paul knows that left to our own devices, we will live for self. The bent of the human heart from the moment a child is born, as beautiful as that child is, and I have three But the moment they are born, you do not have to teach them that they think they are the center of the world. Right? It's about my needs being met. I'm hungry. Change me. And in the beginning it's it's it's cute. It's fine. Right? You gotta do it. But then eventually they they get to the point where they're like the seagulls in finding Nemo. Mine, mine, mine, mine? That's that is that is the the beauty I I love the the writers of that. They know what's in our hearts. And they know, and I know, God's word tells us we can't overcome that by sheer willpower. Don't go out here saying, I'm gonna live for Christ because I can do it. No, it takes the grace of God. putting death to our old self and and reviving this new life and and fanning into flames this new life so that we'll live for Christ. In other words, what Paul is saying here, our union with Christ, right? We are united to the life, to the death of Christ, and now the life of Christ. Our union with Christ frees us from living for self. Paul says when it sinks in deeply that Jesus died for us and died as us, he became sin. How can we not be compelled to go out and live for him? The love of Christ causes us to abandon self as being supreme. One commentator described it this way, so accurate. He says, in societies given to self-promotion, self-fulfillment, and self-indulgence, Christians will stand out as distinctly different. They live for Christ and give up their own rights for the good of others and do not insist on having their own way. Does that reflect your heart today? That whatever it takes to honor God and meet the deepest needs of others in this community and around the world, we will do that with integrity. Next, Paul moves from explaining his motivation as ambassador now to describing his mission as an ambassador. This is the second point. Beginning in verse 16 and following. That's what he's doing. He's describing his mission. And he makes this interesting, uh, uh, this, this amazing claim in verse 17: if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation. The old has passed away, the new has come. He says, this is what the gospel does. It radically changes us. When we have turned to Christ, when we've turned away from whatever that thing is we've been living for, and we turn to Christ and receive him by faith, he says, listen, something happens. The old man, the old person is permanently gone, and the new has come to stay. Have you trusted in Christ today? Have you experienced the miracle of new birth? Here's the question, though Why would in the midst of explaining what it looks like to be an ambassador, to live as a minister of reconciliation, why right in the middle would he make this claim about how amazing the gospel is and how it changes us? And here's what I think. Because you have to know and believe and be amazed at what the gospel has done for you before you can be on mission for the gospel for others. In other words, you need to cherish the gospel as good news before you can share the gospel as good news If you struggle to share the gospel, I would ask you to consider maybe it's not just an outward thing. Maybe it's not that just that you don't know enough. Maybe it's an issue that you have not cherished. Jesus Christ, enough. You've not dwelt enough on what he has done and what he means to you. Christian, can I ask you, is the gospel still good news to you? Do you remember that on the cross Jesus was judged for our sin? Every single evil that we have committed was cast on him, all of our lying. All of our sexual immorality, all of our pride, all of our greed, all of our racism, all of our selfishness, all of our abuse and our violence, Jesus was judged in our place. Second things five twenty-one, the last verse here, he became sin for us. And in that moment, he didn't just experience the physical pain and the emotional suffering and the shame and humiliation. He experienced something none of us. could ever fathom the father in this this strange and mysterious way turns his face away and the son feels utterly alone as he cries out my God my God why have you forsaken me He did it to show that he can take your sin away and take your shame away, and he did it because he wanted to show you this is what love looks like. This is the depth of my love. So that you and I, through faith in receiving this gift, might experience unconditional grace and acceptance and forgiveness. And everlasting life. It's what Martin Lut Martin Luther called the great exchange Jesus took our sin, we get his righteousness now and forever. And the question is, does that both humble you and exhilarate you today? Does it move you? Has it have you found a level of freedom from finding your identity in him rather than in your Job or your education or your politics or your sexuality or your achievements. Not that we've arrived But the only way you will be compelled to be on mission for God is if the gospel has taken deep root in your heart. and you cherish it and you treasure him and you say and and the ball goes deeper and deeper down and then eventually you realize you can't help but share this good news It can't be theoretical, it's got to be real. Look at verse 18. All of this is from God, right? From beginning to end, salvation is a work of God who through Christ reconciled us. To himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Reconciliation is not something we do, but something God does. We don't tell people to go and make peace with God. We tell them God has already done everything to make peace with them. Receive it. God has entrusted verse 19 to us the message of reconciliation. He calls us ambassadors. An ambassador is a messenger and a representative. Right? An ambassador is a messenger and a representative. Every nation sends out ambassadors. They represent that nation and they speak on behalf of that nation. And they have the full authority to do so. And so God commissions us, he says, listen, I sent Jesus the king to be to inaugurate the kingdom, and then Jesus Uh dubs us, you go out now as my ambassadors. You represent me and you speak on my behalf. And just think about the mundane things of life. As you represent King Jesus. As you stand in his place, as you speak on his behalf, when you're at the grocery store, when you're filling up your gas tank, when you're playing with other kids at school When you're working on that proposal, do you have the mindset I represent the king and the kingdom? How would that change your attitude, your mindset, your perspective? I'll be honest, this challenges me because I am so I am everything for me has to be fast Really fast. In fact when we're in traffic and and we're and we're in bumper tr uh bumper to bumper traffic I I find great v joy. I don't even know why my wife called me out on this recently. If I can just get around two other cars, even if I have a slam on my brakes And she said, why do you do that? Does that feel good to you? And something I said, yes. And I didn't know why. Why does it feel better to get ahead a little bit more? I don't What does it look like to represent King Jesus in the mundane parts of my life? Not just when I'm preaching, but when I'm in the grocery, when I'm talking to the lady helping me on the phone or the guy at the counter The ministry of reconciliation includes sharing the gospel. But it means more than that. How do I know? Because he differentiates the message of reconciliation, and then he says we have a ministry of reconciliation. If you look at Paul's life, he did both. He said to those in Thessalonica, we loved you enough. You were so dear to us. We shared not only the gospel of God, but our very lives as well. And if you look at Jesus, he came proclaiming the kingdom, the message of the kingdom. But what did he do? The word became flesh and dwelt among us. He lived in this broken, sin-sick world and experienced our suffering, and he healed the sick, and he comforted the hurting, and he reached out to the marginalized. So I think the ministry of reconciliation means sharing the gospel, but it means sharing our lives as well. It means in essence becoming a missionary right here. It means getting involved in the mess of other people's lives. It means serving and loving people who quote unquote don't deserve it. It means doing good to those who are far from God. What does that look like here in Chevrolet? What does that look like as you live out your days in community here? As this as this church uh gets underway, is birthed and lives as a shining light in this community. Why do we do that? Because our lives need to authenticate our message. So that when we tell people Jesus loves them, they'll have an idea what that means because we will be modeling that for them. That's what it means to be an ambassador for Christ. It's gospel witness and gospel living One of the ways that our church tries to do this, and it's just one way, and it's not a perfect way, but it's it's one of the ways we try to do every year we we take a week uh out of our summer and we say to the whole church, uh whether you work, retired, student, we want you to take the week off. And we want you to commit and and be a part of this week we call grace gives, because the word grace, grace fat the church, grace means to give freely as a gift. And so we say this week is called Grace Gives and we want to love our community, no strings attached. And we want to go out and we we have a vacation Bible school and we have a school sports camp and and we and we find homes for families who are in need and we fix their homes and things that they they can't do themselves and we we say we'll buy the supplies we'll fix your home we'll We'll um we do a free uh car wash. People come in, we wash five, six hundred cars, we wash their wheels, they're scrubbing, and they think they're gonna give a donation at the end. We say nope, no donations, totally free And they're like f they're like so stunned and they ask, well, why would you do that? Ah. Well, we'd love to share. There's actually this thing called grace. And I know in our society that we don't really use that term a lot, but it means to give as a gift and we believe God has given us an infinitely greater gift than washing your car through his son Jesus and we've had incredible conversations. But things happen that we don't even plan for. And two years ago, we washed a family's car, and it was great. Three Sundays ago, this family walks into our church. Having never been in a gospel proclaiming church in their lives. And I called them right before they left and I said, Have you ever been here? No. Well, what made you come out today? And they said, I know this sounds weird, but two years ago you washed our car I said, okay, yeah, yeah, all right, great. And so then they got really serious and they said, yeah, but but last year, at the same exact time, strangely enough, the wife, three two little boys, she said, I was in the grocery store And my son has special needs. She said he he had this fit. He's very sensitive to to the sensory things and he He had an episode and there's nothing I can do and I have to just wait it out and it and it was a 20-minute episode and he was flail flailing and he he was hitting me and I All I can do is hold him and I and often she says I people walk by and they glare at me and they judge me and they literally say things like, just spank that kid or get him in order and And I feel like a terrible mom and I'm holding my son and she says, and someone from your church wearing this shirt that said grace gives, walked up to me, an older lady, put her arm around me and said, You are a good mom. You're loving your son well. And she said she sat with me that whole time and And she said, it blew me away. And she said, I finished up and I got my groceries and I got to my van. And here this lady comes back out and gives me a bouquet of flowers just to let me know I can still have hope And she has tears in her eyes. She said, that was a year ago. And our lives have been difficult. And we've been in this, uh it wasn't even a Christian church. And she says, and we just we needed something. We didn't know where else to go. And we so we showed up here today. And I'm thinking we could never have designed that. We're not smart enough for that. But we want to be out. And people have said to us, why are you wasting your time washing cars or doing these mundane things? And all I know is sometimes little acts of love has ripple effects in ways you and I will never imagine. What if Chevroly Baptists were to get together sometime and just dream what are ways we can love and serve our community? You probably are doing it already. You're probably thinking, and and I know John is his his heart for this, but but all of you just dreaming what could it look like for sh for Chevrolet and Bladensburg in this area to know this church exists To proclaim a message, yes, that might seem kind of weird, but they live in such a way that makes it compelling Let me just close with three quick thoughts. How do we live as ambassadors? Kind of kind of nuts and bolts. First, ambassadors for Christ pray for their friends who need Jesus. Jesus saturated his ministry with prayer. First Timothy 2, Paul says, I urge then supplications, prayers. Intercessions, thanksgiving be made for all people. And then he says, and this is good, and it's pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. We're commanded to pray. Prayer is where real evangelism begins. And you will be amazed that when you pray, God acts. Who are you praying for who needs Christ? Are you praying that the Lord of the harvest would send out more workers? Kids, I would encourage you to pray for your friends. Pray for fellow students. Pray that they would come to know that Jesus is the King of the universe and that He came to die and rise again because He loves us. Secondly, as ambassadors, you must be willing to love our non-Christian friends in a way that shows them Jesus. Are you investing in the lives of your coworkers? Are you investing in the lives of your neighbors? You can't do it all. I know I get that. But maybe one neighbor, one coworker, maybe have them over for dinner, have them over for coffee, take them out to lunch, get to know them. A couple years ago this convicted me when someone challenged me. He said, Do you even know the names of your neighbors? Jesus said, love your neighbor as yourself. And then the guy said, but do you know the names of your neighbors? How can you love someone you don't even know their name? So I had to kind of sheepishly go across the street at times and be like, hey, I've seen you a a little bit, um, but you kind of you know they open the garage, they get in, so nobody sees them. And so I have to catch them outside one time when they're like They didn't even know, like, hey, I see you. Hey, my name is Mark. What's your name? Like, oh, oh, yeah, I guess we live next to each other. I know it's weird and it's hard and it's messy, but they're our neighbors physically. Our neighbors Finally, we need to share our story and the gospel. We need to share our story and the gospel. At some point, we do need to use words to explain the gospel in our workplace, in our neighborhoods, with our friends. Paul says here, God is making his appeal through us. Isn't that incredible? God's plan A is us. That is really odd, given the fact that I know myself. This is hard. We struggle with the fear of rejection, fear of looking foolish, not knowing enough. This is where we need to pray that we become more like a child. We truly need to become more like a child. Our children have much to teach us, as mine have challenged me A few years ago, I was cleaning out my car, kind of a once-a-year endeavor, and uh my son, Elijah, my oldest son, was helping me. And I keep a small Bible in the door of my car because I go to hospitals a lot and I meet with people, so I just have that Bible handy and um We're cleaning out the car. My neighbor, two doors down, came over. They're from Bosnia. Wonderful family, uh Muslim family. We we love their children. uh and we're friends with them and their son was over and he was kind of talking to us and as my son was taking out the bible uh to clean uh my my neighbor's friend uh kind of the his son was kind of curious and he and he said hey what is that And I said, that's the Bible. And then my son said, have you ever read it? The boy said, no. What's it about? And you know, at that moment, here I am, a pastor, I've gotten all kinds of training, right? I know the gospel, I love the gospel, and all of a sudden I got stuck. I was like, what do I tell my Muslim friend son about Jesus? I don't want to get, I don't want to offend, I don't want to, you know what my son didn't have any of those kind of pretenses. Nothing. What is it about? Immediately my son jumps in and he says, oh, it's a book about God and how he came to rescue us from our sins through Jesus dying on the cross. I don't take any credit for that. In fact, it was a conviction to me. I was stuck. I was thinking about what how I could say and what what and all my son says is, hey, you ask a question, I give you an answer. A good answer Will it cost us to be ambassadors for Christ? Yes. A few months ago, our name our friends from church, church members had all of their stuff on my front yard, all of their possessions, because they believed that the gospel of Jesus Christ was more valuable than all of their earthly treasures, and they sold everything they had and moved to Southeast Asia to be missionaries, them and their six kids. They literally sold everything they had, and it was all in our front yard, and I looked at it and we were all crying because we were like, this it is costly, but is Jesus worth it? Listen, only the gospel can melt away that self-focus so that Christ becomes our greatest treasure, so that we can say like Paul to live is Christ and to die is gain. Are willing to look foolish or worse, to share the message of reconciliation, to engage in the ministry of reconciliation, no manipulation, no deception, all out of integrity. It's worth it. It's worth it seeing people encounter the living God, seeing eternal lives changed, people, uh, the bondage of sin broken. Will you as a Christian embrace your call to live as an ambassador for Christ? Maybe some of you here are not Christians, maybe you're a guest. I just want to thank you for being here. Thank you for for listening and for engaging with what the Bible says. Maybe you've never experienced the love of Christ Maybe you can't say that I live for the one who died and rose for me. You're still living for self. Here's what I would say: God's message for you is be reconciled to God. He is made away by his son. And I plead with you, Jesus is better than whatever you've been looking to to provide meaning and satisfaction in your life. Only God can truly forgive. Only God can take away the shame that Pastor John taught prayed about earlier Only God can transform our hearts and give us a righteousness and a hope and a joy that the world can never take away and that death itself can never snatch. And it's yours. That assurance of life is yours if you will turn from your sin and receive the Lord Jesus Christ by faith as a gift. Live as ambassadors for Christ Church. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I know that at any given moment in our lives, on a day like this, there are struggles. There are needs. There are. There is suffering and even temptation and sin in our lives. And we walk in and it feels like. . To go out and try to live what you've taught us this morning can feel so beyond where we are. So Lord, I just pray that you would help us Help us to see our high calling. Help us to even see that in our suffering, in our pain That is often how you shine your light the brightest. When we are weak, you are strong. When we are broken, your wholeness comes forth. When we don't know what to say, you give us words. When we walk through this life limping, you can show that the glory comes from you and not from us. So God, I pray help every help every adult, help every child, help everyone here to understand the gospel and cherish Jesus as their all-surpassing treasure and that it would transform us and and control us and be like that ball beach ball and compel us out of here with great love as we serve and honor you knowing the fear of the Lord that we might persuade others Of the riches and joy of knowing Christ Jesus. We love you. We thank you that you first loved us We pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.