Well, brothers and sisters, I invite you, if you have your Bibles, and I hope that you do, to take them and open them to 1 John, the letter of 1 John. Towards the back of your Bible, if you don't know where that's at. We'll be looking at chapter 1, verses 5 through 10 this morning. 1 John chapter 1. Verses five through ten. The word of the Lord this morning begins this way. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you. That God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him, while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Once again, this is the reading of God's holy word. Let's begin with the word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we we praise, we come to this passage, which in many ways It is an encouraging passage, but it is also a sobering passage, Father. I pray that you would give us hearts to receive your word. I pray that you would give us minds to understand your word your word and I pray Lord that you would give us a will and a desire this week to put your word into practice, O Lord. We pray that you would continually um Be doing your work in our hearts and our lives, O Lord, as we know we have these promises from you, that the work that you began, you will complete in us until the day of Christ Jesus. And so, Lord, we pray that this morning, this passage, would be a small part of that work of yours in our hearts and lives. We ask this in Jesus' precious, holy, and righteous name. Amen. Amen. It's interesting to me that the Apostle Paul, I know this is written by John, but the Apostle Paul, who wrote many of the letters in the New Testament, can write two letters, namely the letters to uh the first and second letter to the Corinthians, which if you read to those letters, it is just two letters dealing with a church that has one problem after another, one struggle after another, one uh internal turmoil after another And the Apostle Paul can write so encouragingly to these people who are not perfect, who struggle in any number of ways. And yet at the end of the book of 2 Corinthians, in chapter 13, the Apostle Paul can then turn around after exhorting these people as believers. And then turn around at the end of the whole book and say, but examine yourselves to see and make sure that you are truly in the faith. Now that's not meant to be a discouraging remark in any way, but it is an encouragement to draw yourself further. into the process of making your calling and your election sure. The Apostle Peter says the same thing. In 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 10, you know, make your calling and election sure. And that that is what John is after in this particular passage. this morning. In fact, what he does is he lays out what the marks of true believers really look like. So that we as believers, those who make a profession of faith, can look at our own hearts And and kind of do an internal examination as to where our relationship with the Lord really stands. In fact, that really is the main idea of this passage, and it's this. The marks of a true Christian John gives us two. The marks of a true Christian are someone who walks in the light. That's the first one. And secondly, someone who freely confesses their sins Or maybe say willingly confesses their sins. And those are the marks that we want to unpack this morning. But I want to begin in verse 5 with you as we see our first point, the message that lies behind. or underneath as a foundation to these distinguishing marks. Let's take a look at verse 5. We'll see first the nature of the message. John says this, this is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. And so as we look at the nature of the message, we see the source of it very clearly. John says, we have heard this from him. Now him is in this passage is most clearly Jesus Christ. Remember, John and the other apostles lived with Jesus. Walked with him for three years. They heard him teaching. They saw him do miracles. This is what they've heard from Christ. Now, that's a really important uh point to make. We're not talking about hearing this from God in a generic sense, but Christ in a specific sense. And the reason that is a really potent point for John to make. is if you remember last week when we looked at uh verses 1 through 4, John makes a big deal about who Jesus is. Jesus is one person, and yet he is fully divine and he is fully human all at once, since he's come in the flesh. And so why that's important for John to say is he's talking about the nature of the message is this is a message that it doesn't come merely from the opinion of one mere human being. It's not the opinion of one mere religious teacher who lived at one time and one place. This is a message, he says, that comes from an eternal person, someone who is eternally divine, who stands over and above history and culture. And individual people. It's a message that comes from that source and then speaks in to our lives. That's what he's getting at here. This is not a message for just one time in history. It's not a message just for one place on the globe. It's not just a message for one people group or one culture. It is a message from heaven for all people. And notice what he says here about the scope of this message in verse 5. He says, this message which we've heard from him, from Christ, we proclaim to you. Now it's interesting that word we proclaim is a present tense verb showing that this is a message that is to be continually proclaimed to all people in all places in all times. In other words, there's no discrimination here. It's a message for all. Now, what we have to know is John is writing to people who have been influenced by false teachers. Namely, the false teachers of the late first century and into the second century were called Gnostics. And all of that means is people who claimed that they had a special knowledge a special revelation from God that was unique to them and all those outside were outside. It didn't concern them. And what John is saying is, no, the message that we have heard from Christ comes from heaven, not from men, and it concerns all people everywhere. And so what is the substance of the message? Well, you see the substance in verse 5 again. Well, this is what we proclaim to you. That God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Now it's really interesting that when you read the Gospel of John or any of the other of the three Gospels, uh Matthew, Mark, or Luke, you never see Jesus come out and say this. You never have him come out and say God is light. John turns around and he he does say that Jesus is the light. I mean, in fact, Jesus does say in John chapter 7 and again in John chapter 8, I am the light of the world. But we also know from the Gospel of John that because Jesus is God in the flesh, that this certainly applies to him as well as applying to the Father and the Spirit. God is light. Jesus is preaching of who God is as he himself is the light is the greatest revelation of who God is. But when he says God is light, what is he talking about? What does that even mean? Is that just some esoteric statement? No. Actually what it means is it points to us to God's character. His nature. His attributes. When we say that God is light, it's pointing to God's moral perfection. You know what's interesting? This is why this is so important for John to harp on and for us to pay attention to, is the fact that we are made in the image of this God who is light. And because we're made in the image of this God who is light, his character, his person, as morally perfect, as holy and pure Is meant to be something that influences our lives and our character, something that we are meant to live out as those who are redeemed by grace. Now, what's interesting is when he says God is light, you know, the Bible makes a few statements when it says God is. And when the Bible makes statements and it says God is, and then you fill in the blank of what God is, that's telling you something about God's very being, his character, his nature, his attributes. Just think about a few of these statements throughout Scripture. In Exodus chapter 3, verse 14, when God reveals himself to Moses in the burning bush, he says, I am who I am. When you go and you speak to the children of Israel, tell them, I am has sent me to you. In other words, what God is saying is his very existence is necessary In Leviticus chapter 19 verse 2, you shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am holy. Or think of to build on that, Isaiah chapter 6, verses 1 through 6. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. God is holy. That's his character. That's his being. Do you remember in Mark chapter 10 to jump into the New Testament in verse 18, when the rich young ruler comes to Jesus and he calls him good teacher, and Jesus responds, Why do you call me good? There is no one good but God. God is good. That's his character. That's his nature. We'll see later on in this book of 1 John when we get to 1 John chapter 4. He tells us that God is love at the end of verse 8. Love is his character. Well, in this case, John is highlighting how God is light. He's perfect. He's holy. And then he turns around and gives the other side of the coin. In him, there is no darkness at all. In other words, there's no sin. There's no evil. There's no malice. There's only goodness. In fact, the Apostle James tells us in James chapter 1, verses 16 through 17, do not be deceived. My brothers, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. There's that keyword again. with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. So this whole message that John is is harping on right from the beginning in verse five, it highlights how God's character should shape us and it calls forth a response from us. And that really is the nature of the gospel. It is it is God's character then turned around and applied to those who are redeemed by Him. Now I want to stop there really quick before we jump into verses 6 through 10 and just like really tease out the application here. And it's the point is this for application is the divine source of the gospel. challenges the notions of moral relativity that are so prevalent today and the substance of the gospel challenges self-centered religion It 's really interesting if you really look and you apply this well, it confronts us exactly where we are, individually and culturally. Now I want you to think about that, how the gospel challenges are moral and cultural relativity. There is no secret to the fact that if if if you go and you talk to almost anyone on the street today, or at work, or maybe even among your family members, People will tell you that there is um there are no such things as objective moral standards Right? That's what they tell us. There are no moral objective truths. And because there are no objective moral truths It's up to each person to live out their own standards of what is right and wrong. You hear this all the time. This person is living out their truth. This person is is living out who they really are. So on and so forth. And because of that, no one has the right to stand up and tell someone else That what they are doing is morally evil. Because no one has the right to stand up and judge someone else. That is what we're told in the world around us. But what's what's wrong with that that mindset? Now truthfully Jesus did say, you know Do not judge lest you be judged. We're not called to pronounce the eternal judgment upon somebody. But that doesn't mean we're not able to point out evil where we see it. What's wrong with this mentality? Well, it presupposes that everybody has the authority to determine for themselves the standard of good and evil that everyone else must respect. Brothers and sisters, please don't miss the fact that what we're seeing in the world around us today is really nothing new. We've been seeing this from Genesis chapter 3 on. Do you remember what what what uh what was going through Eve's mind? In her mind, when she was being tempted She thought she had the authority to determine whether or not the serpent was right or God was right. She felt that she had the authority to determine what was right and wrong for herself. And we've been living that same lie since then. And I want you to think about like this. When you have everyone walking around assuming that they have the authority to determine for themselves a standard of good and evil that everyone else must respect. What that means is you have millions of different standards of individual good and evil that are being imposed upon us Daily and we wonder why injustice is prevalent today? I mean, really Unless you have one fundamental standard of good and evil, which is objectively determined, not by us, but by God, unless you have that There is no such thing as equality. There is no such thing as justice, which John will get to later when we look at verse 9. We wonder why people are at each other's throats, why there's so much conflict and chaos around us. But notice how the message of the gospel cuts through all that confusion. Because at the end of the day, this is not about my opinion or about your opinion or my interpretation and your interpretation. How often do we hear that? Even within Christian circles. Well, that's just your interpretation. Well Okay, I'm not denying the fact that we all interpret scripture when we read it. That's just a fundamental, obvious point, but When you when someone says that to you and you're trying to engage in a meaningful conversation with them and they short circuit everything and they cut the the dialogue off by saying that Well that's just your interpretation or your opinion or your thought. You're dealing with someone who fundamentally assumes that everything depends on our individual authority to determine what is true and false, right and wrong. And that is not what the gospel is about. That is not what the gospel is about. John tells us the gospel is objectively and universally true and binding, which is why he progressively and continuously proclaims it to all. It's a message that originates from heaven. It's not subject to our moral and cultural climate in these times. It's rooted in the person of Christ. Who is fully divine, and therefore it's binding on all people, all cultural backgrounds, all languages, all ethnicities, All socioeconomic classes, all educational levels, and I can go on and on. I think you get the point But what this also does is the gospel challenges our self-centered religion. And I think this is something that hits home with a lot of evangelicals. I haven't seen it in years, but I remember when I was in college, there was a pretty famous Bible tract called The Four Spiritual Laws. And I'll admit I used it. When I was in college and I was sharing the gospel with people, I used it. But if you look at the first spiritual law, it it says God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. Well, okay, does God love you? Yeah. Does he have a plan? Yeah. Is that where the gospel starts? No. Do you see what that does? That programs us to understand the gospel in terms of me, me, me, me, me. God exists for me He exists to bless me and work in my life and do what I want him to do, and that's not the gospel. It's interesting to me that when John talks about the message in verse 5, they proclaim to all people, it begins with who God is, not with who we are. And because when we begin with God and who he is and we see God that God is light, you've got to think about what that means. It's like if God is light, have you ever walked those of you who are to have children and your your your parents have you ever had when your children were small and they leave toys you know around the house And you you know, you get up maybe in the middle of the night because you have a hankering for something in the fridge or you need a drink and you're stumbling through the house and you might step on some Legos or something. You know, or you kick something that's not supposed to be there with your barefoot and you're in the dark and you don't know what it is, well when you turn the light on it it dispels the myth of whatever that is, you know what you stepped on or what you kicked. You know it's wrong in that room. That's exactly what the gospel is meant to be when we actually begin with who God is. If God is light, he's the light that then shines into the darkness of our sinful hearts, shows us where the problem is, so that we then know how to respond to him. And that that's that's where we're going from here in verse six and seven with our second point, the first mark Is the mark of how we walk. What's the mark of a true Christian? The mark of a true Christian, first and foremost, is how we walk. Take a look at verse 6. with me. In verse six, if we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and we do not practice the truth. Now it's interesting, between verses 6 and 10, you're going to see five if statements. If this, then that. And what's interesting to me is the if part of it, if if this, refers to if you do something or if you live a certain way. It's something that you can measure tangibly. But the then part of these each one of these statements is going to point to, well, if you're doing this on the outside, this is what's going on on the inside of your heart. This is where your heart really is. And so I'll admit to you up front, these can be a little uncomfortable to listen to. And believe me, it was uncomfortable for me as I was preparing this this week because I had to look in my own heart along the way. But notice what he says here. He says, if we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in the darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. You know, it doesn't take a genius to see that right there there is a discrepancy between saying we have fellowship with God on the one hand, who's in the light, right, because he is the light, and then we walk in darkness. You know, there's a word for saying one thing and then doing another, and it's it's hypocrisy. And let's face it, everybody hates a hypocrite. Including Jesus. Jesus always went after the hypocrites when he was on the earth and ministering among people. He he never shied away from calling out hypocrisy for what it is. I always tell people when they say, you know, I don't I don't want to go to church because the church is full of hypocrites and I say, Well we got room for one more Join the club. Right? What's the underlying spiritual condition of this hypocrisy of of saying you're you're in fellowship with God but but then Living in a way that clearly demonstrates you're not in fellowship with him. Well, notice what he says here. The discrepancy makes us liars. If we're telling people one thing and doing the other, we're lying to them. And if we're lying to them, that doesn't bode well for us if we really want to share the truth of God's word. But you know what's even scarier? It's this the thing that's scarier about this is you may not just be lying to somebody else. You might be lying to yourself. And that's a scarier place to be, I think. But what's the second thing he says? Well, walking in the darkness is the same as not practicing the truth. And when he talks about walking in darkness, he's using a participle there. That's an ING word. You are walking. This is something that is progressively going on in a continuously habitual way. Someone who walks in the darkness is someone who's living in unrepentant sin apart from Jesus Christ, who is the truth. And then he contrasts that in verse 7. Notice what he does in verse 7. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his son. cleanses us from all sin. So again, walking if walking in the darkness is walking in unrepentant sin, well walking in the light is clearly walking in a way that is honoring to God. Your life looks like Christ's? Well, what is the underlying spiritual reality for those who walk in the light? Well he gives us again two things. One, we have presently have fellowship with one another, which by the way, when he says one another there, he's not talking about like us on a a horizontal playing field. He's talking about us. and Christ. We have fellowship with Christ, and he has fellowship with us. That's the one another he's talking about. But notice he says the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us from all sin. Now, brothers and sisters, that's a that's a precious truth. Why is that a precious truth? It's a precious truth because the truth is in the details. The detail I want you to see there is when he says the blood of his son cleanses us, that is a present tense verb. John is acknowledging that even those who walk in the light with a consistency still stumble and still fail and still fall short. They're not perfect. And because we are not perfect when we fall, when we fail, when we sin, in whatever way that is, we can still come to Christ and still be cleansed. I'll give you an an illustration of that present tense verb. Again, maybe some of you parents are going to resonate with this. I remember when I was a child, my parents would take us to church every Sunday, and we always had our Sunday clothes, right? And you know, my mom and dad always labored to make sure that we got washed up and cleaned up before we had to go to church. You know, you you washed up, you comb your hair, you brush your teeth, you wash your face, and all that stuff. And every now and then, you know, my parents had three of us, so you know, sometimes they had to work with me and my brother at one time and then my sister later on, or sometimes because my sister was harder to clean up. They would 'cause she was little. You know. They worked with her first and then we had to play until they could to help us. And sometimes when they, you know, cleaned my sister up first while they were cleaning us up, she would go outside into the backyard after she got cleaned and then she would get dirty Some of you know what that's like, right? Well that's the Christian life, isn't it? When we come to Christ, he certainly cleanses us from the power of that sinful nature that we have from Adam And the the penalty, the guilt and that all of that is cleansed and washed away by the blood of Christ. But like like children sometimes, we then go out and play in the backyard uh of our daily lives and work and grind and then we get dirty. And we need to come back and we need to get cleansed again from those, you know, individual incidences of sin. And that that's what he's talking about here. And there's good news for that because when we summarize this, you know, we demonstrate that we are actually saved. By walking with Christ. We demonstrate by the way we walk that we know that we have been fundamentally cleansed, and we have that confidence to walk with Him. And so the summary, the application summary here is very simple. Our actions of whether we are walking with the Lord or not is whether we are walking in the light where God is or whether we are walking in the darkness. Where he clearly is not. Right? We have people say all the time, you know, you talk the talk, are you walking the walk? Yeah, that that's what he's getting at here. Now I'm not going to unpack that just now. I want to jump to our third point, and then we'll we'll apply our second and third point together at the end. And our third point is very similar. It's the second mark. It's not walking. It's not how we walk. It's the mark is our attitude towards sin. Our attitude towards sin. And let's look at verses 8 and 10. You'll notice verses 8 and 10 kind of form a sandwich around verse 9. 8 and 10 make the same, uh not the same, it's a similar point. Verse 9 is the opposite point. Let's take a look at verses 8 and 10. You see the attitude of self deception and lies. Now I call this the twin claims of verses eight and ten. If you've ever known twins Or maybe you've had twins, you know that they may be identical, but there's always something that nuances one from the other, and that's eight and ten are twins. Look at verse 8. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Jump to verse ten. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us Hmm. Well what's the nuance? What's the difference between these twins? Well in verse 8, when he says, if we say we have no sin, notice that the word sin there is in the singular. What is he talking about there? What's the nuance there? The nuance is sin being in the singular is talking about the sinful nature that we all have. What he's saying is if we say we have no sinful nature, verse 8, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. I remember when my brother started having kids, um, his oldest just turned eleven. I remember when they started having kids, I remember him saying to me, Man, anyone who denies the reality of of the sinful human nature and original sin has clearly never had kids before. He's like, you do not have to teach them to be bad, you have to teach them to be good And that's true of all of us, isn't it? I mean, if we deny that we have a sinful nature, John is very clear and he's very strong in how he says that we are self-deceived, and the truth is not in us Now when he's talking about that sinful nature, I want you to understand it includes the guilt of Adam's first sin that is passed down to each and every one of us. And that 's really one of the stingers of the law, isn't it? I mean when when when Adam sinned and he fell and all of his posterity in him includes all of us, we fell in Adam. That guilt from his original sin passed down to us and we were born in sin and guilty. And John is saying, if we deny that, if we say that that's not true of us, we are self-deceived. And let's face it, when you're self-deceived, there's very little hope of convincing someone who's self-deceived of the of anything contrary. But verse 10, when it says that if we say we have not sinned, The nuance that he's getting at there is if we say that we do not say continue to fall or continue to wrestle with sin, it's not just a sinful nature, but now he's talking about All of those sinful acts that we do that that flow out of that nature. If we say that we have not sinned and we don't wrestle with sin and we're morally perfect, what is he saying there? In verse 10, well, then we make God a liar. Now that's that's really Those are fighting words. Those are not words of comfort. If that is you, you make God a liar. You're not just deceived. Now you're actively making God a liar. I know there's two commentators that wrote this. Various Christians throughout the ages have made this claim. Because they considered Jesus to have abolished their sins once and for all at the moment they believed, or they were filled with the Spirit, or were sanctified. Well, brothers and sisters, you read Romans chapter 7, and the Apostle Paul lays it out so clear. As a believer, even he struggled with sin. And so what are the, you know, the twin results are pretty obvious. If we say these things about ourselves, we deceive ourselves. Again, we've mentioned that. We make God a liar. But what's the opposite attitude? Look at verse 9. This is where the gospel shines out so clearly and I think encouragingly. Verse 9 says this: if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Once again, the assumption is that we struggle with sin. The assumption is that even as Christians, we're not perfect. And so we need to deal with our sin in some way. Notice the confidence that we have that underlies this confession is God's very attributes. And notice the two attributes he gives us. God is faithful and just. You know what's interesting to me? Because he goes on to talk about forgiveness and cleansing of sin. He doesn't say anything about God's mercy here. We notice that. He doesn't say anything about God's compassion. Talks about God's faithfulness and God's justice. When he talks about the forgiveness of sins. God's faithful to forgive us our sins because he has promised to do so. Now I know that that passage I read earlier between our two worship songs s may seem like a little monotonous to you. I mean, if this then that, if this then that, and it just kept going on and on and on. But do you know what God was doing there? God was making promises to us that if we confess our sins, he will forgive. He's faithful to his promises. Isn't that amazing? That even though we have a God of light who, as Scripture says in other places, dwells in unapproachable light Because it shines a light on every crevice of our sinful nature. And yet that God is faithful to forgive our sins if we but confess. And I love this. He is just to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Again, I cannot state this clearly enough. Don't miss the fact that our cleansing of sin John ties it not to God's mercy and compassion, although indirectly it is, he ties it directly to justice. You know what that does? Points us right to the cross of Jesus Christ. Points us right to the cross of Jesus Christ. So, how do we apply this? Well, our attitude and response towards our own sin reveals that we belong to God. I want to explore that self-deception comment. Because that self-deception comment is probably more prevalent than you would think with those around us. You know, one of the greatest challenges, as I was thinking about this, that we have today, is we think about sharing the gospel. Sharing the good news the good news of Jesus, one of the biggest challenges we have, living in a therapeutic society that we do. Which tells people that they must be affirmed exactly as they are, and follow the train of thought here. If to affirm people is to accept them as they are Sin and all. And to accept them is to give a nod to everything they think, say, and do When you live in a society that trains people to think that way, and we do, what it does It conditions people to be intolerant to hearing that they have sin in their lives that must be addressed. I'll give you an example of this. When I was uh teaching at a Christian school in Illinois, I taught high school Bible, if you didn't know that. And I taught all levels. One of the things that really kind of intrigued me was every now and then, I, you know, as you're grading tests or quizzes, sometimes you know a student would would miss something. You have to mark it off. And I would get these students that sometimes they would get like a a, I don't know, like a 94 %. 97 %? Something like that. And and they would always almost there I can think of a few of them by name right now. I don't won't mention their names, but They would always without fail come up to me and try to bargain with me or negotiate for those extra three or five or six points or whatever it was to get a perfect score. And I would have to explain to them, no, but look, you you missed this. I mean, we we went through this in the study guide yesterday, and you missed it today. Now look, you you got a 97%. You got an A. Just take the A and go home. And every now and then, believe it or not, I would get parents who would email me in such a case. And tell me, you should learn to be more gracious. Oh, okay. It's three points. Just give my daughter the three points and move on. And I remember having a conversation with one parent in a parent teacher conference who had done that to me. I and I ignored the email, to be honest with you. I didn't even respond. And and they brought it up and and I said, look, you what you're doing is actually more detrimental to your child than you think. And like, well how how do you figure? Well Because you're you're kind of putting in their mind that they can be perfect, number one. And they're not. And number two, you're putting in their mind that there is a fundamental intolerance to them being told they are wrong in any way, shape, or form. And I said I said to this, it was a mother, I said to this mother, I said, when you raise a kid that way, what you're doing is you're You put your kid in a Christian school, but and you told me in that email I should learn to be more gracious, but what you did was you undercut the gospel for your child. You're making her intolerant to hearing that she's not perfect. So that when someone has to tell her that she's a sinner, Someday, and tell her that she needs Jesus to cleanse her from her sins, you're conditioning her to respond with unbelief. You know, the self-deception, as I already said, was when people think that they have the rights to themselves to determine what is good and evil, right and wrong. So on and so forth. Not only do we deceive ourselves, we deceive ourselves because God says very clearly that I'll give you two examples. He said Jesus says in John chapter 16, verses 8 through 11, he says what the Holy Spirit is going to do when he comes. He says, and when he comes, he being the Holy Spirit, he will convict the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father. And you will see me no longer. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is already judged. What's Jesus talking about there? We're talking about how the Holy Spirit is going to work in people's hearts and he's going to bring conviction of sin. And part of that conviction of sin is what's going to open people's eyes to see their need for Jesus. He does that through our consciences, doesn't he? But he also does that through the law. And the law is something that is outside of an individual. We know because it was carved on tablets of stone in the Old Testament. But what does Paul say about the law in Romans chapter 3, verse 20? Through the law comes the knowledge of sin. And so God clearly testifies to and calls sinners to repentance from both the law and the conviction of the Spirit upon their consciences. And look, the old Puritan theologians, they were on to something. The Reformers said the same thing. They were on to something when they said, you cannot present Christ to someone. in a in a way that's going to stick unless you really hit them with the law first. They have to see themselves under the law before they will then see and understand why Christ died for their sins. And so when we deny that we have a sin problem and argue, um, the way I've been arguing this whole time, that the world reasons, we're calling God a liar who testifies against us by his word. and his spirit, and we deceive ourselves into thinking that no one, including God, can call us to repentance. What a way to short circuit the gospel. But where does the assurance of God's forgiveness come from in this passage And this is where the gospel really shines through for those of us who do know that we're sinners, and those of us who do know that we fall short, and for those of us who do know that we have a problem. Where's the assurance? Well, it's the basis of God 's character. He is faithful and just I think about God's faithfulness to his promises. When Jesus in Luke 24, 46 and 47 He said this, thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer on the third day and rise from the dead or suffer and on the third day rise from the dead And that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. That's a promise. Repent, and you for you are forgiven. That's a promise. In Acts chapter 2. Peter's Pentecost sermon. Do you remember it says at one point towards the end and as he's preaching, the people were were like pricked in the heart at his words. I mean their consciences were touched. Peter says this, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, notice, for the forgiveness of sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and your children and all who are far off, everyone to whom the Lord God calls to Himself. And so let me encourage you, brothers and sisters. God has promised to forgive us our sins if we only confess them and repent from them. But the other thing that I think is supposed to be a comfort to us today is the fact that God is just. Now, let's just be very honest. If you understand what justice is, justice is getting what you deserve. Then I'm sorry, on the surface level, when you say that God is just, that is not on the surface a comfort. How is that comforting? Well, I'll tell you how it's comforting. God 's justice is assuring to believers Because it directs our gaze to the cross of Jesus Christ, where God's justice was absolutely And completely fulfilled when the eternal Son of God took the just penalty for my sins and for yours on himself, so that we might receive his righteousness as a free gift by faith. That's the gospel. Christ came and died for sinners. And he underwent God's justice so that you don't have to. So that his blood now cleanses you. You know what is amazing to me how powerful the cross is. The cross is so powerful. that it could take a terrifying reality like the justice of God and bring it into a comforting light through the blood of Christ. You know what that means, brothers and sisters? That means on a very practical level, we don't have to pretend that we're perfect and we have it all together. That's what that means. That means that when we fall short, we can go freely to our Father, confess those sins, and know that He is going to forgive us. And I I love that promise. That I I don't have to be perfect. I don't have to be pretend to be something. I'm not Because justice has been fulfilled for me. I can rest then in the mercy and compassion of God. And the question is, are you resting in the mercy and in the compassion of God this morning because of his justice? I hope that you are. Because it brings us right back to our our our main point, doesn't it? The marks of a true Christian are someone who walks in the light. Because Jesus walked in the light. And someone who can willingly and freely confess their sins because of the promise of forgiveness. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are so grateful. We are so thankful, O Lord, that you have freely given us your grace. By pouring out even justice upon your son Jesus. Lord, we know that it's repeated twice in this passage that the blood of Jesus cleanses us. From all sin and all unrighteousness. Lord, we pray that this morning We would glory in that truth. And we pray, oh Lord, that you would give us an assurance of your love through these truths that have been preached this morning. Take your word, Holy Spirit, and write it upon our hearts and seal it in our lives that we might walk in a way that gives us fellowship with you. In the light. We ask this in Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen.