I would invite you, if you have your Bibles, and I hope that you do, to take them and turn to 1 John 5, verses 13 to 21, and I would invite you to stand if you are physically able. For the reading of God's holy word out of 1 John 5, verses 13 to 21. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have towards him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life. So those who commit sins that do not lead to death. And there is sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin But there is sin that does not lead to death. We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning. But he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him. We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true and we are in him. who is true and in his son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourselves from idols This is the reading of God's holy word. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you here at the end that we've been working through all of this fall, and we thank you, O Lord, that you have been able to Enabled us to get through and work through it, Lord. Father, as we come, we pray, Lord, that we would not just See this as again something to get through just to finish it, but Lord, that that we would give carefully to your word, because in this passage, Lord, our to understand. And we pray, O Lord, that you would open our minds and give us understanding. As verse 20 says, that you have given us understanding that we may know him who is true. Lord, we pray that you would take Show us your Son Jesus all over again, that we would fall in love with him, that we would be changed and transformed by him, and Lord, that we would continue to recommit our lives every day to living with for him. God. And so Lord, we ask this in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen Well, if you've ever sat through or gone through any uh training through evangelism explosion, and I know some of you in this church have. As I've been told, this church has done this in the past, you'll know that there are two questions that you are trained to ask when you engage someone in a gospel conversation. And one of those questions is this. If you were to die today, on a scale of one to ten, one being I'm not sure at all. Ten being I am so certain that I couldn't be certain of anything else in life on that scale. How certain are you that if you were to die today? You would go to heaven. Now I I've I did EE training. I've done it before. I've done it a few times, and I did it last year actually in April with my last church and and then we went out uh into the neighborhood and we actually did door to door evangelism which I think to most people in my church was a really frightening prospect before we did it. Because how many times do people like Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons show up at your door and you know you may not want to talk to them, you may just want to slam slam the door in their face and You know, I think some of our people were afraid that that was going to happen to them. But to to sort of the surprise of even myself, uh, we went out and we committed to do this for an hour and a half in the neighborhoods around our church. And I don't think we had a single door slammed in our face. In fact, we had several amazing conversations, and it was wonderful to have come back and then do kind of a breakout session with all the teams that went out and d they were just so pumped up. But that's a a very important question, isn't it? If you were to die today on a scale of one to ten Ten being the most certain, one being the least. How certain are you that if you die today, you would go to heaven? That's the kind of certainty, that's the kind of question that John has been driving at this whole letter of 1 John. And here we come to the very end of the book. And in fact, you would think that he has nothing left to really say at the end of the book, but you'd be wrong. In fact, the main idea of verses 13 through 21 this morning is this. That as Christians, we should have assurance of our salvation, we should have confidence in our prayers, and we should know our identity in relation to God Those are the three things, and you see them printed there in your bulletin under sermon idea. And that's the idea that we're going to unpack. this morning. I'll just repeat it very clearly for emphasis. As Christians, we should have assurance of our salvation, confidence in our prayers, and know our identity in relation to God. So I want to begin with our very first point there, the assurance of our salvation, which we see in verse 13. Take a look at me again at verse 13. John says this, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. Now, I don't know how many of you went through college and had to write all kinds of ex uh term papers and research papers for whatever field you were getting into, but I I had to write plenty of papers in my day. Um none of them do I miss writing. But one of the one of the things you have to do if you're going to write a valid research paper is Usually right from the beginning in your introduction you have to state your thesis. What is it you are trying to propose and defend throughout the paper? It's interesting that the Apostle John does not follow the same kind of convention that we would require in a college paper today. Notice he puts his thesis at the end of the book, not at the beginning. Not in the introduction, but in the, so to speak, conclusion of the book. And that's what verse 13 is. It is the thesis of the whole book. Now take a look at what he says. He says, you know, I write these things to you. What are these things a reference to? What is he talking about? Well, when John says that he's written these things, he's essentially giving a summary statement of everything that he has written throughout the first five chapters. So what are these things? Well you recall that John has has given us uh uh a test, like several tests Test after test after test to put yourself under the scrutiny under to determine, am I truly a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ? Do I really have saving faith? Have I really been born again? And some of these tests, as you remember, were doctrinal tests. In other words, theological tests. What do I believe? For example, in verses 1 through 4 of chapter 1. John is highlighting the fact that Jesus is the eternal, fully divine Son of God who became fully human in every respect. And the question is, do you believe that? That was one of the doctrinal tests. Do you believe, as chapter 2, verses 1 through 6 teaches, that Jesus is the propitiation for our sins. In other words, do you believe that he died for your sins? Not just in a generic sense, but in a personal sense. Do you believe that? Do we abide in the apostolic and gospel teaching that seems to contradict the teaching of the Antichrist? In verses 2, chapter 2, verses 18 through 27. What about chapter 4, 1 through 6? Do we test the spirits? To see whether they are from God, so that we test whatever false teaching or any teaching is coming our way to see, is this from the Spirit of God or is this from the Spirit of the Antichrist? And do we hold fast? Or lastly, in chapter 5, do we overcome by our faith and do we receive the testimony that comes from the triune God concerning us? Doctrinal test after doctrinal test after doctrinal test. But not every test he gave was doctrinal, was it? Some of it was practical. Some of it was very behavioral, if you will. For example, are you walking in the light or are you walking in the darkness? Are you keeping the new commandment to love your brothers? Or do you hate those around you? chapter 2 verses 7 through 11. Or what about chapter 2 verses 15 to 17? Do you love the world or the things in the world? The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes? And the pride of life? Does that characterize your desires? Or do you love the Father more than the world? Do you make a practice of sinning habitually? Or does righteousness characterize your life You know, we can go on and on these these doctrinal tests, these behavioral tests. It's important for us to understand that both of them Both doctrinal and moral considerations come into play when you and I are seeking the assurance of salvation in our own hearts. And those are the things, when he says, these things I have written to you, these are the things that he's talking about. The doctrinal tests, the behavioral tests. But moreover, who is John writing to? Now again, like the Apostle Paul, Paul will write who he's writing to at the beginning of his letters. You'll see it over and over again. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the churches of Galatia. Or to the church at Ephesus. And you know right from the beginning who he's talking to. But John again leaves this for the end of his book. Who's he writing to? He's writing to you who believe in the Son of God. He's writing to true believers. Now, the implication of that, brothers and sisters, is it is entirely appropriate for those who are truly born again, those who truly are saved, to put themselves under these tests. To test themselves, to examine themselves to see whether they are really of the faith. Just because you subject yourself to these tests doesn't mean that you are not really saved. Doesn't mean that you are less of a Christian. In fact, it's interesting that John is not writing to the Gnostic heretics that he's been refuting throughout the book. He's not writing to those who are who speak and teach out of the spirit of the Antichrist. He's not writing to those who have abandoned the faith, who have apostasized and left the fellowship of believers. He's not writing to any of those. He writes to those who do actually believe in the name of the Son of God. And why? So that you may know that you have eternal life No, let's face the facts. Just like today, it was the same back then with the proliferation of false teaching that seems to infect the church at large. even in the days of the apostles, you could think about how all of that that false teaching, all those competing messages can can really create a sense of tension and confusion among God's people as to whether or not they're really saved. Well this guy over here is saying that this is what the gospel is and this guy, this teacher over here is saying that this is what the gospel is. Well, how do I really know whether I'm truly saved? How do I know who's right In fact, it's not not just John that dealt with that in his ministry in the first century. Even decades before John wrote this letter, the Apostle Paul said to the Ephesian elders in Acts chapter 20, verses 29 and 30. He says, I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them. Boy, that's a really sick and twisted reality, isn't it? That among leaders in the church. Recognized leaders. Even in the first century, in the days of the apostles, Paul is saying, out of you will arise men teaching twisted and perverted things. And such an influence like that, false teaching, and false teaching from respected teachers and leaders in the church. Had the power to rob God's people of the assurance of their salvation. So it leads to the question, because we have the same struggles today, don't we? What if we struggle with the assurance of salvation today, in our own day and age, as professing believers? Well, the application to this first point is that John reminds us to review these things, these doctrinal and these behavioral moral tests to discern where whether or not we are truly in the faith. What if you struggle with salvation? Then take yourself to task. Put yourself under these tests. I want to encourage you, though, that true Christians do in fact struggle with a lack of assurance of salvation. You know, perhaps you're sitting here this morning and you're tempted to feel like you're less of a Christian maybe because you don't have this deep-down emotional assurance of salvation. Maybe that's you this morning. Maybe in the back of your mind you're wondering, hmm, am I really saved? Well, I want to encourage you that if that's you, that you are no less of a Christian because you don't always feel saved. It doesn't make you any less of a Christian In fact, I would venture to say there are people out there who are not saved, but who are self-deceived with a false sense of assurance. And then one day, when they die and they stand before the Lord, and maybe he asks them, why should I let you into my heaven? The second question, right? From E. E. They might say something like, Well, Lord, I prophesied in your name Lord, I did mighty miracles in your name. Lord, I cast out demons in your name Do you remember what what Jesus said he will say to many on that day to say those things to him when he was Preaching in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 7, verses 21 to 24. What did he say? I will say to them, Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. I never knew you. Brothers and sisters, there are those who have a false assurance. But I would also venture to say That there are true Christians out there who live a life of faithfulness to Christ And for whatever reason that the scriptures don't reveal to us, it is beyond my ability to know as a pastor why or why not, God does not give them an assurance of salvation. They die without that assurance of salvation, and yet they will be ushered into the kingdom and the faith that they once struggled with to have throughout their life will be made sight. Isn't that a strange kind of dynamic? There are those who are truly saved that may not have an assurance of salvation, they may die without that assurance, and yet that doesn't mean that their salvation is any less secure. In the hand of God. And there are those who have a false sense of assurance. If they were to put themselves under these doctrinal and these moral tests, they would fail. But for whatever reason they don't put themselves under these things, these tests, and they they die. And they find out too late that it was a false sense of assurance because the sense of assurance was based on their own flesh, not on the Spirit of God. Now I want to be clear here about something. Salvation does not depend on your personal sense What is salvation based on? It is based on the objective and finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you also to see the other side of that coin. That the Lord does desire his people to have an assurance of salvation. And that's why this whole letter was written, isn't it? Let me use an analogy. For those of you in this room that are married or have children Is it okay, I'll speak as a man to husbands, but the same principle applies to wives. Is it okay, husbands, if if you're living, you know, with your wife and you're married and you're doing life together? But she has no sense of assurance that you love her? How do you think your marriage is going to go if she doesn't have that assurance? Is it enough men to tell your wife that you love her on your wedding day, but then live fifty years in marriage and never once tell her that you love her? Do you think she's gonna have an assurance of your love. No, probably not. And women, you can correct me if I'm wrong about that after the service, but I think that you probably would Say, no, that that's not the way to gain my assurance that he loves me. And of course it goes in reverse with why to husbands or or or with children. Do you think your children are confident that you love them if you never tell them that you love them And it's not just telling them, but then it's it's doing the right things to demonstrate that love, right? Well, it's the same thing here. The Lord, as the Lord of his people, does desire us to have an assurance of salvation. But what happens when we lack that? Excuse me. Well, he gives us these doctrinal and these behavioral tests. And I want to hash that out for you because I want you to understand that theology impacts our assurance of salvation. Now, one of the reasons I've come across among Christians, as I've done ministry, uh for almost 20 years now, that can lead to struggling with assurance of salvation. One of the things I've noticed is one of the causes of that is their their theology is a little off. Now that may strike you as very odd. Their theology is off? Yes. This is one of the practical reasons why having a correct theology that is rooted in the truths of Scripture itself is so important for the Christian life. Because an incorrect um understanding, or if you want to say a misinformed assumption about who God is and what he's like and how he deals with his people can really lead to a lack of assurance. If you're not clear on those things, then you're not clear on how he is going to deal with you and relate to you. I know it sounds silly, but if you see God as some glorified grandfather, you know, sitting up in his chair in the sky with a rolled-up glorified magazine or newspaper in his hand, ready to just whack you over the head every time you mess up. Look, that's gonna affect the way that not only you see God, but the fact you the the way you relate to him. And if that's how you see God, that's really not the correct way to develop an assurance of salvation, is it? And so it is so important that we understand accurately who God is, how he relates to his people, how he deals with us. Because when we misunderstand this, we misunderstand him. And let's face it, when you're in a relationship with anyone Whether it's your spouse, whether it's anyone else in your family, whether it's immediate or extended, whether it's your friends at school or colleagues at work. Let's face it, one of the basic human needs that we all have is we want to be understood. Have you ever been in a discussion or an argument with someone you love and that you're close to and you can't seem to get at the root of what the difference is? You just feel like the other person doesn't understand you or or doesn't want to make the effort to understand you, or maybe you're the one doing that to them? creates tension, creates friction, creates a lack of certainty about the relationship. But when when we go out of our way to truly try to understand where the other person is coming from on their terms, not on our own terms, it goes a long way. All of a sudden when you start communicating it dispels all the misunderstandings, the myths, you know, the the bad assumptions that you have about that other person to realize, oh, they're not meaning this the way that I thought that they did. And when you start working through that, it really strengthens the relationship, doesn't it? Well, it's the same thing with theology. When we understand God and who he is on his terms and how he's revealed himself in his word, it works wonders. In our own hearts as to how we understand Him and then relate to Him. And when we do that, it does create a measure of assurance The other way that this works, and this is the other side of the coin that I've seen doing pastoral ministry for years now, is when I'm talking to somebody and they have a lack of assurance of of their salvation, maybe it's not always a doctrinal issue or a misunderstanding that they have. Sometimes it's a behavioral issue. Sometimes there's something in their lives where they're giving ground to a sinful issue that they wrestle with or maybe they're not even wrestling with it. They know it's wrong. But they continue to indulge it anyway. Well look, that doesn't always mean that they're not saved, believe it or not. That just might mean that they're living in rebellion against their father at that moment, heavenly father at that moment and backsliding for a season. That does happen, brothers and sisters. And when people indulge sin that way, it does create within them an uncertainty about their salvation. Or for those that actually do struggle but continue to fall and fail in whatever way that is in their life. Look, the Apostle John acknowledges this. In 1 John chapter 1, verses 5 through 10. Remember verse 9? If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What about chapter 2, verses 1 and 2? Brothers, I write these things to you so that you do not sin. But if anyone does sin. And he goes on to highlight the fact that we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Right? So once again, if you're struggling with a lack of assurance of salvation this morning, I would encourage you, take some time Go through some of the doctrinal tests of this book or some of the behavioral tests and ask the Lord to reveal what it is that is missing in in your your uh either understanding of him that's not clear or maybe there's some some sin in your life maybe you're not even aware of that the Lord will shed light on that will clarify some things and allow you to deal with that so that you can really reestablish that intimacy with the Lord. That would be my encouragement to you Because I do believe that if you were to do those things, because that's what John's calling us to do in God's word, I do believe that will lead to a stronger assurance of salvation where it might be lacking in your life And believe me, I also believe, because of this book and this thesis statement in verse 13, that I do believe God desires to give the gift of assurance. to his people. And so God John writes these things so that we might be assured of God's love for us and assured of our salvation And that leads to our second point this morning in verses fourteen to seventeen. The confidence that we have in prayer Take a look at verses 14 and 15. He talks about how we have confidence in what we ask of God. Take a look at that. Let's look at verse 14. It says very clearly. And this is the confidence that we have towards him. By the way, notice the connection. Assurance leads to confidence. They build on one another, right? Verse fourteen. This is the confidence that we have towards him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, verse Verse 15, and whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. Wow, that is a really bold statement, isn't it, in the scriptures. And it's one that's not just said here, it's repeated elsewhere, but that's bold, isn't it? Whatever you ask, according to his will, you will receive. Jesus says this three times, by the way, in the upper room discourse. The first time he says it in John 14, 13. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do that the Father may be glorified in the Son. John 15. 17 secondly, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. And then chapter 16, verses 23 to 24, thirdly, in that day you will ask nothing of me Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name, ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. Those are very, very bold statements, aren't they? Now in each of these cases, I don't know if you were how closely you are paying attention, but the point in focus is asking according to God 's will. How do you know that what you're asking is in accord with God's will? Well, Jesus gives two ways to kind of indicate that. First, he talks about asking in his name seems to be kind of synonymous with asking according to his will. But also notice what he said back in chapter 15, verse 7. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you. In other words, if his word is hidden in your heart, and written on the tablet of your heart, if that is true, it's a conditional statement. Then he goes on to say, then ask whatever you wish. Why? Because whatever you wish will be in accordance with his word. Why? Because your heart will desire the things that he desires in his word. And he says, then it will be given to you. This is not brothers and sisters like me saying, you know what, I really wish , I really wish I had a brand new Lamborghini. You know guys, I've been feeling the Lord calling me to, you know, not just a ministry among you, but a worldwide ministry, and in order to accomplish that, I really think that that that I need to have a a personal learjet so I can fly all around the world and and preach this gospel of prosperity right and so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna ask God for a learjet. That's not what he's talking about here Right? That's not what he means. He's talking about asking things that are in accordance with God's word in Jesus Christ. His name that correspond to God's grace and his character as he's revealed it through his word and in his spirit. And so at this point, the point is whether our requests are based on the motive of wanting to glorify God. As well as whether or not the request will actually glorify him. What about when you ask for things that you don't get? Well the Apostle James addresses that in James chapter 4 verse 3. You ask And you do not receive. Why? Because you ask wrongly. Well, how do I ask wrongly? To spend it on your passions. Now look, I don't know your heart. No one else knows your heart. God knows your heart, but you also know your heart, and you know that sometimes you ask for things for a very selfish motive. We all do this to some degree. And what James is saying essentially is don't expect those requests to be answered. Because it's self-serving wanting to spend it on your passion. But you know, it's interesting that John moves forward with the principle of confidence in praying according to God's will. And he does so by actually giving an example that I think is really hard to understand. Take a look at verse 16. Now, if you when I was reading this, maybe this verse stuck out to you. As it did to me. But verse 16 says, if anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask And God will give him life. To those who commit sins that do not lead to death, there is a sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. What is that or what is he talking about there? No, is it me or is that hard to understand? Now one of the things we have in order to help us understand this, we have to put it in the proper context. This is under the caveat of prayer and confidence in prayer. Okay? We tend to look at the negative side of this, and I'm going to do my best to try to explain that, but I want you to understand the positive side of this command Asking for a brother in sin and having confidence that God will answer is John 's focal point. The negative side is just the other side of that, the caveat. Now I want to put this confidence and I want to frame it in its proper context. Have you ever heard of the phrase before? It's easy to miss the forest for the trees. That's exactly what I want you to see here. The forest here is the faithfulness of God to answer prayers for a brother that we might offer in intercession. Even when a brother is in a sin that doesn't lead to death, that's the force. That's the big idea. God will be faithful to restore that brother. The trees, or the tree, I'm going to call it a singular singular tree here, that most people focus on is the question: what is the sin leading to death? I'm going to try to answer that. Do my best. Please don't corner me at the after church if you don't think I did a good enough job But here it is. Let's put it in its proper context. Let's make a few observations. First, the sin unto death, both the sin unto death and the sin that is not unto death. does not include a list of things in each category. Isn't that interesting? Now if you're like me, you're probably thinking, yeah, but what is the sin? This leads to death. You're looking for something concrete And it's interesting that John doesn't give that. He doesn't give a list. Okay, here are a list of things that lead to death in terms of sin, and here's a list of things that don't lead to death. He doesn't give us that We need to observe that. Secondly, when the passage discusses someone committing a sin not leading to death. I want you to understand something very clearly here. He is talking about brothers doing this. In other words, true Christians. Interesting. Notice very precisely, he doesn't say that unbelievers or heretics or Gnostics or apostates He doesn't refer to them as having committed a sin that does not lead to death. Only brothers in Christ are those who can sin, not leading to death, according to the way he worded this. Third, there is a vagueness that John has at the end of verse 16 when he says there is a sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. It's a little confusing. What he's not saying is it is wrong to pray for someone who's an unbeliever, who's living in sin. That's not what he's saying. Okay. He's not forbidding prayer. But what he is saying in the context of this whole book is for those who are obstinate in false in obeying and following false teaching, those who have obstinately committed apostasy And heresy? Knowing full well what they've done? He's saying, look It's not like forbidden that you pray for them, but I'm not gonna go and and and encourage you to do that and then and then Harbor the expectation that just because you prayed, God will automatically restore that person. What is John is saying is be careful with your expectations in certain situations. Now, again we come back to the question, what is the sin leading to death? We've given a few consider um broad considerations here, but what is the sin leading to death. You know, as I combed through all the commentaries that I could on this, I found the two most credible um definitions of this that I found were the first is apostasy. Which I just mentioned a second ago. It's a problem that we encountered back in 1 John 2, verses 18 to 27. Do you remember what he said in verse 19 of that chapter? You know, they went out from us, but they were never really of us, for if they were of us, they would have never gone out from us. In other words, John is saying that, look, there are people who make a profession of faith. They seem to come to Christ. And to use the analogy of the seed that falls on the rock from Mark chapter 4 in the parable of the sower, they do sprout up for a time, and it looks like there's growth. It looks like there's life. But Jesus' point was there's no real root of saving genuine faith. And John is saying in John 1 John chapter 2, those kinds of people that look promising for a time. Do tend to leave. They apostasize And he says they do so to make it plain that they were never really a Christian to begin with. These are the people who walk away from the Lord knowing full well what they are rejecting. Full well. And Hebrews chapter 6, verses 4 through 6 tells us that it is impossible that such people be restored and brought to a place of repentance. Those are heavy, heavy, heavy words Notice he's not talking about losing salvation that was once had and then lost. He's talking about those again who thought they were saved. made a profession, but there was no real inward change. There was no real true birth, new birth. They have an intellectual understanding of what the gospel is, but no true heart conversion. And those who understand and yet walk away, understanding what they're walking away from. He's saying it's impossible. That's the sin that leads unto death. What is it rooted in? Fundamentally, unbelief. The other interpretation that many people give, and it's not entirely unrelated either, is blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Now again in Mark chapter 3, you remember the story. Jesus is casting out demons, he's performing miracles, he's preaching the gospel. And what do the Pharisees come and say to him? Oh, he don't listen to him. He's doing that by the power of the spirit, of the of the devil. He's casting out Satan by the power of Satan. And Jesus corrects them and says, whoa, you guys better watch it. You know, you can blaspheme the Son of Man, you can insult me, Jesus is saying. And that can be forgiven. But to attribute the work, the redemptive work of the Holy Spirit to the work of Satan is so hard-hearted. Notice these are not people who proclaim to have faith in Jesus. These are people who've never had faith in Jesus, the Pharisees. But they are so hard-heartened, so obstinate in their unbelief, that even though they see what's happening in front of them, and it is as plain as day, they come up with that explanation and attribute to Satan. the work of the Spirit. Jesus says that will not be forgiven in this life or in the life to come. Again, what's the problem? Fundamentally, unbelief. Now, whether you're talking about an apostate or blaspheming the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters, the sin that leads to death. Fundamentally is unbelief. Now I did come across a third Explanation to this that does make some sense in some degree. And it's the idea that there are people who are believers, who are true believers. That for one reason or another they do something sinful and God in his sovereignty and in his providence and with with the good of his church at heart decides it is better to remove that person from this world and from the church in this world and bring them to heaven. Before I came here, some of you know I was facilitating a church merger with another church plant. And in the process of working through that, uh one of the other pastors from the Presbytery, he's an older gentleman, been around a lot longer than I've been. I've been around in ministry, and in that area, asked me one time when he and I were just standing on the church grounds talking, he said, Oh, did you hear about the the ruling elder that was here in the 80s that God God struck down? What? I said, what? What are you talking about? And he said, there was a ruling elder here uh in the eighties, and he was a young guy at the time. He was probably in his mid forties And he was he worked as a Christian counselor. I don't know why that's funny, but a young guy in his mid forties. Come on. Guys, it's not that Way to kill the gravity of a serious story. All right, a middle aged guy in his forties. He said he was a ruling elder here. His his regular job and vocation, he was a Christian counselor, believe it or not. But whatever for whatever reason this guy had it out for the pastor that was there in the 80s that was there for several years and every single thing this pastor was trying to do This ruling elder just dogged him incessantly. To the point where he's writing nasty emails to him. He would put him down in public And he said, one day, this guy had a brain aneurysm that killed him in his 40s. Now after his death, what they found out was, this was a man who was married. I don't know how many kids he had, he had several. What they found out after he died. was that he was committing adultery with two of the women that he was counseling. He had this ongoing adulterous affair. with two of the women and continuing to lie to his wife and sleep with her as if nothing was wrong or nothing happened. And and then all all the while, while he's being hardened in his heart because of this ongoing incessant sin. He's also opposing every measure that this pastor was trying to accomplish in this little church to see it get healthy. Now this this this pastor never questioned the guy's salvation to me. He never said this guy wasn't saved. Maybe he wasn't. I don't know. But assuming that he was, for the sake of God's church and the health of his church, God decided that this man had sinned unto death, and it was better to remove him than to allow him to continue. Look, I share all of that to say I don't want us to miss the forest from the trees here. I do want us to understand that John is still calling us to confidence in God's faithfulness to answer prayer that is offered according to his will, and that we can trust that one way or another God will accomplish. His purposes, according to his will, even when we do not understand it completely. And you know what really builds this confidence by way of application? Is our understanding that we do not pray to change God? We do not pray to change his will. Why do we pray? In fact, there's a book by that title by Douglas Kelly, if God already knows, why pray? Why do we pray? To change us. Because we're the ones going through the process of sanctification as God's people. But the more we learn to pray according to his will, the more we discern what his will is. from his word, and the more we pray according to that, and we see him answer that, what does it do? It builds confidence. That not only does he hear us, as verse fourteen and fifteen say, but that he also gives what we ask according to And believe me, when we're asking things according to his will, we're continuing to put our hearts under that own trial to make sure that we are not living in sin. Right. And let me just say when we see a brother or a professing brother in Christ, In sin. We give him the benefit of the doubt, don't we? That he is a believer, sinning a sin that is not unto death And we pray and we ask the Lord to restore such a person. And we have confidence that God will work There is an air of mystery there, isn't there? There isn't a sense in which there is unanswered questions. But I want to encourage you, don't let that shake your confidence in who God is and how He decides to answer those prayers. That leads us lastly to our last point in verses 18 to 21. Knowing our identity in relation to God. We're called to have assurance, confidence, but to know our identity. Now if you look at verses 18 through 21, you will notice that three times John uses the phrase, we know that. See that in the beginning of verse 18, beginning of verse 19, beginning of verse 20. Let's take a look at verse 18. We know That everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects him, and the evil one does not touch him. Isn't that interesting? He's made that point before, and it actually relates to verses 16 and 17. When John says that they do not keep on sinning, he uses a present tense verb. Which again refers to unrepentant, habitual sin that characterizes unbelievers. That is not true of those who've been born of God. Now we saw him make that point back in 1 John chapter 3, verse 6 and verse 9. I won't read them, but his point here is that one of the ways that we experientially know that we've been born again is to see the power of sin. broken in our lives. Again, linking that to the last section in verses 16 and 17. That has a lot to do with how we pray. confidently. But look at the promise here. And I'll be honest with you, I think the ESV is a little choppy in how it says it. But he who has been born of God protects him. Well, who's the one that's doing the protecting and who's the one protected? Well in the context, God is the one doing the protecting or the keeping and the one who is protected, or more properly I think kept is the one who is born again. I think of the image of a father who protects their children. That are he knows are truly his children. You know, the Gospel of John, again, Jesus highlights this in chapter 10. Verses twenty eight through thirty. Jesus says, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand My father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my father 's hand. Why? Because God protects. 18. And the converse of that is that the devil will not touch them. But look at verse 19. It's not just knowing experientially the new birth, it's also knowing the true state of the world. We know that we are from God. He's already said that. And the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. By the way, that's the same evil one that was overcome by young Christian men back in 1 John 2, verses 12 through 14. I'm writing to you young men, remember that? Because you have overcome the evil one. And then he says later again, I'm writing to you young men, because you are strong and the word of God abides in you and you have overcome the evil one. One. Again, the evil one cannot touch us. But the world lies in his power. And we know that as believers. And lastly, knowing in verses 20 and 21 that the Son has come. You know, the this last thing that John highlights takes us right back full circle to the first couple verses of this book. And it's understanding the incarnation of Jesus. Why did Jesus have to come? Because the world lies in the power of the evil one. And what is Jesus doing? He's in the process of binding the evil one so he can enter into his house and plunder his goods. In other words, those of us who were trapped in the power of sin, under the dominion of Satan, why did Jesus come? From eternity, the fully divine Son of God, in the incarnation, and take on human flesh and become one of us, so that we might be ransomed out of the power of Satan. And given to Christ. That's why. Why do we celebrate this Christmas? That's why. Verse 20 is why we celebrate Notice verse 21. Last verse. And it seems so tacked on. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. By the way, I know it sounds abrupt, but it's not. Remember he's writing to true believers. I don't think because he's writing to true believers he's talking about setting up a physical idol like a Buddha or something in your living room and and burning incense to it and bowing down to it. I think what he's talking about here is if you do not understand Jesus Christ for who he is. the eternal and fully divine Son of God who became a full human being to rescue sinners, if you get that wrong, your view of Jesus is idolatrous Your view of God is idolatrous. That's what he's getting at. Now, most of us don't think of idolatry in this way. But we do need to be trained to see idolatry in the same way that God sees it. So the question here at the end of all this book brothers and sisters is what do these things contribute to the contemporary struggle for identity that many seem to face today? Well, these things help us understand that our identity is found in who we belong to, the nature of the world, and also the resources that we have at our disposal. And I want you to understand, your identity begins with your understanding and the reality of who you belong to. Now, I think John has been very insistent in this whole letter that true believers are those who are born again. and therefore they've come into a new family, which is the church or the household of God. And his point throughout this letter has been, for that reason, because we're born into a new family, we inherit new siblings, new parents, spiritually speaking, so to speak. We are called to continue to remain in the fellowship of the saints through the local church. Why? Because that affects the way that we live practically. You know, an illustration of this today is that a large part of our identity is shaped by the families that we are born into. Whether we like it or not. Have you ever heard the phrase, you can't pick your relatives? It's true. For good or for ill, you cannot pick your relatives And to for good or for ill, to one degree or another, your family context in which you were raised shapes your identity to a large degree. This is why. Do you ever wonder why people are so obsessed with genealogical studies? And why we continue to give millions of dollars to the Mormon church to trace our ancestry back as far as it can go? People inherently know that where they come from has a bearing on their sense of identity. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with that. That's how God designed us. But he designed us that way because it points to a more fundamental and a more eternal reality than just simply our physical, where our physical bodies come from. And it's this fundamental sense need that we have that God is seeking to encourage and speak to in our passage. Our identity is rooted in the fact that God the Father has caused us to be born to be born again through a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, as Peter says in 1 Peter 1, verse 3. At the most fundamental level, that is where we come from. And because of that, because this is where Christians come from, it affects where we are going. Which is why the end of verse 20 describes eternal life. You know, I I'm inclined to think that the identity crisis that we're seeing in the world, in the society, all around us today. I believe that this is planted in the soil of two things. One, the breakdown of the nuclear family And two, the rise of the sexual revolution starting really in the 1950s and 60s and 70s, all the way to today. Now I won't comment on which of those problems come first. They're symbiotic of one another. But with the breakdown of the nuclear family, people have largely lost a sense of where they come from and why that is important. I remember when I was younger, I had a close friend who's now passed away. Um He was the product of an affair that happened when his mother was 19 and his father was biological father was 20. He never knew his biological father until he was in his late teens. He was Mexican, but his mother married an African American man and I remember when I met him, he was already in his twenties, and and I remember him telling me one time saying, you know I didn't know my dad until I was like I think eighteen or nineteen years old. And I was raised by a man of a different ethnicity and so I I actually identify more as as a black guy, even though I'm not black, I'm Hispanic. I don't know who I am. Now that was him. But that's just one example of many of people with the breakdown of the family who don't know who they are because they don't know where they come from. And with the loss of personal identity rooted in where they come from, where do they go looking for it? They go looking for it in the most natural place you would imagine A sexual relationship with just anyone. Because what does scripture say a sexual relationship produces? a one-flesh union. What is a one-flesh union designed by God to create? A bond and a sense of new identity. Now the point of the application is that we all have one Father and God the Father We all have the same spirit uniting us together with one another and with Jesus Christ, the one Lord and Savior, who saved us all from the same thing in the same way through his death. And this is why I want to encourage you this morning, brothers and sisters. I want to exhort you this morning. Maintain the unity of the body of Christ in the bond of love and peace this Advent season. And as you seek this, cling to the promise in verse 18 that God will keep you and complete the good work that he began in you, and he will continue to do that until the day of Christ Jesus. Because it brings us right back to the main point, doesn't it? As Christians, we should have assurance of our salvation. We should have confidence in our prayers. And we should know our identity. In relation to who God is and how He's revealed Himself in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ Little children, keep yourself from idols. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, no doubt there are people here sitting here. Who maybe struggle with a lack of assurance. Maybe they don't have confidence, oh Lord, as they approach you. Maybe they struggle even with their identity. And that can look like a wide variety of things, Lord. Father, we don't want to be a church that ignores these very real struggles. We don't want to be a church, oh Lord, that shuns people who truly struggle with these things. We want to be a church, O Lord, that can share the gospel of Jesus Christ, the hope of assurance of salvation, confidence before you. And a grounding in an identity that is not rooted in the flesh, but is rooted in the spirit. We want to be a church, O Lord, that offers hope. To those who come through our doors. And most of all, Lord, we want to be a church, Lord Jesus, that offers you. Because you're the one who gives these things. You give assurance. You give confidence. You give a solid, grounded understanding. Of who we are in our ultimate identity as your children. Father, as we finish this book of 1 John this morning, Take these truths. Write it on our hearts. Continue to transform us. Continue to dazzle us with who Jesus Christ is. That we might truly worship this Christmas. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.