Brothers and sisters, I invite you to stand in the honor of the reading of God's holy word to us this morning And I invite you, if you have your Bibles, and I hope that you do, to turn in them to the letter of 1 John. We're going to be in chapter 2 this morning, verses 7 through 11. 1 John chapter 2, verses 7 through 11. And this is the reading of God's word for us. Beloved, I am writing to you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining. Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded his eyes. This is the reading of God's word for God's people. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we know that there are many things that press for our attention in this world, a lot of distractions. Lord, things that would tempt us to walk in the darkness, things that would tend to tempt us to ignore our brothers and sisters in the Lord. And I pray, O Lord, that you would speak to us this morning from your word. Lord, if there is any darkness in our hearts that this word addresses, Lord, bring it to the light that we might confess it. Lord, that we might find healing by the blood of Jesus Christ. To then turn around and have the power to live different, transformed, grace-filled lives. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen. Amen. When I was a teacher several years ago in a Christian school in Illinois, one of the things I had to do was I had to figure out a way to assess my students Well, what do I mean by assess my students? Well I had I had gone through lesson plans, I had taught them a curriculum that I had the privilege of being able to write myself. uh which was good because then I knew that curriculum but I had to figure out creative ways to discern how much of what I taught did the students really truly grasp And it wasn't a an easy task figuring out how to do that and create variety, but it was something that I did And those of you who, most of us in this room, have been students at one point or another, remember tests are not the funnest thing to do when you're a student. And so I had to figure out ways to to get my students prepped for the exam or or the quiz or or whatever it is that was going to assess their learning And so what I did was the day before the the quiz or the test, what I would do is I would take that whole class period, the day before, and I would give my students a worksheet and I would break them into groups. And I would let them work in groups through a series of questions. Now it didn't matter on the quiz or the test if it was short answer or if it was truefalse or or anything like that or fill in the blank. I made the worksheet as hard as I possibly could In truth, the worksheet was probably two to three times harder than the actual assessment. And it 's the old principle that athletes know if you train hard, the competition day is really easy And that that was what I tried to instill in my students. You work hard, you really imbibe this material, and then the exam will not be so hard on you. So what I wanted to do this morning, if if you've been with us for any number of weeks now, as we we've been starting to go through the letter of 1 John, you will know that John has laid out for us several tests, if you will, several exams by which we can take a self-assessment to discern where we are truly in relationship to the Lord. We've had two tests already. So what I wanted to do before jumping into the third test this morning is do a quick review with you of where we've been. And this doesn't have to be a long review. This is not going to be a hard review. In fact, it's pretty easy. When we looked several weeks ago at 1 John 1, verses 1 through 4 of the prologue, what we saw is he didn't really lay down a test there, but he laid out a standard. And the standard was the person of Jesus Christ. Who is he? And John argued in that prologue that Jesus Christ is one person who is truly divine. And truly human. Two natures, complete in one person. And John laid that line in the sand, the standard, if you will, to say, This is what a true believer believes Jesus to be. If you don't believe that about Jesus, John argued, you're not a true believer. You don't have fellowship with the Father. You don't have fellowship with His Son. But if you believe that, you do have fellowship with the Father through His Son. And that was the standard he laid out. The first test we saw a few weeks ago was in John chapter, 1 John chapter 1, verses 5-10, and it focused on confession of sin and walking in the light. There are those who are willing to confess their sin and they're willing to walk in the light, and those are those, those people are the ones who are truly in relationship with God through Christ. Those who hide their sin, those who deny their sin. Are those that walk in darkness? That was the test. And we had to ask ourselves, which which one are we? Are we walking in the light, uh able to freely confess our sin, or or do we hide it and deny it? And even lie about it, and lie to ourselves about our relationship with the Lord. And last week we looked at 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 through 6, and we we answered the question, what about those who continue to struggle with sin? John 's writing that they don't sin in chapter 2, verse 1. But he says, But what if you do? Well, then we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation. He's turned away the wrath of God. From us by his cross, and he has cleansed us from our sin, thereby robbing it of its power to reign and rule over us. And uh we talked about last week how the practical outworking of that is a transformed life of of keeping the commandments of God. That's what he says there. In chapter 3. By this we've come to know that we know him if we keep his commandments. Does your life look like Christ's? Verse 6 You know, he says the one who abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he, that is Christ, walked. Those were the tests. That's what we've laid out. That's the review. But we come now to a third test in verses 7 through 11. And this third test is is a little different, but not unrelated to the last. And if I had to summarize it, you'll see there in The bulletin under the sermonic idea, obedience to the command to love is walking in the light While hating brothers of those who confess Christ is walking in the darkness. That's the main idea of verses 7 through 11 in a nutshell. And so I want to unpack this together with you as we look at verses 7 and 8. We see an old commandment and a new commandment laid side by side. And let's take a look at verse 7. Let's look at the old commandment first. Verse 7 says this. Beloved, I am writing to you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. Now notice first what he does here. Notice how he addresses the people he's writing to. We see a commandment is to those he calls beloved. Now it's interesting if you were to read through this whole book, and it really wouldn't take you more than twenty minutes to get through five chapters, what you'll find is John addresses his readers. in a few different ways and he kind of recycles through these throughout the letter. We've seen in the beginning of of verse 1 of chapter 2 he calls them my little children. That's a term of endearment that recurs throughout the letter, but this time he doesn't call them my little children, he calls them beloved. And it's interesting to watch how he uses these different titles because they relate to what he's about to say. And in this case, when you talk about someone who is beloved, they are beloved because somebody loves them. And that gives you a clue as to the commandment, the old commandment that he's referring to. In fact, it's a commandment, as you see there in verse 7, he says, it's a commandment which you have had since when? From the beginning. You have to ask yourself, well, what does he mean from the beginning? Different commentators have different ideas about this. I'll try to be as clear as I possibly can. I think the clearest indication that the beginning is referring to is Jesus' earthly ministry. Why do I say that? We'll go back to verse 6. What does he say in verse 6? Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. He is Christ. Right? In fact, it was in Jesus' ministry in John 15. 12 in the intimacy of the upper room before Jesus went to the cross, what did Jesus say to his disciples? He said, This is my commandment. By the way, notice commandment there in John 15, 12. And commandments throughout our passage this morning in 1 John 2, it's not commandments in the plural, it's commandments in the singular. What is the singular commandment Jesus is concerned about as he's about to depart from this earth and go to the cross? This is my commandment. That you love one another as I have loved you. That's what it means to fulf to put into practice what we saw last week in verse 6, walking in the way that Jesus walked. It's to love the people that He loves. We have to pay attention to that. That should inform, by the way, how we read the Gospels. When we read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and we we watch Jesus teach, we watch Him preach. We watch him heal people. We watch him relate to people. We watch him have conversations with people. How does he do it? What's the heart that he has that he brings to each of those engagements? Those are the things that we should be looking at as we read the gospel. Because that is his commandment that we love one another as he loved us. Now, one can argue, and some commentators do in as they work through this passage, this could potentially go back Further to the Old Testament, that might be what John has in mind when he says you had this commandment from the beginning Because even when Jesus was walking the earth, when Jesus was ministering, the commandment to love was not a new commandment unique to his time period and unique to him and him alone. In fact, in the Old Testament, you see it very clearly. You remember when Jesus on Tuesday of Holy Week was locked in debate with all the Jewish religious leaders? It was like one group after another. Right, the Pharisees came to him, the Sadducees came to him, and then finally a lawyer, a scribe, steps up and says to him, What is the greatest commandment? Remember that? And Jesus says, well the greatest commandment is this, and then he quotes from Deuteronomy 6. 4 and 6. 5. He says You know, here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. But then he doesn't just camp out only on the greatest commandments and love God. He goes a step further, doesn't he? He says, and the second is like it. And ironically enough, he quotes from a book that many of us Christians tend to ignore. He quotes from Leviticus 19, verse 18, to give the second greatest commandment And I'll read it from Leviticus. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. The second greatest commandment. Isn't it interesting? The commandment to love one another is not unique or novel to Jesus' ministry 2,000 years ago. It goes even further back. into the Old Testament. The commandment, brothers and sisters, which you have had from the beginning, however you want to interpret that, is the commandment to love. Is the commandments of love. But look what he does in chapter, in verse 8 of our passage. He then goes on to say, at the same time It is a new commandment that I'm writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. Okay, that that's a lot to unpack, believe it or not, in one verse, but let's be as concise as we can for the sake of time. This is a command that he says is true in Christ and in us. Now, to me it's interesting because he just said it's an old commandment. It's not a new one. Now he's saying it's a new one. Is he talking out of two sides of his mouth? What is he doing When he says this. Well, I read to you John 15, 12, this is my commandment that you love one another as I've loved you, the commandment which you've had from the beginning. What I didn't read intentionally, I'll read it now, is the very next verse in John 15, 13. What makes this a new commandment? Well, in John 15, 13, Jesus went on to say, greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. What's new about this commandment to love is that Jesus fulfilled the standard for this command by going to the cross for our salvation. There is a new dimension that the commandments of love takes on in light of the cross of Jesus Christ. In other words, he puts it into practice what he's commanding us to do. Sacrificial love. Now what's also interesting about this command, so it's true in Christ, because he fulfilled it at the cross, and it's true in us. This is what we're called to do by his power. But notice what he does with this also. This is a command that transcends the ages. Did you notice that? It's really easy to just read over this part of verse 8 at the end. It's true in him and in you Why? Because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining. This is why it's true. What is he talking about? The darkness is passing away. The true light is already shining? I mean that that's almost sounds like cryptic language if if you don't know what he's referring to. Well, we need to jump into John's context. We know that John was Jewish as one of Jesus' disciples, raised and reared on the Old Testament and having that worldview and that mindset. You see, in the Jewish mindset, there were two different ages to think about in terms of the world. There was the present evil age. On the one hand, which is characterized by sin and suffering and disease and death and war and all these other things. And then there's the age to come. The age to come where every tear will be wiped away from our eyes, when sin is completely abolished and death is no more. When there's no suffering, there's no disease. There's no war. Nation will not take up sword or spear against nation again. The age to come. Now, in the Jewish mindset, these were two ages that had a very clear mark of demarcation. They're separate. They're not the same. There will be a transition from one to another, but it will be clear which one you 're in Now what John is getting at here, and it relates to the commandments of love, is if something happened that the Jews did not expect What they didn't expect was these two ages to somehow overlap with one another for some time. And that's the mystery and part of the stumbling block to the Jewish people, even to this day. And so when he says the darkness is passing away, he's referring to the present evil age where sin rules and death reigns through sin. You can read in the Apostle Paul in sh uh Romans chapter 6 specifically where he he fleshes this out and makes a big deal that because now we have now been we're in Christ, we've been baptized into his death. We've been risen with him in his resurrection. Positionally speaking, sin has no power over us. Death does not reign over us in Christ. Right? The present evil age is passing away. Now notice that verb is passing away, is the present Tense verb showing that this is happening right now. The present evil age that began with Adam's fall It's still happening now, but it is in the process continually of passing away. Now think about that. He wrote this 2,000 years ago That's quite an overlap. But it is in process of passing away, is what he's getting at. And when he says the true light is already shining, keep in mind, just like darkness is passing away is a present tense verb, so is already shining. That is present tense. The true light. If you think about John 1, 4 in the gospel, in him was life, and the life was the light of men. You know, John the Baptist came to testify about the light. The light is Christ. Christ is already shining. With the advent of Christ in the incarnation, the light That finds its origin in eternity has broken into history to usher in the age to come. When was that sealed? That was sealed when the power of sin that characterizes this present age was dealt with at the cross. And his power was broken. And when Christ rose again from the dead to then defeat death, which again characterizes this present evil age, to usher in the new life of the new creation. That was when the pres uh the age to come was really sealed with with the down payment of Christ's work in the gospel. And so, brothers and sisters, I want you to see. I know that sounds like a lot of detail and a lot of explanation, but I want you to see in that that we are at a crossroads of two ages as we think about the commandment to love. Now, what do we do with this applicationally? Well, because we live in Christ in a new era in the age to come, we have the power and the ability in Christ to keep the commandment to love God and love others. You see, the whole the whole point John is writing this commandment to love is is the influence of the false teachers which he's combating in this letter is is threatening to break up and disintegrate the fellowship of believers in the community that they have and enjoy with one another. So what does this have to do with loving each other? I want you to see that the foundational aspect of keeping the commandment of loving one another in Christ is to understand that when we talk about other people who are in Christ, our brothers and sisters, what we're talking about is we're talking about people who are already part of the new creation. The Apostle Paul gets at this in 2 Corinthians 5, 17, when he says, Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All the things that characterize you in your sin It's done away with. You're a new creation. The part of you That is tied to the present evil age is in the process of being put to death through sanctification. But you are a new creation in Christ the moment you were born again Don't miss that, brothers and sisters. Eternal life for you in Christ is not something in the future. It's just not some idea that's pie in the sky. It is a present reality. This is why what Jesus said in John chapter 11, when when Lazarus died and he's talking to his two sisters, He he says particularly to um Martha, I think, who was struggling. I think it was Martha, I'd have to go back and look. But he he says, I believe it's verse twenty-five or twenty-six, you know, don't you believe what I said? Those who Die, even though they die if they believe in me, they're not gonna die. Why not? Because they're spiritually alive C. S. Lewis makes a similar point in his book, The Weight of Glory. He says this: there are no ordinary people. You've never talked to a mere mortal. What he's saying there is every single person you've ever interacted with in your life is someone who is going to live somewhere in eternity Think about that. And so because we're going to spend eternity with brothers and sisters in Christ, the present reality we live in Is so important in how we continue in fellowship and covenant community with one another. For just a moment, let me argue from the greater to the lesser for you. If we're going to spend eternity with other Christians , This should impact the way that we see them presently. And it should impact the desire that we have to be in fellowship with them now. If you have no desire for fellowship with other Christians now in the present life, what makes you think you're going to have any desire to be with them in eternity? If you can't stand them now, this is the training ground. How is it going to work out? Now we have to ask ourselves as we think about that, what are some of the reasons that people forsake fellowship today? Let's just be very practical about this. And I think we can look back at where we've already been in this letter and kind of flesh out the answer to that question. What kind of things lead people today to forsake the fellowship of believers that John is so concerned to keep intact. Well I'll give you just three examples. One, and this comes from the prologue, is false teaching. The way that we view God, the way that we view Jesus Christ, has the power to either bind us together or separate us and send us each on our way. I want you to think about this. What does this look like today? I want you to think about a common conception that people have of God out in the world, even unbelievers. And they get it from scripture. They say God is love. That's true enough. 1 John chapter 4. But what do they do with that concept of love? How do they misunderstand that? Well, this is where the subtlety of false teaching comes in. Some people reason that because God is love, he could never justly judge or punish someone for their sin by sending them to hell. Have you heard that before? I have. Some people incorrectly reason that this would be inconsistent with God's love. And many in our day start with starting with that misunderstanding of what God's love really is, the reason that God will if accept and affirm people. just as they are in their sin, and therefore, in order to be loving to them, we must affirm them in their sin. Have you heard that before? What does it do? When you follow the when you live out the fruit of that logic, what happens is it tends to divide and destroy relationships with people. We're seeing that all around us. What about an one another incon another misconception? I won't spend as much time on this, but it is a potent one. There are people out there that truly believe that salvation is only because it's primarily an individual matter of whether you come to Christ or not, then they jump to the conclusion that, well, Christianity is just me and Jesus. They have a misconception of who God is in relationship to his people. And because it's just me and Jesus, you know, as long as I come to Christ, it doesn't matter what my relationship is with the larger body of Christ. And they think that they can be attached to the head without being attached to the body and expect to be spiritually healthy. Right? False teaching can affect the way we fulfill or not fulfill the commandments of love and forsake fellowship. What about what we saw a few weeks ago in Chapter 1, verses 5 through 10. What about an unwillingness to confess sin? Do you think that can affect the fellowship between believers? You better believe it. I'll give you an illustration, a practical illustration that many of you will probably know firsthand. You know, think about like if you're married, um, you can't stay together and have a healthy marriage or relationship if if one spouse or both spouses refuses at all times to ever admit that they were wrong and and ask forgiveness from the other spouse I mean how how many marriages do you think are going to really thrive if if one or both spouses just refuses to admit that they're wrong ever? You're not gonna never gonna have a good gr good relationship, a good marriage, because the things that that will tend to divide you never get dealt with by talking them through, by admitting that you were were in r in sin or something and needing to confess. The same principle is true in the body of Christ. We saw that. You know, those there are people who who fail to confess their sin and they go a step further in in denying that they're sinners and have a problem. What does that do? It ruptures fellowship in the body of Christ. Or as we saw last week, they don't come to Christ because they don't look to Christ to forgive their sins. We could go on and on with examples which I'm not going to do this morning, but what we do find in this particular passage is a a certain power that Jesus gives us through the Holy Spirit, who is the down payment of our salvation, to for to to fulfill the commandments of love. Right? We love because Jesus laid down his life sacrificially for us. In him. We can find the strength to do the same thing because of the gospel. And that leads us to our second point this morning. Again, it's a similar point. This is the commandment concerning light and darkness. Look at verses 9 through 11. Now the structure of this is very simple. It's like a sandwich. Verses 9 and 11 are like the pieces of bread. They make a similar point. A little differently, but a similar point. And then in the middle you have verse 10. Which is kind of like the meat, and it's the contrasting point. So let's make let's look at the bread pieces first. In verses 9 through 11, we see the commandment, darkness, and hate. Look at what nine through says. Whoever says that he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. Let's stop there really quick. The point is very simple. Hating one's brother is to be in the darkness. Now, that's a participle there, the one who hates. A participle is an ing word, it's something that continuously goes on. So what this means is someone who has a continual disposition of hatred towards someone else. Now the question you have to ask is, what does hatred mean? Because in in our day and age, if you're gonna say you hate someone, usually or love someone, conversely, both of those terms in our day and age typically mean a a largely emotional response. How you're feeling in the moment. Right? Someone does something, they really irks you and then they keep doing it, and you develop a I just I hate that person. I can't stand them. And it's an emotional response. But I want you to see, brothers and sisters, that hatred runs actually far more deep in Scripture than just an emotional response. It includes that, but it's it's more. Oh let me give you a few illustrations to to clarify what I mean. Back in Genesis chapter 29, Jacob is in this debacle where he's trying to marry Rachel. And do you remember the story? He gets duped and he ends up marrying Leah instead. And he wakes up the next morning and behold, it's not Rachel, it's Leah. And he goes to her father, Laban, what have you done to me? Well, it's not our custom to marry off the younger one first, so I gave you the older one. Tell you what, you serve me for another seven more years, and I'll give you Rachel as well. Right? Now, it's interesting that in Genesis 29, 18, it makes it very clear that Jacob loved Rachel. Right? But after this whole wedding debacle, God sees something in Genesis 29, 31. He saw that that Leah was hated. That's a strong word. He saw that Leah was hated. So what does he do? He opens up her womb. Not Rachel's. But do you think that this was like an emotional hatred that Jacob had towards Leah? I I actually don't think so. I think what it actually means is Jacob selected Rachel to be his wife. That's what it meant by he loved. He chose her. He did not choose Leah. Leah was given to him, in a sense, against his wishes And so because he didn't choose her as his wife, it says that she was hated. I don't think this is emotional because as you read the story, clearly Jacob had some affection for her because they ended up having uh six boys And a girl. That just doesn't happen in a vacuum. Right Paul uses the same kind of logic in Romans 9. 13 when he's quoting Malachi 1 and 2, and he says, from God's perspective, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. What does that mean? It just we're not talking about gods being emotionally fickle. Oh, I just hate Esau so much No. It's he he chose to s to set his covenant love on Jacob. He did not choose to do that with Esau. Why am I belaboring this point? I'm belaboring the point to show you that in Scripture, hatred and and love are more than just emotional words. These are words of substance of the will. It's choosing It's deciding to love or hate someone. It's intentional. It's not just incidental, is what I'm driving at here. And so when he says, talks about hating here, you know, the one who says he's in the light but hates his brother. What he's talking about is someone who is actively choosing and intentionally deciding to withhold love from whom His brother. Now notice what that does there. That puts a limit to the scope of John's focus. That doesn't give us, it does not give us permission to be unloving to unbelievers. But the scope of what he's talking about here is how you relate to other believers in the context of the fellowship of the church. That's what he's driving at. Now notice the progression of this darkness in verse 11. It's pretty stark. Whoever hates his brother and is in the darkness and walks in darkness does not know where he's going. Because the darkness has blinded his eyes. Now what you find there is three present tense verbs, and at the end a past tense verb. And I'm going to start with the past tense verb because the past tense verb explains the present tense realities. What does he say at the end? Because what? Why are these things happening? Because the darkness has blinded his eyes. What is he getting at there? The one who hates his brother. has an underlying problem that has been there before the hatred manifested itself. What's the underlying problem? He's spiritually blind. To illustrate that, you can go back to John chapter 9 when Jesus heals the blind man, the man born blind. And it's really kind of a scathing indictment that Jesus gives at the end of that miracle in John chapter 9. And I'll read that to you because it's Just listen to this. And Jesus said to him, You've seen him who it is who is speaking to you, talking to the blind man. The blind man says, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped Jesus. And Jesus said to him, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who may see, who see, may become blind. This is the rub, some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? These are the religious leaders. These are the scholars of the day. These are the elite. These are those whose righteousness, outwardly speaking, is not surpassed by any. And they're asking, are we blind also? What does Jesus say? Verse 41, if you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Look, John is saying the one who continues hating his brother is no better than a Pharisee. Self-righteous. But spiritually blind. What's what's what's the outworking of that spiritual blindness? Well, verse 11, the way it begins. You're in the darkness. You're walking in the darkness. Notice that progression. You're you're being in it. You're just existing in it. But then you choose to walk in it. But then the reality is when you walk in it, because you're in the darkness, notice you don't know where you're going. You don't know where you're going. Isn't it interesting? That's what hatred of a fellow brother or sister does in your own heart and in your own life You don't know where you're going. You don't know where it's going to lead you. They're in the light. You're venturing out into uncharted territory in terms of that relationship Well, that's contrasted in verse 10 by the commandment light and love. Look at verse 10. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there's no cause. For stumbling. Again, he uses that participle to show that loving is a continuous, active choice and an intentional decision to love someone. I'll give you an example from my own life, and I don't mean to make myself look like a hero, because this was as hard as ever. But when I was was in seminary, I worked in a credit union in Charlotte and I mean the the clientele that came in there, man my goodness. Um they they would insult you and they would trash talk you and they would cuss you out and I mean this was before mobile banking apps so like people People would go into the bank and and I mean this is just I had to deal with this every single day. And I remember every day driving to work, Lord. Give me the strength to love the unlovely. The people we're called to love are not, our brothers and sisters are not always lovely in the way they act, in the way they come across. But notice the progression of light again. There's a progression of darkness. The person remains in the light. That's a good thing. And in such a person there's no cause for stumbling. You know that word for stumbling is the Greek word scandalon, which is where we get our English word scandal from One commentator says this, a scandalon is the crooked trigger stick of a trap to which the bait is affixed and by which the trap is sprung. The verb of the word scandalon means to catch someone in such a trap. The noun and the verb denote only the fatal, deadly entrapment of the victim. When this word is used metaphorically, it means bringing spiritual death. Okay, the the I I when I read that and I I was putting this sermon together, I thought about a mouse trap. You know, those really old ones. It's got the little the little um little stick there, you have to hold it down, but that's holding the cheese and when the mouse comes in and he takes the cheese off the little platform it springs the stick and the stick moves out of the way and the whole comes down on the mouse and kills it. What what he's saying here is that those who walk in the light don't hide those kind of traps in the relationships they have with their brothers and sisters. Right? They don't set traps for them in what they say to them or what they do to them that is going to kill or destroy fellowship within the body of Christ. Or they're not going to do something to set a trap that's going to unleash a chain reaction that's going to just destroy a ton of relationships in the body of Christ. That's what it's saying here. So I think the application is pretty clear here. Those whose lives reveal that they hate the fellowship are those whom John is warning about. And the warning this morning for each of us is to examine our hearts this morning and ask: is there any hatred in your heart towards other believers sitting around you in the fellowship of believers? Because the warning is from that particular progression is that walking in the darkness of this hatred will never end or lead you to the place that you think that it will. It only has the power to destroy, to rob or plunder people from the fellowship of the body of Christ, and to destroy unity. And it's a warning that's rooted in spiritual blindness. But the other application is, you know, we're called to love the fellowship of other believers. And I want to just give a reality check here. We do not love others out of the goodness of our own heart. Can we be honest about that? We do not love others out of the goodness of our own hearts We love others out of the goodness that God has poured into us, out of the love that God has given us. And we're going to get to that when we look at chapter 4, but you know, God is love, and in this He has He has demonstrated His love for us that He sent His Son to be the propitiation. We talked last week about what that means. To be the propitiation for our sins. Why do we, why can we, and why are we able to love those around us? Because we've received love that we did not deserve ourselves when we came to Christ. You know, when you've received true love in Christ, any counterfeit is never going to satisfy you. And any response that is not consistent with that will never satisfy you in the end. So, brothers and sisters, the encouragement this morning from this passage. is to continue to build up the bonds of fellowship among believers around you and to extend the invitation of that fellowship to those on the outside who may feel lonely and belonging for the community that only comes with fellowship with Christ as their Savior and fellowship with his people. Amen. Let's pray