Well, I would invite you, if you are physically able to, to stand for the reading of God's holy word and take your Bibles and open them to 1 John Not the Gospel of John, the little letter of 1 John towards the end of the Bible. We're going to be in chapter 2, verses 1 through 6 this morning. 1 John chapter 2. Verses 1 through 6. Pay careful attention, brothers and sisters, to the reading of God's inerrant word. It says this, My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. Whoever says, I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know that we are in him Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. Well, this is the reading of God's holy word once again this morning. morning. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we are so thankful, O Lord, that you condescend, as Calvin said, to speak to us in a way that we can understand. Like a parent who has a small child in the crib who can't yet speak will condescend And baby talk and babble with that child to communicate, Lord. That is what you do with us. And so, Lord, we pray that you would take your word this morning that you have given to us for this Sunday, that you would open our hearts, O Lord, to receive it. And Lord, we pray for those who need comfort, Lord, we pray that you would comfort them by the truths and the realities of the gospel, Lord. For those who need their consciences pricked, O Lord, we pray that you would do that, leading them to repentance. and faith in your Son, Lord G the Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord, we pray, lastly, that we would see your work in our lives become evident because of your word being preached this morning. Lord, we look for great things to be done in us and among us. We ask this in Jesus' precious, holy, and righteous name. Amen. Amen. You know, church history is full of stories of how saints that are well known throughout history have come to know Christ as their Lord and Savior, but also how those saints then continue to struggle in the Christian life. You're hard-pressed to read any biography, whether it's a biography of someone like St. Athanasius or St. Augustine. all the way to Luther and Calvin and Jonathan Edwards and George Whitfield and Spurgeon. The list can go on and on. Each and every one of them Came to Christ in a unique way that followed a similar pattern of conviction of sin, a tremendous season of striving with the Lord only to give way to saving faith. But then just when you read their story and you think, okay, it should get easier from there, it doesn't. It's almost like that's when the struggles really begin. And you know, we we have this this com many people have a concept today that once I give my life to Christ Things will just get easy. And John, John reminds us this morning in this passage that no, it doesn't. The struggles often continue, but there is great comfort in the gospel that we can find. In fact, the main idea of this passage this morning, I think it's quite simple. Christ's role as our advocate should lead us away from sin and into greater assurance of salvation through obedience. Let me repeat that because that's what I want to unpack with us this morning. That's the summary of what I believe this passage is getting at. Christ's role as our advocate should lead us away from sin. and into greater assurance of salvation through obedience. That's it. Let's jump into our first point, which is really, we find it in verses 1 and 2. The point is the Advocate and our Atonement. Look at me at verse 1 again. You see the Advocate for sinners. In verse 1. My little children, John writes, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Now, if you remember the passage we looked at last week in chapter 1, verses 5 through 10, particularly those five conditional statements in verse Verses 6 through 10, you know, you remember that those were just very generic statements. If this, then that. If this then that. And he was usually in inclusive, uh there were inclusive statements, if we this, if we that Right? What John does here, he he transitions to speaking more personally to these believers. Notice how he addresses them. My little children. He's taking that approach, calling them his little children, for a few reasons. One, very obviously by this time in John's life, he's very old. He's writing this in the late in the middle 90s in the first century A. D. Now keep in mind, Jesus was crucified somewhere around A. D. twenty-six to thirty when John was a teenager. So we know John's a very old man, and as an old man, he's probably a little more tender at this point in his life. Well, Jesus called him and his brother the sons of thunder for their attitude and for their zeal, which could be frightening when they were younger. Now he's tends to be a lot more tender. My little children, he addresses them as a father. What's the issue he's after here? Well, he kind of gives it away. He says, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. That's the purpose. He wants them to flee from sin. and flee to God. But the problem in the background of this is the question, what if I continue to sin even after I've made a profession of faith? Can I still be a Christian? Can I have confidence that God still loves me when I struggle so much and seem to fail so often? He 's dealing with people who have a tender conscience and people who are dealing with uncertainty about whether or not God can still love sinners like them. That's what he's dealing with. So he's got to be personal. And speak in a personalized way as he does this. But notice what he does to encourage them. He points them to an advocate that they have with the Father. Look how look how he continues in verse 1. But if anyone does sin, that's a generic statement implying that they probably do. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. Now we have to try to understand what he means by an advocate with the Father. What is an advocate in Scripture? This is, believe it or not, a word that only John uses. He uses it only here in this letter, and then it comes up again in the Gospel of John. In his gospel in chapter 14, verses 16 and 26, and chapter 15, verse 26, and chapter 16, verse 7, all of those in the upper room discourse The last night that Jesus had with his disciples, he's trying to comfort them, he's trying to encourage them because of the sorrow that they were feeling at feeling abandoned and that he's going to leave them by themselves. He's encouraging them, and he speaks of the Holy Spirit as the advocate. Now, interestingly enough, if you If you were to look at John 14, verse 16, it's translated in the ESV. That same word is translated a little differently. It's not translated advocate, it's translated comforter. In other words, John says, or Jesus says in John 14, I am going to send another advocate, another comforter. Now I think comforter is probably a good translation in that particular context because of the the sorrow that they were feeling. You remember how Jesus began in John 14, 1? Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid. They needed comfort. But it's the same exact word in the original Greek as he uses here. Now What's the con what's the the kind of nuance that we have with this word in 1 John, which is a little different? Well, I would submit to you that an advocate is a lot like a lawyer. It's a lot like a lawyer. Now imagine, if you will, that you have committed a crime. It doesn't matter what the crime is, you've committed the crime. And you've been summoned to court. Your court date has been set. You show up that morning or that afternoon to the courtroom. The judge is seated. And what's the judge there to do? The judge is there to hear hear the prosecution and the defense. And then it's the judge's job, if he's a good judge, to render a verdict that is in keeping with the laws and to execute justice. That's his job. Now imagine this courtroom setting in which God the Father is seated as the judge who must render a verdict. Why must he render a verdict? Because he is holy and he is just by character and by definition. He has to You are brought forward as the sinner and the violator of his holy law. Now imagine one charge after the next is read against you. The more charges that are read, the more you know you're guilty I mean, according to 1 John 2. 1, you have sinned in this instance. You know that at the bar of God's holy justice you are guilty, and therefore you should be condemned. The father turns and asks you after the prosecution reads the charges against you, how do you plead? You look up at the judge, and you remember, first John 1 9. Right? But if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so you plead guilty. Honor. Well, what happens next? At that moment, the advocate, who is your legal defense representing you, stands up in the presence of the Father. Now notice who this advocate is. He identifies him as Jesus Christ, and then he says something about his character, the righteous. Think about that. If he's going to stand before the Father, he must be righteous in and of himself. Otherwise, he's not fit to stand before the Father. But if he's going to represent you as your legal counsel before the bar of God's holy tribunal, he must be every bit the human being that you are. so that he can sympathize with your weaknesses, to use the language of Hebrews chapter 7. Now the question is on what basis does Jesus Christ the righteous The righteous one advocate for us with the Father on our behalf. What's the basis of his plea? Well look at verse 2. You don't just see the advocate of sinners there, you see the atonement that comes from the advocate. Verse 2 is very clear He is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. Period, stop there. That's a packed statement. What we see is two things here. First, you see the depth of the atonement. Like, how deep does this really go? And then you see the breadth or the width or the scope of the atonement. Now take a look at this, the depth of the atonement. He calls Jesus the propitiation for our sins. Now, I don't know about you, but that is not a word I usually use in my everyday vocabulary. Right? Propitiation. What does it mean? Well, believe it or not, it's a Greek word, and you can actually translate that literally in different ways. And I'm going to focus on two different nuances. of this word, and one of them is the word propitiation. That is a good, legitimate translation. What does it mean? Well you've got to think about the context in which John is writing to. He's writing to Christians who are living in Asia Minor, which is modern-day Turkey. We think most likely Christians in Ephesus. That was a Greek city full of Greek culture, Greek paganism. Right? Was inundated in the mindset of the people. Well, in the Greek mindset, that word, Greek word, which is hilasmas, translated propitiation here It referred to appeasing the wrath of some God by the means of offering a sacrifice to that God because you did something to offend that God. So if you're a pagan Greek and you you do something that say Zeus hates and you're experiencing some misfortune because you're a pagan Your assumption is Zeus is punishing me. So what do I do? Well, I go to the priest of Zeus and I offer the sacrifice to appease his wrath. That's the idea Now, in the historical context, that would make sense. The readers of John's letter here would understand that nuance. They would understand, especially because he just mentioned a word like advocate, that is a courtroom nuance, that we as guilty sinners are under the wrath of God apart from an advocate. And so what does that advocate have to do? That advocate has to somehow turn away the wrath of God from us. That's the idea. I mean, Christ turns the Father's wrath away from us by taking it upon himself at the cross to appease the justice of God. We talked about that last week, didn't we, when we looked at 1 John 1, verse 9, and we said, you know, He's faithful and just if we confess our sins to what? Forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Remember what I said last week? It's interesting how he doesn't like tap into the mercy or the compassion of God to talk about forgiveness and cleansing. He taps into the justice of God. Christ on the cross bore the wrath of God that you and I deserved and that these Christians in the first century deserved. This is why the Apostle Paul says in Romans chapter 5, verse 9, Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood. There's that word justice again, right? Justified by his blood. Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. It's interesting that since God is the the object whose wrath is being turned away, there is something objectively true in Christ that God is not angry with us. And I'll come back to that in just a moment, but understand that the cross of Christ does something objective. It turns God's wrath away from us. That's one nuance of that word when he says he is the propitiation. That word, as many commentators that are very good commentators, Bible-believing scholars would tell you, could also be translated as expiation and that's that's the other nuance I want to focus on here. What does the mean what does expiation mean? Well the verbal form of that word is used throughout the Greek Old Testament and it refers to cleansing From sin through sacrifice. Once again, if you go back and you look at chapter 1, you look at verse 7, look at the way verse 7 ends at the end of chapter in chapter 1. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, how does it end? We have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us from all sin. I've said now this will be the third time from verse 9, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so when it says that Jesus is the, I'll use expiation here for our sins, the nuance is Jesus is the one who has cleansed us. from our sins. Now keep in mind what's going on there. If turning away the wrath of God is an objective reality, this is a subjective thing. This is an individual thing. This is a very personal thing. Your sins are forgiven because of the blood of Jesus Christ. Now, believe it or not, the only other time we see this word, it's translated propitiation used, it's in this letter. It's 1 John 4, 10. What is the basis of expiation or cleansing from sin? Well, 1 John 4. 10 tells us, in this is love. Not that we have loved God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be, and he uses the word propitiation there, the propitiation or the expiation. For our sins. Why did God cleanse you and I from sin? Because He loves us. That's the basis That we need to see. But don't miss the fact that that is only covering the depths of the atonement. It's rich. There's also a breadth or a width or a scope, if you will, of the atonement. And how does he follow up in chapter 2, verse 2? He does say he is the propitiation for our sins, but he follows that up by saying, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. I had a conversation this week about from with someone. What does that mean? Well, the big picture is I think John is trying to get us to see the scope. How wide is the atonement? And you have to ask two questions if you're going to really understand what he's saying here. When he says, not only for ours, well, who is ours or us? And and what does the whole whole world represent? Now a lot of people will say, well, this means that Jesus died on the cross and his his atonement covers the sins of everyone in the world. Almost regardless of how they respond. Well, that can't necessarily be true, and here's why. If Jesus' death on the cross covered the sins of all people in the world, every individual in history that will ever live or ever has , What about those who die outside of Christ and end up in hell? Essentially paying for eternity for their own sin. How can Jesus pay for that? But then they have to pay for it. That's not just. It violates the just character of who God is. There has to be another explanation of what this means. So what does it mean? I'm of the mind that ours in context refers to the Jewish believers who have embraced Jesus. You see, in John's letters and in his gospel, there is a distinction in his mind oftentimes between the Jewish believers in Jesus and the Gentiles who will come to faith. As a result of apostolic preaching. You see it very early in the first chapter of John. Chapter 1, verses 10 and 11. The world was made through him, and yet the world did not know him. Talking about the Gentiles. Then verse 11, he came to his own, and his own. Talking about the Jews did not receive him. You get to John chapter 10, the passage where Jesus talks about being the great shepherd, the great and good shepherd of the sheep. And in John chapter 10, verse 16, he finally just says, Look, I have other sheep that are not of this fold. They must I must bring them to, so that they may come together and be one. sheepfold with one shepherd. What is he talking about? Who are those that are not of this fold? Well this fold in John 10 is Jewish believers. Those who are not of this fold were Gentile believers that had to be brought in, made one body with those Jewish believers, so that they can have one shepherd in him, in Jesus Christ. It's no mistake that in Galatians chapter 2, verse 9, when Paul is giving the account of when he goes to Jerusalem, He and Barnabas to lay the gospel that he's preaching to the Gentiles before the apostles in Jerusalem to make sure he had not run in vain. They give he and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship because they saw and perceived that Paul and Barnabas had a calling and anointing by the Holy Spirit to go and preach the gospel to the Gentiles. just as much as the Holy Spirit had called and appointed Peter, James, and John to go as apostles to the Jews. You see, in the context of the whole New Testament and the context of 1 John, what makes the most sense is when John is saying that he's writing to Jewish believers and he's saying, Look, this atonement, this work of Christ In its depth, in its breadth, it doesn't only apply to us as Jews, it applies to all nations and to people whom God will call to Himself from all nations and bring them into one Sheepfold, one body of Christ. The world is referring to the Gentiles. They are included in the breadth, in the scope, and in the depth of God's redemptive work What a way to highlight the love of God to those who maybe didn't understand how that love was going to be applied. So the question we have to ask ourselves as we step back just for a moment to apply this, how does this reminder of the gospel, how is this intended to keep us from sin? Verse 1, that's why he's writing this. So, how does it apply to us today? It is when we sin, brothers and sisters, that we need to hear the glories of the gospel repeated to us. to assure us of who we are in relationship to the God who has saved us. Now I want you to think about this. This is a comfort to those who struggle with sin. Comes right out of verse 1. And let's face it, every single believer in this room continues to struggle in some way, shape, or form with sin. Now some of your sins, they might be very outward and noticeable. Others of you, maybe your sins are more internal and they're in your heart, you know they're there, but others don't always perceive them so obviously. And I want you to think about this. The problem for many of us is that when we continue to struggle with sin, and we continue to experience more depths of depravity , In our relationship with the Lord, as we seek to relate to Him, it can leave us with feelings of doubt about the nature of our own relationship with God. We might ask questions like this of ourselves. How can someone who has been redeemed struggle so much? With how you know how much I tend to fail on a daily basis, how can God still love me? Now again, we come to church and we smile and people ask us all the time, how are you doing? How is your week? I'm doing fine. It was a good week. But deeped out inside, many of us know we don't often really truly feel that way. Sometimes we have uncertainties. Sometimes we struggle to know, can God still love somebody like me who did this, that, or the other this week? And that's what John is getting at here. These are the questions that run through our minds as we live the Christian life. And this passage is meant to bring comfort to God's people who struggle. By reminding them of who they are. You know, the Protestant reformer Martin Luther, he once said this when I look at myself, I don't see how I can be saved. Can you resonate with that? Because I know sometimes I really can. But he continues. But when I look at Jesus, I don't see how I can be lost. When most of us struggle with sin, we, if you're like me, and I'm kind of burying my own soul here when I say this, We often continue to focus on how we have fallen short, and it can drive us to despair, as Luther said. You know, how can I be saved? And the reason for my despair, and this is probably the same for you, is that when we dwell on our failing and our sin, we know how deep We know that deep down there's nothing we can really do to change the fact that we have sinned. Have you ever experienced that? When you sin or you fail, you just continue dwell on this. How did this happen? Why did I do that? What was I thinking or feeling that caused me to do that? And if you notice, the more you do that, the more introspective you become. And what John is telling us here is, you know, there is a place for introspection. There is a place for for identifying the sin patterns. But you have to go the extra step. You have to stop looking at yourself and you have to put your eyes on Jesus. That's what he's driving us to. We need to take apply the second statement that Luther made. When I look at Jesus, I cannot even imagine how I cannot be saved. And so I want to encourage you this morning, brothers and sisters, do you struggle with those uncertainties about how a God who is holy and just can really love you? Put your eyes on Jesus Stop looking at yourself for a moment and recognize that he is your advocate. He is the righteous one who represents you. He is the one who covers you before the Father. Look at Jesus when you struggle and focus on him. And if you struggle to focus on him, cry out to him and ask him to help you to focus on and trust in him as your righteousness. But the other part of this application is also the reminder, is as you look at Christ, you are brought face to face with the fact that his work in the atonement is sufficient for you. Again, some of us have the tendency to feel like when we sin, God is going to punish us because he's angry with us. Do you ever fall into that mentality? Oh, you know, this happened in my life because God is, he must be angry with me. I did this, that, and the other. Well, this passage challenges that mindset and calls us to repent of that mindset. Why? Because Jesus Christ is the propitiation for your sin and for mine. And if he has already taken the wrath of God, you don't have to, and you won't Think about it. If you walk around constantly feeling like God is angry with you and he's going to punish you One, you're not believing in the work of Christ. But two, it has the power to further alienate you because do you really come to somebody who's going to punish you and fess up? No, you want to hide because you don't want to get punished. But if you recognize that the punishment has already been taken by the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ at the cross that has the power, despite our sin, not to drive us away, but to drive us closer to God. And to confess, because he is faithful and just, to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now that doesn't mean that God cannot have fatherly displeasure towards something you've done. Please don't confuse God's wrath. and his fatherly displeasure. What's the difference? Well his fatherly displeasure is his attitude towards your sin even as his child. He does not just give you um he just doesn't wink at your sin and just ignore it. He's displeased. But that doesn't mean he's going to punish you. You might have the consequences of your sin. You speed down the road at 90 miles an hour and at 25 and the police officer pulls you over. Expect the police officer to give you a ticket. Don't just tell that man or woman who pulled you over, but officer, Christ has covered my sins. Yeah, well, so does this ticket. Right. Fatherly fatherly displeasure is not the same thing as wrath. But I want you to think about how the word expiation is applied. John is here reminding us and encouraging us that the work of Christ on the cross has the efficacy of taking away your sins and is more sufficient than anything Anything you will ever need. I remember um this is about two years ago now, I was in downtown Lancaster, PA. And I was with a a guy who's uh a regional director of Evangelism Explosion and we were doing street evangelism right there uh near the market in Lancaster and at lunchtime and people were walking by and we got into this conversation where There was a young man who understood what we were saying intellectually about the gospel. He understood the concept that Christ died for sinners. You know what his hang-up was? Christ can it it can he can't possibly have died for my sin. I remember him looking at me and saying, look, Pastor, you don't understand some of the things I have done. And I said, Well, I don't have to That's the that's the beauty of this whole thing. I don't have to understand the depths of your depravity and things that you've done. But if you say you understand the concept, what is really standing in the way of you embracing Jesus, and I said, here's the problem. I said, sir, you you understand it? You don't believe that it it's it could really apply to you. It's too good to be true. And he looked at me and said, Yeah, you're right. There's encouragement here. Maybe you're struggling with how shameful something you did was, or how embarrassing it is, or how scandalous your sin might be The good news for you this morning as a Christian is that there is nothing too shameful for Jesus. There's nothing too embarrassing for Jesus. There's nothing too scandalous. Nothing too deep that the power of the cross cannot reach down into the depths of your being and cleanse. I think of what the author of Hebrews said, and please don't quote me on this since it's Hebrews 9 or 10. He's talking about the difference between the blood of bulls and goats on the one hand. And sacrifices and rituals that just cleanse the body versus the blood of Christ, which cleanses the conscience to the uttermost. You do not have to walk around, brothers and sisters, feeling guilty because you're not guilty in Christ anymore. You don't have to walk around feeling shameful because Christ bore the shame on the The cross. That is the power of the blood of Christ to cleanse us. Well, that leads us really to our second point this morning in verses 3 through 6, and it's the assurance. And our obedience. We saw an advocate leading to atonement and giving atonement in one and two. Now we look at the assurance of our obedience. Look at me at the statement underlying our assurance in verse 3. And then I want to focus on the end of verse 5 and 6. Let's put those together. This kind of forms like a sandwich here. What he says in verse 3 gives us the principle. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. Skip down to the end of verse 5. By this we may know that we are in him. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. What is he saying here? Well he's saying, big picture, obedience to God's commandments is the evidence that we know God. Again, what's he dealing with? He's dealing with people in the first century who who came to understand that they are not saved because of their good works. They're saved by grace through faith in Christ alone. And in what Christ alone has done. But then they turn around and they make what I think is an illogical jump of reasoning where they assume Well, if I'm not saved by my good works, my good works don't matter. I can get saved, and then I can turn around and live any way I want. That's what they were doing. The false teachers that John is battling throughout this whole book of 1 John, remember what I said last week. They prized this understanding that I am saved because of some secret knowledge that I know that others on the outside don't have access to. They believe that the spiritual is good and the physical world is evil. And so if you can only access that spiritual world By means of the ideas and knowledge that you have, you know what? It doesn't matter how you live in the flesh because this world is evil anyway, and you're saved regardless. That was the mindset. It's not terribly different than how people think today. They largely ignored the practical and the ethical side of life and it's it's just what you say. No, I am a Christian. But I live in sexual morality. I I live doing this, that, or the other. That's what was going on. They claimed to know God. Their lives did not reflect the reality. And that's what verse 6 is getting at. It's the other side of that main point. It's the claim to abide in God or Christ must consistently match how we live our lives practically. And it's this consistency is how we know or have assurance that we are truly saved. That's what John is getting at. Anyone can say that they're saved. Anyone can say that they're a Christian. But again, like to use last week's language, just Does what you say match what you do? Do you walk the walk that you talk? And we see in verses 4 through 5 the relationship between obedience and assurance. Notice in verse 4 the inconsistency of what a liar looks like Whoever says I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Those are strong words Think about what Jesus said in John 14, 15. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Notice what he said in 14 verse 23 and 24 of his gospel. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. And whoever does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine, but the father who sent me. You know what's interesting is if you're living a consistent Christian life, it almost needs no explanation. The moment you start living inconsistently, you claim one thing and live completely different, you have to explain yourself. Not to God, first and foremost, He knows your heart. Who do you have to explain yourself to? To men who have every right to call you into question. Look at the first part of verse 5. This is the other side of the coin again. This is the consistency of one who loves God. He says, but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. Now again, we don't have to make this harder than it has to be. What does he mean by the love of God? Does it mean God's love that he has for us is being perfected by our obedience? No, that would be legalism, right? Well, what does he mean? Well, it means our love for God, not his love for us. Notice what he says here. What happens with this love? It's perfected. In other words, it reaches its end, its purpose, its goal. And you know what? He uses a perfect tense verb there, which means that when we got saved in the past, that's when our love for God really began. And it continues to grow until it reaches its intended purpose and goal in the present time. So how do we apply this? Well, just because the grace by which we are saved is free through faith in Christ. Does not mean that we can ignore the resulting obedience of saving faith as a vital sign of the gospel's power in our lives. And I want to kind of give a warning here. There is a the danger of what many have called in our day and age cheap grace. Which is really a false gospel. I remember years ago when I was working at a credit union in Charlotte, North Carolina, we there was a guy that started, well maybe after a year out that I was there and He and I were working by ourselves in the office one day and he was just telling me about his weekend. It was a Monday and I remember he was telling me about the club he went to on on Friday and then another club on Saturday and he told me about the girl he picked up on Saturday and spent the night with into Sunday and he was telling me about how he really didn't quite remember it all because he was too drunk and and had been consuming a lot of alcohol and mur it was a miraculous thing that he didn't crash his car on the way home because of how drunk he was and I'm I'm sitting there listening to all of this. And I I at first I wasn't saying anything. I'm just kind of like looking at him like, man, what do I say to all this? You know And I had worked with him long enough to know that he had made a profession of faith, and he claimed to be a Christian around the office. And finally, after telling me all this stuff that he did over the weekend, and I mean just, oh man, it was like one eye roll after another for me. I just finally looked at him and I said, look, let me ask you something. He 's like, What? First of all, are you sober enough to answer a serious question? Even though we're at work? And y I by the way, I was not joking when I said that. I I are you sober enough to t answer a serious question? He said Yeah, I think so. Okay. You claim to be a Christian, right? And I remember him looking over at me like, yeah, where are you going with this? Well, you say you're a Christian, but but this is how you live. Oh man, I remember the blow-up he he had right then and there. I mean it was just he and I in that little that little office He blew up on me. How dare you judge me, you self-righteous bigot. I I know that I'm saved. I was at this one church two, three years ago, and I walked down the aisle when the pastor gave the altar call and this and that. In his mind, because he walked down an aisle, he was saved. He was essentially told whether it was intended or not. What he took away from that message was, if I just walk down this aisle and and name the name of Christ when it's easy in a in a group of believers, I can then go out and live any way I want. That's cheap grace. And cheap grace is a false gospel, and a false gospel to use Paul's language in Galatians chapter 1 is not really another gospel. Yes, we are saved by grace through faith, apart from works. Scripture makes that abundantly clear. But brothers and sisters, don't forget that our redemption puts a claim from God on our lives. A grace that does not change you fundamentally by the blood of Jesus Christ's propitiation and expiation is a grace that is cheap and does not truly save. Now the question that you have to ask yourself this morning, and it may not be a comfortable one, but it's a question we are bound to ask Is are you this morning presuming upon a cheap grace that has not changed your life and your heart fundamentally? And the good news is that while God's love for us does not grow, our love for Him certainly can. You know, when he says the love of God is being perfected in somebody who does walk a Christian life, verse 5. It should be good news to you that it's not talking about God's love for us, but our love for God. Why? Because God is eternal, He is unchanging. The love that God has for you In your best times and your worst times. His love for you is never gonna grow. It's never gonna diminish. It's never gonna change with his mood, like ours often does. His love is perfect. But your love for him can certainly grow throughout the Christian life Let me explain it in a in a parable. I tried my best to make this parable up, so if there's any faults, blame me. But There was once a pastor who had a young couple come to him and they were, you know, on cloud nine and they wanted to get married. Hormones are raging, the feelings and the emotions are high, and this pastor would happen to just be really busy. in his schedule and he thought, Oh man, I really can't fit these these two in to do some premarital counseling. So he goes to one of his elders that he trusted Who had been married for 60 years and says, Would you and your wife be willing to sit down with this young couple, starry-eyed couple, and counsel them and prepare them to get married? And they said, Sure, we'd love to. So they set up the meeting and the young couple comes into their house, into their home in the living room. Dinner's waiting, but they're going to do the counseling part first. The the young couple sits down and and they sit down right next to each other. I mean like right next to each other. Their their bodies are touching, they're holding hands, they're as they look at each other. It's just like puppy love. And the the older couple is very different. You know, they each have their own chair. They're not even on the same couch. They could be sitting on another couch together. They're not even sitting next to each other. The older gentleman has his chair and the wife has her chair and they're sitting there and they're they're trying to talk to this couple about why they think they should get married. Oh, but we love each other, isn't it so obvious? Whenever I'm away from her, I just I can't stop thinking about her and I just want to kiss her and put my arms around her and they're older couples just looking at each other Well, as time went on and the counseling, you know, progressed, um the pastor sees this young couple at church the next Sunday. He says to the young couple, he says, so how did how did the counseling go with Mr. and Mrs. So-and-so? Oh, it went good. It went good Okay, well that doesn't sound so confident. What happened? And the the young couple looks at this passage and says, well we noticed something. They didn't even sit next to each other. The pastor says so? Why does that bother you? Well, we would think that after being married for sixty years, you'd be you'd be in love and want to be around each other and near each other and touch each other like us The pastor just smiled and said , No. I know you feel that way now. You're about to get married and that's fine. That's a it's it's a good good stage to be But understand that when you live life together and you you know you're you're working two different jobs and you're you're trying to pay off a house, you're raising kids, you have all the stress of of career and kids and everything. uh and the world and you're trying to be faithful to the Lord, look, you're gonna go through hard times as a couple. You're gonna have good times and you're gonna have bad times. What you saw with this couple sitting, you know, separate is they probably love each other more now after sixty years of marriage that they don't have to sit next to each other like you guys were. They can just look at each other across the room. And all those years, the ups and downs, the highs and the lows, the good and the bad, comes back to them. And they know that through it all, they stuck together. They chose to work it out. And after 60 years, their love is greater now than it was the day they got married. Brothers and sisters, that is just a very dim example about what our relationship is like with the Lord. Yeah, we struggle with sin. No, we're not perfect this side of eternity. Do we fail the Lord? Absolutely. Do I? Absolutely. But when you choose to come to Him, confess those sins, and reconcile, and continue to look to Christ, over time your trust in Him grows. Your love for Him grows. grows as you see his faithfulness to you. And as that happens, you grow more and more in love with the Lord. And that reaches down into your affection. And it really leads us right back to the main point of this whole message, doesn't it? Christ's role is our advocate Should lead us away from sin and into greater assurance of salvation through obedience that is grounded on God's love. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we are thankful, O Lord, for your love for us. We're thankful that it's perfect. We're thankful that you gave us Christ, your son, the most cherished person and thing to you for our salvation. In this first John 4 will tell us when we get there, Lord, it was because you loved us first. Thank you, O Lord. We are thankful, O Lord, that when we fail, We have an advocate with you, Father, and it's your son. I pray, O Lord, that you would take your words this morning That you would seal it upon the hearts of the people here, and that they would grow more and more in assurance and love for you. So Lord, we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy and righteous name. Amen.