I would invite you, if you have your Bibles, and I hope that you do, take them and turn to the book of First John, near the back of your New Testament. First John, we're going to be looking at Chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. And I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word this morning. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life. The life was made manifest, and we have seen it and testified to it and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was made manifest to us. That which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete. Brothers and sisters, this is the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. And all of God's people said, Thanks be to God. Or amen. You may be see that. I probably should have clarified that from the beginning, right? First age hitters, what are you gonna do? Well let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are so grateful, O Lord, that you have given us your word, O Lord, as filled. prayed for me earlier. It's not just for me, it's for all of us to read daily, to meditate on it, so that we may know, oh Lord, not only what to believe about you, but how we may live. our lives daily. And so Lord, as we come into the book of 1 John, as we begin this series this fall, looking on what it means to have the assurance of our salvation. Lord, I just pray that you would bless the preaching of your word this morning. In the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus, about whom this is all concerning, we ask these things. Amen. Well in the history of movie cinema, if you talk to most actors, uh really since the time of movies, I would say from the 1920s. All the way to the present. Most people agree, not everybody, but most people agree that Marlon Brando If not the greatest is one of the greatest actors to ever grace the movie screen. He was known, many of you have seen his movies. He's been gone for a few years now, but many of you know that he was known for his method acting, which catapulted him to sardom I mean some of his movies were movies like The Street Car Named Desire, which was the play that was then turned into a movie He did play that role originally on Broadway of Stanley Kowalski and then reprised it in 1951 when they did the movie. Or his his movie On the Waterfront, 1954. Or his his performances Julius Caesar in nineteen fifty-five. And and for those of you who like musicals, who could forget him coming along with Frank Sinatra in Guys and Dolls. It was it was roles like that that catapulted him to the top of Hollywood. It was his method acting that trained him to really just dive deep into his own experience. to flesh out the mental, the emotional, and the physical content and overtones of the characters that he played. So that when he came to play that character, he was recalling something that was existentially present within himself to make that character all his own. Now, you can think about how much work that would take an actor to do to bring a character to life, but what what many people don't know is that Marlon Brando Um one of the things he would do when he was filming his scenes, he would take his lines and he would write them on little note cards, and he would place those note cards in various places around the set So that as he walked around, as he as he looked at someone or past them that he was talking to, he could simply read the lines right there on the note card. Now for some of you who have seen his movies and you know his reputation as kind of a mumble mouth , I'll let you be the judge as to whether or not you think the cards actually worked. But Marlon Brando thought so. Yeah. Marlon Brando actually thought so. He thought that that helped him to to really focus on the emotional content so that he wasn't having to to use most of his energy to recall the lines. But the cards were there as a reminder of what he had already worked to know And that's kind of what we see here with this letter of 1 John. Most of you know that John also wrote a large Gospel of John of 21 chapters. It tends to be the gospel that when you're sharing uh Christ with someone and you encourage them to read their Bible, you tell them to begin with the Gospel of John because it gives a wonderful snapshot of not just the life, but the teachings of Jesus Christ. And if you go to the Gospel of John in chapter 20, verse 31, he gives the purpose of him writing that Gospel there when he says this. These things are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have eternal life And so it's interesting, you know, much like an actor creating a character and learning the lines, you know, you you're learning to become that character. And live that out. Well, that's kind of what John's gospel is like. You are learning what the gospel is, and you are coming to faith in Christ. That was the purpose. John 's epistle here, the first one, has a little bit of a different focus. If you turn a few pages back to John, 1 John , Chapter 5 verse 20, you see the the ultimate big picture purpose statement of why he wrote this little letter. And he writes this. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true, and his son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. And so, like Brando 's note cards that were there to remind him of what he already knew when he was performing the part. This little letter is designed to remind us and to bring us to an assurance of salvation. It does have an evangelistic overtone, but the primary emphasis is bringing us to a point of assurance of salvation. And so as we look at the prologue this morning, it functions almost like a table of contents to which the rest of the book will then unpack. And so the main idea of this prologue is pretty simple, and it's this. The message of the gospel Focuses on the person and work of Jesus Christ, which brings us into fellowship with God, and then produces joy Let me repeat that idea because that's what we're going to unpack this morning together. The message of the gospel focuses on the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Which brings us into fellowship with God and then produces joy in our lives. And so I want to begin in verses one and two again as we look at the message of the word of life. Let's take a look at verses 1 and 2 again. It says, that which was from the beginning which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon and have touched with our hands concerning the word of life. The life was made manifest, and we have seen it and testified to it and proclaim it to you, or proclaim to you, the eternal life which was with the Father and was made manifest to us. Let's stop there. Now, you can read verse 1, and there's a lot of things he says, but and it may be difficult to discern, well, what is the main Focus that he's driving at. Well, it's actually at the end of verse 1, and it is the word of life. Notice when he says there. What's he ultimately talking about at the end of verse 1? Concerning the word of life. That's the focus of that clause. What what does that phrase mean? What is he talking about Well, I'll just tell you right on the front end, he's talking about none other than the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. He 's identifying Christ as the word of life. Now, if you're familiar with John's gospel, this should not surprise you. In John chapter 1, verse 1, in his gospel, he begins this way: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And so he identifies Christ as the Word. John 1. 4, in him was life, and the life was the light of men. There he identifies him not only as the word, but as life. And so we see him here concerning the word of life. And then the passage that many of us learned as Sunday school children, John 14, 6, when Jesus said in the upper room, discourse with his disciples, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Now the question you have to ask yourself is, well, why does John, why does he go to all these pains to describe Christ in this way? And then break that description down into further descriptions. Why does he not just say Jesus? Why does he just come out and straightforwardly say, you know what, this is about Jesus And then move on and make his point. Well, he does so because he's addressing confusion from false teaching that was going on in the early church about who Jesus was. If you study the early church from the end of the first century when John is writing here, all the way till you know the first couple hundred years. What is the big thing that is being debated among Christians or professing Christians? Who is Jesus? What is his nature? And then by implication, who is God? And you have professing Christians disagreeing and debating and dividing on those very questions. It's interesting to me that when you go back to the synoptic gospels, when Jesus is is back in the upper regions of Galilee, and I'm thinking of Mark chapter 8, just to give you a point of reference. Jesus, when he's privately with his disciples, asks them two questions. One, who do the crowds say that I am? You remember that? Oh, well, some say Jeremiah or one of the other prophets. Some say you're Elijah. Some say you're John the Baptist. And Jesus turns around and asks his disciples, this is almost at the end of his three years with them, he says, but who do you My disciples who follow me. Who do you say that I am? The issue of who Jesus was. was a debated issue that divided people, and it was dividing people into the time of the apostles when John is writing this to the churches. And obviously, because false teaching is creeping in, there are people spreading lies about who Jesus is, it's dividing people. Fellowship was splitting up, the church's life was at stake And John's whole point in all of these descriptions is to say that Christ must be the center of the gospel. And not just some generic Christ. But a specific Christ who was obviously revealed in the person of Jesus of Nazareth in history, but then whom the apostles preached and proclaimed which we have given to us in the New Testament. That is the Christ that must be center And so he begins to unpack that by looking, and I want us to do that this morning by looking at the divinity of the word. Notice how he begins this letter. That which was from the beginning That's a clear connection to John 1. 1 and how John 1. 1 began. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. But even go further back, that's the connection to Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. This is what John is bringing us right back to in the beginning of his letter, to the beginning of the Bible, the beginning of all things in Genesis 1:1. And notice what he says here, that which was from the beginning. In other words, if you were to draw a timeline of all of history, And the beginning is this little dot here. Think about this. Before that dot, before time even existed. The word was already in existence when the beginning happened. That's what he's saying here. What he's saying is this divine word is eternal, outside of time, and therefore outside of creation. And then verse 2 picks up the word which was with the Father. Do you see that in verse 2? This is what we proclaim to you, the eternal life, which was with the Father. You know, it's hard to really see in English, but that that preposition in Greek with carries the connotation of the word was face to face in relationship and in communication. With the Father outside of time, outside of creation, in eternity past. And that's why he calls them the word of life. The word of life or the eternal life in verse 2. Think about what Jesus said In John chapter 5, verse 26. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. He's fully divine. He's truly divine. And because he's divine, because he is the living God that the Old Testament talks about, he has life as an attribute of himself. And he gives it, as John chapter 6 says, to those whom he wills. And so who is this Jesus? That John proclaims. He is fully and truly divine. But he's also fully human. Let's take a look at that. Look at what he says here in verse 2. Not only was he with the Father, but the end of verse 2 says, and was made manifest to us. Or he was revealed to us. This again brings us right back to the prologue of John's Gospel when he says in verse 14 of that He says, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. And so what he's talking about here is this eternal God took on flesh and became a true and full human being. Just like us, except without sin. And that's why he describes them the way he does in verse 1. Look at those descriptions. Guess four. That which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes. Let's stop there. I mean, think about John and the 12 disciples walking with Jesus and listening to him teach for three years. I mean, Pastor Arch just gave you a sample of what that looked like in the Sermon on the Mount when he began Matthew all the way till last week. This is what John says. We heard this. We heard Christ's own voice. And he says, we have seen him with our own eyes. You know, the example of that I'll give you that stands out in my mind is do you remember after he fed the sick the 5,000, he walked on water And when you in John chapter 6, when you read the story of Jesus walking on the water, you know it's very clear that they were terrified when they saw him walking towards them on the water in the middle of the night. They thought he was some ghost. But can you imagine as he identifies himself? Don't be afraid. It is I. And they receive him into the boat. They're receiving him gladly, but can you imagine them just looking at him with their eyes, like thinking, who is this? They can walk in the water and rebuke the winds and the seas. They saw him. He goes on to say that which we have looked upon and that which we have handled with our hands I'll talk about the hands part there. You know, the thing that comes to my mind when he says that is when they're in the the upper room after the resurrection. Do you remember they saw Jesus after the resurrection for the first time together, but Thomas was not there? And when Thomas comes along later, he says he won't believe it unless he he sees the nail holes in his hands, and unless I put my finger in there, and in his side, unless I put my hand like In his side, that which we our hands have handled. That's what we preach to you. We preach a Jesus who is one person. Who is truly God and truly man, who has been revealed to us as our Lord and Savior? And the question we have to ask ourselves is, why is John's description of Jesus so important for us today? I'll tell you why. We must have a correct understanding of who Jesus truly is if we are going to properly believe in him and if we're going to properly be in relationship to him. You cannot have a relationship with someone that you really do not know. One of the contemporary illustrations that I can think of that illustrates this is how social media has complicated kind of true relationships. Now, anyone who knows me knows I'm not against social media. I have a Facebook account. But I do think we need to be careful how we steward these things. It's easy to friend or follow someone on social media to read their posts and see their videos and then feel like you really know them. Feel like you really know them. The problem is you don't really know that person for who they really are. Why? Because if you're like me, you don't put the worst part of you on social media. You put the best part of you on social media. You want to you put the part of you on social media that you want everybody else to see. Because you want to control the image they have of you when they think of you. But have you ever met somebody that you friended previously on social media and then you've seen them and then you meet them later in person and you find out they're a really different person? Why is there why is the disappointment so strong? The disappointment is so strong because you have this mental image of who they're supposed to be based on what you've seen and when they fail that expectation it's like a big letdown But if you try to have a relationship with them based on who you think they should be, that never works And it's it's not just social media. It's it's it's anything. It's you can see from a man's perspective, if you see a woman across across the room and you think she's really pretty and you're single and you want to get to know her but you chicken out and you just Put her on this, you think about who she is based on what you know about her, but you don't know her, you're never gonna have a relationship with her because you never took the time to get to know her as she really is Brothers and sisters, it's the same thing with the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people out there do you meet who when you try if if you ever try and talk to them about Jesus Christ, they have some mental image in their mind of who he is It's usually not based on this. It's based on what they've seen on TV or heard. uh from friends or on social media or in in pop culture, but it's not accurate to who he is. Is it any wonder that they don't believe in him when they don't really know who he is? You see, today people's faith is more, it's more a faith in their own religious experience as the ultimate standard and the object of their faith. It's not faith in Christ. who has eternally existed with the Father and was revealed in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. Now, I'm not against religious experience. I think it's very important. But your faith is not in the experience that you once had. It is in the one that you experienced when you met him. And that's what John is getting at. People in his day were making that same mistake as we are today. But oh, when you come to know Christ, when you put your faith in him and you realize that he is God, the eternal Son who came down and took your sin on the cross. And bore that penalty and then rose again from the dead. It brings fellowship. And that's our second point here, the message of fellowship in verse 3. Take a look at verse 3. That which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Yeah. I think it's really interesting. He begins with what he proclaims. We proclaim to you What we have. And then he flips it. He says in verse 1, what we've heard and then seen. Now he says what we've seen and what we've heard. Because what you see is much more vivid. It's what we proclaim to you. I think of what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2. 2. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. Why does he proclaim Jesus Christ and him crucified in this letter? He gives the first purpose here: that you may have fellowship With us. I had one professor in seminary, excuse me. That in in his worship class he was talking about what fellowship really means. And um It was really funny one day, none of us saw this coming, but what he said was, and he was kind of a British accent, but he was a very proper British accent. But I remember him saying, Fellowship must be more than drinking coke and eating weenies in the church basement What do you think about when you think of fellowship? I don't know about you. I think of like people just hanging out, enjoying company together. You know, that's not the fellowship he has in mind here. Remember, he's writing to first century Christians who oftentimes struggled for their faith in the midst of the Roman Empire. They suffered. Misunderstanding and persecution and people making false assumptions about them. I mean very early in the second century One guy was writing a letter to one of the Roman emperors, and we have the record of this, and he's talking about Christians meeting in their love feasts, thinking they were having some kind of orgies. Talking about them partaking of the body and the blood of Christ, thinking that Christians were cannibals. I mean, John is writing to people who are misunderstood and being persecuted. Fellowship has to do with sticking together, living life in the sick and the sin of things. In the good and the bad, and strengthening one another, and glorifying God together in the process. That's what biblical fellowship is. Now, might that include food? Yes. But it can't be limited to food. And hanging out. And this is what he's saying here. We preached Christ and Christ crucified to you. Why? What was our purpose? So that you may have fellowship with us. You see, because of all the false teaching that was creeping in, that was dividing people who profess Christ There were people leaving the fellowship of the church. There were people walking away from the faith in that first century under the pressure of persecution. There were people committing apostasy. All because of this false teaching, which we'll see in several weeks when we get to John chapter 2, verses 18 to 27. But John 's desire in clinging to the Christ revealed in Scripture, the Christ that they experienced, the Christ that they preach, is that they may have fellowship with us. With true believers. But that's not all John wants. He goes on to say, and indeed our fellowship is with, notice he says how he writes this in verse 2. I'm sorry, verse 3, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Now I'm going to do something here that many of you think is going to be like this is splitting hairs. But the implications of this are pretty broad. Notice what he doesn't say. He does not say, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and the Son. You're like, well, where's the splitting the hair? Notice he uses the word with twice. With whom? The Father. And with whom his son Jesus Christ. Why does he use with twice You know what he's trying to get across to us is that we are called to have fellowship, we are called to have relationship, we are called to have communion with each of the persons of the Trinity. And when we grasp that reality, when we grasp that truth, that will revolutionize the way that we have fellowship with one another. And so we have to ask ourselves at this point as we stop again to apply this, why emphasize the preaching and the proclaiming of the gospel today? here at liberty. Why do we cling so tenaciously to the gospel? Why do we cling so tenaciously to who Jesus Christ really is? Instead of just letting people think they know who he is when we know they don't. Well, the purpose For which John and the apostles preach the gospels that we might have a true and abiding fellowship, first with God, and then with believers. And the application of those two widths is very clear. We are called to have fellowship with each of the persons of the Trinity uniquely. Now, many of us don't tend to think of God in that way. Many of us tend to think of God in more of a generic sense. We have fellowship with God. But John is nuancing this. And verse 3, I think, helps us to see otherwise. You see, when we think about fellowship with God the Father, when he says that the message of Christ brings us into fellowship with God the Father, What he means is that we are meant to relate to God not only as Christ's Father, but as our Father. I was reading yesterday in John chapter 20 when, another gospel written by John, when Jesus has risen from the dead, what does he say? He says, go and tell my brothers, I am going to my father and to your father, to my God and to your God. In other words, he's not only Christ's Father, he's our Father. Why? Because we have been born of the Father. You see, our relationship with God, part of that is learning to love the things that the Father loves and loving to learning to hate the things that the Father hates. We'll see that when we get to John chapter 2, verses 15 through 17. John , 1 John 3 describes our relationship to God as his children who have been spiritually born again of him. It's because we've been born again that we have a relationship with Him as our Father. 1 John 4 makes it clear that God is love. Which is demonstrated by the fact that he sent his only begotten Son so that his love might be perfected in us. What do we learn to love? From the Father. When it comes to having fellowship with God the Son, with Jesus Christ. This is probably the easiest thing, I think, for most of us as Christians to kind of think through and understand. It's the most natural for us when we think of relating to God, because the New Testament tells us constantly we are to deny ourselves daily, take up our crosses, and follow Jesus Remember that mark of discipleship? Again, Mark chapter 8, verse 34. And the more you you You die into sin in your own life, the more you learn to put that to death, the more you participate and experience the resurrection life of Christ on a daily basis. But think about it, those of you who are who have any kind of friends, long-term friends, those of you who are married, you know, you know that when you share certain experiences with people, it binds you close together. You know, an example of that is when soldiers go on the battlefield and they're fighting and they are risking their lives and they are dependent on one another to survive. When they're in a firefight and they come out alive on the other side, they are like they are really close. They're a band of brothers to those guys that they relied on to stay alive Why? Because they shared the same experience together. This is why I think it's so easy for us to think about what it means to have fellowship with God as in Christ. Because Christ had to die for our sins. We are called to die to our sin on a daily basis. And the more we are sanctified, the more we are conformed to the image of Christ and we are made more like him. That's a lot easier to understand. But it's no less difficult, right? Now, interestingly enough, he doesn't talk as much about fellowship with God, the Holy Spirit here. But he does allude to the Holy Spirit throughout the book of 1 John, particularly in chapter 3 and even at the end of chapter 2 where he tells us that the Holy Spirit is the anointing that teaches us all things. I can't tell you how many people I've met that have told me that uh before they came to Christ, they tried to read this book and just didn't get understand it. They got lost. But then when they came to Christ and they were truly born of the Spirit, they opened up their Bible and it came alive to them. They understood it. Well, that's fellowship with the Holy Spirit. But brothers and sisters, I want to draw your attention to the fact that the more we understand fellowship with each of the persons of the Trinity, the more that that changes the way we understand fellowship with other believers. When you're a little bit older and you understand what fellowship with the Father is like, you know what? It changes the way you relate to younger people and children. You become, as in a sense, a father in the faith to many of them when you mentor and disciple them. That's just one example. But the natural result of fellowship with God is fellowship with his people. And think about it, just like in John's day, when people are leaving the church for for whatever reason, for false teaching, for persecution. And they're apostasizing. We're saying seeing the same things happen today. I think about like just particularly after COVID. Do you realize that the Barna Institute of Research said that on average at the end of 20 by the end of 2021, most churches across the board across the country pan-denominationally on average lost one-third of their membership that just never came back after the pandemic? Why? Now I'm not sure any of us have have all the answers to that right now. Why? One third I remember in my last church, there were people that just they changed their phone numbers, they changed their addresses, or they moved and they never told us, and we we lost contact with them. We could not get a hold of them. Whatever the reason may be, we we're living in a day and age where many people are are quote unquote deconstructing their so-called faith. leading to apostasy because of false teaching and walking away from the faith John is calling us, brothers and sisters, to pursue fellowship with one another as believers who are part of the true body of Christ. I think of what Hebrews says in Hebrews 10, 24, and 25. Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works. not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. And all the more as you see the day drawing near. And so that leads us to our last point this morning in verse 4, which is the message of joy. We've seen the message of Christ. And who he is and how that binds us together, the message of fellowship and what that looks like. Now the message of joy. Look at verse 4. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete. You know, if you're using an old King James or even a new King James, yours says that your joy may be made complete or full or something like that. The ESV says our joy. What's the difference? Well, the oldest manuscripts that we do have of the Greek New Testament do say our joy in the plural. But the meaning of our joy here is is not what you would expect. I mean, it's easy to look at that in the ESV and say, we are writing these things to you so that our joy may be complete. And you can think to yourself, well, wait a minute, John. Are you being selfish? Is this just you are you just writing to us to make yourself feel good? And that you might have joy? No, that's not what he means. R is is an inclusive term. It's a collective term. When he says that our joy may be complete. that when you guys, when you understand who Christ is and you have fellowship with us, it makes all of us together, the apostles, their associates, his readers, and even us today. All of us. Our joy is made complete. That's what he's getting at. But you have to think about what is the meaning of joy all about? Because joy, brothers and sisters, is a necessity. Let me say that differently. It is a necessary result Of a true apprehension of the gospel. Where does this joy come from? Is it just because you're having a good day or the weather outside is really nice that gives you joy? No, those things might make you happy. Those are circumstantial. And let's face it, circumstances can change. I can be happy today and sad tomorrow. But joy is something that is far more deeply abiding. And we see the root of it in this passage, in who he said Jesus is. When he points to the eternal nature of Christ, who then enters into our world through the incarnation and brings fellowship with him, what you what you have to see is that your sin Is what robs you of joy. Your sin, which leads to death, and my sin is the problem. That is a much more deeply abiding reality than just the circumstances of your everyday life. And think about what Christ did, leaving glory, coming down to earth, taking on human flesh, suffering at the cross, rising again from the dead. Think about the cost of your joy in him. That's a far more abiding reality. Than just the daily circumstances and the daily grinds that might make you feel happy or might make you feel sad This is a joy that deals with the foundational issues. And so how does John want all of this to hit us On the front end of his letter, as we think about this individually, as we think about this as a church, how does he want this to hit us? Well, this may not be the kind of application you go out and do, but what the application here is, is that we should be encouraged On the front end, that God desires our joy in the Christian life Gospel-centered joy is one of God's purposes for including this letter in His Word. I remember years ago, probably 10 or 15 years ago now, I was sitting in a church, and I remember the pastor decided to start a new series for New Year's. In the beginning of January. And you know what his thesis was? His thesis of the sermon series, which was a series of ten m uh to me agonizing messages, was God wants you to be happy. And I remember sitting there in the back, just like I'm glad I was in the back. No one saw my facial expression. Because I I mean it was it must have been like Where does he get that from? You know where he got that from? PBS. Yeah, I sat through all twelve of those messages It was brutal. When I say here that God desires our joy in the Christian life, please don't misunderstand and hear me saying, God wants you to be happy. He wants you joyful. And brothers and sisters Some of you in this room are going through some very challenging issues in your life, whether it's health issues, whether it's marital issues, whether it's parenting issues. Whether it's employment issues, school issues, whatever the issues may be, infertility, some of you are going through some very, very tough things. Some of you are going through very good seasons of your life right now. For all of us collectively, why is John insisting on the gospel this morning? Why does he desire fellowship? So that joy may be worked through our souls like leaven works through bread. That's what He's after. That's what God wants. He does want us to be joyful through the good times and through the bad and to do it together as the body of Christ. And let me just say, as my first Sunday here, I am overjoyed to be here with you guys, and I'm honored to be called to be your pastor. You know, in his autobiography, Surprised by Joy, C. S. Lewis, gives us a sketch of his life up to 1931. When he first came to embrace uh first theism, which is just the belief in a generic God, but then he became a Christian. If you ever read that book, and I encourage you to find some time to read it at some point in your life, it is encouraging. Very early in his life, his mother passed away tragically. And he was close to his mother. I could be mistaken. It's been a few years since I've read it, but I think he was about eight when this happened. His mother passed away, which you can imagine brings a lot of pain into a child's life at a time when his emotional constitution is still very tender. His father sent him away to boarding schools, and so he didn't even have, you know, the the constant love of his father that was ever present. You can again imagine how that would shape a young man He went off to World War One and and saw trench warfare and had friends that were killed. You can imagine how that further impacts the mindset of a young man. This and many other experiences he relates in the book, and he explains that all of this led him to philosophical atheism and embracing that worldview as a young man. But as the title describes, the chief theme of his life came when he was found by Christ, and he was surprised by a joy. That had been missing from his life up to that point. And brothers and sisters, this brings us right back to the main idea of this passage this morning, doesn't it? The message of the gospel focuses on the person and the work of Christ, which brings us into fellowship with God and produces joy. Must be known as a church here at liberty that clings to Christ tenaciously. Let's be known as a church here at Liberty that is known for their fellowship and love for one another. And let's pray that God would make us known as individuals and as a church, as those who are characterized by joy. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful, O Lord, for your word. We're thankful, O Lord, for the fact that you did not leave us wallowing in our sin, in our misery, and leave us to death. And then that's it. But Lord, you sent your son Jesus to pay the penalty, to, as the author of Hebrews says, suffer in every way and be tempted in every way that we were. Yet without sin. We thank you, O Lord Jesus, that you stand ever ready to help those who are suffering or are tempted. And that we have access to the throne of grace. I pray, O Lord, that you would use these gospel truths to work in us and work through us. To bring a crop of joyfulness and sweet fellowship that builds and builds and builds over time. And I ask this, Lord, in your precious name, Jesus. Amen.