Well brothers and sisters, I would invite you, if you have your Bibles and if you are physically able to stand, please stand with me for the reading of God's Holy Word. We're going to be turning this morning. To 1 John, we're going to be in chapter 2, verses 12 through 14. 1 John chapter 2 verses 12 to 14. I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning I'm writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father. I write to you, fathers, because you know him who was from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil This is the reading of God's holy word for God's people. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, each person in this room, as you know, far better than I, uh, in very different places in life, and maybe even emotionally right now. And we just pray, O Lord, that you would use your word to speak to the hearts of your people this morning, that your Holy Spirit would impress upon them what they need to hear, reminding them, Lord, of the gospel and who they are in Christ. Christ Jesus. Lord, we ask this in your precious name I pray. Amen. I remember when I the the year I graduated seminary. I remember going through the ceremony. I remember feeling how surreal it was, because you you put in three years of work that feels like many more years. And I remember it was a more it was a service that happened in the morning. It ended around noon. And I when I when I came home, I remember taking my um diploma that I had earned from my master of divinity and I I put it in my room and I walked into the living room of the house that I was living at at the time and I remember sitting on the couch and sitting there almost in a day thinking to myself Well, you've been in school now since you were five years old every school year and you're now twenty-seven years old I remember thinking, I don't know what to do with myself right now. You know, you you go through years of your life having to study for this, that and the other, having to write papers and research this, um, take a quiz and a test for that and be uh be assessed through uh you know reports and and debates and Learning all these different skills academically, and then when it's finally over, you you graduate and you look back and you're like you look back at all the stages of your development that you've you've been through. And um I don't know i if you had that experience when you graduated, but I I certainly did. And and I to be quite honest with you, when I was graduating high school at the age of eighteen, if you told me that I had nine more years left of school Community college, Bible college, and seminary, um, I probably would've s cried. But you know, it wasn't long after I graduated seminary that I a book was put in my hands by a friend called Learning in Christ's School which was written by a independent pastor and Puritan divine by the name of Ralph Venning. Learning in Christ's School. And it was an interesting book that really caught my attention. It didn't take too long to read, because it's not that long, but it it's it was a book that was based on the passage that we're looking at this morning in 1 John chapter 2, verses 12 through 14. And the basic thrust of that book, his point, was that there that spiritual children Spiritual young men and spiritual fathers are stages of the Christian life that we all go through in the school of Christ until we graduate and enter the Academy of Heaven. That's that's that's the whole thrust of his book. And he works through this passage and he he just unpacks in much more detail than I have time for this morning. what each of these stages looks like and what each of these stages calls forth for men and women that find themselves in these stages. And our big idea is very similar to his. It really just comes right out of the passage. And the big idea is this, and you'll see it printed in your bulletin as well. John encourages those who are spiritual children, young adults, and fathers with how the gospel has benefited them at their various stages of spiritual growth. Now think about it. I mean the the whole school analogy is really interesting because if you've been with us up to this point in the series, you know that the last particularly the last three sermons have been nothing but spiritual tests to gauge where our spiritual life and vitality is truly at in relation to Jesus Christ and to God. And it's really encouraging that John takes a step back from these tests, these examinations, to give us a breather and give us some encouragement this morning. And so, as we dig into this passage, if you if when I was reading it, you noticed that it kind of sounds repetitive, doesn't it? He addresses spiritual children, uh young people, and fathers, both twice. Now, because of that, I'm not going to just work through this verse by verse like I normally would. I'm going to put these together. You know, we'll talk about children first. And then fathers, and then young men, and we'll deal with each stage in its kind, which means we're going to jump around a little bit through the passage. But it is three verses, so I don't think you're going to have a hard time finding where I'm at in the passage. And I want to begin this morning in verse 12 and then the the end of verse 13 looking at our first point, the encouragement to spiritual children. Encouragement to spiritual children. Let's take a look at verse 12, and we'll see what spiritual children have to do with the forgiveness of sins. Notice what he writes there in verse 12. I'm writing to you little children because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. Now that's interesting. He identifies the first group as little children. And I want to look at the identity of these people. Who are they? What is he talking about? You know, the word that he uses there for spiritual child for little children there is used throughout this book. We've already seen it. At the beginning of chapter 2, when he says, My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. We'll see it later in verse 28 of chapter 2. We'll see it in chapter 3, verse 7. We'll see it again in chapter 5, verse 21. This is a term that John uses throughout the book to largely indicate the larger general audience that he's writing to, Christians in general. But I think in this context, talking about children, fathers, and young men, I think the context warrants he's talking about something different. In fact, the Anglican scholar and pastor John Stott in his commentary writes this: the little children are those newborn in Christ. You read other parts of the of the New Testament and it's a derogatory term. I think of of Hebrews chapter 5. I'm not writing to you as those who are spiritually mature, but those who are little children. spiritually, who should be further along than they are. You know, in Hebrews it's sounds very negative. There's no negative connotation here in John when he talks about spiritual children. He's just simply talking to those who may be new believers in Christ. And notice the benefit of the gospel that he highlights. In verse 12, why am I writing to you, little children? He says, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. That's really interesting. That takes us back again to chapter one, verse seven, when he wrote, But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sins. Brings us back to chapter 1, verse 9, doesn't it? If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Or what about chapter 2, verses 1 and 2? I won't read them, but he talks about Christ being the propitiation for our sins. What he does here is he's speaking to people who may not be seasoned with deep theological knowledge. Of Scripture. He's talking to people who may not have a tremendously broad experience in the Christian life. They're new believers. But he speaks to them about what he knows that they understand. And what he's saying that even those who are spiritual children know and understand and have experienced the fact that Jesus Christ for the sake of his own glory in his own name has forgiven their sins. Boy, isn't that amazing? When you talk to Christians in general, regardless of where they are in their spiritual walk, even those who are brand new to the faith understand that their sins have been forgiven for the sake of Jesus Christ. They've received that gospel blessing, that gospel benefit. And John highlights that here. But he goes on at the end of verse 13. to look at these spiritual children who know the Father. Take a look at the end of verse 13. This is a kind of the second repetition here. I write to you children because you know the Father. Now here's what's really fascinating to me is if you were to look at that word in the original Greek, it's a different word for children there than it was back in verse 12. It's a different word. And the word that he uses here denotes a young person who's in need of instruction, discipline, or education. Let me illustrate that for you from the Apostle Paul in Galatians chapter 3, verses 24 and 25. Paul uses a variation of that word. So then the law was our guardian, and there's that word there that means our instructor, our educator. Our disciplinarian. The law was our guardian until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith But now that faith has come, we are no longer under that guardian, under that instruction, under that discipline, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. It's a word that highlights, and it's interesting that he follows this up by they know the father, because what does a father do? A father disciplines. In the Old Testament mindset, a father is the one in the house that instructs the child and brings him up in the way that he should go. And so he addresses these as those who still need instruction. Those who still need to mature through the instruction of others that is poured into them. And what do they know? They know the Father. Now I I love that. There's a significance there to in English it it's a pr it's a present tense verb, isn't it? But in the original Greek, it's a perfect tense verb, those who have known the Father. They've known him from some time in the past. And they continue to know him and be in that relationship with him as a father, as his children. And then think about that, why do they relate to him as a father? Because they have been spiritually born of him. We know from John's gospel back in John chapter 3, verses 1 through 8, that that dialogue that Jesus has with Nicodemus, which we can summarize, unless a man is born again, he cannot enter the kingdom. But John also picks up that same theme of being born again throughout this letter. He brings it up at the end of chapter two and into the beginning of chapter three. He brings it up again in chapter 3, verse 9, in chapter 4, verse 7, in chapter 5, verse 1. We'll see that that come over and over and over again. And so what John is doing, he's reminding these unseasoned believers, these young Christians in the faith. He's reminding them of what they know. They know God as Father because they know they have been born again. That's a spiritual blessing. That comes from the Spirit. He reminds them again of their forgiveness of sins. And so we have to ask the question this morning of ourselves: why is this encouragement important for all of us regardless of our spiritual maturity level this morning. Well, this encouragement centers us all on the gospel again. And teaches us to be gracious and tender with those who are spiritually young. You know, I I think that I don't quote him too often, but he made a great point, um, Tim Keller. when he was still alive, you made the point that, you know, the gospel is not like ABC. You know, you you come to the beginning and then you it's just, okay, great, that's over with what's what's next. It's like, no, the whole Christian life is the gospel. And our encouragement this morning preaches the basics of the gospel to us all over again. Again, it doesn't matter how mature you are spiritually, those fundamental truths that he attributes to young spiritual children apply to all of us. We have been born again. We need to remember that we are not citizens of this kingdom. We've been born of another kingdom. We need to remember, as we struggle with sin, and let's face it, which who of us in this room does not truly struggle with sin? We need to remember our sins have been forgiven. And that's why we come and we confess to Christ. You know, one of the differences Between the Reformed faith in general and broad evangelicalism is the way they understand the relationship between being born again and faith in Christ. You know, broadly speaking, evangelicals, and many of these many of our friends may think this way, that are outside of the Reformed faith, they believe that because we come to faith first, we are then born again. But we need to remember, brothers and sisters, it's exactly the opposite. We are firstborn again. We pass from spiritual death. to spiritual life, and it is because of that and as a result of that that we come to faith in Christ. You know, as important as these things are for spiritual children to know, they're a good reminder for the rest of us. The Christian life, like salvation, is by God's grace. And it's this is also an encouragement to remind those of us who are maybe mature believers here this morning of the responsibility to those who are not as far along spiritually. You know, I'm kind of drawing on what he says here in verse 13 from that word that he uses for children as those who need instruction. You know, those of you who who have children and are parents of whatever age know that when your children are young, you can't just leave them to figure it out for themselves. They won't. They need a steady hand of experience and understanding to pour into them, to walk with them, and teach them what is right and wrong. I remember my brother years ago told me, you know, it's it's amaz he's a parent of four. He said, you know, it's amazing to me that you you never have to teach a child how to be bad. You gotta teach them how to be good. You know, there are just things you don't have to teach, and then there are other things that you really have to be consistent in how you teach. And I want to encourage you, those of you who've been walking with the Lord this morning, well, what can you do practically with this? Well, my encouragement to you is to take a look around you, in this church around you. Many of you know some of those that are younger. Whether we're talking young men or even teenagers, and you know what, maybe pray about approaching them and asking them if you could disciple them. Because that 's what younger Christians need. That's what those who are not as well grounded in the Christian faith need from those that are older. They need that steady hand to come alongside of them and show them what it looks like to to walk with Jesus. And you know, it that doesn't mean only start a Bible study with them. That that means doing life on life with them. It means doing life on life with them. And that leads us to our second point this morning in the beginning of verse 13 and also the beginning of verse 14. And our second point is the encouragement to spiritual fathers. There's not just encouragement to spiritual children and those who are tender and vulnerable. There's also encouragement to spiritual fathers. And by the way, Children is a pretty kind of gender-neutral term, isn't it? It's kind of a catch-all. When he talks about spiritual fathers here, women, I want you to pay attention as well, because the same principles apply to spiritual mothers. Okay? Let's take a look at verse 13. We'll see the spiritual father's knowledge of Christ. Let's take a look at 13. in the beginning. I'm writing to you fathers because you know him who is from the beginning. And we're not going to read verse 14 because it's almost word for word the exact same thing. We're just going to Put those two verses together and deal with them as one. Who are these fathers? Again, just like spiritual children, we're talking about spiritual fathers. It's a term that is used kind of not literally, but we can see an example of this in Acts chapter 22, verse 3. And to give you the context of that passage, the Apostle Paul has come back to Jerusalem. He's been warned by the Holy Spirit, and he's been warned by others. Don't go to Jerusalem, because if you do, you're going to be arrested, put in bonds and hand it over to the Gentiles. And he went to Jerusalem anyway. And when he was arrested, he addressed the crowd, saying this saying this about himself. I am born a Jew, born in Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought up in this city, that's Jerusalem, educated at the feet of Gamaleo, according to the strict manner of the law of what? Our fathers, being zealous for God as all of you are this day You see, Paul's not talking about his physical father. He's talking about spiritual fathers, those who poured into him for his spiritual upbringing as a Jew. Now notice what the object of knowledge is for these particular fathers. Notice what he says here I write to you, because you know him who is from the beginning. Let me work backwards here. Who is he who is from the beginning? That's Christ. In fact, the same language is used at the very first verse of this letter. That which was from the beginning, that which we've heard, that which we've seen with our eyes, and it goes on and on. We're talking about Jesus Christ. The one who is eternal, who stands outside of time and is entered into time in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. Now, you know, John Calvin made a really interesting point as he was working through this passage in his commentary. And what what he explains is it's important that they they he points out their understanding and knowledge of Christ. The eternal one. Why is that important, he says? Because as men get older, it's harder for them to understand the world. that they currently live in constantly looking back to the world they grew up in. Some of you might feel that way this morning, whether you're a man or a woman. You look at the world around you, you may be a little older and you're thinking to yourself, what happened? How did we get here? Why can't we go back to the good old days? Right? And that's I mean by the way, you don't have to be old to think that I think that and I'm only forty, forty-one. So But Calvin makes the point that, you know, the older we get, the more we look back at the days of our youth, the harder it is to understand the world that we currently live in. And so he says we tend to cherish the values and the things that we knew when we were young and when we were kids. You know, what was family like when we were young? Why can't it be like that now? What was school like when we were young? Why can't it be like that now? And the list goes on and on. And so they tend to cherish the traditions that they once knew that were old and in some cases ancient. John Calvin explains it's so important for spiritual fathers and mothers to look beyond those things to look to the eternal one. Who stands at the fountain of those things. But notice he said, You have known the one who is from the beginning. Now I want you to understand here, when he says you have known, he's not talking about factual knowledge like you know, d dates of history or or, you know, mathematical knowledge which is, you know, impersonal. He's talking about personal knowledge, relational knowledge, and experiential knowledge You have personally known the Son of God. You personally have a relationship with the Son of God. And you've experienced life walking with him. This is not just blind faith. This is a very deep and profound understanding. You either have or you don't. And so again, the question we have to ask ourselves is why is John's encouragement to older saints so important? For the health of the church today. Well, it encourages older saints to stay engaged in the life of the church to help lend stability by showcasing a lifetime of faith In Jesus Christ. I don't want you to miss that. I want you to understand, especially if you're a little older this morning and you've been walking with the Lord for a long time. You need to understand that the church needs you as older men and women to lend spiritual stability. You know, it it's really interesting to me that, you know, a lot of younger people could be here today for a few years, but then their job might transfer them to another part of the country and they they might move somewhere else But by and large, and it's not the case a hundred percent of the time, but by and large, the the older we get, the more we we settle. We have roots somewhere. And so we're going to be a little more consistent in our presence in one place. You know, the more interaction I've had with um older people throughout my very brief life. One of the things I've noticed is sometimes, not in every case again, but many times there's a hesitancy within them. to try to build relationships with younger people. And part of that hesitancy is realizing that the younger people that may be in the same church maybe sitting next to them in a pew, are are living and inhabiting a different world, a different cultural milieu than what they're familiar with, as I've already said. And that can create some some maybe fear of maybe I don't have what it takes to speak anything of value into their lives. I I've talked to people like that. Well, what am I supposed to say to them? You know, I think so differently than them. You know, do I even really have anything valuable to give to them and contribute to them? And you know what, my encouragement to you is a resounding yes A resounding yes. I want to encourage older saints this morning that God, if God has you in this world, you are not yet Um you don't need to check out when it comes to the life of the body of Christ. And just as much as older people need younger people to rise up and take leadership that God is calling them to take. Let me just encourage you, younger people need older people to give them stability, give them wisdom, give them direction, share their experiences with them. That's what we need. That's what we need today. Especially in a world, brothers and sisters, as you see it, it's changing, and it's changing rapidly. I think one of the things young people long for is stability in an ever-changing world. So those of you who saints who are a little older, don't underestimate your ability to bless them and to bring a little bit of that stability to them. And to remind them that maturity is grounded first and foremost in Christ. You know, as you pour your wisdom into the lives of younger saints and you share with them what God has brought you through, do not fail to continue to point them To the one who has brought you through it, through the peaks and the valleys of your life. And let me just say this: where you have failed along the way. Don't be afraid to share those things in appropriate ways with younger saints. We don't expect you to be perfect. We don't expect that you've always had it all together. But we might be able to learn from some of the mistakes that you have made. I remember in my first pastoral ministry in Chicago. I was in a church and I was put in the awkward position my very second week in this call to talk with the youth group about sexual immorality. And that was tough because uh the pastor had given me several questions he wanted me to work through with them, and some of them I thought were I don't have enough of a relationship with these kids to a or a rapport to ask some of these questions about their understanding or maybe experience with sex. And you better believe it made for an awkward hour. You try asking a question that all these kids are just looking at you. Looking at each other like I don't want to tell him anything. Well of course you don't want to tell me anything. You don't really know me And I remember having a conversation with one of the mothers and she the the week after and she told me, you know, my daughter said that that was a pretty excruciating session with you. What did you do? I don't remember what I said first in answer to that, but I came around to asking her, you know, well, here's my question. As a parent, like to what extent do you speak to your children about some of these things? And she looked at me, she's like, what do you mean? Well , kids shouldn't be hearing about things like sexual immorality or sexual activity from a stranger first. Or even from their pastor. Should be hearing it from their parents. And you know, her response to me was really interesting. Well, I can't talk to her about that. Well, why not? Well, because if I tell her, you know, why I I expect her not to engage in sexual activity before she's married, what she's gonna say to me is, but mom You didn't take your own advice when you were my age. And I said to her, yeah, but You need to look at it this way. Why don't you approach it from the vantage point, sweetheart, I failed in what I'm telling you to do. Here was what the fallout looked like in my life and and some of the pain that came with decisions that I made. I love you enough to to share the truth with you because I don't want you to have to go through The same things that I had to go through. Maybe approach it like that. I I don't think she did. But I want to encourage you, if if you're a little older, that is the issue of sexuality aside, there's other failures that many of us make along the way in the Christian life. life. Don't be afraid to share those things where appropriate with younger Christians. And younger Christians, give those that are older than you the benefit of the doubt to know that they're not perfect. And neither are you I remember one of my kids when I was teaching high school Bible telling me his his parents were such an embarrassment to him and I was like, Well why is that? They were like, Well this, that, and the other and I I looked at this kid and I thought, Have you ever thought about how you're an embarrassment to your parents? This kid looked at me like the idea had never crossed his mind He would he refused to give the same grace to his parents that he expected them to give to him. Let's not be like that Lastly, this passage takes us to verse 14. Not verse 14. Let's take a look as we move to verse 13, the second part of that, and then the second part of verse 14. Encouragement to spiritual young men. We we've seen spiritual children now, um spiritually mature people, but then in the middle is spiritually young men or spiritual young people. Let's look at the victory of what the what they experience in verse 13b He writes, I am writing to you young men. Why? Because you have overcome the evil one. Now notice the victory here is given in like warfare language. This is why I chose a call to worship and a scripture reading that had to do with the Lord as a warrior. If the Lord is a warrior and how he saved us, then what does that call Christians to be? Spiritual warriors. What does he say? The victory comes by having overcoming the evil one. What does that look like? Well, I think first and foremost the victory comes not by your own strength and not by your own power, but by the power of the Holy Spirit. Take a look at 1 John 4. 4. If maybe you need to just turn a page over. To see it, he writes, Little children, you are from God. And have overcome them. Them in the context is spiritual false teachers, false prophets. For he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. That gives you a shade of nuanced meaning as to what the struggle looks like for young Christian people who are growing and maturing in Christ. There is the danger of false teaching, false prophets, so on and so forth. And that requires us to go to battle. That requires us to overcome by the power of the Spirit. If you look at 1 John 5. 4, it carries the theme a little further, victory through Christ. He says, for everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. That's part of what the devil uses. And this is the one who believes And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? Takes us right back to John chapter 16, verse 33. Jesus said this right before going to the cross. This is one of the last things he said to his disciples on that very intimate night in the upper room. But I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart. I've overcome the world. How do young people overcome Well, by the power of the Spirit and through the victories that they have in Jesus Christ. Now the second part of verse 14 says looks at this from the vantage point of the victory, but it unpacks what that looks like. Look what he says at the second part of verse 14. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. Now I'm not going to repeat everything he just said. There's a lot of repetition there. But there are two things that he adds to what this victory looks like and how it happens. First it happens by means of strength. Did you catch that? I'm writing to you because you are strong. Now again, this is not physical strength. This is spiritual strength. This is spiritual endurance. I think about what God said to Joshua in Joshua chapter 1, verse 6, and then verse 9. He says, be strong and courageous. For you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. What was Joshua about to do? He's about to go to battle. He's about to take over the promised land. And do you think Joshua had any fear? I think he probably did. This is why God is telling him what he's telling him. In fact, if you go back and you read Deuteronomy, God makes it very clear through Moses to Israel, you are going into a land, you are going to encounter seven nations larger and stronger than you. Why is this important that John writes this to young men who are strong? Because let's face it, Satan is stronger than you. The world is stronger than you. And as we'll see in our next passage next week, the flesh, without the power of the spirit, The sinful nature is stronger than you. That can cause a lot of fear. But he's encouraging them, you are strong, as we've already seen, through Christ and through the power of the Spirit to take up this warfare. And where does this strength come from? Well, look at the second thing he says that he adds to this. And the word of God abides in you. you where does the strength come from how does christ in the spirit communicate the strength to you the word of god It's interesting to me that after encouraging Joshua to be strong and courageous, God says this, the book of this law. shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Sticking close to the word. Jesus said in John 15, 7-8, if you abide in me, it's that same word there, abiding. And my word abides in you. Ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples How do we fight the spiritual fight? Well, he's telling you you access that strength first and foremost by your connection to God's word. So hearing all of this, why is the strength and spiritual victory of young people so important for the church today? We've talked about the needs of spiritual children, and those are important. We've talked about the calling to spiritually mature people who lend stability, but what about these young people? Well, brothers and sisters, it's important because the church needs men and women filled with God's Spirit and with their eyes focused on Christ to step up into maturity and leadership for the next generation of Christians. We need young men and women to look to Christ and be filled with the Spirit if they're going to be maturing. And one of the things we can probably, you know, chuckle at, but in my opinion it's not really that funny, is the the kind of stereotypical joke uh of young men who are, you know, 35 years old living in their mother's basement playing video games. Not really working a job, not taking responsibility. I mean that, but that is the stereotype that's out there. Those aren't the young people that John is writing to. He's writing to young people who are taken up with Jesus Christ, who are filled with his spirit, and are not shy about living their lives for Christ. You know, one of the greatest tragedies and and realities that we're living in right now. I I actually went and looked up some statistics. And I'm going to give you an older statistic, but it makes the point very clearly. This is a statistic from the Barner Research Group that was published back in 2011. Okay? We're talking over a decade ago. The article was arguing that 59 % Or approximately three-fifths of young people walk away from the Christian faith for a variety of reasons. And it went on to argue what those reasons were, and it said, you know, it's not just one reason more than another, it's just kind of these things combined. But 59 % was staggering to me. I want to encourage you if you're young this morning, and I'm going to be pretty pretty broad in how I define a young person here, because we are talking spiritually. But if you're young, the encouragement is to stand strong. The encouragement is to stay in God's Word. Because there is a there is a whole world out there of false teaching. False narratives, false perspectives that that their goal is to seduce and entice your heart and your affections and to draw you away from Jesus Christ with every little distraction that on the surface may sound legitimate. How do you discern through all of these two things? Stay in God's word. I know it sounds simple. But when life and schedules get busy and responsibilities mount, it is hard to make time on a daily basis to spend some time in God's Word, saying God's Word. Stay in God's word. And seek His Spirit to give you discernment. I want to encourage you, young people, do that. You know, John Frame, a theologian who just retired from Reformed Theological Seminary in Orlando, was asked in an interview a year or two ago, what do you think the greatest um threat to the churches today. Now, this is a man who's in his eighties. He's he's been around. He's seen a lot of things. He said, you know, fidelity to Scripture is the church's biggest need today. Fidelity of Scripture. John MacArthur in another different interview with R. C. Sproull was asked a similar question. You've been in ministry, MacArthur, for four four fifty years? What do you see? Is the greatest threat and the greatest need for the church today? And his answer was: you know, the church today has spiritual aids. We know what AIDS does. AIDS obviously is a disease that takes down your immune system so that something like the common cold could kill you. And he said, this the church today is spiritual aids. It could die from a thousand diseases And he said, fidelity to scripture. Same thing John Frame said, fidelity to scripture is the church's greatest need. Young people, do not fail to spend time with God in His Word And as one commentator says, the main thrust of this section is to encourage the believers in their pursuit of knowing God experientially. Let me give you the the counsel of uh uh a third guy named John. John Piper John Piper encourages all Christians, when you spend time in God's Word, stay there and don't let go until you have experienced the living Savior. Like Jacob, cling to him and say, as Jacob said to the angel, I will not let you go until you have given me a blessing. And wait for the Lord to reveal himself to you. Because what's the need today, young people? We need young people of maturity. Several years ago, and I'll end with this, I I was I was a part of uh an pastoral installation service for one of my friends in a church, not unlike this, similar size. Probably been around as long as Liberty. And um unbeknownst to me at the time, there was a pastor who was present in the audience. or in the congregation that served as that pastor's that church's con pastor back in the 1980s and in the early 1990s. And he was a little bit of an older gentleman at that point. And uh I saw him come up to my friend and shake my friend's hand on his recent installation and My friend told me what what the conversation was about later. He said, You know, it's interesting. So and Pastor So and so was here today and I said, Oh, is that who that was? He said, Yeah. You never met him? I said, no. What'd you guys talk about? He said, well, he was just congratulating me and and telling me he'll be praying for me as I take up this call in this church. And I said, Oh, okay. And he said, but he said something really interesting. Well what'd he say? He asked me a question. He asked me, who are the men on the session of this church? So I told him. Well This guy and this guy. I think they had six elders at the time. Gave the names of the different elders. And this pastor stood there for a moment and he said, he stood there, he didn't say anything. I said, Why? He's like, I'll be praying for you. Excuse me? He's like, excuse me? He's like and this was twenty fifteen. He said, Well I pastored here in the eighties and in the early nineties. Those were the exact same men on the session of the church when I was here 25, 30 years ago. What a wake-up call for young men and young women to mature. And take up the leadership and the role in the body of Christ that God is calling you to. Maybe that's you this morning But we need to be praying for our young people. Because John encourages those who are spiritually, spiritual children, young adults, and fathers. All of us, with how the gospel has benefited us in Christ at the various stages of our spiritual walk, and we're called to pass that on to the next generation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you. This passage that is is supposed to be encouraging, and I think it is, also contains, Lord, implicit calls. For all of us, regardless of where we're at in relationship to you, to grow up into Christian maturity, into greater holiness. Greater knowledge of you through your word, Lord, until the one day, as as Ralph Venning said, we graduate from the school of Christ in this life to meet you in the Academy of Heaven. Lord, I just pray that you would be preparing us to meet you one day in this little outpost here at Liberty Church Which is just one classroom in the school of Christ. We pray, O Lord, that you would be with us. Give us your spirit. Write these things on our hearts that we may grow to be who you called us to be in your Son Jesus. Lord, we ask this. In his precious name we pray. Amen.