Well again, good evening and Merry Christmas Eve to everyone. Hope you all have a wonderful Christmas tomorrow. The passage that uh it our homily is based on is from Luke 2. If you have your Bibles you can You can turn there if you like. It's Luke 2. 14. It's a passage that we've already read tonight. It's a passage about a song. And it's a well-known song. Just like many of the songs that we've sang here tonight are are very well-known. This song is even more well-known, more recited, more repeated, more sang. It's a song that's found in the story of the angels meeting the shepherds. And there's a multitude of heavenly angels that appear to them while they're keeping their watch over the flocks at night. And these angels announce to the shepherds that Jesus is born. And they sing a song, it says, in Luke 2. 14. Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace among those with whom he is pleased. We're going to look at the song. Tonight. When these angels came, the night just erupted with this heavenly choir. It must have been amazing. To see the sky illuminated with this choir that came down from heaven to sing to these shepherds. It's a choir unlike any choir except our choir. I think our choir can give this heavenly choir a run for the money Certainly our children's choir too. And uh these this heavenly choir sings glory to God, and they're not giving God glory. He already has it all. We're not adding glory to God. He's full of glory. He's the fullest of glory. The angels are merely ascribing to God glory. They're just professing with their mouth that He is indeed the glorious one. And this word for glory in the Greek is the same word that we use to for our word doxology. And many of you know this doxology is a song of praise that usually accompanies the end of a service. Our doxology that we sing here at Liberty is one that's extolling the glory of God. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Giving glory is praising. And that's what these angels were doing. Now, this word though, glory, it has multiple nuances. But central is the idea of brightness. Radiance. Splendor. When the Apostle Paul talks about the celestial bodies, the heavenly bodies, the sun, moon, and stars in 1 Corinthians. He uses the same word glory. They are glorious. They have a radiance. They have a splendid. They have a brightness about them. They shine. And this is why often in the Old Testament, whenever God appears, he's accompanied by light. All throughout the Scripture. We see this first in the beginning of all creation. Let there be light. We see this in the burning bush. There's a fire. We see a pillar of fire We see a mountain, Mount Sinai, that's engulfed in flames. It's the brightness of this. The New Testament states that God lives in unapproachable light. Glory. Our song that we sing often here, Immortal Invisible, states this well: In light, inaccessible, hid from our eyes. We may have a certain radiance to us, to each of you. We uh have a certain glow at times, perhaps after uh uh the summer and when you've been kissed by the sun. And uh something we're already looking forward to. And there's a glow to our faces. Perhaps when we're in love, there's a glow, but none of this can compare. None of this can compare to the radiance and splendor of God. His glory is unmatched. His splendor has no equal. He is categorically different in brightness, glory, splendor, and radiance. There is nothing we can compare him to. It's like comparing the sun to a candle. They're in different leagues. And the angels here in the song sing about God's radiance, God's brightness at the birth of Christ, because the same glory is connected to Jesus. Jesus is glorious just as the Father is glorious. When the angels first appeared to the shepherds, Luke records that the glory of the Lord shone around them. Brightness accompanied the birth of Christ. And when the magi who were seeking to see Jesus, the birth of Jesus, what do they follow? This bright star. Shortly after Christ's birth, Simeon takes the baby, Jesus, and Blesses him. He says this: My eyes have seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light of revelation for the Gentiles. In case you didn't know, that's you. That's me. A light for us. And this light has come, as Jesus Himself states, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me. Will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Do you have that light? After professing this glory to God, this brightness, this splendor, the angels, what do they do next? They declare that God is in the highest. God in the highest. Now this is a reference to a very, very common name found in the Old Testament. It's the name of God used very often, God most high. And it's used as an argument against other so-called gods who are really no gods at all. And the people of ancient times worshiped many gods. In fact, in the land of Canaan, the Canaanite god where Israel was situated, they worshiped the god Ale. And God actually takes that name for Himself, say, I'm the true EL. I'm the true God. But he often attaches another word to Ale. He attaches the word Elion. God most high, the highest, none like him, the greatest, the only true God. And though there are not really gods besides God Himself, there are gods, so-called gods, that we worship. Even today, it's not just ancient Israel. Gods of sex, money, comfort, entertainment, material We bow down to these on a daily basis, giving our lives, our time, our money, our energy, our efforts, our souls. And the day of Christmas, which should be a day to lift our eyes up to El Elian, God most high, instead it's merely a day for many to perpetuate This worship of false gods. God is most high. Is He most high in your life And this same idea of God being most high, just like the glory of God applied to Jesus, so too this idea of God most high was applied to Jesus' birth. When the angel Gabriel came to Mary, what did he say? And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. And then a few verses later, the angel again will say that the Most High will overshadow you, Mary, and will come over her, and she will have a son. Christ, the Son of God Most High, now in human form. The fullness of the Most High God now laying in a manger. This is why the angels are singing. They are praising this glorious Most High God who is now in the flesh. For the first time ever. But the last stanza in this song is somewhat odd. And on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. God is not described as a God of peace very often in the Bible. It doesn't mean he's not a God of peace. peace. It's just not very emphasized. There is no El Shalom. Shalom being the the word for peace. There is one time. El Shalom is found one time in all the Bible. God of peace. And with the birth of Christ, we see this glory, we see this light. And we see that he's God most high. But where's the peace? From the moment he was conceived, there does not seem to be any peace. Not in the pregnancy, not in the delivery, not as a child, not in his life, not at his death. Mary was viewed with suspicion by her own husband. Her own community probably wanted to stone her. She was pregnant out of wedlock. But God is the one that conceived her, and no one believed that, of course. Think about the stress that this would cause a young girl probably no older than 15. How she became a pariah. As she was ostracized, the gossip, the menacing looks, it took a toll on Mary. I am confident. And Jesus felt that as he grew inside of her womb Mary and Joseph were poor, they had very little means. Jesus grew up this way. On the eve of giving birth, Mary was forced to travel. Arduous journey to Bethlehem. Unspeakable stress for a little girl, a young girl. And as she was about to deliver, there was no place for her. We all know the story. And this idea that there was no place in the end. Our translations and the concept of this is actually, it kind of glosses it over a little bit. Because saying that there's no place in the end is saying that no one received him. Even as he's being born, his own countrymen are rejecting the Christ. There's no peace. There's only hostility. Shortly after being born A harrowing incident. The most powerful man in the entire kingdom, Herod, now wants Jesus dead. And he's looking for him. And he murders innocent children just to get to him. He'll stop at nothing. So what does Mary and Joseph and Jesus do? They pack Jesus up in the middle of the night. and flee for Egypt, a country that they've probably never been to, not knowing anybody there and not knowing how long they're going to be there. Jesus experienced this chaos. He was not aloof from it. He was not floating peacefully above it all Where's the peace? I thought he was called the Prince of Peace We read a prophet in Isaiah. We said this this prince of peace would come. And it doesn't look like there's any peace But what did the prophet say? The peace would not be at Christ's birth. It would only come at his death. He who experienced trauma from before he was even born, while he was in the womb, would experience the greatest trauma anyone could ever face. God's wrath upon a cross. Far from being peaceful, the weight of the world's sins were placed on God's own Son, Jesus Christ. And it was a holy God who was forsaking him. No peace was offered to Christ there. No truce was given. No white flag was raised. Christ suffered and died. But he would rise again. And through his death, you and I are now offered peace by a holy God. God, who poured out all of his wrath upon his own son, so that he doesn't have to pour it out on you. We all were at war with God. The Bible describes, rebelling against him every day in our thoughts, mind, heart, deeds, actions, everything we did with that enmity with this holy God, this creator of the universe. We broke every single law, every command, and we're still doing it. And we deserve to die. We deserve to be the ones on the cross. And yet Jesus was a substitute on your behalf and on my behalf And when God poured out that wrath, that punishment, the penalty of our sins upon Jesus Christ, he said, now there's peace. Now I can have peace. Not until my son died. In Christ we can have forgiveness and reconciliation with our God. You see, Christmas is not just about the birth of Christ. It's about the one born to die. Christmas is the Christ Mass. It's the breaking of his body and the shedding of his blood. That's what Christmas means. We forget that. There's a story I just read today in the news, incredible story of a 500-year-old painting. Maybe you've seen this. Of John the Baptist being beheaded. And they x-rayed it and they found another ancient painting. in this, like underneath the painting, and it was a painting of the Nativity scene. And I thought, oh, that would have been awesome if it was just switched around a little bit and it wasn't John the Baptist and it was Jesus dying. On the cross. You see, underneath the manger lies a cross Behind the manger, behind this Christmas story and all the songs we sing, and all these Merry Christmases to one another, behind that is the shadow of the cross. We don't get rid of the cross in order to have a manger. The manger leads us to the cross. To the death of Jesus Christ. So on this Christmas Eve, and tomorrow as you're with your family. Do not just worship the Christ who was born. Worship the Christ who died for you, so that you may have eternal life. Let us pray. Father God, we come to you, Jesus Christ, our Savior, our Lord. We believe by faith that you truly did die for us. The sinless for the sinful, the righteous for the unrighteous. And Lord, I do pray that if there's anybody here who has not been born again by your Holy Spirit, who've never come to you by faith, believing that you are who you say you are, that you truly did die for our sins and you truly did raise from the from the dead. I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. That you would move their hearts to trust you, Jesus Christ, fully with their life, with their soul. I pray that that would happen even now. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.