And uh it was a joy to begin to share with you several thoughts last night about what is public theology, and as we did so, I summarized public theology as Simply the gospel 's proper explanation and representation wherever the Christian goes beyond his church community. Wherever we go into another community, we are bringing our witnesses Christians to bear upon all spheres of life that we touch. And so just as a way to get started, I thought I would read a little section from an article that was written many years ago by Dr. James Kennedy. I'm going to mention his name for another reason. in a moment. But he he wrote an article entitled Why I Am a Presbyterian. Now I'm not here trying to make you all into Presbyterians, but many of you already are and that's good. But this is a particular uh statement that he has in this section. It's called The Roots of America. And he writes this, the passengers on the Mayflower, called pilgrims, were Calvinists of the strictest order. By the way, this is the 400th anniversary of their coming to America. Okay? They stated while they were on the Mayflower that they were in complete agreement with the church at Amsterdam, Holland, which they had left and which was a Dutch Calvinist church So also were thousands of English Puritans who followed later into Massachusetts. According to historians, there were three million Americans at the time of the Revolution Of these, 900,000 were Scotch-Irish Presbyterians, 600,000 were English Puritans, and 400,000 German or Dutch Reformed. Two-thirds of the colonists were Calvinists in background at least. This greatly influenced their ways of thinking. The American historian Bancroft said the American Revolution, so far as it was affected by religion, was a Presbyterian movement. One zealot wrote King George saying, I fix all the blame for these extraordinary proceedings upon the Presbyterians. Prime Minister William Pitt, upon receiving word of the revolution back in England. rose in the House of Lords and uttered these famous words, Cousin America has run off with a Presbyterian parson He was referring to John Witherspoon, the only clergyman to sign the Declaration of Independence, was president of Princeton at that time. It is also interesting to note that when the British surrendered at Yorktown, all of General Washington's colonels, the commissioned officers of the American Army except one, were actually Presbyterian elders Is all this mere coincidence? Now, why do I read that? Because in a Presbyterian context We should recognize our heritage, our legacy. And you can see that the Presbyterian witness, the beginning of the country, was that they should be part of the leadership in the country. They should be speaking to the issues that are shaking the nation. And so it's in that context then of just uh thinking about the story of America and how it began in our present moment, that I thought I would uh share just a brief personal testimony about that big fat book that your pastor showed you last night. I I didn't intend to bring a box of books because I'm too old to lift up such a heavy box, by the way. No. I always get I I I don't like to have people think I'm trying to film my books, but since you spoke about it, I should give you a little background because it's directly connected for why I'm doing this kind of a lecture So basically, can you imagine way back uh in the ancient history when I was just starting my pastoral ministry, that's way back in the the early 1980s. Okay, some of you were not even born yet, perhaps, right? So here we are. I I'm I'm I'm reading this book by Francis Schaeffer called A Christian Manifesto. And in that book he made a compelling argument that changed my trajectory as a minister. He said, the taking of the life of the unborn is not only contrary to the law of God, but it will have radical impact upon our nation. It will be eventually overthrow our liberties and our freedoms because of what it's doing to the Constitution and its interpretation. It's utterly inconsistent with the founding of America. Well, that was an amazing statement. It really was my epiphany saying I'm not even talking about the issues of the the unborn. I'm totally nebulous, unconcerned. And that put me on a pro-life activity basis. And in the process, I began to realize Christians should be speaking about issues that are impacting our country. For the good of the people in the pew, but then ultimately for the nation that we're part of. And so it just happened to be, if you remember, back in the Reagan administration. 1982. Can you imagine this? They declared 1983 to be the year of the Bible in America. Can you believe it? It was a federal law. The year of the Bible. It was not to force anybody to read the Bible or say we believe it all, but to celebrate the Bible's impact on America. And so one of the things I decided to do, since I'm just starting my pastoral ministry, and I thought, wow, this This is the year of the Bible. We ought to celebrate something about this. I just read Schaefer's book, Christians Should Be Impacting the Culture. So I said, what I'll I know what I'll do. I will find out if any of our founders said anything about the Bible, and I came across just some popular quotes of different founding fathers and what they said about the Bible And then I bought an ad in the local newspaper, and at the top I put in this is the year of the Bible And then I put that quote, whether it's George Washington or uh Alexander Hamilton or Benjamin Franklin, all of them have said something about the Bible. I did that each week in this weekly newspaper. And at the bottom of the ad I said, and come to Bethany Presbyterian Church here in Oxford, Pennsylvania, because every year is the year of the Bible at this church. I was very impressed with my Madison Avenue skills here. I knew I was going to change the world with my advertising. So any rate I had fun doing that. And as we were advertising in the year of the Bible, I'd had my epiphany saying, what do I do? I got some ads. The moderator of our session, I was ordained in an Orthodox Presbyterian church, by the way, that looks exactly like the sanctuary. I think you must have used the same architect or had the same plan. I mean this is Oxford, Pennsylvania. So by the way, I always like to tell people, Nathan, I I read theology at Oxford for six years. And everybody's always really impressed. I'd say, well that's yeah, that's Oxford, Pennsylvania, you know, uh out in the horse and buggy country, Lancas south of Lancaster. But here I'm I'm now in this context. Our moderator comes in. And he is he's clearly very distraught. And I said, Clyde, what's wrong? He said, well, you know, I've been a member of the Gideon 's. And we've been making available for anyone who wants it at the local school a children's Bible storybook in celebration of the year of the Bible. And uh A man came in and spoke to the principal and said, we're going to sue the school and the school district if you don't stop propagandizing. Okay, that was the ACLU. And so he came in and said, we're going to have to stop because the school district does not want to have a suit. And I felt the radical contradiction of this is the year of the Bible, and you can't let children have a free children's Bible storybook. And so I did something I never I never would have done it, but because I'd read Francis Schaefer's Christian Manifesto, I said, okay, I'm going to write. Uh a letter to the editor, and I'm going to take a stand and talk about how inconsistent this is. So I sat down , little bit of knowledge I knew about early American history. Remember, I'm a Reformation historian. My knowledge stops just as you get get the pilgrims to America. And at that point I'm an armchair historian, no longer a scholar. I just have just a little I took all the little tidbits of things I had heard and wrote this wonderful article. I was really proud of myself. I took a public stand in a weekly newspaper in the middle of the country for America's founding Christian heritage. Little did I know that when you stick your head out of the foxhole you get shot at. So the next week there's a letter to the editor by a representative of the ACLU. And essentially he said, uh the Reverend who wrote last week knows nothing about the founding of America. He doesn't understand the history of the First Amendment. religious liberty and what we have of the separation of church and state in America defended by Jefferson, Madison, and our founders. Well, I want you to know I was I was very embarrassed. I was very angry. And I thought, what do I do? Do I answer it? Do I but I had this deep conviction that I should not talk about something anymore that I don't know about. What if I'm wrong? I mean, I this is not an area I'd studied. And so when you're really embarrassed publicly, it's a very powerful motivation to do something. And so I went to the local university, uh Lincoln University is not far from Oxford, Pennsylvania. And I went into their library and I looked around to the founding era and I found a section that was called the Early Churches and Religious Commitments of Our Founders. And I thought, okay. Okay, that's a good place to start. And I came across a book that was called George Washington and Religion. I thought, well, it can't do any better than that. That's the starting point, right? So the book was by a man named Paul Bowler, and I began to read that book, and my heart sank after about three pages because Because here was an award-winning book by professor of history that focused on presidential studies at Southern Methodist University. It was the definitive treatment, and he says clearly, Washington was a deist. He did not have a practicing Christian faith. The only time he ever used the Bible is in humor. There was no sense of any Christian. witness. And I thought, oh my goodness. I guess I'm totally wrong. The key scholar who's written on this got a major award Focusing on presidential studies basically says America was founded by deists, and I know nothing about the field. I said, okay. I I I wrote something I'm basically ashamed of and I've got to I've got to read the book and learn what the facts are and start. Well as I began to read that book, basically convinced that I was wrong because I was looking at an expert. I got about halfway through and I had another epiphany. I realized that George Washington, every time he was quoting him In the block quotes, the references that he would bring, there actually are biblical phrases and quotes that are implicit. And I realized that Paul Bowler had never read the Bible. And so he couldn't see the Bible when it was hitting him right in the face, right in Washington's words. I said, there's something wrong here. And so I started going through and I said, my goodness. I think he has made a case that is not tenable. But how could I do that? So I decided for the next foreseeable future I would do nothing. But sit down and work on Washington and just kind of work little by little and say, what can I find? Well, for about twenty years that was a hobby that I did. And I I did not really worry about it. I I figured I'd collect a lot of note cards and boxes and when I died my kids would throw them into the dumpster, but I had fun doing it along the way, right? So I was doing this. And I was now where Barry and I crossed paths uh there in in Brynmarr. I'd come, we'd we had uh just built our church building now uh and Obviously it's very close to Valley Forge. It's uh outside of Philadelphia, the historic founding city. Some of the early members of our church were blue bloods that had roots that went back right to the founding era, because this is you know, Philadelphia. And so I I had a chance to start getting more interested in talking about some of these things because I was becoming more and more convinced that there's a lot of Christianity in George Washington. And I was becoming convinced that his faith was authentic. And I had assembled all these note cards, working little by little in building them up. And Dr. Kennedy, who I've met quoted earlier , was wanting to do a s uh a film series for his 400 plus television station ministry uh around america When he was his prime, it was one of the most the most watched television program in Christian witness in America. And he was a PCA guy, one of our own. And so he had one of his men coming to try to find a place where he could do filming, and the local Christ Church, the historic church of Philadelphia, would not let him film in the church. They did not want to be associated with Dr. Kennedy because of his strong stand on the sanctity of marriage and the sanctity of life. And so his advancement came to our church and said. Uh, could you help us find a historic church that would look po age appropriate to do it for this special we're filming? And so my associate met with this guy and uh they found a nice place that would work. But in the process, my associate pastor Paul said, you know, Pete. Our senior pastor has been working on Washington forever. And this fellow said, he is. Wow, that's wonderful. I was thinking about writing a book on Washington. Well, lo and behold, about a month later, I get a message from this fellow. He talked to Dr. Kennedy, and Dr. Kennedy said, If you can finish your book this year, I will buy 19,000 copies for my global ministry in China. share them with the world. Now you you need to know that doesn't happen very often to a an uh an unknown author. I was asked to complete a book he had not written, just knowing what my thesis was and said I I will Give it, share it broadly. Well, this was just now the year I had become the president of Westminster Seminary. I was still pastoring for a period of time because I couldn't leave. And I remember uh going to my uh beloved wife and saying, Debbie, I don't know what I'm going to do. I've got to get this book done this year. because I'll never have this chance again. And I've got all this going on. I said, I'm going to have to give up sleeping. And so for the next year, I think I slept about four hours a night, and a twelve hundred-page book came out That's what you see there. Well, lo and behold, it was shared all across the country and it had its impact. And so the ministry that published the book that we'd started to talk about the founding of America and that's another uh topic for another day, uh, had uh bought a few extra copies so we could share them with people. So we have and the stockpile was running low. And uh I thought, well that was what a wonderful run that was. A book that was never meant to be written, only possible because of the ACLU, and I feel like I need to write them a thank you note and say thank you for giving me a book that's blessed a lot of people. I would never have done it if you hadn't embarrassed me, got me going. Well lo and behold there's this fellow named Glenn Beck. Have you ever heard of Glenn Beck? Okay, Glenn Beck is a controversial conservative talk show host. He he was on Fox uh news at that time, I think had a daily three million viewers at the height of his career. He had received a copy of Sacred Fire and read it. And I got a call from my former secretary. I remember I was at Westminster now And she said, do you know that Glenn Beck is on his national radio show right now telling everybody in America to read your book, George Washington Sacred Fight? I remember thinking, what is this, April Fool's Day or what's going on here? She said, no, it's real, it's really happening. And and before long, in the next week, I was invited to come on the Glenbeck show and and present my my book. Well, as a result of that, the book became the number one best-selling book in America on the Amazon list So it uh it's uh it was uh and how we were able to get the we only had a handful to get enough, we had an order for 85,000 books the next week. So it's a long story. I'd love to tell you. That's not why I'm here, but I want you to realize since you you popped the bubble on that story, you need to know why it's an interesting book. But the bottom line in that story is that as a result of that book, all sorts of wonderful things have happened. It's been highlighted on all sorts of different contexts. But I'll conclude it with this story. One of our founding members of Proclamation Church was a very well-established global missionary representative for a foundation. And he said he was in Hong Kong reading USA Today news and he went down to the list of books and it said uh best -selling books in America for this week and he saw George Washington Sacred Fire was listed on number three And he said, that's Pete Lilbach. I see his name here. And he said, right then and there, I prayed, Lord, don't let Pete get proud and get arrogant. Well the next week at the bottom dropped out and it was off the bestseller's list. It lasted for a week. So when John told me that story, I said, couldn't you have waited at least a couple months before you prayed that prayer? The Lord heard it and pow. But the bottom line is that that the Lord enabled that to come about. But why is that relevant? It's because of those experiences with reading Francis Schaefer and getting involved in these things that I have become a public theologian. I had no aspiration. I was just a small church pastor wanting to preach the Bible. And the Lord thrust me into something I never expected. I never expected to write a book on Washington or or found the Providence Forum or do all sorts of things like that. So to conclude that and get to our topic at hand, the Providence Forum, the ministry that published George Washington's Sacred Fire , has just closed its doors in Philadelphia. We've given everything we've had of our ministry uh intellectual property and books and things to a Coral Ridge Media Ministry where Dr. Kennedy used to be, and it's now going to be a plank of their ministry. So we're really excited. I'm I'm the president emeritus so I can be retired and serve when they need me once in a while, but the ministry will go on, and I'm really grateful for that. So that's why the book uh is there, but I didn't bring it for you, but I I'll tell you about I was asked if I had one book that I would like you to read about public theology, I'll offer this for you here. It's called The Wall of Misconception. And the subtitle is Does the Separation of Church and State mean the separation of God and government This is a book that came out of my defense of the Ten Commandments plaque that was in Westchester, Pennsylvania. The Free Thought Society wanted to take it down. And so it was shrouded. So I was involved in the public uh hearings and protests, and then I was invited to the uh to the federal court to be an expert witness on the history of history of of the of the law in America and its involvement in the courthouse. Well we we won that on appeal. And today the Ten Commandments plaque is still proudly displayed in West China. So again, that was an expression of being a public theologian. I would never have done any of this. None of this was my calling. But it goes back to that moment where I sensed I need to do something something I I'm not speaking. And I think we all need to have that kind of a wake up call that if ever Christians need to speak about the issues of the Today, it's right now. I put it this way, it's a lot easier to encounter and resist the enemy's attack when you have free speech than when you're pushed into the catacombs. That's where we're headed. It's time that we stand up and speak the truth in love. With that, let me begin by reading a couple texts In Revelation chapter 6, you'll remember that the seals of the scroll are being opened. In verse 9, it says, When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. So you see, Christianity has started with those who've lost their lives for witnessing to the truth. truth. And it's important to realize when we use the word martyr, we're using the Greek word that means a witness. Martyrs, as we understand them, are people who died for the their faith. The Greek word martyr 'o means someone who witnesses to the truth. But we use the word martyr meaning someone who so witnessed to the truth that they were willing to give their lives. for Christ's sake. And so this is a wonderful thing. Where is our witness? Public theology, if you will. is our stepping into the debates, the struggles, the attacks, the assaults, or opportunities of our lives and representing the gospel of Jesus Christ and thought It's something we should do faithfully. Now, another text to put in the back of our mind here is found as our Lord is teaching. in Matthew. You'll remember that he tells us in Matthew chapter 5 verses 13 and following, you are the salt of the earth. But if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? Is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven A couple simple applications here. We think about the martyr's testimony being celebrated in heaven. Jesus now beginning his public ministries talks to those that are his disciples. disciples and said, your salt. Salt is distinctive. You can taste something, it's salty. You know what it is. The point is, Jesus says, people ought to say, well, that's what a Christian is. Look at him. That's what Christians are. Is there enough evidence to convict you as the old question comes of being a Christian? Is there any saltiness? And Jesus says, when the salt loses its flavor, what good is it? You throw it out. And when you throw something out, it gets trampled underfoot. We are calling for persecution by doing nothing. Do you realize that? That's what Jesus said. You're going to be trampled if you do nothing. If you stop being who you are, get ready, get trampled. So what's the right thing? Be salt. Salt preserves, it prevents decay. Salt is what it is. It just simply is salt. Is there simply just Christianity being in your life and the way you think, you act, you speak, the choices you make? I love the picture of you are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. That's why the lighthouse is made the way it is. The light is on the very top, so it beams farther and people can see it from all over. And you know the amazing thing about light? Darkness cannot defeat light. When there's light, darkness has to flee. And the darker it gets, the more brilliant a little light shines. I love the story of a youth pastor who loved to spelunker. Do you know what spelunkering is? It's exploring caves underground. And he had found a cave near the church that he was serving, and he said, all of you that want to go on a unique youth group retreat, come with me. We're going to go spielunkering. And so those that were willing and hardy enough, they followed him and they go way underground. You know, they got their flashlights, and they had to crawl under one little opening, and all of a sudden there was this big cavern. Maybe it's I don't know if it's as big as the sanctuary. It's underground. A place where the light of the sun had never shone. He got everybody seated carefully. And they were relaxed. And he said, all right, now what I'm going to do is ask you all in your secure place to turn off your flashlights. One by one the flashlights went off in total darkness. Couldn't even see your hand in front of their face. And there they sat. And you can imagine what that feeling was like. Utter darkness. No light Seeing but not seeing. And then the youth director took out a match , Powell, and said, Jesus is the light of the world. Everybody was blinded. Just by a little match, it lit up the whole cavern. It was brilliant. But what is a match compared to the sun or a flashlight? It's nothing. The darker the night gets, the more brilliant the light shines. And that's what we are called to be. You are the light of the world. Now Jesus said, I am the light of the world, but it's amazing. He didn't say, oh, I'm just this light. It's like the Puritan said, we can curse the darkness, or we can light a candle that will light a thousand more. Jesus' resurrection was the light that shone out of the darkness of death. And now by the Holy Spirit, He's lighting one candle after another. And He's asking you in His power to take and light another and another. And the explosion of light gets brighter and brighter. And you might say to yourself, But I'm so little, I'm so insignificant, I'm so small, no one will care. But if If you would shine you're not sure if you for Christ right where you are, you will dispel the darkness there, and you will give just enough light so that someone else will see in the light. light will be ignited and it will burn. That's why I love that Christmas Eve service when you light the candles. You've all had that experience, right? The tenebre service of the church, the darkness and light. What a great metaphor. This is what public theology is in a metaphor. Christians are common grace witnesses. They are salt. Just by being who we are, we are preventing the decay. of a culture by being an authentic believer. And sometimes we have the ability not to just be who we are, but to beam what we believe And that's the light that shines into the world around us. So as we think about what we're doing here, I'm not trying to turn you into a radical activist. I'm trying to get you to be conscious of who God made you to be already. A Christian who is a Christian makes an extraordinary impact on the world. Let me give you another example. Sometimes stories tell it better than than than preaching. There's a wonderful story of a gentleman I know, by the way, he and he endorsed my book. His name is Walter McDougal. He's a Pulitzer Prize winner. Isn't that amazing? Now here's the story. Walter McDougal was a professor in California. As he was trying to do his work , his wife divorced him. And then after five years of teaching, he did not get tenure. And uh you know what it's like to be a professor who's lost your wife and then lost your job after all of that work? And he had no faith structure He didn't believe anything. He was utterly despairing. I mean, he was so miserable. And there was an African-American lady who was serving as his secretary. And she saw Dr. McDougal and his sorrow, and she said, Dr. McDougal, you're so discouraged. You should read the Bible Wow, read the Bible. He laughed and scoffed at that, but what he did, he gathered up all his boxes, his notes. Didn't have much now. His wife had left him to leave it. And he just said, I'm going to head east. I'm going to head to the East Coast from California. Hopefully something will come of my life. And he said he was somewhere about halfway across America in a motel room. And it all sank in. He was utterly alone Alone, totally hopeless in his career, no place to go. And he said, I guess it's time for me to just end my life. This is a waste. And then he heard in the back of his mind the voice of his secretary. You should read the Bible. He pulled open the door and thanked God for the Gideons again. There was a Bible. And he started to read the Bible. And guess what? He became a Christian. He found hope. You know the first words of the Bible in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Keep that in mind. Those are the words he read first. right from Genesis. He ends up going to Philadelphia. He sits down and starts to write. And out comes a book that he's been working on called The History of the Space Race. Do you know what its title is? The Heavens and the Earth. And it becomes a Pulitzer Prize winning book. He is now a endowed professor chair at the University of Of Pennsylvania, and a fine Christian scholar. And it was the witness of a humble lady that said, read the Bible. Isn't that amazing? He's written many other books that are award-winning. He's been the editor of a major journal. He's teaching. But a Christian reached by the simple words read the Bible. At Westminster, we have recognized the reality that Presbyterians, along with so many other churches, have stopped evangelizing. I put it this way, we've become so sophisticated with our friendship evangelism we have to wait 20 years to make sure someone's really our friend before we'll mention Jesus to them. Okay, we don't want to be too pushy. Well, thank God the Apostle Paul didn't follow that model. He he got up there and got the whole city in an uproar preaching Jesus. So we said, we need to do something more to activate our public theology. Well, the thing that happened was we came across the Pocket Testament League. The Pocket Testament League for many years has been using the simple method of publishing the Gospel of John That you can put in your pocket and when you meet someone, just say, I want to give you the greatest gift the world has ever had. This book has really changed my life. May I give you. give it to you. Now what reformed person cannot love somebody with a with a piece of the scriptures? Reading the Bible is the best evangelistic tool that possibly can be. And so what the Pocket Testament League does is that it puts a special cover on the front for the ministry you're part of. So Westminster now has our own version. of the Gospel of John. On the back it has one of those, I don't know what you call the scanning codes on the back. If you want more information, when you click on it, it will take you to a website. a YouTube channel and there we'll have our professor saying, if you prayed to receive Christ today, let me tell you more about the gospel. Or if you're having a struggle and you wanted to know more, let's answer this. And what I'm doing right now is that in our diaspora, as all of our students are scattered wherever they are in the pandemic season, because we're not having on campus classes this whole year, we're all remote. We're sending every student five copies of this, and we're going to say to them, we want you to receive these. Take it a moment and read through the Gospel of John again. Realize what a wonderful gift you have. This is the great gospel gift, for God so loved the world that He gave His Son. And after you've read it, put one in your pocket each day and pray that the Lord will lead you to the person to whom you need to give this to. And to your evangelism? Sorry, this isn't the Gospel of John. But here we go. Thank you so much for tr treating me so well today here at your business. I wish I could do more, but I want to give you one of the greatest things I've ever found. This is a thank you gift. Could you take this? Hey. You get to keep that book, by the way. Okay. All right. Do you think you could do that? That's public theology. You're stepping out of your private context and just saying to someone, what you're doing is say, I want you to know Jesus through the scriptures. You know, that's that little light. Getting ready to light another light. And my prayer is that this simple task of Westminster, known for predestination. Known for the sovereignty of God, known for rigid theological studies, I want us to be known as well for what other Reformed theologians were known for, preaching the gospel, helping people to know the Savior. And that's what we need to do to share it. Now you can't tell anybody I th you're this is our secret, so but I think uh some of you who may know about Westminster you'll be receiving one of these if you're on our meeting. mailing list. And we're going to challenge everybody to do this all across the country. Every donor to Westminster, anybody on our mailing list. We're going to say, prayerfully consider someone each day. And we want, just give this. We're going to send one to you and say, pray about it in the Christmas season. You receive this gift of Christ. receive this gift of a special gospel of John. Now pass the gift along. Have you ever heard about the issue of regifting? You know, Johnny Carson, some of you remember him, he said, our family has a fruitcake that's been given out for eighteen years in a row. This is the great thing about the gospel. When you re-gift it, you get to keep it. And who knows, when someone gets it, they get to give it to another. That is going viral. Wouldn't it be great in the face of the virus the gospel went viral again through our own personal evangelism? Can't we pray for that? That's possible Theology. You know, I'm going to challenge you. We don't have a big crowd here, but Jesus had a smaller crowd. And before long, they shook the whole world. Can we say, I am not ashamed of the gospel? I'm going to do my part to tell others about Jesus. I have a witness. I'm going to tell them. Not afraid. I will be light. I'll be solid. Now, in our time together today, then I said I would talk about the Two Kingdom Theory and a good book you want to read that represents this theory. of public theology is called Living in God's Two Kingdoms by Dr. David Van Drunen. David Van Drunen is a professor out at Westminster California Escondido. So we're Westminster Seminary Philadelphia. Westminster, Philadelphia started that school over 25 years ago now. And so clearly within our Brotherhood of Faith, he takes the two-kingdom approach. And uh The payoff for his view, and I'll tell you some of the reasons how he gets here, but this is the bottom line. This would be page uh 199 in his book. He says this. The claim that Christians might legitimately disagree about public policy is uncontrolled. uncontroversial in regard to many matters. So now when we're talking about public policy, we're not talking about who we're voting for. We're talking about the decisions and actions and values That our government and our leaders are taking about issues that touch us all. It's the policies, the patterns the government is instituting in which we all live. And he says, obviously we can disagree about public policy as Christians. Whether a municipality should build a two-lane or four-lane road through a certain part of town is clearly an issue of wisdom. not biblical precept. Though Christians might disagree about how to prioritize questions of safety, taxes, and congestion when wrestling with this decision. it would take uncanny gumption to claim a divine mandate for one's position. So he's saying obviously there are many issues of wisdom that You can't argue one way or another from the Bible. And and we have to wrestle, is this wise? Is it not wise? Can we take different opinions on it. He says the real difficulty arrives when believers consider public policy questions involving moral issues that are addressed in Scripture. In the contemporary American context, questions about abortion, marriage, and war are among the most contested political issues. Okay, so now he's saying, I'm not talking about the indifferent things. I'm talking about things the Bible actually speaks about. Okay? He says, Scripture says many things relevant to these topics. So how much liberty do Christians really have when these topics become political controversies To what extent are there Christian positions on political questions such as abortion? Such that the church might promote them and one Christian expect another Christian to hold them? Here's Svandrunen's payoff. In my judgment, the general rule is that the church must teach, and Christians may hold one another accountable for believing. all that Scripture says about such topics as moral issues, but should be silent about such topics as concrete political or public policy issues Do you see what he's saying? Of course you can talk about it because the Bible talks, but it doesn't go beyond the walls of the church. You don't try to influence any This is for us. This is intramural. We talk about what we believe, but we don't touch the world out there. That's not our responsibility. The biblical teaching on these topics clearly has political ramifications. In nearly every case, when a moral issue becomes a concrete political or public policy issue, however. However, believers must make discretionary judgments in order to decide how to apply the clear biblical teaching to the particular situation. And whenever the application of biblical teaching is a matter of discretion and not specified by Scripture itself, the church must be silent, and Christians may not impose their own discretionary judgments upon the consciences of others. Christians. So basically what he's saying is where there's room for honest disagreement, let's let's have conscience and respect. I agree with that. But he says where there are issues that the Bible speaks about and the world is attacking, we have no business speaking about it as policy issues. We don't care what the government does, that's not our job. Now you can see when you take that approach and you apply it as it was seen in history, this is why the Southern Church was utterly silent about slavery. We're not telling what the government should do. We're just not going to talk. That's the way we the north the Norse said we have a duty to do something. What is the golden rule do unto others as you'd have them do unto you? If you were enslaved against your will and they were stripping your family, take Taking away your children, forcing you to work long hours and not paying you a penny, and then sending you off and selling you. Wouldn't you hope that someone would come and try to protect you and your family? Well then why are you not protecting the slave? So the the bottom line is there is a strong position that has been made to say we have nothing to say as a church about public policy. Now we teach what the Bible says, but that's where it stops. So in this position we might say, okay, how does it defend its view? And I would try to summarize some of its key arguments, if I can do it quickly. First of all , I'm going to try to faithfully represent what I think is the defense that Dr. Van Drunen gives for his view. First of all, he'll begin by saying Calvin in his classic institutes talks about the two kingdoms. Luther, of course, had done that as well. There's the kingdom of the Christ and there's the kingdom of the world. They're two different kingdoms. Okay, and so from that he is going to extrapolate that everybody lives in the kingdom of the world. This is the world we all are in Not everybody lives in the kingdom of heaven. There's a distinction between the two kingdoms. In the kingdom of heaven, that's the Christian Christians focus. But over here in the in the kingdom of the world, we all are neutral, we're all involved, we all have activities in this region. And it's kind of a neutral realm where each person does what he thinks he needs to do. So his view is that Calvin is providing a basis for the kingdom life of the church, the secular kingdom of the world, and the two two kingdoms. are to be addressed in their own way. The kingdom outside the church is to be addressed in the neutrality of what's called natural law. Remember we introduced that phrase last night? The natural common reason and moral conscience that people have. We don't bring the Bible to bear on that. We just live out our lives using logic and reason. And we wrestle with it and what the government does, and we do, we do as individual citizens. But in the church, we can preach what the Bible says to Christians and But out here we have no role. Because it's a neutral realm in which the natural reason and logic and moral values of all mankind are shared. As a result, the two kingdoms create what we call the spirituality of the church. We live, if you will, in a unique canopy of holiness that is our single calling in the world. Here are Christians in the church. I I didn't these are not his words, but we could put it this way. We're in a holy bubble, and here we have all the gospel, all the witness, all the word of God. understand what the Bible teaches. But the moment we step outside of this holy bubble, we come into this neutral secular realm where just reason and logic and personal conscience describes it. The church needs to say here. As a Christian you go here and you share the world. And you do your best as an individual in a world where the church does not have its primary focus. Okay. How do we get here? Well, uh Dr. Van Drunen in his biblical theology will say we begin our understanding of the not with Adam and creation, but we begin this with Noah after the flood. In other words, there is a radical break between what God did with Adam in the garden and what God did with Noah after the flood. So a key hermeneutical or interpretive question. for the two kingdom theology is to break Adam and Noah and make them two separate realities. So let me stop for a moment. One of the great uh th theologians from Westminster, I quoted him last night, John Murray. He wrote a book called Principles of Conduct. And in his thinking, he said that as we look at the creation order, We find, if you will, what are called creation ordinances, things that God built in the very fabric of reality that have the force of law, because God can only do what is perfect. And therefore we start with Adam and we see all of what God said, what all God established as the model by which we ought to live our lives. We're going to start with Noah. And the Noahic covenant, then it's a broken world, a judged world, and we are people that live under a common rainbow. All of us are in the same covenant life. This is the law of nature, and we live, if you will, as the as families of faith in a secular common world. Now, we'll want to think more about that in a moment, but you might ask the question, what do we lose if we don't have Adam and his experience as the foundation? of our ethics. Why is that going? Well that's his system. He begins with Noah rather than Adam So the result is that the common sphere of life for the believer and the unbeliever is governed by natural law. That is the common reason and moral judgments that are in all people. So there should be, if you will, no distinction between politics and public policy. So in other words, obviously the church is not to be a political entity. And public policy is political. So therefore, by definition, since we're not political political, we cannot care about public policy. You see the logic? Public policy is politics. And therefore, since the church, everybody in the Reformed tradition says, no, we don't, we're not a political entity. We're the church. But public policy is political, so we have no concern to talk about such issues. So as a result, Adam, the covenant of creation and the creation ordinances are obsolete. And therefore, when he looks at the what I will call the Christo-regnant view, the Christ-ruling, Christ-Rigning perspective The view of Abraham Kuiper, let me quote again, there is no square inch in all of creation where the Lord does not say, mine. We don't think that way. In fact, they would argue there's a hubris to this what are called uh neo-Calvinism, uh taking Calvin and reapplying like he uh Kuiper did did in the Netherlands. And those who have appropriated Kuiper 's thinking in America called Neo-Kyperian thought, they say it it is a tragic mistake. for us to apply such ideas to our American context. So one of the great phrases that we have from Kuiper is he tries to think think about it, is that all of life is redeemed. Redemption is not just my soul. But everything that the Christian engages, redemption is coming to bear upon it because Christian values, Christian life are working. And so we think about all life being redeemed, it means that as Christians, we are in the process of transforming the world. We're changing the world by being changed as Christian. Christians. Well, in the spirituality of the church or the two-kingdom view, this is sheer hubris. You mean we're sanctifying everything, saving everything? So here would be a good example. You mean my cell phone is going to be redeemed? Maybe I'll have my cell phone in heaven. I've loved it so much all my life. And I'm a Christian now, so it's going to come with me to heaven, right? All life redeemed is that so okay. So basically I think I'm being fair to the arguments for the two kingdom perspective. It's upshot, as I said, where after a whole system of thinking is developed, what it basically is saying to us is that we don't look at Adam. And we keep a clear distinction between the secular world and the sacred world, and that anything that has to do with governmental issues, including policy has no place in the church. Now we teach the Bible, of course. And then we, but we don't care about that outside. So in this bottom line, uh I I would need to respond. Okay, so there's the one approach that says We're opposed to any notion of transformation of culture and Christian engagement with it. We are focusing on the church, the spirituality, the church, the two kingdoms. My approach, the Lordship of Christ, or Christo Regnant, as we've described it, is that would respond in this way, and we'll look more fully as I tried to make a positive view in our second lecture today. But I would begin by noting that the two kingdoms, of course, are to be distinct. I would fully accept the fact that the church and state are different. But the book that I just gave to Nathan, the subtitle is Does the Separation of Church and State mean the separation of God and government Do we end up with just a neutral realm of just natural law? Or does the Christian, well we say we we don't want? A country that only Presbyterians rule. I've been to so many Presbytery meetings, I'm glad there are only there are not just Presbyterians in government. I don't know if we'd ever get anything done. You think it's bad now? Come to a Presbytery meeting, right I can say that as a Presbyterian and get away with it. Okay. Bottom line is we we need to recognize then that there is a difference between church and state. state. And we're grateful for it. But does that separation in Calvin, let's start with him. Did he believe that of course the church and state are separate? But But the state must be totally insulated in the critique of the church and the policy. That's not at all what Calvin said. So when there is an appeal to this two-kingdom language, it is a non-sequitur, a non-logical inference to say, well, that what I'm saying as a two-kingdom theologian is what Calvin meant when he used these words. It's a misapplication. The distinction between the two is real, but the separation is not absolute. Okay? And so Francis Schaeffer, who I quoted uh yesterday in some ways, and I'll do it again today, had an interesting illustration. He wrote a book called True Spirituality. He really wanted people to get deeply again in tune with the reality of God, to be praying, to engage life. One of the great questions he and I. said uh if prayer didn't exist how would our lives be different now From where they are under those circumstances. I said, what where is prayer in our lives? Do we believe there's a spiritual reality that we should be communicating Communion with God, pleading for his presence, trusting him. And so he was trying to get us to look at the inwardness of our life and our true piety. He believed in the spirituality of the church. But he went on to say this. Imagine for a moment you are walking along at a playground and you see a man who's attacking a child. The child is going to be abused right in the playground. Do you go by and say, well, I'm so spiritual, I can't mess with anything out there. It's not my business. Say, it's because you're spiritual, you're going to engage. Spirituality does not make you distance. It's because you love the Lord and you love your neighbor and you're trying to please God that you'd try to rescue this child, would you not? And he says the application is the same. Spirituality does not drive us to retreat. It drives us to care because we're spiritual people. We've sensed the presence of God in our lives and the dignity of our neighbor made in the Imago day, and therefore we should engage their need. So we don't separate the truth. Further, the true spirituality of the church is not inconsistent with the application of love for God and neighbor through Christian ethics in the public spirit. square. What I'm arguing here is to say it's precisely because God's law that makes us truly spiritual. What is the law? Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength. The second commandment is like it. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. On these two commandments all of the law and prophets hang. This is the heart of everything, Jesus. Jesus taught. Matthew 22, you can read that. And what is the bottom line? Love is not neutral. If you say I love you so much, honey, I'm not sure which which woman is my wife because I'm neutral. Say, what kind of love is that? Love engages. And so the duty to love our neighbor becomes powerful. Further, if you look at our confessional stand Probably it's been a while since you have pulled off the larger catechism. Did you have a larger catechism? Question 99. I would like to give you a homework assignment. Maybe you can tell me if you read question ninety-nine when you come to church tomorrow, that you went home and read it. Okay? Read it again because it gives us eight rules on how to interpret the moral law of God, the Ten Commandments. And in those eight rules it says as you look at each of the commandments of God's law, the seventh and eighth rules say, whatever is a duty for you. You should love your neighbor enough to help him fulfill that duty. Okay? And whatever is a duty for your neighbor that may not be your duty, to the extent you have power, And he needs help, you should assist him in accomplishing that task. That is the law of the church as it's interpreted by our spiritual forefathers. Father is saying, we should be engaging in our neighbors' needs. We should be concerned. What is the duty for me? I should care about them. Does that touch marriage? Does that touch Does that touch the sanctity of life? Does that touch euthanasia? Does that touch freedom and conscience? It's sweeping in their implications. I would argue that this two -kingdom approach is inconsistent with our own position. Well, I'm going to argue more fully for this in our next lecture. But I wanted to give this presentation in the following way, and say that if we do not see our duty to engage our neighbor, we are becoming, if you will, by definition. Light that does not shine in the darkness. Public policy is something that touches every one of us. It's touching Christians and it's touching non-Christians and therefore we have to care about it because policy is touching our own brothers and sisters in the church because they're in that world and we need to speak to it It and share it. And I'll quote and that quote again from John Murray, let me summarize it that I finished with last night because it's so relevant here. He basically said the belief that the church Should not be involved in politics does not mean that we do not speak when it comes to the issues where the state or leaders are violating the clear expression. Teachings of the Word of God. It is our duty to speak to the state and to people under the State to hear what God says. That is our duty. Now, having said that, that's his view, he will go on to say, but let me underscore in doing this job, which I would call the declarative power of the church, the ability to open the Bible and say, thus says the Lord. He says that when we do that, we are not for a moment think that we are a political body. We are not attempting to join any political party. We are not telling you who to vote for. for. But we are saying the Bible says this about that. And you should hear the government's teaching and say, do not follow that. It's inconsistent with the word of God. God. You are called to be salt, to prevent decay. You're called to be light. You're called to obey God rather than man. Have the courage to be part of his kingdom. But you have to go and vote your own conscience. You have to decide what you're going to do. You're responsible to the Lord. So Murray says we are not a political engine. But the public policy issues that are inconsistent with the Word of God is the duty of the pastor and the church to speak to these things so that the people who are part of that earthly kingdom will hear what God says. And that means we must inevitably speak about public policy when it's attacking the Word of God. Okay. Well with that, I I think we need to bring it to an end, and we'll have a chance to hear a more positive exposition. of what I call the Cristo Regnant view in a moment, but let's wrap it up there with just simply this bottom line. I look at my brothers and the two kingdom theory, and they are my brothers. This is an intramural debate. I don't separate from them and say, what's wrong with you? Now we might get into some good heated argumentation. But I do have a concern that the more that we practice this idea that we just work inside, it means that we are going to see more and more and more of the irrelevance and marginalization of the church. What would have happened if John Knox had taken this view? Do you know who John Knox is? Hopefully you know your church history. He's the father of the Presbyterian movement. He was a student of Calvin who went to Scotland. Do you remember he's the man who said, Lord, give me Scotland or elsewhere? Do you know what he used to do? He would be called in by Queen Mary, the Queen of Scots, and he would call on her to repent of her ungodly. policies. That's public theology. Do you know Queen Mary said? I only fear one thing. That's the prayers of John Knox. Is the world afraid of our prayers? Has the world ever heard thus, says the Lord? That is a great privilege that we have as Christians. Well we'll pick up with this after our break. So let's stop there.