Well, if you have your Bibles, go ahead and open them to Philippians chapter four, and I would invite you to stand if you are physically able for the reading of God's holy word. In Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 7. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we pray this evening, as my brother Jared just prayed, Lord, that you would be pleased with the worship of our hearts, the songs of our mouths this evening. But Lord, as we sit at your feet now to hear from your word. Oh Lord, we pray that by the power of your Holy Spirit, that you would take your word, that you would write it on our hearts. Lord, that is the promise of the new covenant That you will take your word, put it on your people 's minds, and write it on their hearts, and that you would be our God, and that we would be your people. And so Lord, we pray, as we come to this passage, though not long, we pray, O Lord, that you would write it upon our hearts. And continue to transform us, as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 3, from one degree of glory to another in the image of Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it is nice having pre in the midst of preaching through Genesis to take a stop and have an opportunity to jump into the New Testament. with the Apostle Paul in Philippians chapter 4 with you this evening. If you know anything about the book of Philippians, this is uh uh uh an epistle that the Apostle Paul wrote and when you read it You get a sense of the apostle's joy and his delight in the church of Philippi. But you also have to know a little bit of the circumstances that are going on in Paul's life as he writes this. You see it very starkly in chapter 2. You find that the Apostle Paul, likely near the end of his life, is imprisoned in Rome and likely facing martyrdom. uh facing the death sentence for preaching the gospel and yet he takes so much joy in this church that as he remembers his time with them, which you can read about in Acts chapter 16. He remembers the way he suffered even with them, being imprisoned, um, meeting the Philippian jailer, the household of Lydia. And all these things give the apostle joy. But as he encourages them on in their Christian lives, even as he faces death, He gives us this passage here in verses 4 through 7 that I believe can be summarized in this statement that we find at the bottom of our Bulletin here, the homily main idea. A life worthy of the gospel is characterized by thanksgiving through rejoicing in Christ. The Apostle Paul had demonstrated what that looked like through his life and his ministry among the Philippian saints. And now as he is about to likely depart this world, um being a martyr for the Lord Jesus Christ, he encourages them as he looks back on his on his own life. Philippians A life worthy of the gospel is characterized by thanksgiving through rejoicing in Christ. Now, as we look at this particular passage, we see the exhortation largely is to rejoice. It's an exhortation, it is a command. And let's let's pick this apart a little bit to understand what the Apostle Paul gets at. He gives us four exhortations that begin with and flow out of this exhortation to rejoice. And the first one obviously in verse 4 is rejoice in the Lord. He says, rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I say, rejoice. Now, this exhortation should not surprise us. Because when we read through these this short letter of four chapters, you see rejoicing all over the place. And it's important to see that he repeats this command to rejoice twice for the emphasis on its importance in the Christian life. In fact, his emphasis is so strong, he says, rejoice twice. Always, and again I say rejoice. What he means by that is regardless of the circumstances which are constantly changing He is encouraging them to remember that he from prison facing martyrdom can still say that he rejoices Now, what are we to peg this rejoicing on? Why should we rejoice? Paul's Paul's writing this from circumstances that that looking back on his own life have gone from good to bad, up to down, hard to easy. And yet, unlike our circumstances, the Lord does not change. That's what we peg our command to rejoice on. The fact that the Lord does not change, despite the fact that our circumstances do. Hebrews 13, verse 8 says this: Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forevermore. And so what Paul is saying here is in this passage to rejoice always, and again I say rejoice Is that we peg this on the Lord. The Lord is the ground of our joy because He transcends our circumstances When we're joyful and happy with things going on in our lives that are ideal, the Lord is with us. When we're at our lowest points, the Lord is with us. Whether it's unemployment, whether it's marital difficulties, whether it's parental problems, whether it's financial issues, the Lord is there transcending our circumstances. In fact, when we take a step back and ask ourselves, well, what is the difference between happiness and joy? The difference is in the circumstances. Happiness is tied to our circumstances. I can wake up happy today for whatever reason going on in my life that is situational. I can wake up sad because something tragic has happened in my life. That's what happiness is. Happiness comes and happiness goes. But joy is something that is meant to remain always. in our lives. It's something that's much deeper and flows from a heart that apprehends the gospel and what the Lord has done for us through his Son, Jesus Christ. And it's out of that joy that we find the next exhortation in verse 5. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. And notice how that ends. The Lord is at hand. Now, it should not really surprise us to see how important it is to let your reasonableness be known to everyone in a day and age like our own. I mean you you can get on social media and you can look at all of the little comments in the thread and you can see how easily uh a discussion about something that really doesn't have any bearing on any importance of life can turn into a major fight and people insulting one another. You know, people don't come across these days as reasonable very often. You can walk onto a college campus and how many speakers talking on whatever topic they're there to talk on get canceled and booed and protested off the campus. Unreasonableness. And what does Paul say here? Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. Why? Because the Lord is at hand. You know when he says that the Lord is at hand, that's the same exact wording that the Lord Jesus uses in his very first sermon at the beginning of the Gospel of Mark in chapter 1, verses 14 to 15, when he comes after defeating the devil in the wilderness. when he was tempted those three times over forty days. What does he come saying? Repent and believe in the gospel. Why? For the kingdom of God is at hand Has come, is breaking into this world. What is it that sets us apart as Christians that should make us reasonable in the way that we live, in the way that we relate to each other? In the way that we ground our joy in the reality of the gospel, it is the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back. Again, it's the fact that the circumstances that we live in, whether they're good and we're on a mountaintop, or whether they're bad and we're in a valley. Those will one day give way. And we're to live in the reality of the truth that Jesus Christ is coming again and will make all things new. All things new. And that should affect the way that we are reasonable with everyone, and we're called to make that reasonableness known, and that reasonableness comes out of joy. It's interesting because when you think of people who are be who are reasonable, you usually think of people who are stoic, who almost exude no emotion. And that is not what the Bible tells us here. Our reasonableness comes out of joy. And it leads to the third exhortation in verse 6: Do not be anxious about anything. Boy, that's probably something many of us in this room can really relate to, wrestling with anxiety and worry. This echoes what Jesus himself taught in the Sermon on the Mount back in Matthew 6, verses 25 through 34. Jesus tells us not to be worried about what we're going to wear, what we eat, or what we drink. And the reason he does that is he encourages us. Saying that the kingdom of heaven is more than clothing, it's more than food, and it's more than drink But really, the reason he encourages them not to worry is that their heavenly father knows that his children need all these things, clothing, uh what uh food to eat and and drink. But notice what he says as he summarizes his point about anxiety at the end of that section in Matthew 6, 33-34. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added to you. Therefore, or in other words, this is what you do in light of that. Do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. I always have to remind myself that it doesn't matter how healthy, strong, or or sick I may be, or how good my day may be going. on one any given day or bad, you know what? At the end of the day, I am not promised tomorrow today. I only have today That's all I've got. I've got today. And so Jesus says, don't be anxious for tomorrow. Tomorrow will take care of itself. Sufficient for today is its own trouble. Now, the exhortation here to not be anxious that Jesus gives, that Paul gives here in Philippians 4. 6 It grows out of the fact that we can look to the gospel and we can see that the Lord Jesus Christ has already provided for the deepest and most urgent need that we have, which is the lack of original righteousness. Which happened after the fall of man into sin. Now, those of you who have been with us for some time this year, as I've been preaching through Genesis, remember that when we hit Genesis chapter 3, and we talked about the fall and Adam and Eve eating the fruit, and when they , ate the fruit, their eyes are opened and they realize that they were naked. And what the point of that was was to communicate that they realized they had lost the righteousness that God had given to them. Isn't it interesting that in a section on worry and anxiety in Matthew chapter 6, Jesus hits on what you will wear and what you eat and drink? Because our greatest need is ultimately the righteousness of Christ And what did God do? He sent his son who lived the perfect life that we could not possibly live, fulfilling the law of God's commandments perfectly, which we could not possibly do, going to the cross and paying the penalty of death. That we could not possibly pay so that he might rise again from the dead and offer us life that we could not possibly claim under our own power Our greatest needs, brothers and sisters, have already been taken care of. This is why the Apostle Paul encourages us in Romans 8. 32. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Question mark. Rhetorical question What's the point? The point is God has already given to us that which is most valuable to us, to Him, in the person of His Son Jesus who then gave us everything that he had to give. Anything else that we could need, this side of eternity, whether it's f clothing, food, drink, or anything else Or anything that we could possibly ask for does not compare at all to the value of the Son of God in Jesus Christ. And so I want you to think about that. We reason forward from the fact that God has already provided for our deepest need in Christ to understanding that He will meet us where we are and provide all that we need when we need it. And this should help us work through our anxiety from a gospel-centered, Christ-centered perspective. By calling us to a greater trust in Christ through the ups and downs of life. And this leads to the next exhortation in verses six through seven, which is kind of a multifaceted exhortation, but it's Essentially, let your requests be made known to God. That's what it is. You have needs in this life. Paul understands that. And so he addresses that What do you do about not being anxious? Well, let your request be made known to God. Now look with me again in verses 6 through 7. Again, he says, do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Well, it's really interesting what he does here. He gives us three ways that answers the question, how are we to make our requests known to God? Three ways. Now when you read it, they sound very similar, but when you unpack them, you see where he's getting at. First he tells us, make our request known to God by prayer. By prayer. Now again, that seems like such a surface-level, trite, Christianese kind of answer. But notice that the word prayer there that he's using is a word that is related to devotion to God, to worship. And so, even as we make our needs and requests known to God, it is to be from a posture of devotion and worship to Him. That's the kind of heart we are called to come to Him, making those things known to Him. Secondly, we're called to make our requests known to God by supplications. Now, I don't know about you, but on the surface, prayer and supplications almost sound like you know synonyms, like they're saying the exact same thing twice repeated for emphasis. But that's actually not what's going on here. Supplication here in the original Greek is a more specific word than simply prayer generically. What it means is we're asking for specific things of God that we know we need, that we tend to have an urgency in asking for them. That's the idea. You know, like to give an example, if somebody's hungry, you know, and they're praying to God, Lord, provide me food, they're asking for food now because their stomach is growling and gnawing at them now. There's an urgency to that. Or to give another analogy, some of you who have children would probably know this quite well. um when your children want something or need something and then they start crying about it, they don't stop crying until you give them what they need. That is like a form of supplication. Through tears, right? There's an urgency and they're making that urgency known to you through the way they cry and scream. That is kind of what Paul's getting at here. It 's like, look, you guys do have needs. And it is entirely legitimate for you to make those specific needs known to God in a way that communicates to him the urgency that you are sensing in the moment. And thirdly, we're called to make our requests known to God in a manner in which we give thanks. Now I want to challenge you by this because this is something that I thought about when I was putting this together. Few of us probably think of when we're asking God for something specifically, do we stop and thank him when we're asking him for the answer that he's going to give before he gives it? That's what Paul is getting across there. Is yeah we have legitimate needs. We have things we ask God for But how many of us in the process of asking for those things take a step back and say, Lord, I'm going to thank you right now for the way you're going to answer this? I may not know how or what that's going to look like, but that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to thank you right now for the way you're going to answer this in your time and in your manner. Faithfulness. And notice in verse seven the promise resulting in making requests known to God is found in this and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ's Jesus. I love what commentator Ralph Martin says in his commentary about this. He says we 'll guard is bet the phrase will guard is better expressed in the military language of we'll keep guard over I want you to think about that for just a moment and kind of the irony of that statement. When you think of peace, you don't usually think of military. And yet he's saying the peace of God, or the peace that comes from God in a military, strong sense, will guard your hearts and your minds. And the Philippians would have understood this analogy, living in a garrison town that was a Roman colony. They would have been familiar with the site of the Roman century. maintaining his watch over their city so that they can live secure and not have to worry about certain threats. So likewise, when the Apostle Paul says this, what he's commenting is that God 's peace will garrison and protect your hearts and your minds. Here's the point, is that when we lay these requests before the Lord in a manner of thanksgiving, God gives his peace in such a way that will stand guard over you and protect you and that peace passes all understanding, which means that you can't rationalize it. You can't conjure it up on your own. And the fact that it is the peace of God means that it is a peace that comes From God as the source and is given as a gift. And it's given as a gift through Jesus Christ our Lord Think about what Jesus said at the end of John chapter 16. He talks about my peace I give to you, my peace I leave with you, not as the world gives. Again, this goes right back to joy, and it kind of mirrors the nature of joy. It's a peace that transcends circumstances and is rooted in someone who is transcendent. sovereign and above our circumstances. So the question we have to ask ourselves, how should this apply to us this Thanksgiving? Well, our ability to rejoice as Christians is directly related to the life of prayer that we are called to have. Why don't you think about that? Prayer is the answer to the lack of joy that you may be experiencing. Prayer is the answer to the overabundance of anxiety that you might struggle with this evening. No, there is no secret to the fact that many people around us deal with high levels of anxiety, especially as the holidays come in and there's All kinds of things that happen. You know, this is the season where where kids are getting sick at school, those sicknesses spread to families. You you know you really can't control that. oftentimes. Then there's there's plans that family makes, and then there's things that happen that kind of put wrinkles in those plans that are outside of your control. And what happens? High levels of anxiety set in And anxiety often stems, as we all know, from the feeling that things around you are out of control. And that can tend to produce a certain measure of uncertainty. about the things that you can't control and then that uncertainty that you feel about the things you can't control can lead to feelings of insecurity in life. Now, I'm going to level with you and just say there are no easy answers to the complexities of why different people experience anxiety for a different variety of reasons in their lives. But this passage, in the way it exhorts us, highlights the connection between the sovereignty of God over all things that we can't control and our anxiety. It is possible, brothers and sisters, to not be in control of every area of your life and to not be anxious about those things at the same time. That's possible. It's not only possible, it's something we're called to this Thanksgiving. Right? This is where the call to make your request known to God comes in. Because when we do this, we come face to face with the fact that the person that we are approaching is a God who is sovereign and therefore in control of the things that we are not. It is incredibly humbling, but it is incredibly freeing. Which then produces thanksgiving. Notice the first step to dealing with anxiety in verse 6 is making your request known to God. We do this by prayer. We already talked about what that is. We do this by supplication. We already unpacked that. And we do this with thanksgiving. And when we come to God in prayer, we come to understand more deeply who He is through the ups and downs of life, which then produces both joy and peace in our hearts. And the question I want to end by asking you this evening is this, and I want you to walk away with this, is what does my personal prayer life look like in this season of my life? Some of you are retired. Some of you are younger and in school. Some of you are parents and are trying to manage a career. Some of you are newly married. Some of you have been married a long time. Some of you, like me, are single. Some of you are employed. Some of you are unemployed. What does your prayer life look like in this season? Are you really laying the burdens of your heart down before the Lord and trusting him, or are you bringing them to him and then continuing to cling to them as if you can somehow control all of those variables? And I want to end with what the Apostle Peter says in chapter 5, humble yourselves before the mighty hand of God this thanksgiving. Giving. Why? So that he may exalt you at the proper time. Cast all your cares upon him, because he cares for you. for you. He cares for you. He loves you. What a truth that we can take joy and thanksgiving in the season. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you this evening for the precious promises that we have in Jesus Christ. We thank you for the promises that are rooted In your character, O Lord. We're thankful that these things are rooted in you because you are sovereign over the areas of our lives, over the affairs of our lives, over the events of our lives, and all the things that we can't control. And so, Lord, we humble ourselves before you this evening to give you thanks for that. And to give you thanks that you love us and you call us your children through Jesus Christ. And so, Lord, we pray your blessing as we go from this place tonight, as we go to our homes, as we go to our families, as we celebrate your abundant provision in our lives tomorrow, Lord, we pray that you would make us joyful. And Lord, we pray that you would make us hungry for more of your presence. And that we would be excited, O Lord. And looking forward to coming here again on Sunday, joining one another as one corporate body to stand in your presence, to glorify you, and to enjoy you forever. And we ask this in Jesus' name, amen.