Well, if you have your Bible, or there's a Pew Bible in front of you, um, I would invite you to take it and open it to Isaiah chapter 7. And let's stand together for the reading of God's holy word this evening. I'm going to be reading verses 1 through 14 of Isaiah chapter 7. It begins this way. In the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Usiah, king of Judah , Razan, the king of Syria, and Pekkah, the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it. When the house of David was told Syria is in league with Ephraim, the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. And the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Sha'ar Yeshuv, your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field. And say to him, Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands at the fierce anger of Razan and Syria and the son of Ramaliah. Because Syria with Ephraim and the son of Ramaliah has devised evil against you. saying, Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabel as king in the midst of it. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass. For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is razen. And within 65 years, Ephraim will be shattered from being a people. And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Ramaliah. If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all. Again, the Lord spoke to Ahaz. Ask a sign of the Lord your God. Let it be as deep as Sheol, or high as heaven. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test And he said, Hear then, O house of David, is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also? Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and you shall call his name Emmanuel. Well, this is the reading of God's holy word. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a quick word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this evening, and we are so thankful, O Lord, for the gift of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Lord, the Son who was born of the Virgin. Father, as we are here to celebrate his birth this season, and that's the point of this occasion. Lord, there may be some here that don't know you in a saving way, don't have saving faith. Lord, we pray that you, through the power of your spirit, would take your word and that you would open our hearts to your word this evening. So that in the event that some here may not know you in a saving way, that they might be born again this evening. O Lord, we ask this. We know that your word is powerful. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. It can pierce between the division of thoughts and intentions. The way that bone and marrow might be separated. So Lord, we ask that you would do your work in our hearts this evening. We ask this in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Well, it's interesting when you watch different Christmas movies, they all have a very similar um structure or very similar development You have the introduction of your main characters and then you have some kind of crisis that comes about. It doesn't matter if we're talking about a classic movie, I'm going to say classic in terms of much older than my lifetime. Something like, It's a wonderful life. Many of you know the story of It's a Wonderful Life. You know, George Bailey is this upstanding. uh young man and and citizen and he's a local town hero. He stands up for the little guy and then he runs into trouble himself As you know the story, his uncle misplaces, I can't remember the amount of money, but it's several thousand dollars and these um Auditors come into his institution and audit him and realize there is money that is missing to the tune of several thousand dollars, and George Bailey is facing jail time. At Christmas time, no less. And he becomes so desperate he contemplates suicide and he thinks that, you know, the world would be a better place if I was not born. And he has this fork in the road experience of uh of getting a glimpse of what is what the world would be like without him. And it terrifies him. And it's in the midst of that that he experiences what I would call in Christian ease a kind of redemptive moment. where his faith is restored and he is returned to his family, but there is something of a crisis that gives way to a redemption. And that's just one example, but all of these Christmas stories make one thing clear. Life does not just stop at Christmas time because everybody wants to feel good. Sometimes for some people the holidays, Christmas time, New Year's, this whole season, can be a very lonely time. It can be a time fraught with fear and insecurities that come out of us. In different situations. And that's what our passage speaks to this evening. In Isaiah chapter seven, the main idea of this is that the Christmas story reinforces God's promises In the face of our fears and our insecurities. If you are visiting with us and you are not familiar with how we do things, you can see the main idea of that printing for you. on page two at the end of the the Order of Service. I want to break this down a little bit. I want to spend most of our time at the end of the passage. in verses 10 through 12 uh 14. But we have to kind of set it up to understand what those promises are and how they're uh fulfilled. in our Lord and Savior Jesus. And I want to begin in verses 1 through 2, looking at the story here, this first Christmas announcement amidst conflict. Amidst conflict. You see an international conflict in verse 1, which is very clear in the days of Ahaz. I'm going to skip all those names. Razin, the king of Syria, and Pekkah the son of Ramaliah, king of Israel, come up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it. So we're introduced to the main characters here, and the first one we meet is King Ahaz. And I'm not going to go into all the details of King Ahaz, but King Ahaz, I would say, the scriptures would Bear a clear testimony in other places that he is a scoundrel. He is a very bad king. Now he comes in the line of King David. He's of that lineage, and that's why he's on the throne in Judah, which is the southern kingdom of God's people. Israel was to the north of them. Syria was to the north of Israel. But Ahaz, being a bad king, being a wicked idolater, in one case he burned one of his own sons as a sacrifice to a false god. for whatever reason he had in mind, I don't know, is a pretty bad king. Very faithless to the Lord But despite the fact that we have one of the worst kings in Judah's history, it seems that God is trying to get his attention in our passage so that he might turn from his sin. and prosper, or turn from his sin and be saved. The second kind of group of people we meet are these other two kings. a guy by the name of Rezin, King of Syria up north, and then Pekkah the son of Ramaliah who is king over Israel. Now, we don't know a whole lot about the king of Syria, so I'm not going to say a lot. But the king of Israel just north of Judah is just as bad as Ahaz. Maybe worse. In fact, in order to get to the throne, he murdered his royal predecessor in a coup, and then took his place on the throne. These are the characters in the middle of this international conflict, and what is this conflict all about? Why are they coming against King Ahaz and all of Judah in Jerusalem? Well, at that time in history, the Assyrian Empire, way to the north, was a growing empire, becoming a political juggernaut. Taking up uh and conquering many little kingdoms and annexing them and then taxing them so that they became slaves of that empire. Now, at this time, these little empires were these little kingdoms would band together because they had more of a chance to survive. together than they would individually. And that's what's going on. They want to form a coalition so that they can resist Assyria and they want Ahaz in the south to join that coalition and he will not Again, I don't know what his motives were for not joining that coalition from a political standpoint. It would seem to make sense, but that's not what he was going to do. And so they come against him, as we read in this passage, to depose him and remove him from the throne, and then replace him with some other guy by the name of the son of Tabil, whoever he is. And they're going to make him king instead, so they have their own puppet king who will stand with them in their political coalition. Now that's a lot of background to give to the heart of the issue in verse 2, the fear that comes out of this conflict. Take a look at verse 2. When the house of David was told, Syria is in league with Ephraim, that's Israel, another name for Israel, the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. Now that is very descriptive language to describe the depth of fear that these people in Judah experienced at the uncertainty, the fear, the insecurity that was there in that situation. And I want to draw your attention to something that's really important that you can easily miss in verse 2. Notice that it begins when the house of David was told this. That really highlights something for us because it highlights the fact that God had made a promise to King David back in first uh excuse me second Samuel chapter seven verses twelve to sixteen that God himself was going to put one of David's sons, one of his heirs, on the throne and establish his kingdom forever. And so here you have something that's driving the fear and the insecurity. There is a present danger that seems to threaten the promises of God. And the question that Ahaz has to face here is, is he going to trust the promises of God? Or is he going to trust the circumstances in front of him that he can see? And that leads us to ask, as we look at our first point here, how does this occurrence of this challenge How does this speak to us today in this Advent season? Well, I think the application would be the challenges we We face reveal whether or not we are going to trust the Lord and his promises to be present with us through trials, or whether we are not going to trust him. And I want to just draw out your attention to the fact that the fear of uncertainties often threaten and drive that lack of stability. that sometimes people face even at Christmas time. I said right from the beginning, just because Christmas time happens where we have all this wonderful Christmas music uh that really is unique to this time of year. We eat certain junk food and put on some weight and we enjoy family gatherings and and presents and all these things that we enjoyed Just because those things happen and happen in the background sometimes doesn't mean that life stops or the difficulties that come with life. Sometimes these difficulties arise in our lives and they seem to lay siege to us and threaten the stability that we seek, just like Ahaz was under siege and threatened in his stability. And the question you have to ask yourself when these things come up is, do you believe that God is really in control of the circumstances of your life? That's a very real question. Because the fear that we see in Ahaz and the Jewish people in this passage is only an example of what it looks like when you do not trust that God is in control. And when you don't trust that God is in control, and you don't trust that He is sovereign, what you do is instinctively you work to try to be in control of the circumstances that you don't control in the first place. And as many of you know from experience as I do, we are rarely, if ever, truly in control of every variable of the challenges and trials and conflicts that we experience. And then when we try to control those things in our lives and the challenges that come, they seem to become unstable, and we end up like trees shaking in the wind. But if that's you this evening, and you have that resulting insecurity and fear that seems to drive you during this time of the year, let me encourage you with a few passages. from scripture that I think Ahaz should have paid attention to. One comes actually in the New Testament. Paul, speaking to the Roman Christians who were suffering great persecution in their day, writes this to them in Romans 8. 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. The question you have to ask yourself this evening is, do you believe that? I can't answer that for you. Only you can answer that Let me give you a second passage that speaks to the fears that we and insecurity we have sometimes. Psalm 46, 1 to 3. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth gives way. Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. By the way, it ends with all of that in verses 10 through 11. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. And so what kind of things seem to drive you to fear this evening? What fear has caused you to shake in the wind rather than being still and knowing that God is at work. Sometimes in the quiet ways we can't perceive with our eyes. Well let's move on to see how God dealt with Ahaz 's fear. in our second point. And this is verses 3 through 9. Christmas rests on the promises of God. Now again, when we look at verses 3 through 6, we see that the promises stand despite threats to the contrary. I mean, God acknowledges the threat that is before King Ahaz. And in verses 4 through 6, he gives the command to Ahaz, saying, be careful and be silent. Telling them to watch for the deliverance of the Lord. They're calls to patience, their calls to stability, at least emotionally, in the face of mounting pressure and threat. to his rule as king, and of course why is he nervous? Well we see in verses five through six there's a plot against King Ahaz There's a plot against the son of David. There's a plot against his dynasty. And that plot is: let us set up the son of Tabiel as king in the midst of it. Now, why is that an evil plan? It's not evil just because it is politically expedient, although it is politically expedient if you're trying to form a coalition. It's evil because it's a threat to the promise that God made to David back in 2 Samuel chapter 7, that he was going to establish David's line and his sons on the throne of his people. And so Ahaz, even though he's a wicked king and really does deserve to be judged very harshly for crimes and sins that he did, he actually deserved that. God is merciful. God is still merciful to him. For the not because of Ahaz, but for the sake of his promise. And I I I love what God says in verse 7. Very simple, very straightforward. You see in verses seven through nine The promises call for faith. That is the response. And God's promise to this thread of his own in verse 7 is very straightforward. It shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass. Now, in English, that sounds very repetitive, and it is. But oftentimes in in Hebrew, which is what Isaiah wrote in, they use these kind of repetitive uh formulas in sometimes their poetry and their prophecy to really drive a point into the heart of those that it's it's speaking to And so it's really driving the point home to Ahaz. This is not going to happen, absolutely. God will not let it happen. There's no contest. No contest And so there's a call to faith in God's promise. I'm going to point you for the sake of time to the end of verse 9 here. The end of verse 9 says, if you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all. Now that's a conditional statement. If then, and it's a negative one, if if you are not faithful Or firm in your faith, you will not be firm. You could have translated that established, you will not be established And what's interesting here is Ahab Ahaz being a Hebrew speaker would have known that those two words for firm in faith and established there are the exact same verb in Hebrew. And it's a it's a word most of you in this room know whether you realize it or not. It's the word amen. The Hebrew verb, amen , has a wide variety of meanings depending on its context, but essentially what what Isaiah is saying to Ahaz here If you will not amend the promises of God, you will not be amended in God 's eyes. What a statement. And the point is that faith in the promises of God leads to being established by God. And by the way, those verbs are plural, telling you it doesn't only apply to Ahaz, it applies to the whole house of David, and it applies to all of God's people as a result. Again, just thinking about how this applies to us this evening on Christmas Eve, how does God's call to respond to threats to his promise in our lives, how how does he call us to respond? God can use threatening challenges in our lives to call us to faith in his promises. It is so easy when times are good to say, yeah, I trust God. I believe the promises. But real faith, the medal of real faith, is tested in the furnace of affliction. And by the way, that is not a popular message today. You're probably not going to hear a whole lot of pastors say that from a pulpit. Because it's not popular, but it's scriptural. And here at Liberty, we want to be as true to the scriptures as we possibly can. And so God calls us to faith in order to establish us before Him. That's the idea. Why can you trust the Lord this afternoon? That's a question that comes up in the midst of affliction. Why can you trust the Lord this morning, this evening? Just as the nations came to lay siege to Ahaz outside of Jerusalem, I want to draw the connection for you to the Lord Jesus Christ. So also did the Romans and the Jewish religious leaders lay siege to Jesus Christ outside of the city as well when he was on the cross. But you know what's interesting is Ahaz, when he's being laid siege to in the Old Testament, he does not trust the promises of God. I want to spoil the end of that story for you. He does not trust the Lord. You have to read the historical books to find out how he responds. Now I'll let you figure that out for yourself and go look for that. But he failed to trust God's promises to deliver his life from his enemies. Jesus Christ entrusts himself, as 1 Peter 2. 23 tells us, to the one who judges justly First Peter 2 23. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he didn't threaten, but he continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. fails as the son of David, Jesus Christ succeeds as the greater son of David. He succeeded so much that right before he died in Luke 2347 He says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And how did God prove himself faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ? By raising him from the dead. Death did not have the final word. And not only raising him from the dead, but establishing him on the throne at his right hand when he ascended to the right hand of the Father. And so by faith in Christ, we are established because the victory of Jesus Christ becomes our victory. God's work in Christ becomes his work in us as well. And maybe you're sitting here this evening and you are thinking to yourself and wondering if this is true and whether or not you can truly trust the Lord. And that leads to a final point this evening in verses 10-14. Christmas fulfills the promises of God. How do we see that? Well, Looking at verses 10 through 14, the sign, there's a sign associated with God's promise. Remember what that promise was? Back in 2 Samuel chapter 7, God said, I'm going to establish David's son on his throne. That was the promise. We have to remember the threat. There's two kings who are very powerful coming to threaten that promise by killing Ahaz. God promises to preserve Ahaz. And so God gives a sign. Take a look at verse 11. You see the limits of the sign. Says, ask a sign of the Lord your God. Let it be as deep as Sheol or as high as heaven. What's the purpose of signs in the Bible? It's to validate a message that has been given. That's what they're there for. And so look at the limits. First, God says, let the sign be deep as Sheol. What does Sheol mean? Someone said hell. Maybe. The abode of the dead, the grave. The place where life is not found. That's really what Sheol is. The point is God can preserve the life of the Davidic king even in a place where there seems to be no life and no life can thrive. Secondly, God says, let the sign be as high as heaven. That word heaven there literally means the height, which by definition is an undefined term, meaning there's no limit to how high the sign can come from. And so we see in verse 14, skipping ahead just a bit from verse 11, in verse 14 It completes what the sign will be because Ahaz refuses to answer or ask for one. It says, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Okay, you don't want to ask for one? God will give it to you. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And you shall call his name Emmanuel. Now there's just a few things that I want to highlight for you about this sign before we go and apply it and draw the connection to how it was fulfilled. The first thing I want you to see is that God Himself is the one who will give the sign. This sign is not going to be accomplished by any natural means, any human instrumentation, uh using Their own genius, their own intelligence, their own resources, or their own power. This is going to be super natural. Only God will accomplish it Secondly, the virgin will conceive and bear a son. Now, I want to draw your attention to the context, because the context is how that word is to be understood. Do you remember what the context said? What was the limits of this sign? The sign can be as deep as Sheol or as deep as the place where there is no life. I got news for you. The womb of a woman who has never engaged in sexual intercourse is the last place anyone would ever expect to find a life growing. That's as deep as Sheol, isn't it? There's no life coming out of a virgin's womb by natural means. And yet that's with God's prophecy. God is fulfilling the very limits, terms of the limits that he gave for this sign. Thirdly , When God says you shall call his name Emmanuel, that matches the criteria of the sign being as high as the heavens. Why? Because Emmanuel is what is called a compound word. We have them in English. It was a compound word in Hebrew, and it simply means God is with us. You see that played out in Matthew's gospel when he quotes this prophecy, he actually interprets it for us, which means God with us. And so it's a the implication is that God Himself is going to come down and rule his people as king. That's the promise at Christmas. And so again, we have to ask: how does the occurrence of this first promise of Christmas encourage us this Advent season? The first Christmas promise in history reminds us that God in real time is faithful to his promises. to protect and to provide for our deepest needs. That's the idea. Let me flesh this out for you, how this was fulfilled and why this matters for us today. First, Joseph was the heir of the house of David that believed this promise. I mentioned earlier that it speaks in verse 2 to the house of David, and it's the promise speaks to Ahaz as part of the house of David. Well, Joseph Is from the line of David. You see that in the genealogy at the beginning of Matthew chapter 1, verses 1 to 17. It comes through Joseph. And yet, unlike Ahaz, Joseph is the one who believes the promises that God makes. We also find that when Joseph has this dream in Matthew chapter 1 where the angel appears to him, because when he finds out Mary is pregnant, And he realizes it's not his child, and yet he's supposed to marry her. He's he's thinking, I can't go through with this. This is scandalous But that was not good news at that Christmas time, was it? And the angel had to tell him, Joseph, son of David. What is growing in this woman is of the Holy Spirit. Take Mary to be your wife. That leads us to the second way we see this fulfilled. Mary was the virgin who conceived by God the Holy Spirit himself. In fact, Matthew chapter 1, going back to Matthew's Gospel. We've been reading in Luke's Gospel, so I'll focus on Matthew. Matthew 1. 18 says this. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together. In other words, before they engaged in sexual intercourse, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And the angel has to tell Joseph that this is through the Holy Spirit. By the way, isn't it interesting that God did do this in the womb of a literal virgin, which would have been impossible for her to naturally conceive. Again, fulfilling that first point I mentioned that this is a sign that God Himself would have to do. Thirdly, Jesus is Emmanuel who provides for our deepest need. Matthew 1. 21 hits on that note saying, She will bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus. Why? For he will save his people from their sins. That is the deepest need that every one of us has this Christmas. We must be saved from our sins. And just like the call to Ahaz to believe, this promise comes by God's grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. God accomplished in Christ Jesus, who is God with us, by sending him to a cross where he died to pay the death penalty for our sins, so that the sign of Emmanuel would go as deep as Sheol. You know what one of the biggest mistakes we make when we look at this prophecy in Isaiah? We think that the prophecy only applies to the birth of Jesus Christ. And we miss the fact of why Christ was born. He was born to go to a cross, so that he may rise again from the dead. It is not just that the birth of Christ, the incarnate Son of God, fulfills the sign that's deep as Sheol and as high as heaven. The cross and our redemption at the cross does the same thing. Because in the cross of Christ, where was Emmanuel? Where did he go immediately? He went into a grave. He went into Sheol. But he didn't stay there, did he? He rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven, and he sits at the right hand of God. the Father Almighty, from whence he will come to judge the living and the dead. The sign of Emmanuel Happens at the birth, and it happens at the death, the resurrection, and the ascension. And it is in both of those and caps of Jesus' ministry in which we find our salvation this Christmas. This is what Christmas is truly about. And do you ever worry or wonder if God will come through for you? Do you ever struggle to believe in the promises of the scriptures? Then my encouragement for you this evening is look no further than the Christmas story and marvel that we serve a God who keeps his promises. And because of that, we are called to repent of our sin, just like Ahaz, and we are called to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ as the fulfillment of God's promises, and we are promised the forgiveness of sins. And we are promised eternal life with him one day. Friends, the Christmas story reinforces God's promises. In Christ, in the gospel, in his birth, and in his death, burial, and resurrection And these promises come in the face of our fears and our insecurities to ground us this Christmas. We go into a new year that we might be new people in the image of Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you this evening and we are thankful for the precious promises of Christ. We are thankful, O Lord, for Christmas. I pray, O Lord, for each person that is here, that they all know you and know you deeply And that in knowing you, Lord, that you would give them life, that you would give it abundantly, and that you would fill their hearts with joy. Christmas. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.