Good to have the choir back with us. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark as we continue our study through Mark's Gospel. We're in chapter 10. And we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs with uh, I think Sarah and Marissa today Mark chapter ten, and let's look at verse forty-six. Now they came to Jericho. As he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great multitude, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the road begging And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Then many warned him to be quiet. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. So Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. Then they called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer. Rise, he is calling for you. And throwing aside his garments, he rose and came to Jesus So Jesus answering said to him, What do you want me to do for you? The blind man said to him, Rabbonai, that I may receive my sight. Then Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. Let's pray. Oh Lord, speak to us now through your word. Remove from us any hindrance, any barrier to the power of your word in our hearts. Open our eyes. Feed your people, draw the unbeliever to yourself. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. The Lord Jesus is continuing his journey to Jerusalem. This is the journey that would culminate in his arrest, his trial, his crucifixion. And his glorious resurrection. He is focused, no doubt, on the great task that lay before him, and the agony that awaited him. But about twelve or fifteen miles north of Jerusalem, he came to the the town of Jericho. Now this was not the same Jericho of which we read in the Old Testament book of Joshua, the city whose walls miraculously fell flat. according to the word of God. This was a town built near an oasis which provided thousands of pilgrims a place of rest. Luke tells us, interestingly, that it was on Christ's visit to Jericho that Zacchaeus climbed a tree. A short man wanted to see Jesus climb the tree. Tax collector wanted to get a glimpse of Jesus as he passed by. Apparently there was a huge throng, people thronging Jesus, just as you might expect, as there were so many people who were on their way to Jerusalem. You may recall Jesus stopped and told Zacchaeus to come down because he would be staying at his home that day. Zacchaeus was overjoyed, and we read that salvation came. To Zacchaeus's house that very day. For the Son of Man, Jesus said, is not come to seek the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Luke chapter 19. Jesus taught in Jericho for a time, and when he and the disciples resumed their journey, remember they're only now twelve or fifteen miles north of Jerusalem. They were in the midst of a large procession. Thousands of pilgrims were on their way to Jerusalem for the Feast of Passover. Many of them would have previously witnessed some of Christ's miracles, and many of them would have heard his teaching. So there was a groundswell of joyful anticipation. For what would happen when this one who many considered to be the Messiah assumed his rightful place on the throne in Jerusalem? But a beggar was about to reign on their parade. Verse 46. Now they came to Jericho, and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, and a great multitude, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, Sat by the road begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Then many warned him to be quiet, but he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. Blind Bar Timaeus, the son of Timaeus. Mark is being redundant here for the sake of those of us who are Gentiles. The Hebrews would know that the prefix bar means son of, so to call him Bar Timaeus means He was the son of Timaeus. Simon Bar Jonah means Simon, son of Jonah. If you're wondering then if the son of Bartimaeus would be called Bar Bartimaeus, and if the grandson of Bartimaeus would be called Bar Bar Bartimaeus. And if eventually everyone's name would start with barbar, barbar, barbar, then you have to ask Charles Barbar Runkles on your own time. I've read that uh all of the healings of Jesus recorded for us in the Synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Don't mention the one who was healed by name except this one. Usually the scripture says simply something like he healed many lame, many blind. Many death, he cast out many demons, he healed all manner of diseases, or we know he healed Jairus' daughter, I don't think her name is given, and he healed a widow's only son. Why then are we given the name? Bartimaeus. Well, presumably he was named here by Mark because he was known to first century believers to whom Mark wrote. And they would have an interest in knowing how and when Barnabas received disciples. Similarly, uh later, Mark would note that Simon the Cyrene, who was compelled to carry Christ's cross, was the father of Alexander and Rufus. That doesn't mean anything to us, but it must have been something too Mark chapter fifteen, verse twenty one. Presumably Alexander and Rufus were known to many of those uh believers. Now as a blind man in their culture, Bartimaeus was unable to provide for himself. But he had a spot by the road outside of Jericho where he sat to ask for contributions, for charitable contributions from the those who passed by. Jericho He heard all the commotion. He learned that it was Jesus of Nazareth who was passing by, and Barnabas had clearly heard of Jesus, perhaps from the m some of the many pilgrims who would frequently pass. Perhaps he prayed that one day Jesus would come to Jericho. When he heard that the tumult around him was because Jesus of Nazareth was there, he knew this was his chance. He began to cry out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. But there was a great multitude, there was a great crowd. This was embarrassing to have this beggar interfere with this celebration. This was a big day for Jericho. Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth, the Son of God, the Messiah, the one many believe is going to go to Jerusalem and reign as our king, is coming to our little town. I imagine there was lots of noise, possibly singing as the crowd left uh Jericho and headed south for Jerusalem, perhaps singing one of the psalms of ascent, uh psalms that were sung on the trips. To or from Jerusalem. Psalm 122, for example, I was glad when they said to me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Uh but in that joy and celebration there was a discordant note , this blind beggar. He may have been a source of embarrassment for the The citizens of the town, he was interfering with that banner day. And so those who stood by him urged him to be quiet. He was spoiling the moment. But for him, it was now or never. He realized this may well be his only opportunity to appeal to Jesus. He cried out all the more. Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. Notice that Bartimaeus knew Jesus to be the son of David, the one who was both David's son and David's Lord, Psalm 110. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Jehovah said to my Adonai, sit at my right hand. Jesus is going to make a point of it later in conversation with the Pharisees, I believe. Uh David uh called him his Lord, how then is he David's son? Son of David was the popular designation of the great expected prophet, wrote Bishop Trench, at whose coming the eyes of the blind should be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Isaiah foretold, behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you. Then shall the eyes of the blind be opened. And the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then the lame shall leap like a deer, and the tongue of the dumb sing. For waters shall burst forth in the wilderness and streams in the death. Isaiah 35. Evidently Barnabas believed Jesus to be the promised Messiah, and Barnabai was yearning to see And he was yearning to see the Messiah. Those nearby told him to pite down, but he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy. On me. Verse 49. So Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. And then they called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer, rise, he is calling you. Jesus halted the parade. He silenced the commotion. He heard the pitiful cry of Bartimaeus, the cry of desperation. He heard the desperation in his voice He recognized the voice of one of his own, one of his poor sheep. He commanded that Barnamaeus be called. How wonderful for Barnamaeus to hear those words. Be of good cheer. Rise. He's calling you Verse 50. Throwing aside his garments, he rose and came to Jesus. The garment, perhaps a ragged robe. that would only hinder his approach to Jesus. He threw that aside. He was a man on a mission. Verse 51, so Jesus answered and said to him, What do you want me to do for you? The blind man R. C. Sprohl notes this slight alteration of the From the title case. Rabbi is very significant. Rabboni means far more than professor or teacher. It has an intense personal significance and is actually a confession of faith. Barnamaus was saying to Jesus, my My Lord, my master, let me see. Let me see. You ask what you can do for me. Let me see Verse 52. Then Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your face has made you well. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. Go your way, your faith has made you well. Now, the primary cause, you might say the efficient cause of his healing was of course the power of God manifested through the Messiah. But the secondary cause was Bartimaeus' faith. If he had not believed that Jesus was the son of David, the promised Messiah, he wouldn't have cried out to him to heal him. Never would have uh called upon him, never would have expected that he could do such a thing, never would have received his sight. And I want you to note that immediately he received his sight. Immediately he received his sight. his sight and follow Jesus on the road. Now let's underscore a few truths from this brief passage The first one is so obvious that we might walk right past it. Jesus had compassion on this poor man, this beggar. And we are exhorted numerous times in Scripture to have that same kind of compassion. Upon the poor, upon the afflicted, and to give freely to them. Now, what Jesus gave this man was much more valuable than money But it typifies the compassion that we are called to have to those in need. There is much emphasis in Scripture upon caring for the poor, and perhaps not enough emphasis up. uh upon it in our church and others like ours. Sproul points out that there are at least four distinct categories of those who are poor. This was I found very helpful to me. Hope it might be helpful to you. Four distinct categories. When you think about the poor, you might think of them in these four categories. First of all, those who are poor, like Bartimaeus, because of calamity The leper, the widow, the orphan, the blind, the deaf, the lame. Think of Lazarus, full of sores Evidently lame, laid at the rich man's gate each day. Or the lame man laid at the temple gate and acts Chapter 3. Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have, give I thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Rise up and walk! These men were poor because of calamity. Now we could include in this category those who are born into poverty. Those who are born, for example, into a family of a tenant farmer in Haiti. or in North Korea, or in Central America, or Sudan, or Yemen, or in a thousand other places around the globe, where because of circumstances beyond their control , Their choice is either desperate crushing poverty or a desperate effort to emigrate to a place where they or their children might be able somehow to carve out a better life. Many of those risking their lives to get to Europe or America are trying to escape warfare or drug cartels or oppressive governments or oppressive poverty and unemployment. I don't know about you, but it was heartening to me to see uh yesterday on the news tens of thousands of European citizens out in the streets welcoming the refugees from Syria. And elsewhere, in support, urging their countries to provide for these refugees somehow. Secondly, Not only are there many people who are poor because of calamity, there are many people who are poor because of exploitation. They were kidnapped. They were forced into slavery. Their wages have been kept back by their oppressors. Do not rich men oppress you, James said. James chapter 2, verse 6. They may have been promised a fair wage. Come sign up here. Come with us. We'll take you to America. We'll give you a good job. We'll give you good lodging. But they're kept in squalid conditions, virtual captives, women forced into prostitution, etc. The wicked in his pride persecutes the poor. Psalm 10, verse 2. The wicked in his pride persecutes the poor. Time magazine said four and a half million people in the world right now are in forced prostitution. That's the best estimate. They have from the UN. Four and a half million people in forced prostitution, an industry that raises almost a hundred billion dollars a year. Sex. Trafficking. So there are those who are poor because of calamity. They're blind, they're lame, they're orphans, they're widows. They're born into poverty. They have no way of escape. Many times. And there are those who are poor because of exploitation, because other people are holding them captive. As it were. And then there are those who are poor for righteousness' sake. They could earn much more in another vocation, but they choose to earn less in Christ's service. Or they could keep much more of what they earned, but they choose to give much of it to the Lord's work. Jesus and his disciples were in this category. They were not poor because of calamity. They were not poor because of oppression. They were poor for the kingdom of heaven's sake. They were dependent upon the charity of others Not because of calamity as a blind man or leper, not because of oppression as a slave or a mistreated laborer, but because they forsook profitable labor for the kingdom of heaven's sake. Now, you will note if all poverty resulted from causes such as those three, we would have a simple job. Give to anyone who is poor whenever We have means and opportunity. But there's a fly in the ointment of charity. The Bible recognizes another category of the poor, those who are poor because they are sluggards. because they are lazy. The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold, therefore he shall beg in hardest and have nothing. Proverbs 20 verse 4 Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hunger. Proverbs 19:15 The drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty, and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. Proverbs 23, 21. If we extend charity to any who are poor because of one or more of the first three reasons, calamity, victims of fire, earthquake, storm, shipwreck, the widow, the orphan, the blind, the lame, the refugee, the displaced by war. Or those in the second category, those who are poor because of oppression, or those in the third category, those who are poor because they've forsaken lucrative careers for the kingdom. of heaven's sake, missionaries, for example, then we are pleasing the Lord. He that has mercy on the poor, happy is he. Proverbs 14. He that gives to the poor shall not lack, but he that hides his eyes shall have many a curse. Proverbs 28, 27. Blessed is he who considers the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. Psalm 41, verse 1. And dozens and dozens of times in Scripture we are urged to give to the poor, but not to those who are poor because they choose not to work. In fact, the scripture says, if a man will not work, neither should he eat. 2 Thessalonians 3:10. So if we give indiscriminately to the sluggard or the drunkard, We are simply enabling him or her to shirk responsibility. And this is why, of course, biblical ministries to the homeless or to the unemployed should attempt to determine if they are in fact helping someone who is poor because of calamity or exploitation Or if they are enabling someone who chooses to avoid work and get by on the charity of others. I think I mentioned some years ago that uh uh my son's father-in-law, our son Nathan, lives in uh uh Tacoma, Washington area, a little town called Gig Harbor. And his father-in-law lives in Tacoma and he has in Tacoma, that's the city south of Seattle and he has the printing uh business there. And uh not infrequently someone will come by asking for uh money, uh a beggar asking for money. And one man did so one day and he and he came and engaged the t uh uh Tad is his name uh in conversation and said could you would you give me some money? And Tad said, well no I don't just take my money and give it out indiscriminately And the guy said, Well, you don't understand. This is what I do. This is what I do for a living. This is how I make my living. You have a job. People pay you for what you do. Uh this is my job, this is what I do. And and you should pay me for what I do. Why is what you do any better than what so T uh Chad tried to have this uh little economic under uh uh a sh a short course uh economics one oh one he said look I I provide a service for people that's why they they give money to me. I I I print their business cards or or bulletins or you uh booklets, uh books. I they pay me because I provide a service for them. What service are you providing me? Well I'm not providing you a service, I'm just asking you for money. You see? Uh so It's it that's why we need to have discernment. We can't just hand money out to anybody who asks for money. Why should I give my money to you? Why don't you give your money to me You see? So we need to be discriminating in the use of God's money and not enable someone to shirk responsibility But this passage and many others make it very clear that you and I, and we're all wealthy Americans, in uh Certainly in international terms, we're all wealthy, that you and I have a responsibility to aid the poor. And we'd better be about that business because God calls us to it. Secondly, I want you to notice there's some confusion surrounding this miracle, which we should at least mention. Mark notes only one blind man healed on this occasion, Barnamaeus, Matthew, evidently describing the same occasion, mentions two blind men, Matthew chapter 20. Luke refers to a blind man being healed as Jesus approached Jericho before he entered the city. Luke 18, and the circumstances are so similar that he seems to be describing the same incident. Just like, in other words, just like the dramatic events on Resurrection Morning When so and so went there and so and so went there and we can't tell who's going where when. Uh in the same way it can all seem very confusing. Perhaps there were three blind men who were healed, one who begged on the way into Jericho. The two who begged on the way out, and Mark only zeroed in on the one, Bartimaeus. Jesus healed them all, but the only one named by the Gospel of Mark in the Gospel of Mark was Bartimaeus, presumably again Again, because he was known by the followers of Christ. But one thing is crystal clear. There was no effort to harmonize these various accounts. There was no human editor, no council of elders that got together and said, wait a minute, Luke seems to contradict Mark here. Let's not include Luke's version of this healing. That's just going to confuse people. I believe these accounts can be harmonized because I believe all scripture is given by inspiration of God. All scripture is God breathed. In fact, it it's interesting the way this works. Attorneys, those who uh uh are pro those who practice law or those who are judges who have uh account to objectively read through the gospel accounts, many times we'll note this uh just this sort of thing as an evidence of a truthful witness. Obviously nobody got together with these witnesses and said, now you gotta say this, you gotta say that, you gotta make sure you don't say this. And so that's one of the evidences of a truthful testimony that sometimes it is I don't understand. Who healed who when? Where. Thirdly, I want you to note the attention that Jesus gave to this beggar, a man that many would ignore. A man that some would blame for his affliction. Remember John chapter 9, the disciples said when they saw a blind man, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents that he was born blind? Somebody must have sinned, or the guy wouldn't be blind. Somebody must have angered God. Why else would this poor man be born with this affliction, not being able to see? And Jesus said, no, no. This was for the glory of God. This wasn't because of any particular sin. To those near Bartimaeus, this was an embarrassment. Why are you troubling the master? Can't you see he's busy enjoying the adulation of the crowds? But Jesus was not so occupied with the masses that he had no time for the individual. even an individual that few others would acknowledge. Do you think, believer, that Jesus who took notice of this poor blind beggar takes no notice of you On the contrary, he says, even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Not even a sparrow falls without your father, and you are of more value than many sparrows, he says. Fourthly, it's interesting to me that those standing near Bartimaeus tried to get him to be quiet. As I said They were in the midst of a celebration. There was a big procession. They were quite sure there was no time for a beggar to be calling attention to himself. This was no time for this. But what was that to Bartimaeus? He was the one who had to live with his blindness every day He was the one who would presumably remain blind all his life if he couldn't arrest the attention of Jesus on this rare occasion that he was in His town, and so he let his voice be heard above all the commotion, crying out with all his might. Jesus, son of David David, have mercy on me. He was in desperate need. And he knew it. He didn't care that the townspeople might consider his shouting to be uh indecorous behavior in the presence of so prominent a visitor. They were not going to wake up blind tomorrow. He was. Their interaction reminds us that oftentimes when a person says sees his desperate need of Christ, and he begins to fervently seek him, others will try to hold him in check. Come on, son, religion is fine in its place, but you're going overboard. Slow down, take a break. Your old friends are in town. Why not give them a call? Bartimaeus was deeply in earnest. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. He was deeply in earnest. Now as Paul made his defense, Festa said with a loud voice, Paul, you are beside yourself. Much learning is driving you mad. I am not mad, most noble Felix Festus, but speak the words of truth and reason. When you begin to cry out, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. Have mercy on me. Have mercy on me. When you begin to cry out that way. Some may tell you to pipe down. Your teachers. Maybe your parents. Some may tell you to pipe down. The question is, how desperately do you want to see? Fifth, I want you to notice that uh we live in an age of medical marvels today Hand transplants, joint transplants, joint replacements, laser surgery. I saw a news item recently about a procedure for someone with macular degeneration. It involves attaching a small video camera on the side of the patient's head and sending video images to a tiny device that's placed behind the patient's eyes And the signals interpreted by the brain provide some degree of vision to those who have lost it through the aging process. And it was interesting because the way it happens is that the person who's had the surgery could see even with his eyes closed because the video camera is actually seeing and transplanting the image or whatever It was quite a amaze, it's quite remarkable. But there's something in Mark ten that we must not gloss over It's supported by the physician Luke. Jesus healed this blind man without surgical instruments, without lasers, without videos Video cameras. He healed him with his word. Go your way, your faith has made you well. And the healing was instantaneous. Immediately he received his sight. In other words, this was a miracle. Can you say that with me? Miracle! Oh, that's pitiful We've cheapened the term in our day, right? I did a little web search this week. Punched in miracle, here's what came up. Miracle ear, miracle muscle, miracle noodles Miracle Bamboo Pillow. Thought that was odd. I just saw in the paper yesterday when 43rd ranked Roberta Vinci defeated Serena Williams on Friday in the U. S. Open semifinals. Uh Roberta Vinci, this young Italian woman, said every so often a miracle happens. We use the term that way We use it very loosely today. If someone survives a terrible car crash or plane crash or train wreck, we call it a miracle. It was a miracle. Well, though such deliverances are in fact remarkable, they're not by definition miraculous, because a miracle involves the suspension of natural law. If I stepped out here and stood out in mid-air, that would be a miracle. I'm not going to try it. Miracle is something that involves the suspension of natural law. It's something that is impossible apart from supernatural intervention. I want you to understand that. I want you to remember that. Laser surgery is remarkable and amazing. It's not a miracle. But healing a blind man with a simple word or the touch of your hand, that's the miracle. Amen? Jesus was able to supersede the normal laws of nature because all things were made by him. John 1-1 And he upholds all things by the word of his power, Hebrews 1. 3. And by him all things were created that are in heaven and that That are in earth, visible and invisible, with the thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him, and in him all things consist, hold together. Colossians 1. And because he made it all, all nature submits to nature's Lord. And if he says to the raging waves, Peace be still, they must obey. Now why did Jesus heal Bartimaeus? Well, first of all, out of compassion, of course, we have a high priest who is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. That is, he sympathizes with us, he empathizes with us. Secondly, he performed this and other miracles to verify his claim to be the Messiah. It was prophesied that when the Messiah came, he would do such things. Jesus did such things to verify he was in fact the Messiah, who was foretold. But also he gave sight to the blind to teach us that he is the light of the world. Before he healed a man born blind whom We meet in John 9, Jesus said, I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. The night's coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. And then he gave sight to a man who couldn't see from birth. There was a spiritual truth being conveyed. You see? There was a spiritual truth being con He was conveying. Because of man's rebellion against God, we're spiritually blind. We're blind Just like this man, Barnamaeus. We're spiritually blind. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness to him, nor can he know them because they're spiritually discerned, and he doesn't have any spiritual sight. He's spiritually blind. If our gospel is veiled, Paul said, it's veiled to those who are perishing, whose minds the God of this age, that's Satan, has blinded who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them. Satan has succeeded in blinding their eyes. They're spiritually blind. They're also described as being spiritually dead. The blindness of natural man is easily demonstrated. Can you see what that is? That's a comb. Put it against something a little lighter That's a comb. I mean that's what we call it. I have it in my notes here. Don't forget to bring your comb. Now I'm going to demonstrate to you our spiritual Blindness with this comb. Every rational man, woman, boy, or girl would acknowledge rightly that some intelligent being designed and manufactured this comb. Obviously it has design, it has some purpose. And we know what the purpose is. We've seen people comb their hair. Every single rational being who could hear me would acknowledge that, yeah, somebody had to design that comb. Some intelligent being had to design and manufacture it. If I attempted to convince you that it had no designer, no maker, you would think me mad. And yet there are apparently intelligent people, otherwise rational people, who declare that the hand that holds this comb, which is much more intricate, by the way, than the comb , Right? Look at it. Look what I can do with it. I can bend it. I can grab things. I can pick things up. It's got fingernails to protect the tips of my fingers. They can bend here at the knuckles. I got a little scratch on it. I don't know where I got that scratch. Maybe Donna gave me that scratch sometime when I wasn't. And it's healing up on me. It's healing up on me. I could scratch this foam. It's not going to heal. Yet, these same rational men, ostensibly rational men Say that even though they would acknowledge the comb as a designer, the hand that holds it, much more intricate, the mind , the mouth, the eyes, the earth teeming with life The stars, the multitude of stars, the planets, the sun, the moon, all these incredible things, they would say, no, they had no designer, they had no maker, they had no intelligent being behind them How can this be? It's as if that since the fall of man the earth has become one huge insane asylum. What Well the comb, there's a comb. You believe the comb was made, but not everything else? You don't see anything in this world that's made that didn't have a maker But the world itself and you, you think you just crawled out of nothing? It's madness. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. What are those invisible attributes that are clearly seen by the things that are made? His eternal power and Godhead. It's so evident. The heavens are declaring the glory of God. There's no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Jesus gave physical sight to a physical material blind man near Jericho that day, but he gives spiritual sight to spiritual blind men every day. He gives spiritual sight, the spiritually blind man, every day. And he can give sight to you today. If you know you've sinned against God, if you know you've been covetous or proud or selfish, if you know you've been angry or bitter If you know you've been unforgiving, if you know you've lied or stolen or cheated or hated, if you've dishonored your parents , If you've taken God's name in vain. If you've murmured or complained, if you've gossiped or slandered, if you've engaged in sexual immorality. If you placed other gods before the true God or sinned against him in any other way, if you will see your sin as vile , And if you will turn Muhammad in disgust and cry out, God be merciful to me a sinner Lay hold upon Jesus Christ by faith. Jesus Son David have mercy on me if you'll come to him that way. As a little child, not proud of all you've accomplished, but recognizing that nothing in your hand You bring, simply to his cross you cling. If you come to him that way, empty-handed, out of your bondage, sorrow and night, and to his freedom, gladness, and light. He promises he will forgive you and save you. He will give you sight, spiritual sight Be of good cheer. Be of good cheer. Rise. He's calling you. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a wonder it is, what a marvel it is, what a miracle it is when you give sight to the blind. You've done it to many of us here, Lord. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. We were without hope, without God in this world. And you had mercy upon us. You brought the gospel message to us through our parents or brothers or sisters or friends, through hearing it on the radio or television or reading your word. You brought your message to us. Not only that, you opened our eyes, you gave us faith. You gave us faith to believe. You brought us up out of that horrible pit, out of that miry clay. You set our feet upon a rock, you established our goings. Lord, it's a marvel. It's a miracle that we have eternal light today, that we're not going to perish for our sin. You laid our punishment upon Jesus, the Lamb of God. And now because he lives, we shall live also. Father, we praise you for this. Now, Lord, I pray for those who might be here outside of Christ. Draw them, Lord. Take away those scales upon their eyes. Take away that stony heart, give a heart of flesh, breathe upon those dry bones that they might live. We ask it, knowing that you can do this thing. Because you are God, our Maker, our King. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Jesus