Thank you, Bob and Linda, for blessing us with your gift today. I appreciate it. If you have your Bibles with you, I encourage you to turn to Genesis chapter 1. We'll be reading portions of Genesis chapter 1 and chapter 2 this morning. Let's read about the sixth day of creation from Genesis 1, verse 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image. According to our likeness, let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air. And over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image In the image of God he created him. Male and female, he created them. Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth and subdue it Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, See, I have given you every herb that yields seed which is on the face of the earth. and every tree whose fruit yields seed, to you it shall be for food. Also to every beast of the earth, to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth in which there is life, I have given you every green herb for food. And it was so Then God saw that everything that he had made, and indeed, it was very good So the evening and the morning were the sixth day. And then moving on to chapter 2, in regards to that sixth day at verse 4. This is the history of the heavens and the earth when they were created. And the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. before any plant of the field was in the earth, and before any herb of the field had grown, for the Lord God had caused it to rain on the earth, and there was no man to till the ground. But a mist went up from the earth and watered it the whole face of the ground. And the Lord God formed the man of the dust of the ground, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living being. The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed. Then moving on to verse 15. Then the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to tend and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in that day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. Out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called every living creature, that was its name. So Adam gave names to all the cattle, to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the field, but for Adam. There was not found a suitable helper for him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place. Then, from the rib which the Lord God had taken from man, he made it into a woman, and he brought her to the man And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of the man. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh, and they were naked, and the man and the wife, and they were not ashamed. Let's pray. Oh Father God, Lord, how we thank you for this wonderful account of the institution of marriage We thank you for revealing it to us that we would not be in the dark concerning what you have designed for us as a people and for a society. We pray, Lord, that you would now meet with us by the power of your Spirit, that you would open up hearts and ears to hear what you would say to us today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, beloved, it was just several months ago on June 26th. That day marked a turning point in our nation's history. when five justices of the Supreme Court redefined the definition of marriage for the whole country. And with judicial fiat, they overturned thousands of years of history and tradition in which marriage defined as the union of one man and one woman was once the bedrock of our society. And it was a decision of immense importance. And we do not know what will happen in the years ahead. as the repercussions of their decision play out in our culture and in our society. For if you redefine marriage Then you are redefining the family. And if you redefine the nature of the family, then you are redefining the society upon which is compromised of families. John Piper writes of the far-reaching ramifications of their decision when he says, before now As far as we know, no society in history of the world has ever defined marriage as between people of the same sex. It is a mind-boggling innovation with no precedent to guide us, except the knowledge that unrighteousness destroys nations, and the celebration of it hastens its demise. And those are stirring, striking words. This was a momentous decision affecting not only our society, but affecting the church as well. So now that homosexual marriage is permitted in all 50 states, how do we, as Christians, respond to that? As you talk to your family and your friends and your co-workers and your fellow students about this decision, what will you say? How do you support the biblical view of marriage as the monogamous union of one man and one woman, especially especially when there's so much pressure on us to kind of go along to get along. Just consider the court's reasoning, They viewed same-sex marriage as a civil right under the equal protection of the law. The basis of the majority opinion was that homosexual couples should have the same right to marry as heterosexual couples do. Just as. Justice Kennedy wrote in the majority opinion that they should have the liberty to define and express their identity by marrying those whom they love. Well, how do you argue against that? Who wants to be against civil rights? Who wants to argue against equality? How do you speak against people loving each other? And if you do, you may very well be subjected to public scorn and intense derision and ridicule. At best, you'll be viewed as some kind of antiquated dinosaur who holds views whose shelf life has expired. And at worst. At worst, you'll be labeled intolerant, a bigoted hater by the clamoring voices outside the Christian community. But what is equally disturbing is that within the evangelical community in our country, there is a movement towards accepting same-sex marriage as normative and morally good. Now while this movement is certainly a minority in the church, they are seeking to change hearts and minds regarding same-sex marriage. Take, for example, Justin Lee. Justin Lee wrote the book Torn, Rescuing the Gospel from the Gay versus Christian Debate. Mr. Lee is a young Christian man who identifies as gay. He holds to the basic tenets of the Christian faith. He believes that Jesus Christ died for his sins. He believes that you are only saved by grace, by putting your faith and trust in him, and through his sacrificial death. He also believes that the Bible is the inspired word of God and authoritative for all of life. And Justin Lee struggled for years with homosexual attraction. And so he studied to scripture to see what it says about homosexuality. He studied the various passages about homosexual activity, and he asked this question. Do these passages in Scripture prohibit same-sex relationships which are loving, committed, and monogamous? And he concluded that it's indeed these passages in Scripture which do condemn homosexuality, if they do condemn loving, committed, same-sex relationships, then I should remain celibate. But if they do not, then homosexuals have the approval of Scripture to marry just like heterosexual couples do. And in the book, he arrives at that very conclusion that Scripture condones the marriage of same-sex couples who are in a loving, committed, and monogamous relationship. Now you may be wondering, what? How does he get to that conclusion? Because the combined voice of those passages regarding Scripture, and it those passages regarding homosexuality Make it clear that homosexual activity is against God's moral order. Well, Justin Lee does acknowledge that scripture, that those scripture verses do confirm. do condemn certain kinds of homosexual activity as sinful. But then he asserts that those passages that prohibit homosexual activity do not address sinful Same-sex relationships which are loving, committed, and monogamous. In other words, he narrowly def defines or reinterprets those passages in such a way That the sinful behavior prohibited in these verses has nothing to do with same-sex marriages which are loving and committed. For example, he looks at Genesis 19 on the account of Sodom, in which the men of Sodom want to have sexual relations with lots of angelic visitors. And he views their homosexual activity and desire as an act of abuse and aggression, which of course anybody would say is sinful. But such an act does not mean that God forbids a loving relationship between same-sex couples. And then there is a prohibition against homosexuality in Leviticus 18 and Leviticus 19 And these verses, he believes, were intended solely, only for the Old Testament Israelites, to set them apart from their pagan neighbors. And that they are only a prohibition against male cultic prostitution. So these verses, he says, have nothing at all to do with same-sex couples and a loving, committed relationship. And then he turns to the New Testament, to Romans 1. And he believes that Paul's condemnation of homosexual activity is in the context of unbelievers. He is speaking about idolaters, pagan worshippers, and therefore he is not condemning same-sex unions based on a loving, committed relationship. Then, to top it off, he adds to his argument that Christians are called to fulfill the law of love. That we are to demonstrate the selfless sacrificial love to our neighbors, which is indeed certainly true. So he believes that if a person loves someone selflessly out of the God they love, that even if they are of the same gender, what difference does it make? He writes, undeniably, there were many types of homosexual behavior that were driven by selfishness, not agape love. They were sinful and their bad fruit bore that out. But suppose two people loved each other with all of their hearts and they wanted to commit themselves to each other in the sight of God. to love, to honor, and to cherish, to selflessly serve and encourage one another, to serve God together, to be faithful for the rest of their lives. If they were of opposite sexes, we would call that holy and beautiful and something to celebrate. But if we only changed one thing, the gender of one of those individuals, while still keeping the same love and selflessness and commitment, Suddenly, many Christians would call it abominable. Mr. Lee's argument casts doubt on the plain teaching of Scripture that homosexual activity is just like premarital sex or adultery They are all outside God's created moral order and therefore outside the boundaries he has established for human sexual expression. Now I know this is somewhat of a lengthy discussion of a particular view, but it is important. Because it is a false teaching that is trying to gain a foothold in the evangelical community, to make acceptable what is not acceptable to God. And Mr. Lee's arguments can be very persuasive. He's very earnest, and he's very sincere, but he can be sincerely wrong. And when there is false teaching within the evangelical community, we need to understand it, and then we need to address it, and then we need to answer it. So how do we do that? It's interesting to note that in his book, Justin Lee only dresses the negative and not the positive What do I mean by that? He only addresses the negative versus prohibiting homosexual activity. But he never once discusses what Scripture positively says about marriage. and about God's plan and purposes for it. And that is a very key element. For one of the best ways To defend biblical marriage is to look at the Lord's plans and purposes for it. For when we do , We see clearly that marriage can only be between one man and one woman. So where do we go in scripture? Well, as Julie Andrews sang in the sound of music, let's start at the very beginning. It's a very good place to start. And it is a very good place to start. So we are going to the very beginning. And to look briefly at Genesis 1 and 2 and to see in those verses that marriage was created and instituted by God And as we briefly look at these verses, it is clear that the Lord designed marriage with certain principles which necessitate a one-man, one-woman relationship. Now in light of our time, we're only going to look at two principles regarding marriage. And in doing so, I'm stealing a bit of my own thunder because I'll be talking more in depth about this subject in a few weeks When I speak at the In God We Trust group. But for today, today we're going to look at two R's, the two R's of marriage. Roles. and raising, roles and raising. First let's look at roles. Let's turn to Genesis 1. 27. On the sixth day of creation, when God made man as the pinnacle of his creation, verse 27 says, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. Now the first thing that we notice in this verse is that Scripture makes absolutely crystal clear that there is equality between the sexes. Both male and female are made in God's image. The man is not more important than the woman. The woman is not superior to the man. They both share equal status before God. And they both reflect his image in their relationship. Because God within himself as a triune God is in relationship with with him in himself. And so he makes those in his image to be in relationship with one another as a reflection of being in his image. Now both also share equally in their God-ordained role and responsibility. Both are given what is called the creation mandate, found in verse 28. Together they are to be fruitful and multiply. They are to fill the earth and subdue it. And together they are to reign over God's created order. So Genesis 1 stresses the equality between the man and the woman. They are in equal status, and they share equally in the role of filling and subduing the earth. Amen. Now in chapter two. In chapter two, we see an additional dimension to their relationship. Genesis 2 is an expansion of day six. If chapter 1 in Genesis gives us the big picture of creation , which includes the day number six when man and woman were created. Chapter 2 zeros in on that particular day and how Adam and Eve were created. And how they were created tells us something about the nature of their relationship, which has significance for marriage as a whole. Let's read together verse 7 and 8. And the Lord God formed man out of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living being. The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed. Now notice something here in those two verses. The Lord made Adam first. He didn't make Adam and Eve at the same time. Have you ever wondered about that? I mean, in our our quick let's get it done yesterday kind of world. Why didn't God just make Adam and Eve at the same time out of the dust of the ground, kind of like an assembly line process, it would have been so much faster and so much more efficient. But God doesn't. He makes Adam first. Why? Well then we get to verse 18, where God for the first time declares that something is not good in his creation. It is not good for man to be alone. And Adam cannot be alone. Although he is perfect, although creation is perfect, although he has a perfect relationship with God, yet something in all of this perfection is incomplete. Adam cannot fulfill the creation mandate to be fruitful and multiply by himself. How is he going to manage the Garden of Eden all by himself? I mean, after all, it's a perfect world, but still it's a pretty big job to take care of all of that for just one person. You know what it's like to just take care of your yard. So he needs a companion suitable for him. So God says, I will make a helper suitable for him. And then we get to verse 19 and we say, yeah, the anticipation is building here. Now it comes. Now he's going to make a wife for Adam. And then we read on. Out of the ground, the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. What? Where's the wife? Why did the Lord do that? Adam needs a wife, and the Lord God brings him a zoo instead. Why would he do that? Well, maybe Adam was your typical male, kind of thick headed and dense. So the Lord wants to impress upon him something over and over and over again. And as Adam names the animals that God brings to him, he begins to notice something. Hey, they come in pairs. There are roosters and there are hens. There are boy cats and there are girl cats. There are boy bunnies and there are girl bunnies. But Adam realizes all of these animals have a mate that corresponds perfectly to them, and he doesn't have any. So finally, finally, God makes him a wife. And notice how he does it. He doesn't form her from the dust of the ground as he did Adam. He forms her From him. She comes from him. So there is a principle implied in this chapter. If Chapter 1 focuses on the equality between man and woman, Chapter 2 focuses on the diversity that exists in the marriage relationship between a man and a woman. There is a diversity in the relationship which is implied in this chapter in several ways. It is implied in the order of creation. Adam is made first, prior to Eve. It is implied in the manner in which they were created. Adam is made from the ground, but Eve is made from Adam. And the order of creation and the manner of creation point to Adam as the leader in their relationship. He names the animals, not her. His leadership in their relationship is also seen in that he names her. She doesn't name herself, and she doesn't name him, but he names her woman. So within their equality, there is a diversity between them. There is a diversity of gender difference. They are similar in some ways. but different enough to complement each other. They are designed uniquely to fulfill the creation mandate to multiply and fill the earth So there is a difference in role as Adam is the leader in the marriage relationship. And finally, within their diversity as a couple, there is a unity. She is literally, literally bone of my bones and flesh of his flesh. She was made from him. And as husband and wife, they share in a one-flesh relationship in which they are joined together. So from these two chapters, we see in God's design for marriage that there is equality in their diversity. And there is unity within their diversity. Now what is implied in Genesis 2 is made more explicit and expanded in Ephesians 5. So in case you're thinking, well, maybe we're just pulling this out of thin air, Paul in Ephesians 5 makes what's implied in Genesis 2. very clear that there is a diversity of roles in the marriage relationship. Briefly, in Ephesians 5, 22 through 24. Wives are to submit to their husbands as to the Lord. Now, wives, we know that that is not an easy responsibility, because you are married to sinful men. And we pray for you. But you have to admit, I think, that husbands have the even more difficult responsibility In verse 25, Paul instructs husbands to sacrificially love their wives as Christ loved the church. Husbands are to be the loving leaders to their wives, not to use their leadership to dominate them or to abuse them or to demean them or to put them down or to subordinate them but instead to give their very lives for their wives. And that, brothers, as we know, is a tall order. But in doing so, Paul writes, a husband and wife mirror the love relationship between Christ and his bride, the church. And in their marriage, a wife submits to her husband's authority, and as she does so, she reflects the obedient submission of the church to her groom, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the husband reflects the love of Christ in his leadership in the home. And there is a diversity of roles the married couple play out this cosmic, divine, wonderful, astounding mystery of the loving union that Christ has with his people, his bride, the church. Their one flesh physical union is like the intimate spiritual union that Christ has with his bride, the church So the supreme purpose, a supreme purpose of marriage is for the husband and wife in their unity and in their diversity to reflect God's grace and his redeeming love for his people. All right. That was a like crash course in marriage. But all of that is to say In God's design for marriage, there are specific roles, right? And these roles are gender specific. In marriage, there is a man, a husband, who is the leader representing Christ in the home by loving his wife. And in a marriage there is a woman, a wife, who submits to her husband as to the Lord, just as the church submits to Christ's authority. And these gender roles in marriage are not interchangeable and they're not indispensable, but they are vital to the definition of what a real true marriage is. You cannot have two husbands in a marriage any more than you can have two Christs. And you cannot have two wives in a marriage any more than you can have two churches. There is one Christ united to one church, so there can only be one husband married to one wife. And anything else goes beyond what the Lord intended for marriage, which would include homosexuality or polygamy. Now what we have seen this morning is totally, totally foreign to our secular culture. We see in Scripture clear gender differences and we celebrate them and we say along with the French viva la différence. Oui oui We we. But our secular culture says instead, what difference does it make? Well, it makes all the difference in the world. In fact, our culture tries to diminish or blur gender distinctions. Now go back to Genesis 1. 27 for a moment. Let's read that again. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. Male and female, he created them. Now stop there for a moment. For years you may have read that. That phrase, male and female, he created them. And you've not thought twice about it. It seems as obvious as the birds and the bees and the flowers and the trees, uh There are men and there are women, there are boys and there are girls. And yet, yet we find out in 2015 This phrase, male and female, he created them, takes on a weighty relevance, doesn't it? What was once the accepted norm that there are two distinct specific genders that is now countercultural. For mankind, in our rebellion against God and his created order, seeks to erase those gender differences seeks to obliterate them, to say that they do not matter. They are merely a social construct in which we have forced gender stereotypes on children which are perpetuated from generation to generation to generation. So we teach little boys to go bang bang and to play with trucks and to play cops and robbers and little girls we teach them to wear pink and to be princesses. And we need to free them from those stereotypes. And we see the outworking of that thought, of that philosophy all around us. Well, just this week in the news, an elementary school in San Francisco decided to have gender-neutral bathrooms for their kindergarten class and for their first graders. And over the next few years, they plan to go completely gender neutral and erase out gender-specific bathrooms for the older elementary school children as well. And the University of Tennessee in Knoxville recently gave their students a language guide encouraging students to use non-traditional gender pronouns like z and zer. instead of the gender-specific pronouns, he and she. Now you can try and change language And you can try and change restrooms and an attempt to remove gender differences, but biology is a stubborn thing. And what you're really doing is fighting against reality as God has created for male and female, He created them. Which brings us to our next principle, raising. The raising of children. As we saw in Genesis 1. There is a creation mandate given to Adam and Eve, which was to be fruitful and to multiply. And through their union they were to bring forth little image-bearers. Well, same-sex marriages cannot fill the creation mandate ordained by God. They can only have children through adoption or through artificial means. Heather may have two mommies, but somewhere along the line, Heather had to have a daddy. Otherwise, there would be no Heather. And the issue goes beyond just the biological mechanics of procreation. God created gender differences That are not only essential in begetting of children, but they're also extremely vital in the raising of children. Those who support same-sex marriage would have us believe that gender differences are not important in parenting. That a father and a mother is no different than having two dads or two moms. They're just interchangeable. But study after study, research after research, has demonstrated that a father and a mother Bring to parenting something that is unique to their genders as male and female. The research reflects biblical truth that gender differences are important in parenting and that children benefit from having a mom and a dad. In fact, research indicates that the role of the father in parenting in some ways is even more crucial to the healthy development of children than the mother. Let me read to you a portion of a federal government manual that was put out for social workers in regards to the importance of fathers in childhood development. It says, one study of school-aged children found that children with good relationships with their fathers were less likely to experience depression, to exhibit disruptive behavior, or to lie and were more likely to exhibit pro-social behavior. The same study found that boys were involved with involved fathers had fewer school behavior problems and that girls had stronger self-esteem. In addition, numerous studies have found that children who live with their fathers are more likely to have good physical and emotional health, to achieve academically and to avoid drugs, violence, and delinquent behavior. Generally speaking, and here's the clicker , Fathers also tend to promote independence and orientation to the outside world. That's what fathers contribute. Fathers also often push achievement, while mothers stress nurturing. both of which are important to a healthy development. Did you hear that? That fathers have a particular role as fathers for their children and mothers have a different approach. As a result, children who grow up with involved fathers are more comfortable exploring the world around them and are more likely to exhibit self-control and pro-social behavior. Gender differences matter in the raising of children. And a mother and a father are not interchangeable with two dads or two moms. John Piper sums it up well when he writes the recognition of so-called same-sex marriage would be a clear social statement. that motherhood or fatherhood or both are negligible in in the public good of raising children. Two men adopting children cannot provide motherhood, and two women adopting children cannot provide fatherhood. But God ordained from the beginning that children grow up with a mother and a father and said, honor your mother and father. Tragedies in life often make that impossible But taking action to make that tragedy normal may be worthy of prohibiting by law. That's a factor to consider. Well that tragedy was felt by Katie Faust. Katie is an adult who was raised by her mom and her lesbian partner. She wrote an open letter several months ago to Justice Kennedy imploring him to rule against same-sex marriage. She writes, it was very difficult to speak about this subject because I love my mom. Most of the children with gay parents do. We also love their partners You don't hear much from us because as far as the media are concerned, it is impossible that we can both love our gay parents and oppose gay marriage. Many are of the opinion I should not exist, but I do, and I'm not alone. The debate at its core is about one thing. It's about children. She goes on to say, I'm not saying that being same-sex attracted makes one incapable of parenting. My mother was an exceptional parent, and much of what I do as a mother is a reflection of how she loved and nurtured me. This is about the missing parent. Talk to any child with gay parents Especially those old enough to reflect on their experiences. If you ask a child raised by a lesbian couple if they love their two moms, you will probably get a resounding yes Ask about their father, and you are in for either a painful silence, a confession of gut-wrenching longing. or the recognition that they have a father that they wish they could see more often. The one thing that you will not hear isn't different. Heather might have two mommies, but Heather is missing her daddy And she will never hear him say, you are my precious princess. You are my beautiful little girl. She will never feel his strong arms of protection wrapped around her, and she will be missing out on seeing what it means to be loved by a husband because there isn't one at home. And there isn't a father to model for her what to look for in a man. John Meyer in his song Daughters says it well. On behalf of every man, looking out for every girl, you, Dad, are the God and weight of our world. So, fathers, be good to your daughters. Daughters will love like you do. Well, one final observation on the raising of children. In two landmark Supreme Court cases, children have gotten the short end of the stick in terms of their rights. In Roe v. Wade, unborn children were denied the right to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness as abortion was made legal at any time for any circumstance in all 50 states by judicial fiat. And in the legalizing of homosexual marriage in all 50 states, children have been denied the right to be brought up in homes where there is a mom and a dad. It's Katie Faust passionately writes, there is no difference between the value and worth of heterosexual and homosexual persons. We all deserve equal protection and opportunity in academia, housing, employment, and medical care because we are all created in the image of God. However, when it comes to procreation and childbearing, same-sex couples and opposite-sex couples are wholly unequal and should be treated differently for the sake of the children Same-sex marriages redefine parenthood. It moves us well beyond our live and let live philosophy into a land where our society promotes a family structure where children will always suffer loss. It will be our policy, stamped and sealed by the most powerful of government institutions, that these children will have their right. to be known and loved by mother and their father, stripped from them in every instance. In same-sex-headed households, the desires of the adults trump the rights of the child. Well, this morning we have looked at a biblical defense regarding marriage. And we've only just scratched the surface by looking at two principles, two principles briefly, that gender distinctions exist. that there are gender-specific roles in marriage designed and instituted by the Lord. And the importance of gender differences there are in terms of a mother and a father and raising of children. We've covered a lot of ground in a short period of time. But I trust that you may be better equipped to answer the question as to why you believe marriage should be defined as a union between one man and one woman. Parents, it's important for us to teach our children these truths so that they know it and understand it and can communicate it as well. It's important for the church as a whole to be teaching about human sexuality as God designed. And for those of us who are married, it is a challenge for us to live out these principles. It is one thing to acknowledge them and their value and their truth. It is another to exemplify them in our homes, to display the mystery that Paul talks about in Ephesians, to show the gospel in our marriages as husbands love their wives as Christ loved the church. And as wives submit to their husbands, demonstrating that loving union of Christ to his church through marriage. Now, as we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper , Let's turn our hearts and minds towards Christ, our bridegroom, who has given his life for his bride. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, again we give you praise and thanks for your word, how it reveals for us the purposes of marriage. That marriage is an opportunity to display the wonderful mystery of how Jesus Christ loves his church. and how we submit to him in obedience. Father, we pray for the husbands and wives, Lord, that we would live out these principles in our homes, that we would teach them to our children, and that as a church we would stand strong in the face of opposition for what you have created and designed and intended for marriage. We thank you and praise you for your goodness to us in Jesus' name. Amen.