Well, if you will stand with me please for the reading of the passage for this afternoon this morning. Luke twenty two, verses fifty-four through sixty-two. Then they seized him and led him away, bringing him into the high priest's house. And Peter was following at a distance. And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat down among them. Then the servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the light and looking closely at him, said, This man also was with him. But he denied it, saying, Woman, I do not know him. A little later, someone else saw him and said, You also are one of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not. And after an interview of about an hour, still another insisted, saying, Certainly this man also was with him, for he too is a Galilean. But Peter said, Man, I do not know what you are talking about. And immediately while he was still speaking, the rooster crowed, and the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the saying of the Lord, how he had said to him before the rooster crows today. You will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. Let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity that we can gather here this morning. To sing your songs of praise, to confess our manifold sins, to know that we have the free gift of pardon for your mercy. We're able to give our tithes and offerings, hear your word, meditate on it, and take it from these doors. And so we pray that you will Be with the words of my mouth, the meditation of our hearts. Help us to glorify you during this time and the time to come. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Real quick word of introduction. So this Sunday is the first Sunday of Lent. Presbyterians often don't know that. But first Sunday of Lent. Wednesday last was Ash Wednesday and uh we're in the Lenten season. They call that a Christian calendar, but we're in the Lenten season and of course the passage I'm dealing with is near the l end of that Lenton season, isn't it? Coming up to I don't know Monday, Thursday, Good Friday. And you're wondering, well, why? Well, it's very simple. I was going through some sermons that I had that uh when Pastor Lear mentioned to me I'd be preaching and actually I frankly I didn't like anything I came across. of my sermons. And I thought but I'm really fascinated by this passage of Peter because I feel like I'm seeing some things I never thought I would see. I've seen before. I i I've seen it in a whole new light, and so I wanted to share that with you this morning. So then when Easter comes and this passage will be read again, maybe it'll cause you to think, oh, just a little bit different. April seems to be filled with memorable nights. He was five years old when at ten thirty on April fourteenth, eighteen sixty-five, he witnessed the assassination of Abraham Lincoln at Ford's Theater. Samuel Seymour shares a little bit about that night on the TV show I've Got a Secret on February 8th. 1956. He remembered that night to the day he died on April 12th, 1956, at 95 years old. Lastly, Lillian Asplund, age five at two thirty A. M. on april fifteenth, nineteen twelve, was rescued in a lifeboat that fateful night during the sinking of the Titanic. And she remembered that night up to the day of her death in two thousand six, not only for the sinking, but for having lost her father and three of her brothers. You know, on April 11 , 1861, Mary Chestnut writes about the bombardment of Fort Sumter at 4. 30 in the morning. another date in April she remembered for the rest of her life. You know, think back over the years. Can can you remember a particular night? As if it was last night? Or we can rephrase that. Can you remember a night you will never forget? I I think we all have. I I think we all have, right? Maybe it was a proposal of marriage. Or a birth of a child. Or a birth of a child. The word of the passing of a loved one Right now, I bet you've got to be a little bit more. Right now, I bet you can think of a night you will have never forgotten. Title of my message this morning is simply a night to remember. Which of course I stole from the book of Walter O'Lord's book on the recounting of the sinking of the Titanic. But we will soon see, I hope, that Peter had a night to remember as well. And the prelude to that night began earlier in Jesus' ministry. So a brief timeline leading up to Peter's Night of Nights I think is in order. So we read earlier from Matthew 16, didn't we? Of Peter's interaction with Jesus. Peter, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus, blessed are you, son of Barjona. A little bit later, Peter, this would never happen to you. Jesus, get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me. The one in the St. Peter speaking first the thoughts of God, and then soon after the thoughts of Satan. Sometimes getting it right, sometimes getting it wrong. That's Peter. And that's actually us as well The Greek word used here for get behind me, Satan, is actually the same word used by Jesus during his wilderness temptation. When he said to Satan, Away from me, Satan. When Satan sought to tempt Jesus into compromising his role as Messiah and his identity as a son of God. What did Satan know? And when did he know that Jesus' life mission was destined for the cross? We don't know. But he and Peter both were obstacles. To Jesus. Get behind me, Satan. Away from me, Satan. The same emphasis. Jesus had the same answer for both of them. I will not be hindered. I will not be detoured from my goal. Now in Peter's defense, Peter probably thought he was protecting Jesus from an early imprisonment, maybe death, but in truth he was unwittingly tempting Jesus to avoid the cross. Fast forward later to the upper room, where Jesus shares the Passover meal with his disciples. And during dinner, Jesus declares that one of them would betray him. You know, the disciples are surprised to hear this word, betrayal, come out of Jesus' mouth. They wonder whom it might be. They question one another. They questioned themselves and even began asking Jesus individually, is it I? Can you imagine that Peter turning to John? Is it you? John's thinking, I always thought it was you. I mean, what an amaz in Matthew, Judas even says to Jesus, Is it I? And I think that's where Jesus says, Well you have said so. But anyway, they're all wondering who it so they don't have a clue. They actually don't know in the upper room that Judas is going to betray him. So they're asking, is it I? So imagine that situation. I only can imagine The statement of Jesus that one of his disciples, a close friend, would betray him. It must have weighed heavily on the apostles' mind. As they pondered the weightiness of the situation and the serious consequences that it would entail. Or so you would have thought. After the sobering moment, the disciples seemed to have recovered rather quickly, enough so that they felt this was an appropriate time to have a discussion among themselves as to whom was the greatest. Imagine this scenario. Jesus says, one of you will betray me. The other hey guys, some of us is the greatest. I cannot believe it. These guys are such blockheads, but We should take so much comfort because they're no different from us. So the sobering thought And they 've turned it against Jesus and it's all about them. As an aside , Can you imagine the women who've been serving Jesus all this time ever having such an inane discussion as to who is the greatest? You know, they seem to have already figured it out. It was Jesus. Well then Jesus brings the disciples back to reality and he warns them they will all fall away because of him. Quoting Zechariah 13 7 that with the striking down of the shepherd the sheep of the flock will be scattered. And then as an aside to Peter, Jesus says that Satan has demanded to have you that he may sift you like wheat, but I've prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Well, guess what? Peter takes the opportunity to rebuke Jesus and corrects him again. Peter's response to that well Jesus you don't seem to know me very well. I'm ready to go to prison with you and even to die with you. And to add insult to injury, and one of the other gospels, even though the rest of these guys leave you, I will never leave you. Jesus, knowing Peter better than Peter knows himself, informs Peter that he will indeed deny him, and the sign of his fall will be the rooster crowing. And then from that upper room they head out to the Garden of Gethsemane, where Jesus warns the disciples to watch and pray, they may not enter into temptation. What happens next is that Jesus prepares himself for what he is about to encounter. He does that by praying. The three pillars of the church, Peter, James, and John, along with the other disciples, they will not be prepared for what is to come upon them. Why? Well they did not watch and pray. Martin Luther says, prayer is a strong wall and fortress of the church. It is a goodly Christian weapon. We read in the Gospel of John in the Garden that Peter is the disciple who takes up the sword and cuts off Malchus's ear. Later, I bet Peter had wished. He had earlier taken up the weapon of prayer when Jesus had advised him to do so rather than the sword. Judas then arrives with the crowd and betrays Jesus with a kiss. Mob takes Jesus away, the disciples flee except for John and Peter, who follows a little bit later. They enter the high priest courtyard, sits by the fire with the guards, as Matthew tells us to see the end. Here is the great irony of what is about to unfold. Peter thinks he's there to observe and to listen in on the trial of Jesus. When in reality he's about to undergo his own trial, the sifting of Peter. If you want to know what sifting is, just go on YouTube. You can find out way more than you want to know. But in in third world countries, for instance, um farmer spreads weed on a hard surface and beats it with a club to loosen chaff Then uses the sieve and shakes and shakes and shakes, separating the grain from the debris. Interesting picture. Jesus uses of Satan as a farmer. Shaking Christians in a sieve, trying to separate them from their faith. The sifting of Peter begins in the courtyard of the high priest. Remember those times. Remember those times maybe when you've been at a ball game and you have a seat that's behind a pillar? Or you've been to a concert and and there's a tall person in front of you and you can't really see what's going on uh going around you. You're constantly weaving and bobbing around It even happens in our Sunday school class downstairs. Peter had the worst of seats. He had the absolutely worst seat in the house. He's sitting among the apprehenders and accusers of Jesus. He thinks he's probably got a good seat to see what's going on. He has got the worst seat in the house. And then here we go. A servant girl seeing him as he sat in the light, looked closely at him and said, This man also was with him. You know, it begs the question, how would she know? Was she in the mob? I doubt that was somebody in the mob able to come back and tell her she's very, you know, just very definite. By the way, in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, all of these are statements. Only in the Gospel of John are these accusations turned into a question. These are all statements. Well here she said, this man was also with him. He denied this, saying, Woman, I I do not know him. Quite the reversal, isn't it? Peter no longer knows who the Christ is, the Son of the Living God, as he had confessed earlier. And a little later someone else saw him and said, You also are one of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not. The earlier he was eating dinner with them and then arguing which of them amongst themselves regarding who was the greatest. Ponder that statement for a moment. You are also one of them. I thank you myself. Was John with an earshot and Peter claimed to no longer know him? No longer new John. No longer new John? No longer a disciple of Jesus? No longer part of the family. In essence, he's saying, I have nothing to do with him. How would you feel? How would you feel? Someone you were close to. A loved one. Say, I'm not one of you. I want nothing to do with you. People today in the church are experiencing that very rejection. There's a rising trend in our culture that I came aware of about a year ago. And in the church, it is called the no contact trend. Probably none of you have heard of it. Go online Here's a short synopsis. Loving and yes flawed parents, and who is not? who tried to raise their children as best they could are now being completely shut out with oftentimes no warning, no conversation, and seemingly no willingness to reconcile. No allowance for apologies, repentance, or forgiveness. According to research in 2024, the vast majority of estrangements between parents and adult children are initiated by the child. Not the parent. Not the parent. The latest statistics measure this trend at twenty-seven percent of today's families, and it's even prevalent in the church. I personally know one and three more families in a church in Virginia currently going through this scenario right now. People wonder why why is it happening? You know the phone calls stop. Text go unanswer. Text go unanswer. Holidays are silent. Holidays are silent. When you finally hear something, it's often a list of offenses you didn't even know existed. Some scholars are saying Psychologists are saying. Because our culture now teaches that anyone who doesn't support how you feel is toxic. Therapy Speak has replaced honor, TikTok influencers, and pop psychology encouraged cutting people off as an act of self-love. Many adult children are now rewriting their childhoods, labeling boundaries as trauma, and tossing aside their parents and siblings as if they were disposable relationships. I am clueless. I am clueless because I didn't even know this was going on until about a year ago. Satan's sifting of the family, your family, my family, is as old as Cain and Abel. He's after our families And this is one of the most recent and effective tools right now. Deception and division in families and in the church, they wreak havoc in the home. And they give birth to sorrow and grief as their offspring. Scripture warned us this would happen in the last days. People be lovers of themselves Disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection. Second Timothy chapter three. You know, parents are left to wonder how this could happen to them and why. Well, there are no easy answers. And when I was talking to somebody in Virginia about this, there there's no easy answers. They don't always understand why. But they and you and we, we're not alone. Because Jesus experienced this rejection and betrayal by those closest to him. They were his family. And so Jesus can sympathize with the resulting pain and sorrow, as hard as it is. Yes, that that man is one of them. No, I am not. I have nothing to do with them. You know, Peter should have left after the first denial, but he did not. Lying is interesting. You've got a lie to cover up a lie and then lie to cover up that lie before that lie is exposed. He should have left when he had the good opportunity to leave, but he did not. So from denial of Jesus, he has now compounded his sin with the denial of his Christian. family. And he went out, it said, of course, and wept bitterly. But before he did that, he was asked one more time. About an hour later, someone says, you know, this man also was with him, for he too is a Galilean. Peter said, Man, I I don't know what you're talking about Why is he recognized as a Galilean? It's interesting because Matthew has the speaker say for your accent betrays you Interesting choice of words. Interesting choice of words. Your accent betrays you. Peter. Peter might as well have been wearing a t-shirt that's at Galilee where Jesus got his start. He has jettisoned everything that was important to him. He's betrayed Jesus. He's betrayed his brothers. And now he has betrayed himself. Isaac Besubik Singer says, when you betray somebody else, you also betray yourself. Martin Luther says it even more succinctly, betrayal always begins with trust. By the way, a minor point, words matter. In this case, it's just a three-letter word. The word not in our English translation. The Greek word also happens to be three letters. Take out the not, and you have the confession we would have liked Peter to have made. A confession we would hope to make ourselves Woman, I do know him. Not woman, I do not. Man, I am one of them. Not I am not. Man, I do know. Rather than I do not know. Three letters. Turn the course of his confession into a denial. And then the Lord turns and looks at Peter. Peter then remembers what Jesus said to him about the rooster and about crowing. And he went out and wept bitterly. What do we make of that look? Of Jesus. Here's what J. C. Rouse says. I hope all of you are familiar with J. C. Rouse. He's one of the most pastoral biblical commentators, theologians I've ever come across. Some of the other guys may say so too. Here's what Rao says about that look The look of Jesus was a sermon which Peter never forgot. So we all have forgotten sermons. Some sermons are forgettable. But you can go on YouTube later and listen. Some of the looks that we have received are not forgettable. And I'm sure actually some of the looks you and I have given are not forgettable either. And why are they not forgettable? Is because you can read the message behind a look. Look of compassion, look of sorrow, was a look of joy or anger, disappointment or gratitude , love or happiness. Looks paint a thousand. Looks paint a thousand pictures, or a picture paints a thousand words, and that picture is a look. Various commentators say that the exchange of eyes between Jesus and Peter was the turning point in Peter's life That look, the resulting tears is what forged Peter's future. Like the hinges on the door, closing out the old man and welcoming in the new. And as Peter left the courtyard in tears, Satan's work of sifting was complete. Or so Satan thought. What Satan could not know was that on this Peter's darkest hour, God's mercy would show itself in that look of Jesus. And that in turn resulted in Peter's finest hour to come. Simon Simon, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat. By the way, in that sentence, the U is an interesting word. The U is actually plural in demanded U, and it's plural and it's fifty you like wheat. If you read the ESV, you don't know it, but if you're looking at the NIV, it has Satan has asked to sift all of you like wheat. So it's even more expensive than what we think when we read it like in the ESV. Yes, Peter's going to be sifted like wheat, but it's all of them that are going to be sifted by wheat. Shifting of the saints is Satan's attempt to destroy our faith. And this remains Satan's main goal today. Judas, he's already tempted in one And possibly this victory emboldened Satan to make this request regarding the other disciples. And it's an echo of the tempting of Job. Peter is the focus, yes. But they are all sifted, and as a result, they all abandon Jesus And Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you. That your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. As Matthew Henry says here, Peter's faith did not wholly fail. So will it be with the faith of every true disciple of Christ? In hours of great temptation and trial, their faith may, as to some degree, fail, but totally it shall not. They may stumble, but they shall again be converted. The father granted Satan the power to sift Peter and the rest. But in response to Jesus' prayer, he did not let Peter fall. Completely through the sieve. Nor will he ever let any of us fall entirely through the sieve that Satan is shaking in our lives. Even in the darkest, the hardest, and most fearful of times, Christ the Shepherd holds on to his own. Satan can't take him out of his hand, and he can't sieve him out of his hand either. Do you remember the scene in Lord of the Rings? And this is a later edition I added this morning, but do you remember okay, so who's seen the movie Lord of the Rings? Come on. Much easier than reading the book. But anyway, I I we disagree in my family about a lot of things like that. Anyway, do you remember in the book where the the the the the ball rock is chasing Frodo and his companions and Pretty cool looking creature. But anyway, Gandalf then goes to the end of this walkway with this big staff. Are you are you with me so far? You under you remember? And he tells them basically go back to Hades, go back to the darkness, and he and he slams that down. He says, You shall not pass. Remember that? Cool scene. But anyway, um I thought of that this morning. I mean really Like in Job, Jesus says to Satan, you can go no further, you shall not pass. Frodo and the other guys got away, and eventually Peter and the disciples come back to the faith and to Jesus. But Jesus is finally in control of Satan's Endeavors and Satan's efforts, and you shall not pass this line. You know, it's reassuring to remember that Satan's power to sift Peter as wheat was limited by Christ's intercession Jesus had said, I have prayed for you, Peter. Past tensi already prayed for him before it happened. And Jesus Christ always lives to intercede for us. Hebrews 7, 25. So how did God use Satan's sifting of Peter here in particular as we come to a close? Well God broke the back of Peter's pride and self-reliance. That night in the agony of that courtyard in Satan's city. And yet Peter's failure encourages us today by demonstrating that failure is not final. And God's grace is greater than human weakness. It offers hope that like Peter, believers can be restored, they can be forgiven and used by God. Right after the resurrection, Mark tells us that the angel tells the women, go tell the disciples and Peter. He's the only gospel writer who writes that. Go tell the disciples and Peter. Repentance and forgiveness all around. I'm sure it would have to be the first order of business for the disciples after they gathered together. They all ran. Peter denied. They all knew probably each other's story. They had to repent, seek forgiveness, reconciliation. Before they were disbanded. And of course they were not disbanded because of the resurrection. And also we read in John twenty-one of the restoration of Peter. Unlike Peter, we can be encouraged that we can be forgiven no matter how badly we have failed. And I wonder sometimes, would that be the case in the in today's church? Is the church Is the church today a forgiving body? As it certainly had to be in Peter's day. And then just a few short weeks, after his gross denial, at the beginning of Acts, Acts recounts for us how Peter will be given another opportunity to acknowledge Christ before men. And this time he will do it with great boldness, empowered by the Spirit of God. Not only will he not deny Jesus, but he will boldly proclaim the gospel among thousands who are listening on the streets of Jerusalem. Having been fully reconciled with his family. whom he had betrayed, and then Jesus, whom he had betrayed, and surely with himself, whom he had betrayed. And it's true of all of us, I think Peter could look back on that night as a night to remember, as a night. Actually, he probably never wanted to forget Heavenly Father, we uh we need forgiveness on a regular basis, more regular than we think we do. We also know that you have mercy and abundance to give us and all that comes our way. Father, this is this topic this morning of denial of Jesus, the denial of the brothers, denial of self. There's a lot there. That was exposed that night. And I just pray that as you built up and healed that early church, that you would continually build us up and strengthen us as well. Thank you for the word that you've given us. Thank you too that at the end of the Lenten season we always have an empty tune. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.