Just the little ones for Wonders of Worship downstairs. Galatians chapter 1. I'd like to read just the first ten verses. Paul, an apostle, not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. And all the brethren who are with me to the churches of Galatia. Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father. To whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I marvel that you were turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel, which is not another. But there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven Preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again: if anyone Preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men For if I still please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. May God bless this portion of his holy word to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, speak to us today. This is your word. It's living, it's powerful, it's sharper than any two-edged sword. Use it now in our hearts to accomplish eternal things. We ask it in Christ's name for his glory. Amen. Some things are negotiable, some things are not. Some issues require tact and deference and compromise And some demand obstinence. In many areas of life, we're encouraged to be willing to bend, to be pliable, to be easily entreated. As Paul puts it, in some we're called to stand fast, to be unshakable, to be immovable. One of the marks of true wisdom, it seems to me, is knowing when to bend and when to be unbending. Knowing the difference between what is non-essential and what is non-negotiable. When the Apostle Paul learned that some had been received into the pulpits of the churches of Galatia, Who were teaching a different gospel than the one which Paul had taught, when he heard that the great doctrine of justification by faith was being challenged, and that his own authority as an apostle was being questioned. That many of the Galatians were being persuaded by the arguments of the false teachers, he fired off this letter to the churches inspired by God's Holy Spirit. Galatians is a letter conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that not all supposed gospels are created equal. Galatia was a province in Central Asia Minor between the Black Sea in the north and the Mediterranean Sea to the south. In other words, it was in the landmass that we now know as Turkey. Now, if Paul used the term Galatia in its ethnic sense, then he was writing to churches in towns that are not mentioned elsewhere in Scripture. But, if as I think is more likely, he used the term Galatia to refer to the Roman province itself, which extended further south than where the ethnic Galatians lived Then he was writing to the churches of Antioch and Iconium, Lystra, and Derby, perhaps among others, that were evangelized by Paul and Barnabas on their very first missionary journey. Luke recounts it in Acts 13 and 14. Let me remind you a little bit of it, of the account Luke gives. Paul and Barnabas were expelled from Antioch by Jews who rejected Jesus as the Messiah. Then they were chased out of Iconium by both Jews and Gentiles. And you may remember that in Lystra, the people at first attempted to worship Paul and Barnabas as gods. But then when Jews arrived from Antioch and Iconium, they persuaded the people to stone Paul, and he was dragged out of the city, presumed to be dead. But you'll remember Paul rose up and the very next day went with Barnabas to the town of Derby, preaching the gospel. Nonetheless, despite what doesn't sound like a very successful missionary journey, God had his elect in those towns in southern Galatia. And we read that in Iconium, quote, a great multitude, both of the Jews and the Greeks, believed. Acts 14. 1 And when in Antioch Paul determined to focus his ministry on the Gentiles, we read, now when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life, believed. Acts 13, 48. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life, believed. I believe the tender affection that is revealed in this letter makes it clear that Paul knows these Christians very well, and they him. So I believe this letter was written to those churches in Antioch, Iconium, Lystra, and Derby that Paul and Barnabas planted. Acts tells us that Paul and Barnabas did what they could to instruct these new converts, as we would expect. They ordained elders to oversee the flocks. And Paul and Barnabas imparted to them as much biblical truth as they could. In that brief time they were with them But in Acts 15, we read that certain men came down from Judea and taught the brethren: unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Therefore, when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and dispute with them, that means they had a big dissension and dispute. dispute, they determined to take the matter to a specially called meeting of the apostles and elders. After long discussion and consultation, they agreed That both believing Jews and believing Gentiles were saved the same way through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they determined not to put a yoke on the neck of the new Gentile believers, which in Peter's words. Neither our fathers nor we were able to bear. Acts 15, verse 10. And they sent that decision to the churches. But evidently that letter did not stop the Judaizers, that is, those who wanted to make Jews out of all Gentile believers in Jesus. did not stop them from troubling the churches, including those churches established by Paul and Barnabas in southern Galatia. So it happened to them, just as Paul would warn later to the elders of Ephesus, would warn the elders of Ephesus, in the absence of the apostle, he said, grievous wolves will enter in, not sparing the flock. Like most wolves who ravaged churches, these wolves did not appear to be wolves. They were well-spoken and well-spoken of. They appeared to be godly and knowledgeable men, and perhaps they indicated, in contrast to Paul, that they were followers of the original apostles. They called into question Paul's authority, Paul's apostleship, Paul's teaching, and they suggested that if he was in fact an apostle, he was much inferior to Peter, John, Matthew, Thomas, and the others. The great danger that was posed by these men was that they were presuming to clarify teaching on the subject of salvation, specifically the doctrine of justification. They taught that it was necessary to keep Jewish law as well as to have faith in Christ in order to be saved. Now, as you may know, Paul normally utilized the help of an assistant who would actually put to parchment his thoughts as he verbalized them. He may have done this because of some eye disorder that made it difficult for him to write. There's evidence of that in Scripture. So near the end of Romans, for example, we read I Tertius. who wrote this epistle, greet you in the Lord. Romans 16, 22. When you first read that, as you're reading through scripture, it might have taken you aback. I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, well, I thought Paul wrote this epistle. Well, Tertius actually put the letters on paper or parchment. But in Paul's zeal for these churches, And in recognition of the great danger that this false teaching presented to the young converts in Galatia, Paul fired off this missive in large letters with his own hand. He says it in chapter 6, verse 11, see with what large letters I have written to you with my own hand. Now, let's begin our look at this letter itself. First, consider Paul's greeting. Now, those of you who are old enough to recall writing a letter. And I see several of you here may remember that the standard English greeting in a letter is dear so-and-so. Dear so-and-so. And we would use it even when the so-and-so to whom we were writing was not particularly dear. It was and still is, in some circles, a social convention. The social convention at the time the New Testament was written, as you may know, was so-and-so to someone else greeting. So-and-so, me, to someone else, you, greeting. For example, Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God to the Church of God in Corinth. That's the guy it's from, Paul. Who it's too Corinth and R. The way we do it, you may not even know who it's from until you read all the way down to the end of the letter. But in Paul's greeting in this letter We get some insight into the urgency that he feels because he jumps right into the controversy over his authority. He throws down the gauntlet, you may say. Paul, an apostle, apostle is one who was sent, one who was sent with a commission, one who was sent on an assignment. Paul, an apostle, not from men. Nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. He starts right off. I'm not an apostle from men. I'm not an apostle through man or through a man. I'm an apostle from Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. The great Princeton Seminary professor J. Gresham Mation wrote, quote, The Judaizers, as Jews who sought to induce Gentiles to Judaize, to adopt a Jewish manner of life, Had not been able to gain an entrance for their false teaching so long as the authority of the great apostle remained beyond dispute So they had proceeded to undermine that authority as best they could. They said that Paul was at best an apostle of the second rank. that he had not been with Jesus in Galilee, as had Peter and the others of the original twelve, and consequently whatever authority he possessed or professed to have had come to him only through them. Well, Paul devotes much of the beginning of his letter to the defense of his apostleship. And he does that not because he really cared a fig what people thought of him But because he knew that if his apostleship, if his authority were to be rejected, then his teaching, which was the truth from God, would be rejected as well. So he says at the very beginning, I'm not an apostle from men. Not through man, not through a man, could be translated. Paul was declaring, I am not an apostle. Because Peter or James or John made me an apostle. I was not sent by them. It was through Jesus Christ that I was sent. And God the Father who raised him from the dead. My commission is not from men, not through a man, but through Jesus Christ and God our Father. Now, this is interesting because we read that and we don't think much of it. We are so familiar with such statements, it doesn't strike us as odd what Paul just did there. But I want you to take notice of it. He puts all humanity on one side of the equation. I'm not an apostle from men. I'm an apostle from Jesus Christ and God the Father. He puts all humanity on one side of the equation, and he puts Jesus and God the Father on the other alone. Now remember, Paul was a contemporary of Jesus. He had met a brother of Jesus, a half-brother to be precise James, and he knew men and women who knew Jesus well when Jesus lived on the earth. Yet he doesn't defend this view of the deity of Christ, he doesn't argue it. He simply acknowledges it as a well-known fact, a fact that not even the Judaizers would question Now think about it. We are now much further removed from the life of, say, John F. Kennedy than the recipients of this letter were from the life of Jesus of Nazareth. Yet can you imagine anyone today making fanciful claims about JFK and actually convincing great numbers of people to believe them? Oh, JFK, yeah. You know, I was there in Washington and he walked on that reflection pool, there, reflective pool, whatever they call it. And yeah, and and I saw him he was at the top of the of the Washington Monument. He jumped off and he was not even harmed. And and yeah, and he fed thousands of people with uh a few handfuls of bread. And then he after he died, you know, they buried him there in uh Arlington Cemetery and he rose from the dead and ascended into heaven. Can you imagine anybody uh not only believing that, but trying to get other people to believe it and be successful at it? And yet here's the apostle declaring, My commission is not from men nor through a man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father. And this is scholars believe maybe 25 years after the resurrection. So he writes, I'm not from man, I'm not an apostle through man, and I'm writing to you, and all the brethren are with me, who are with me, are writing, to the churches of Galatia. All the brethren who are with me, I'm not a loose canon. My authority comes not from others, but in this matter of justification by faith alone, mine is by no means a lone voice. Look at verse 3. Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. That's a familiar greeting in Paul's letters, but He adds a little something to it, verse 4, who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. Now, maybe I'm reading too much into this, but he gave himself to deliver us. He's writing to the Galatians: you are already delivered. You are free. He delivered you. You have salvation. You received it by faith in Christ. Those who tell you that something more is needed for salvation are saying that Christ's death is not sufficient. But Jesus was sent to deliver us from this present evil age by God our Father, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Look at verse 6. Here he gets down to the nitty-gritty. I marvel. I'm amazed that you are so soon removed from him who called you unto the grace of Christ unto another gospel. A different gospel. I marvel. Thumatso it is in the Greek, it's I wonder at, I'm amazed at. Joseph and Mary marveled at the things old Simeon said about their newborn son when Simeon enters the temple and grabbed Jesus out of their arms. They marveled. That's the word. The disciples marveled when Jesus stilled the winds and the waves with his word, Luke chapter 8. The multitude marveled when Jesus cast out demons, Luke chapter 11. Paul says, how could you turn away so soon? To a different gospel, different from what I preached, different from what you embraced. And he goes on to say, which by the way is not another, as if there's more than one gospel. It's different, but it's not another. As if there could be more than one. But these Judaizers are troubling you, and they would pervert the gospel of Christ. Look at verse 8. But even if we Paul and Barnabas, Paul, and whoever, if we or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed He lays all his cards on the table. He becomes as dogmatic as he can be. It's not just the Judaizers who have no right to change the gospel. It's Paul himself, he says, or an angel from heaven. were to come to them preaching a gospel other than the one they had already received. Let him be a curse, let him be a Nathama. Let him be lifted up to God. Well, that doesn't sound bad, does it? No, lifted up to God for judgment. That's what anathema is. Let him be lifted up to God for judgment. Set apart for judgment. Anyone who dares to preach a gospel other than the true gospel, Paul says. The one you've already received is to be accursed, devoted to God for judgment. Now, verse 9 As we've said before, so now I say again: if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be To let them see that this did not proceed from any rashness or intemperate zeal in him, is the way Matthew Henry put it. He repeated it. Perhaps he was reiterating something he had said when he was with them. As I said before, so say I now again. Maybe he foresaw something like this would happen. And he made it very clear when he was with them, if somebody else comes after me and preaches some other gospel, let him be accursed. As I said before, so say I now again Oh, them's fighting words, Paul. Words that might offend the honored teachers who have come to us from Jerusalem. Are you sure you want to put it that way? You know that's no way to make friends and influence people Can't you find some common ground with these people? Your adversaries? Can't you just compromise a little bit here, Paul? Look at verse 10. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. Persuade here may mean to seek the favor of. Am I seeking the favor of men or of God? Am I seeking to please men? Who is my master? He's asking Whose bondservant am I? Whose slave am I? Am I the slave of men? If I still please men, even after I've been called by the risen Christ to be his apostle and to proclaim his gospel Then I would be the servant or slave of men rather than the servant or slave of God. But Paul's saying, in effect, look, I don't care what the Judaizers think of me, I don't care what they say of me. I'm Christ's servant, and I must declare his word. Now let me attempt to drive home a few of the truths in this passage, this brief passage we've read this morning. First of all, you can't miss the strong language that Paul uses here to warn the Christians against false teaching. The strong language he uses to warn the Christians against false teaching The scripture abounds with similar warnings. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits whether they are of God. Because many false prophets have gone into the world. 1 John 4. Many deceivers have gone out into the world. 2 John. Jesus said, false Christs and false prophets shall appear. The wolf comes to kill, steal, and destroy. Jesus said. Paul said, we are not as many who corrupt the Word of God as many who corrupt the Word of God. He warns of false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. 2 Corinthians. Those who with cunning craftiness lie in wait to deceive. With cunning craftiness they lie in wait to deceive Ephesians 4. Seducing spirits and doctrines of devils speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron. You sear it with a hot iron, it's worthless. 2 Timothy. Unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, Titus 1 warns us. us of. Be not carried away with diverse and strange doctrines. Hebrews 13. Peter warned there were false prophets among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. Who will secretly bring in destructive heresies? 2 Peter. Jude puts it this way: there are certain men who have crept in unnoticed, ungodly men. Denying our Lord Jesus Christ. You get the idea the Lord's trying to warn us of something Just because a man claims to speak for God, just because he has graduated from seminary Or just because he has a number of degrees, or he's written a number of books, or he pastors a large church, or he has a TV ministry, or a radio ministry, is no reason to assume that he's truly serving God. Amen? Prove all things. Hold fast that which is good. You don't hold everything. You don't believe everything you hear on the radio, everything you see on TV. You prove all things, you check them out with scripture, and you hold fast to what's good I need to give people a seventh inning stretch, Don. Don told me this morning, halfway through your sermon, you've got to give people a seventh inning stretch. Because they're falling asleep Oh, for goodness sake. There are many ways that false teachers manifest themselves, but one of the most blatant is when they evidence the love of money. And all the trappings of wealth. Supposing that godliness is a means of gain. The Lord clearly warned us of that. 1 Timothy chapter 6. Boys and girls, listen to me. Boys and girls, are you there? Where are you? Raise your hand if you identify as a boy or girl. There's quite a few older people that still do. There's a park, an amusement park in Central Florida. It's called Disney World. Have you ever heard of that Disney World? Well go home and ask your parents about it and ask when you can go there. But did you know there's a church in Central Florida called Faith World? Well, Faith World. Isn't that clever? It's just a few miles from where Donna and I uh went to high school. Donna, where are you? I saw her in here earlier. What There, okay. I I she 's asleep, she said. Uh seventh inning strip So just a few miles from where we went to high school, there's this sh mega church called Faith World. Well several several years ago now. If we're taking a stretch, I can take a drink. Several years ago now, that church was in the news. Uh it started when the pastor's wife uh filed for divorce, and some of the details of the family's lifestyle were revealed in court and then reported. uh i on the local news and in the Orlando Sentinel, the local newspaper. Uh this page is upside down. The couple and their two children, get this, occupied two homes in gated communities. in Central Florida, both of those homes provided by the church. One of them costs $1. 4 million. And the $7 ,000 a month payment, the electricity, the lawn care, the pool maintenance, were all paid by the church As well as the payments on the $95,000 Mercedes that the pastor's wife drove. And you drive a car that costs that much, you've got to pay for insurance, the $531 in monthly auto insurance. Court documents reveal the family owned six other cars, including two other Mercedes, a Porsche , a Porsche, and a Hummer. Lavish spending included, get this. I don't know how much was on I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand if you have a credit card, but lavish spending included over $450,000 on two American Express cards. But that wasn't all in one year, that was over a two-year period. And an account at a jewelry store. How many people have an account at a jewelry store? To purchase four Rolex watches ranging in price from $23,000 to $40,000. Per watch. I think. That's not per minute. That's just per watch. So it's not so bad. And then and get this. And the court documents revealed that the pastor had spent seventy thousand dollars on women's clothing. Which his wife claims neither she nor her teenage daughter ever received. Well, that raised some eyebrows, but he explained that when prominent female ministers come through Orlando to preach, it's common for ministers to lavish them with a two or three thousand dollar suit. Right? I know, I know your closet's full of such things. Now what's my point? My point is this: we can only imagine what such revelations did to the unbelievers who were reading it and hearing it in Central Florida. According to the Orlando Sentinel, the pastor at the center of the controversy told his church that he hadn't read or watched those news accounts, but he did say this. If they crucify Jesus, they're going to talk about me. In other words, the poor fellow was just taking up his cross and following Jesus, partaking of the sufferings of his master. No wonder the scriptures warn us so strongly and so often to beware of false prophets. These revelations were evidently not enough to prevent thousands of people from continuing to worship at Faith World. I don't know if you have to buy tickets to get into fate world, where they're told that if they give sacrificially, then new homes, new cars, and fine jewelry awaits them too. In other words, professing Christians have allowed their own personal greed to suck them into some huge Ponzi scheme that only feeds the gluttony of those at the very top of the pyramid. It dishonors Christ. It puts a huge stumbling block in front of unbelievers. Several years ago now there was an article about a woman in Utah. news article, AP or whatever, about a woman in Utah who said she bought a can of green beans and opened it up to prepare a meal for her family and found a rodent's head inside. Mouse or a rat, a head inside the road the can of beans. Now, what I found interesting was the spokesperson from the canning company was quoted as saying, There's no way that product could have hurt her. This this Margaret's got her mouth, huh? This rodent was rendered commercially sterile. We cook each can individually to a temperature of up to 265 degrees. Oh, okay then In other words, the beans were still good. And it was still okay. You separate the rodents' head and you eat the beans. You shouldn't have to get a refund for that Uh and here's here's my point. Uh well maybe that's true. But if I open a can of beans and I see a rat's head there, I ain't eating the beans. Even though it may be sterile. The rat's head may be sterile. I ain't eating the rat's head for sure. Now, for many unbelievers, the only exposure they have to Christianity is when the lid is taken off a church like Faith World. And when they see the rat, they say to themselves, I ain't eating the beans. That's why it's so damaging. That's why it's so harmful. That's why Christians should say, that's crazy. I'm having nothing to do with it. I'm not going to go there and support a church like that. How many Rolex watches does one guy need? Seven cars for four people. For many unbelievers, that's the only exposure to Christianity they get. This is one reason the scripture is so adamant about it. So Paul says If anyone preaches any other gospel to you, and by the way, that's another gospel. The health and wealth of prosperity gospel, that's another gospel. That's what not what Christ promised us. It's not what he promised you. That's not what he gave his disciples. Rolex watches. Let him be accursed, Paul says. But he makes it stronger than that. Even if we are an angel from heaven preaching any other gospel. If somebody comes back and says he's me, Paul, and he gives you another gospel, if I come back and preach another gospel, you let me be accursed. If an angel shows up and says, I got news for you, there's another gospel, it's a different gospel from what Paul preached. Let him be accursed. Even an angel from heaven. In other words, the message of the sinless life and sacrificial death and glorious resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth as our Savior The Savior God has provided for the world. That is the gospel. There is no other. What Paul warned about repeatedly Actually happened about 1800 years later, we were told, when a man named Joseph Smith said, an angel , appeared to him and revealed to him where he could find some golden plates, golden plates which had been buried in a hill. in 420 A. D. I'll keep the date in mind, 420 A.D. they were inscribed with the history of the inhabitants of the Americas he was told, and with the help of special glasses, Urim and Thumum , seer stones, Joseph Smith says he translated those golden plates, which were buried in 420 A. D. And by the way, which happened to be, when he translated them, in Elizabethan English, like the King James Version of the Bible, which had passages. What he translated had passages which agreed exactly with the King James Version, which was translated in sixteen eleven. So go figure. He called this translation the Book of Mormon. And what does Mormonism say about salvation Was this supposed angel from heaven preaching another gospel? Well, Joseph Fielding Smith, the tenth prophet of the church, wrote this Our eternal Father would have every soul saved if that were feasible. Salvation, however, is based on merit and obedience to divine law, and therefore it is only obtained through compliance with divine commandments. In other words, the church is teaching the very same error that Paul so vehemently attacked in his letter to the Galatians. If Joseph Smith had known his Bible, he would have told the angel Maroney he was full of baloney. Yes, it's obvious. Instead, he founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Paul says there's only one gospel. There's only one gospel. Let me try to make this as clear as possible. The most important truth in this chapter is the most important truth in Galatians. The most important truth in Galatians, justification by faith in Christ alone, is the most important truth in the Bible. The most important truth in the Bible is the most important truth. We are sinners who rebelled against our Creator. God is holy and just, and His love for His creatures, notwithstanding, death and hell are the just consequences for my sin and yours. We cannot redeem ourselves in God's eyes by reforming, by trying harder, by uh trying to keep his commandments, by trying to keep the golden rule. We can never be good enough to redeem ourselves Even our good works are tainted by that same pride and selfishness that got us into this mess in the first place. We are therefore desperate, without hope, unable to overcome our sinful natures. And we would remain in that condition forever were it not for the love and mercy of God. His love for lost sinners was so great he provided a way of redemption. A way of redemption for me and for you. At a time determined by him and foretold by his prophets, he sent his own son into the world, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. As the Son of God, Jesus did not inherit our sinful nature. Thus, he could and did perfectly keep God's righteous law. Having kept the law that we broke, Jesus then endured the death that we deserved, paying the debt that we owed. He bore our sins in his own body upon the cross God raised him from the grave on the third day, declaring thereby that the sacrifice was acceptable to him, that our debt has been paid, that the transaction was complete. And Jesus sent his followers into the world to declare this good news. He sent them. Paul was an apostle of Christ. The Lamb of God has come. He's offered himself for sinners. Any man, woman, or child of any race or nation on earth will be forgiven if he repents of his sins and puts his faith in Christ. He'll be adopted into God's family. He'll be declared to be God's child. There is no more curse. There need be no more fear of death. The sting of death is sin, the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. There is only one gospel. The Apostle Paul was quite adamant about it. The gospel is not keep the law fully and you'll get to heaven. That's not good news because none of us can keep the law fully. But that's not the false gospel Paul was attacking here. The false gospel being taught in Galatians was believe in Jesus as the Messiah, that's good. And keep God's law, and you'll be saved. The law in view appeared to be the ceremonies and ordinances that God gave the people of Israel. Circumcision, certain eating certain foods, wearing certain clothing, going to certain ceremonies, going to certain feasts, etc. etc. Now, those ceremonies and ordinances were good. God gave them to us. God gave them to his people. But they were never meant to be, and they never could be, a means of salvation. Paul realized the gospel was not Jesus plus anything. If you add anything to the finished work of Jesus Christ, then you're saying in effect, his work is insufficient. In other words, if you're trusting right now, today, this afternoon, morning Barely. If you're trusting right now in Jesus and anything for salvation, Jesus and trying to be kind. Jesus and joining a church, Jesus and keeping the golden rule, Jesus and being a faithful husband or wife, Jesus and reading God's word, Jesus and faithfully praying, Jesus and telling others about Jesus, Jesus and tithing your income, Jesus and using your spiritual gifts, investing them for his kingdom. Then you're not trusting in Jesus alone. And if you're not trusting in Jesus alone, you are not saved. And if you die today, you'll perish. In many ways, the Apostle Paul could be very accommodating. He said he thought to become all things to all men. When some preach Christ motivated by envy , Because Paul was in prison, and hey, let's get Paul's goat. We'll go out and preach the gospel. He can, he's in prison. Paul said, I rejoice that the gospel is being preached. But on this point, he could not bend. He would not bend. There is one gospel, Paul said. Here I stand. I cannot do otherwise. In effect. I pray that you're standing with him. Let's pray. Oh Father, there are some here perhaps who are still trusting in themselves. Yeah, they believe Jesus lived and died and rose again, but But they believe they have to somehow faithfully serve you, faithfully live, but dutifully uh obey and believe in Jesus. But no, Lord, help them to see. Just like a thief on the cross, he just looked at Jesus and said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said, This day thou shalt be with me in paradise. Not because of anything that man had done. Because of Jesus and what he was doing for him on the cross. Please, Lord, speak to hearts. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.