As we ask you to turn to uh Mark chapter two, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. Mark chapter two and uh I should say I guess thank you, Earl, for those uh kind words. I uh how do you know I don't park out there to keep you people from messing with my hot rod, you know, banging your doors into my door Actually I think it was Barry's Barry's example. He used to I noticed him parking way out there and I started going out there to see what what what he was up to. So now I just ask, well what would what would Barry do? And that's what that's what I do. Matthew chapter two. Oh uh Where is Jonathan uh Jonathan Taylor? Where's Jonathan? Back here? I I saw it was Natalie's birthday, and I wanted to mention it, little Natalie, four years old today. Uh so they might be might be downstairs Uh did I say Jonathan Taylor? What did I say? Jonathan Thompson, sorry, Jonathan Thompson. Get to this age they all blend blend together. Okay Mark chapter 2 and uh let's begin in verse 23 Now it happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and as they went, his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain. And the Pharisees said to him, Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? But he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry? He and those with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar, the high priest? And ate the show bread, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests, and also gave some to those who were with him. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. So they watched him closely whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, Step forward. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they kept silent. And when he had looked round around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, we ask you now to open our eyes, open our understanding, focus our minds. And take your word and apply it to each heart, we pray. For those of us who are your children, speak to us, Lord, teach us, help us to be conformed to that perfect image of Christ. And Lord, for those who may be here outside of Christ, we plead with you that you might graciously open their hearts as you have ours. And may this be the day of salvation for them. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in our study of Mark's gospel, we're still evidently quite early in the ministry of Christ. But already the Pharisees seem to have marked him as a violator of their traditions, a rival to the affections of the common people. a friend of tax collectors and sinners. In short, someone to be carefully watched as a danger to the status quo. Now look at verses 23 and 24. Now it happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and as they went, his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain. And the Pharisees said to him, Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? Now Jesus was known as a peripatetic teacher, that is, one who taught as he walked about. He didn't bring his disciples into a classroom and teach them there. He walked about and as he did, the disciples would ask him questions and he would comment upon various things. They would listen to his teaching and attempt to memorize it. On this particular day, the day that Mark describes here, Jesus and his disciples were taking a stretch, you might say. They were walking through a field of grain, probably wheat or barley. And they were hungry. And so they took some of the grain, plucking it with their hands, and eating it, presumably the wholesome part of the grain. And now the first question that may come to your mind, as it did mine, is uh did anybody bring milk? And uh maybe uh some bowls and spoons and sugar. But the second question might be, whose grain were they eating? They're walking through someone's field and they just take the grain and begin to eat it. I can't answer the first question if anybody brought milk, but I can tell you that the second question doesn't really matter because of something God told his people in the civil law. When you come into your neighbor's standing grain You may pluck the heads of heads with your hand, but you shall not use a sickle on your neighbor's standing grain. Deuteronomy 23, 25. In other words, God's people were not to be so covetous or so miserly as to begrudge a brother Israelite a handful of grain. from their fields, or a few grapes from their vineyard, if their brother was hungry. And similarly, when harvesting their crops, they were not, you may remember, to be careful to harvest every single stalk But were to leave some for the poor to come and glean themselves. The problem the Pharisees had was Jesus' disciples were plucking the grain on the Sabbath day. Why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath day? One of the causes of the recurrent conflict between Jesus and the scribes and Pharisees. Derived from the scribes' view of the Sabbath day. As you know, God instituted a weekly day of rest. The fourth commandment tells us to labor for six days and to rest for one. But over the years, the scribes had specified exactly what could or could not be done on the Sabbath day. And the list had gotten quite long. For example, the scribe said you could take a walk on the Sabbath day, but you could walk no more than 1999 steps If you had a cord that somehow got tangled, you would have to wait until sundown to untangle it, because you couldn't untie a knot, at least not with two hands, on the Sabbath day They were a bit more lenient on accidentally tearing a garment on the Sabbath. You could sew the garment, but only with one stitch. Somewhere along the line, the scribes had determined that plucking a handful of grapes or a bit of grain from a neighbor's field, perfectly lawful on other days, was somehow unlawful on the Sabbath. Now, note something that we might miss. Something that's uh interesting is that the Pharisees noticed that the disciples walking through a grain field plucked some of the heads of grain. What were they doing? Were they following close behind, observing them? Did they have a few Pharisees assigned to the Jesus project Gathering evidence against him. Evidently, they were close enough to ask the question: look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? Now there are many ways Jesus might have answered them, such as, do you really think rubbing a few heads of grain together in your hand constitutes labor? Or what makes you think that all Israelites must abide by the fine distinctions of the scribes and their comments on my father's commandments? But instead, he went directly to God's word, on which these Pharisees believed themselves to be expert. Look at verses 25 to 26. But he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and those with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar, the high priest, and ate the showbread? Which is not lawful to eat except for the priests, and also gave some to those who were with him. Jesus refers back to an incident in the life of David. You can read about it in 1 Samuel 21. Saul, the first king of Israel, had begun to be jealous of David, and he believed him to be a rival. A rival amongst the people's affections, and even a rival to his throne. Saul had determined to kill David. But warned by Saul's son Jonathan, David's dear friend, David fled from Saul with a few men who had gathered around him. In need of food and supplies, they stopped to see the high priest, Ahimelech, and told him that they were on some errand for the king. This was evidently for Ahimelech's protection in case he was later confronted by Saul for assisting David. Ahimelech said the only bread he had was The showbread, that is, bread that had been consecrated to the Lord in the tabernacle, that portable temple that God had told his people to construct. Regularly fresh bread would be baked to replace the loaves in the tabernacle. Those loaves, the loaves that had been replaced, and loaves that had been presented to the Lord and now taken off the uh that table were now available and they were meant to be uh eaten by the priest and his family Ahimelech basically said, look, that's the only bread we have. It was normally set aside for his family, but the very real need of sustenance for David and his men evidently took precedence over normal ceremonial practice. Now, if you're wondering why Jesus would refer to this incident as taking place in the days of Abiathar, although it was Ahimelech who helped David, it's no doubt because these were. The days of Abiathar. Abiathar, also a high priest, was Ahimelech's son, and he was the more prominent of the two. Uh you could refer to the to the uh eighties as the uh the time of Reagan in America, the days of Reagan, although he wasn't the only president. in the eighties. He was the most prominent of the two. George H. W. Bush was also president for a brief time in the in the 80s. The Reformation Study Bible points out Abiathar was certainly alive and perhaps even present when this incident occurred. Now look at verse 27. And he said to them , The Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. Here we come to the heart of the issue between Jesus and the Pharisees regarding the Sabbath day. That which God designed as a blessing for mankind, a weekly day of rest, has been slowly, subtly perverted by the scribes and by the Pharisees until it had become a burden. You know, I'd like to visit my sister today, but she's now more than a Sabbath day's journey away. Perhaps if I could take longer strides, I could make it under 2,000 steps. Don't you see, Jesus said, God didn't create mankind, so he would have someone to keep a daily, a weekly day of rest. He created a weekly day of rest for the benefit of mankind. Look at verse 28. Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. Furthermore, Here's the key. You are in the presence of the very Lord of the Sabbath, Jesus said to them. What I permit my disciples to do on the Sabbath day ought to be regarded as self-evidently permissible. Because I'm the Lord of the Sabbath day. You have in your very presence mankind's single authoritative voice on how the Father's law is to be kept. Because I and my Father are one. Just as I have the authority to forgive sins, as we saw earlier in the chapter, even so I have the authority to interpret the commands of my Father. Now, all of this might have been inferred by one who had ears to hear from Jesus' simple words, the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath. Now look at chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. So they watched him closely whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day, so that they might accuse him. Now, Luke tells us this was not the very same day on which Jesus was confronted by the Pharisees in the grain field. It was another day, another Sabbath. And Luke mentions that Jesus was teaching in the synagogue when this incident took place. There was a man there who had a withered hand. The physician Luke notes that it was his right hand. Whether the Pharisees brought him in specifically as a way to catch Jesus in what they would regard as another violation of the Sabbath day. As I suspect, or whether this man was there of his own accord, the Pharisees were watching closely to see if Jesus would in fact heal him. I don't know if you've ever come to worship just to see if someone was going to do something of which you disapprove, but I imagine it would tend to put a damper on the movement of the spirit. The simplest solution to this dilemma would have been for Jesus, aware that the Pharisees were watching him closely. For reasons to accuse him , the simplest solution would have been for Jesus simply to not heal this man, or not heal him that day in the public worship service with the Pharisees present. But he did. Now, uh boys and girls, and uh speaking of boys and girls, uh uh Jonathan Thompson's daughter is right back there. Natalie? Natalie! Happy birthday there. Happy birthday. All right. Well. Boys and girls, listen, if uh in the Middle Ages In the Middle Ages, uh uh when knights would battle one another, if if a knight wanted to challenge another knight, he would uh what we say, throw down the gauntlet. He would toss down the gauntlet. Now the gauntlet Uh was uh like it was their glove, but they had some protection on there. So it was like a long piece there uh that would extend down and cover your fingers. So to throw down the gauntlet It was to challenge the other knight. And if the other knight accepted the challenge, he would pick it up. He would pick up the gauntlet. Well, this is in effect what's happening here, I believe. The Pharisees, the scribes, by bringing this man, or at least by sitting and watching intently to see what Jesus is going to do, they were throwing down the goblet for Jesus. And Jesus picked it up. He accepted the challenge, as it were. They're saying, in effect, we dare you to heal this man. This is not a life-threatening illness. He just has a withered hand. What are you going to do on the Sabbath day? Look at verses 3 and 4. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, step forward. And then he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to kill? But they kept silent. He he has this man step forward in front of everybody with his withered hand, so he has one good hand, one hand that's withered. And he turns and he says to the scribes and Pharisees, Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath day or to do evil? To save life or to kill? Well, it's a simple question. The answer was self-evident. If the Pharisees had been honest inquirers, wondering what was right in this uh incident, they would have said something like, Of course, Rabbi, it's always better to do good than to do evil. It's always better to save life than to kill, to help rather than to harm, whether on the Sabbath day or any other day Instead, what did they say? They were silent. They would not even acknowledge that Jesus made a very good point. And that perhaps they had become so concerned with ceremonies and traditions that they had neglected more important things like compassion and mercy. They were silent. And look at verse 5. And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. Jesus was angry with these supposedly religious men. These were the men the common people looked to as Israel's most holy, most godly. These were the teachers, the examples, the guides. And they were more concerned with their traditions, traditions of men. Than they were with this poor man who had a legitimate need. If his right hand was withered, presumably he was dependent upon others for charity. Presumably he couldn't labor And so Jesus said to this man, stretch out your hand, and he did so, and it was restored. The Pharisees and everyone present had just witnessed a miracle. Jesus, without even touching this man had healed his withered hand. A man who had presumably been unable to do physical labor, a man who was presumably dependent upon the charity of others, a man who was dependent upon his family or friends, as long as he was afflicted, and we don't know how long he had this affliction. Was now here. This should have been a time of great rejoicing and praise from anyone who cared about his fellow man, and for anyone who recognized such a miraculous healing as the work of God. We might have expected a true servant of God, whether he was called a scribe or a Pharisee or an elder or leader of the synagogue, to break out into prayer or song. To fall to his knees and praise God for his mercy to this poor man. Let's all sing the doxology. Look what has happened. This man with a withered hand has been healed. Praise God, from whom all blessings flow. You might have expected him to break out into Psalm 136: Oh, give thanks to the Lord for his good For his mercy endures forever. Oh, give thanks to the God of gods for his mercy endures forever. That's what you'd expect Of a true godly person who was present, certainly a leader. Well, let's read on. Let's see what psalm they chose to sing. Verse 6. Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. Now, this is amazing. This is truly astounding. The religious men do not fall to their knees, they don't break out into song. They don't lead the congregation in prayer. In fact, they are, Luke tells us, filled with rage. As Luke describes this incident, the Pharisees and the scribes were filled with rage. Now what in the world would make them filled with rage that a poor man with an affliction had been healed? They were filled with rage, Luke 6. 11, and then they immediately discussed among themselves how to destroy Jesus. Evidently somebody suggested, well, why don't we get together with the Herodians, Jewish supporters of the Herodian dynasty, King Herod and all his descendants? You'll remember that the fourth commandment tells us, for our benefit, Jesus said, to rest one day in seven. It's very hard to imagine that Jesus by simply healing a man and telling a man with a withered hand to stretch it out. That's what he did, right? He just told the man to stretch it out. It's very difficult to imagine how that could somehow be construed as laboring Violating the fourth commandment, laboring on the Sabbath day. Now we call this commandment, I'm sorry, we call this message a Sabbath stretch. Well, the disciples stretched their legs with a little walk through a grain field. They stretched out their hands to take some heads of grain to satisfy their hunger. The poor afflicted man stretched out his hand in the synagogue, miraculously healed by Jesus on another Sabbath, but here is the real Sabbath stretch, and what a stretch it is to accuse Jesus, who was so far from laboring on the day of rest that he did not even stretch out his hand to touch This afflicted man, but simply spoke, and it was healed to call that a violation of the Sabbath day. That's a Sabbath stretch Now this was uh understood by the Pharisees as a violation of God's commandment. Can you imagine for a moment them charging Jesus with his violation in front of some impartial Roman judge? We brought this man to you because he has violated the Sabbath. Are you saying he was laboring on your day of rest? Yes. What labor was he doing? He was healing. So he's a physician then? No, he claims to be a prophet, a holy man, once sent by God. Some think he's the Messiah. But you don't believe that, do you? No, Your Excellency, a holy man would not violate the Sabbath. But how exactly did he violate the Sabbath? By healing your grace. Did you witness this healing? Yes, we all did. What was the affliction? It was a withered hand. How did this Jesus of Nazareth perform this healing? Did he use medicine? Did he use plasters? He spoke. He told the afflicted man to stretch out your hand, and that hand was withered when we brought. That hand was withered. We all know it. We all testify that hand was withered. And what happened when Jesus said, Stretch out your hand? Well the man stretched it out and it was whole again, just as the other hand. How can that be? We all saw it, your grace. So the prophet just spoke and the man was healed. Yes, no, we don't say he's a prophet. But before he spoke, the hand was withered. And after he spoke, it was healed. That's amazing. Am I supposed to believe this? Who has ever heard or seen such a thing? That's not all. He's healed lame men and he's cast out demons. And he's it's said that he's healed lepers and all manner of diseases, sometimes on the Sabbath day, violating God's law. Would not your God want people healed on the Sabbath day? Does he not heal on the Sabbath day? If what you say is true, I find no fault in this Jesus. But he's an evil man. Why would an evil man heal others? Is he demanding exorbitant payments for these healings? Well, we're not aware of him demanding any payment, but we will investigate that. Now you've wasted enough of my time. If healing men with withered hands and lepers is a crime, I wish we had a hundred such criminals walking around Palestine. My father is nearly blind. Do you think this Jesus of Nazareth could heal him? We don't know, Your Excellency. Where is this Jesus now? Bring him to me. We don't know, your lordship, but we can find out. Then find out. Bring him here by tomorrow, or I will fine you for wasting the time of a Roman court. Or maybe you would like to spend your next ten Sabbaths in a dungeon. The Pharisees witnessed Jesus heal a man with his word alone, and what do they do? They go forth and plot with the Herodians how to destroy him. Herodians were, of course, not natural allies of the Pharisees. But the Pharisees were in a difficult position. The common people were responding in great numbers to Jesus. They couldn't openly defy him without risking the wrath of the masses. But if they could convince the Herodians that Jesus represented a threat to the king and his family. Then maybe they could get the civil authorities to take action against Jesus just as the civil authorities had taken action against John the Baptist. Now, let me attempt to drive home some truth from these from this passage, which actually begins in chapter 2 and extends to chapter 3 as we've divided it today. First of all , Here's a strong warning against legalism and ritualism. The Sabbath was made for man. For our good, for our benefit. But by the time the legalists got a hold of it, it had become a burden, a heavy burden. The scribes and Pharisees, Jesus said in Matthew 23, bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. This is not, of course, the only way to steal all the joy from the life of a believer. There seems to be a desire in many of us that manifests itself in different ways. To turn the Christian life into a list of do's and don'ts, a list of rules and regulations, whether or not they have any true basis in the Word of God. R. C. Sprohl tells the story of when he was beginning work as a professor at a Christian college, at a picnic on campus, and all the faculty had a chance to meet the student body. And he noticed some kids playing cards at a picnic table, I guess it was. And he asked them, well, so what are you guys playing? And they said, Rook? Don't you know? That's the Christian card game. We're not allowed to play any other card game. Now this was shocking news to me. I always thought that go fish was acceptable And Sproll goes on to say, it seems that other card games used the Joker, a symbol of the devil. Didn't know that either. So the students were prohibited from playing those games. There were many other rules in that campus environment, no movies, no dancing, all that sort of thing. Jesus warned his disciples, beware the leaven of the Pharisees. By which he meant, that was Matthew 16, 6, by which he meant the doctrine of the Pharisees. And part of that doctrine or teaching was expanding on the law of God and expecting other people to abide by their rules. Some can even get the idea that Christianity is do's and don'ts, or worse, that the way of everlasting life is by scrupulously doing some things And scrupulously avoiding some other things. So I ask you, has the yeast of the Pharisees entered into your daily bread? Has it crept in? Secondly, the actions of these supposedly holy men in this passage, the actions are truly striking. These supposedly holy men, these religious leaders. On one level, they did this because Jesus had healed the man on the Sabbath day. They were angry , raging because Jesus had healed the man on the Sabbath day. Violating not the law of God, but the understanding of the scribes, the rules and regulations upon which they were considered to be expert. But I think if you probe a little deeper, their anger could be traced to the fact that Jesus had accepted their challenge. Remember, he picked up the gauntlet. He was not in awe of them. He didn't towtow to them. He didn't shrink back from this challenge. He put them to silence They considered themselves disrespected, it seems, in front of all those in the synagogue. They were angry with Jesus ostensibly for his supposed violation of the fourth commandment. And to see what Jesus did as laboring, as we've noted, that's a great stretch. They immediately go out and begin consulting with the hated Herodians, plotting how they might destroy Jesus. So think about it. Because they believed Jesus, and it's a great stretch to believe this, somehow violated the Sabbath day by simply speaking to a man. Is that really laboring? They decide to plot to actually put Jesus to death to destroy him, which is clearly a violation of the sixth commandment. Thou shalt not murder. What a reminder of the appalling wickedness that can spring from the human heart. What a reminder of the appalling wickedness that can spring from the human heart. Let me remind you of a more recent example. The college football fans among us may remember the Alabama Auburn game last November 30th. Alabama was 11-0, hoping to return to a third straight national championship. With one second on the clock and the game tied at 28, Alabama attempted a long field goal which would have won the game. Field goal is made, the game is won. Field goal is missed, you go into overtime. Well, it fell short, but it was picked up by an Auburn player named Chris Davis, nine yards deep in his own end zone, with no time left on the clock. He returned the ball for a touchdown, and Alburn won the game 34-28. If you saw the end of the game, you may long remember it. Well, two families in Birmingham will no doubt long remember it. Perhaps you saw this news item a few days later. A woman charged with killing a fellow Alabama fan after the end of last weekend's Iron Bowl was reportedly angry that the victim and others didn't seem upset over the crimson tide's loss to arch rival Auburn, according to the sister of the slain woman. The victim's sister, uh Nakeisha Shepherd, said she witnessed the killing and she had no doubt that it was about football. Now, if the victim's sister was correct, her sister was killed solely because she did not seem sufficiently upset that it looked like Alabama, having just won two national championships, was not going to be able to go and compete for a third Jesus said, out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. Matthew 15, 19. The Alabama fan expected a different reaction from a friend, and the Pharisees expected a different reaction from Jesus. And such is the depravity of our hearts that the result Was murder in the case of the football fan who failed to meet expectations, and plotting the murder of the Messiah, who failed to meet the expectations of the scribes and the Pharisees. Can anyone doubt? Can anyone doubt the depravity of the human heart? The evil that lurks within And then notice Jesus was angry with these hypocrites. There are numerous places in Scripture, the Old and New Testaments, where the Lord is described as angry. But it was a righteous anger. When God is angry, it's a righteous indignation. Clearly, it's possible to be angry without sin. The Lord is. The problem with our anger is it frequently, you might say almost always, leads to sin. The anger of the Lord Jesus does not. And then notice the Lord's anger in this passage was directed at the Pharisees for being more concerned with their silly rules than with a man in need. Being more concerned with their image and reputation than with truth and with righteousness. They were anxious to keep, or at least appear to keep, the minute aspects of ceremonial law. As defined by the scribes, but they omitted that which was most important, the weightier matters of the law, as Jesus put it in Matthew 23:23. Justice, mercy, and faith These ought you to have done and not to leave the other undone, he said. The scribes and Pharisees omitted mercy in their dealings with men like this man with a withered hand. They certainly omitted justice and faith in their interactions with the Lord Jesus, applauding the killer man for doing nothing more than speaking to a man with a withered hand. Now those of you who know Christ, are you living with justice? Are you doing unto others as you would have them do to you? Are you keeping your word? Are you paying your debts? Are you living as an example of godliness, as an imitator of God, as dear children, Ephesians 5. 1? Are you living with mercy, with kindness, with forbearance, forgiving others as God has forgiven you for Christ's sake? Are you living in faith? Are you trusting God's providence? Are you trusting His Word? Even when you can't fully understand it? And finally, please listen carefully. You may consider yourself to be religious or spiritual. You may be faithful in your attention to what you view as your religious duties. And you may still miss, as the Pharisees missed, that which is most important. Things like justice, mercy, faith The gospel message is: God is a God of justice. And as such, He must punish sin. We are all sinners and thus all condemned, but God had mercy. Justice. Mercy. God had mercy upon us and sent his son to be our substitute to bear the punishment that we deserve. And now, through faith. Justice, mercy, and faith. Faith in who he is and what he did, our sins can be forgiven. So don't neglect what is most important, things like justice, mercy, and faith. For the things that are not all that important, like ceremony and ritual. Satan may try to convince you that you can merit eternal life and please your creator by trying hard to keep rules. But that's quite a stretch. Paul said, I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. Galatians 2. 21. Friend, the labors of your hands cannot fulfill God's law's demands. He that has ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Father, I pray first of all That if there be anyone here without Christ, that you'll take your word and draw that soul. May he cry out to you, God forgive me. God, I know I'm a sinner. God, I know I've put more attention on minute things that don't really matter than the things that do. Justice and mercy and faith. Lord, forgive me and save me. Bring me into your kingdom. I believe in Jesus as my Lord and my Savior. Have mercy upon my soul. And Lord, those of us who know you, may this word remind us of your truth. Write it on the tables of our hearts. Forgive us our sins. Give us mercy and compassion on those outside of Christ. May we declare how they can Have not just justice because justice will end in your wrath But you're a God of mercy and that through faith in you all their sins can be forgiven and they can have everlasting life We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.