If you have your Bible, and I hope that you do, go ahead and take those and let's open to Romans chapter 3 as we stand together. Romans chapter 3. We're going to be looking this morning at verses 9 through 20. Pay careful attention to God's word this morning. This is his word for us today. Beginning in verse 9. What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all , both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. As it is written. No one is righteous. No not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. In their paths are ruined and misery, and the pe the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth might may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by the works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's go ahead and begin our time in God's Word with prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you, and we just heard a passage that is very heavy in its tone, and yet, Lord, we pray that you would continue to open our eyes and show us more of Jesus because of your word. this morning. We ask your blessing on this time. Oh Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, we're going to take a five-week break in our series through Genesis. And I just looked around. Some of you had a surprise look on your faces when I said that. If you remember la the last two weeks really, because we kind of did this in two-step installments here, we received four new officers. We received three new ruling elders and one new deacon. uh for our church. And part of that process, as you remember, two weeks ago, was um all four of these men standing here on this platform and taking their ordination vows, which for them was uh six questions And I thought that it would be appropriate for us. We kind of hit a natural break last week in Genesis, kind of the end of Jacob's story arc, Isaac. Dying and passing away and being buried by his two sons. I thought that's a natural break in the story of Genesis. And I believe me, I did not plan it that way. Like you couldn't you couldn't put that together better uh for us to receive new uh officers and then I thought it'd be appropriate for us to look at the five membership vows that each and every one of you as members have taken whenever it was that you became a full community member here at Liberty. Now for many of you, some of you took those vows many years ago, and I can understand how it might be easy to forget what those vows are. But it's entirely appropriate as we just heard these officers take their vows. We know, because of those vows, what their responsibilities and commitments are. to us as a church. The other side of that coin is looking at the members and what is it that you had promised and covenanted before God to do and to serve this body. Now normally I I really don't care to take a step back and do topical sermons or series, and even though this is a topical series, what I've done is I've taken passages um particularly in the New Testament. We've been in the Old Testament all this time in Genesis. Let's balance this out. Be in the New Testament for a while, but I chose passages that are thematically, theologically, and biblically relevant to each one of these five membership vows. Now, if you have your bulletin, you can see right at the end of the service, you can see on the bottom of page six, we took the liberty um no pun intended, of printing all five of these membership vows. And so for the next five weeks you will see those vows Printed in your bulletins just by way of reminder as we go through each one one by one. And so you can see the first one, which comes right out of the Book of Church Order. In chapter 57, 5, and it says this. This is the first vow. And it's in the form of a question. Do you acknowledge yourself to be sinners in the sight of God? Justly deserving his displeasure, and without hope, save in his sovereign mercy Now, if you notice the structure of these five vows, you'll see that the first three really focus on the substance of the gospel itself. And notice they're Trinitarian, the first one referring to God, kind of referring to the Father, the second one focusing on the work of the Son, the third one focusing on the work of the Holy Spirit. Salvation and the gospel is a Trinitarian affair. And so we're focusing on the bad news part of it before we get to the good news. And so you can see that printed in your bulletin for reference. But having just read for you Romans chapter 3, verses 9 through 20, I want to just submit, this is the main idea that I believe Paul is getting at that really goes to complement this vow. And the main idea is this. The pervasive power of sin affects every aspect of our lives. Which means that we cannot be justified by works of the law. That is the main idea that verses 9 through 20 is trying to get across. And really, if you notice If you're paying attention to that idea, it breaks down into kind of two sub-points there. And the first one in verses 9 to 18, which is the the longer section here is the pervasive power of sin in verses 9 to 18. I want you to take a look at verse 9 once again. Verse 9 is very straightforward, asks a question, what then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. Now I know there's a comma there, but we'll stop. And what we find here is Paul laying out the power of the charge of sin. Now notice that language charge that I use there. There's a charge of sin. And the charge begins really kind of directed at the Jews. Now we'll apply this to ourselves as Gentile Christians in just a moment. But notice he begins, what then are we Jews better off? Notice the symmetry here between verses nine and if you go back to the beginning of chapter three in verse one. Verse 1 begins with a similar question here. What then, or then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? Paul says, much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. Now there's a context to why he's asking that question in verse 1. If you go back to chapter 1, verses 18 to 32, which is the end of that chapter. What you find the Apostle Paul doing is laying out the nature of the sin of the Gentiles who did not have Scripture. Right? God had not revealed himself to them in the same way he did to Israel in the Old Testament period, but they are still under sin. And he lays that out in what idolatry looks like in chapter 1, the sin of the Gentiles Chapter 2, he he kind of transitions to focusing on the sin of the Jews. And he's almost, the way he writes chapter 2 in the beginning here of chapter 3 in our passage, It's almost like Paul has in his mind like an imaginary Jewish-believing conversational partner that he's reasoning with, right? And in chapter 2, the Apostle Paul lays out different things that the Jewish believers might be tempted to put their trust in other than the Lord Jesus Christ. They might be tempted to put their trust in the fact that they have received the law or the Old Testament scriptures, and therefore, hey, God has chosen us, we are special, and putting their trust in that. They might be tempted, as he talks about at the end of chapter 2, to put their trust in the fact that they, as at least the men, have received the covenant sign of circumcision, which sets them apart. physically and outwardly as God's covenant people. Hey, look at us. We've got this mark of God's covenant. And putting their trust in the fact that they have that rather than in Christ. And so that's where he he comes up with that question in chapter 3, verse 1. Well, okay, then what advantage has the Jew? What is the value of circumcision? And notice he answers that in the positive in verse 1. He says, well, much, or verse 2, much in every way. Well, why? To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. That's kind of a catch-all statement to say that, you know, to the Jews have been given the Old Testament scriptures. God did reveal himself to them. in a specific and special and unique way that he had not revealed himself to the wider nations of Gentiles. I think at the end of Psalm 147, it highlights that God has revealed Himself through Moses to Israel, and it says, you have done this to no other nation. That did carry some benefits. That did carry some advantages, at least on the surface. But then you look at verse 9, and he asks kind of the same question almost, and he gives a different answer. He says in verse 9, again, what then? Same wording there as verse 1, are we Jews any better off? Notice he answers in the negative now. No, not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are under sin. Wow, okay, that's really interesting. He lays out the legal charge against both Jews and Greeks, saying that they're under sin. And he makes it very clear he's already charged. Notice that word charged is a legal term. It highlights the fact that he is making an accusation. And that he has already made an accusation in chapters one and two. And it's legal. In fact, if you go back to chapter one, talking about the sins of the Gentiles, He says at the end of verse 20, after saying that they have uh turned away from the God who created them, and ignored his revelation in general in nature, he kind of concludes that thought, so they are without excuse. They are without apology. Apology is a legal word there that means defense at the bar of God's courtroom justice. Right? And he's speaking of the Gentiles there. He uses something very similar here. He's charging them at the bar of God's justice with an accusation to say, you are under sin. And notice that phrase under sin. What is he talking about there? What does that mean? What's the significance of that? That one little preposition in Greek, and it's also in English, under signifies that all humanity, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, apart from the work of the Holy Spirit in their hearts, is positionally under the legal power and dominion of sin. That's the charge. That's what he's weighing. And notice he says all, and it specifies both Jews and Greeks. You know what's really fascinating about that? It is so easy to miss this detail. I almost missed it until I was looking really carefully. Notice the order he puts that in. Jews, he mentions Jews first, then he mentions Greeks. Now what's fascinating is in the in the book he actually deals with the Gentiles first in chapter 1, then the Jews second. He flips it here. Why Because the Jews had received the law. The Jews had a very specific and well-defined revelation of what God had required of them. Remember, the Gentiles just had general revelation. They just had their conscience, which could be seared by sin. But the Jews could not escape the specificity of God's word revealed to them in the law and in the scriptures. So he starts with them first here, as if to say, you are the first without excuse who have received God's word. And those who did not receive God's word, they're still not without excuse, but they come next. And he makes that argument in chapter two. Look, those who had the law and did not keep it Will be condemned or judged by the law. Those who did not receive the law and yet sinned, they'll be judged, but they will not be judged by the law. Really interesting. And so what he does after after presenting this accusation, and that's what it is, in verse 9, he proceeds like a courtroom uh attorney to lay out the evidence to prove his accusation in verses 10 through 18. And that's what you see. You see the pervasive testimony of Scripture concerning sin. Now I don't know about you how your Bible is laid out, but mine is kind of laid out in verses 10 through 18. It's kind of like, you know, the the organization of the verses is a little different to show that this is an old a series of Old Testament quotes. Why a series of Old Testament quotes? Well remember he's kind of sparring in his intellectually here with a a Jewish um believer in mind who might be presenting obstacles or objections to what he's claiming and so he appeals to the one thing he knows a Jew would never contest and that is the truthfulness of Scripture. Now what he does here, he you can kind of break this down into what I think is four categories based on the passages that he's quoting from, because he's quoting from a string of really four different passages from the Old Testament and puts it together. And they just cascade one after the other. He begins in verses 10 through 12 with the first testimony of witness, the testimony of the sin of turning away from God. And it's interesting, he quotes really from Psalm 14, verses 1 through 3, which is why I chose to do Psalm 14 as our Old Testament reading earlier in the service this morning. Notice what he says here, and this is pretty scathing. No one is righteous, no not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. Let me just stop there and really quick say parenthetically when it says no one seeks for God, boy, does that that really challenges the way that we understand people 's relationship as unbelievers to God. We often talk and refer to people as, oh, this person is an unbeliever, but they're seeking for God. The only way they can be seeking for God is if God is first seeking for them. No one here seeks for God in their sin. Continuing in verse 12. All have turned aside, and that's why they don't seek for God. They've turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Go ahead and stop there. Now that 's a general statement about the unrighteousness of natural man, apart from Christ, apart from the work of the Spirit. We've already seen this a little bit. If you go back to Romans chapter 1, verse 18, if you start in the beginning of Romans, you will have already seen that. Romans 1. 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. Boy, that is what 's really tough about that statement, really, it tells you that unbelieving man knows and has a knowledge of God that they cannot escape from. John Calvin, like right from the beginning of the Institutes of the Christian Religion, talks about, he makes this point that it is impossible for a human being to be uh to determine whether a human being is first aware of self or first aware that there's a God above them. Isn't that interesting? It is impossible to tell which of that side of that knowledge comes first. Why? Because we're made in the image of God. There's something about our knowledge of God, even that unbelievers and pagans have, that they cannot escape from. It doesn't matter what other religion they claim to follow in the world, it doesn't matter um how sophisticated their their philosophical arguments are to try to argue against atheism. What does Psalm 14 begin by saying? The fool says in his heart, there is no God. Why are they a fool? Because they know better. But notice what Paul's saying here in chapter 1, verse 18 He's actually saying that it is by their unrighteousness, the fact that they are sold under sin and under its power, unrighteousness becomes the tool of suppressing the truth that they know. Boy, that really puts some teeth into the end of verse 20 of chapter 1 that they are without excuse. And Paul is highlighting that here. It is the unrighteousness of man in turning away from God that is at the root of everything that follows. Notice the second testimony in verses 13. And fourteen. I call it the testimony of the sin of the mouth. It's a kind of like you ever hear those uh Uh Jared can help me out with this. This is called the Miranda Rites. You know, you have the right to remain silent. Anything you say or do will be used against you in a court of law. This is kind of like what he's doing. Look at verses 13 and 14. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps which isn't a word for a type of snake, is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Wow. Boy, the progression in that is really powerful and and kind of poetic how he puts that together. Notice he starts at the throat, moves up to the tongue, out to the lips, and then the whole thing of the mouth. It just goes from there. But notice what Jesus said back in Matthew chapter 5, 18. When he's in that debate about the the disciples not washing their hands and then their the Pharisees and the religious leaders accuse them of breaking the tradition and They're defiling themselves, and Jesus is like, no, no, it's not what goes into a man that defiles him, because it just goes into the stomach and it's eliminated. It's what comes out of the heart. And in Matthew 5. 18, what does he say? Out of the heart speaks the mouth. Isn't it interesting? You know, sometimes One of the ways you really know what's in someone's heart is by what they say. Isn't that interesting? Out of the mouth speaks the heart. And so there's the testimony of the sin of the mouth. There's this, first, there's this turning away from God, verses 10 through 12. How does that begin to manifest itself? Well, first and foremost, in what people say. That reveals where their hearts are at, but it continues from there. It's not just what they say, it's also what they do. Verses 15 to 17. The testimony of sin and violence. Take a look at that. Their feet are swift to shed blood. In their paths are ruin and misery. The way of peace they have not known. So what does sin lead to? It leads to hostility, it leads to division. It's no surprise that it should be no surprise that In Genesis 3, when man first sinned in the garden, what was the initial result? Well, one, there was hostility between man and God, because they hid. So the peace between the two parties is gone, right? And then when God finally comes and confronts them, where are you? Well, I hid. And remember what God's question was? Did you eat from the tree that I told you not to eat? Do you remember what the man said? Essentially, he said, Behold, O Lord, it is the woman whom thou hast given me. She gave to me, and I ate. Did he take responsibility? No. Did he throw her under the bus? You bet. And then God turns to her. What is What happened? Well the serpent deceived me and I ate. But notice the hostility there between the husband and wife. Now the sin, the peace has been disrupted And the same thing is true in a general scope, in a general sense. Sin leads to lack of peace, leads to violence. Against one another. And by the way, that violence can take many forms, right? It could be emotional, but it also could be physical, right? Where does all this come from? Well, it cycles back around to the first point in verses 10 through 12 in verse 18. What is the root of all this? What is the root of turning away from God? Verse 18, there is no fear of God before their eyes. Solomon makes a big deal in Ecclesiastes when he talks about how sin and wickedness increase. when the consequences or the penalty is not swift in coming. Huh Why is it that some people lack the fear of God? Because sometimes God, in his mercy, to try to be patient with them and bring them to repentance, can sometimes only embolden them because they don't see the consequences of what they're doing right away. But that lack of fear of God Is what drives all of this. And so Paul is just mounting, he's made the accusation in verse 9, verses 10 through 18, he's just mounting the evidence against them. And so the question we would need to ask ourselves by way of application here is, what effect should this application have and evidence have on us as we think about what it means to be a member here at Liberty Church as a local church. What effect is that supposed to have on us as members? Well, I think this the idea is this. The universality of sin should drive us to acknowledge our need for grace. Our need to rest in the sovereign mercy of God in Christ, which I just stole that wording from the vow, and affect the way that we speak to and about one another. That's a multi-layered thing there. Let me unpack that. Membership here at Liberty or any PCA church requires that we acknowledge our need for grace. That is what that first vow is intended to drive us towards. Now at this point in Paul's argument, we've heard the accusation that the power of sin is universal on all humanity, and we've just had the evidence piled up against us? What is he looking for us to take away from this today? What effect is this supposed to have on us today? All of this is intended to drive us to our need for grace. What does that mean practically? Well It's meant to drive us to despair in hoping in our own strength, our own resources, and our own righteousness. There's a question in there, isn't there, like that we need to ask ourselves? It's a very personal question. What are you resting in? What are you hoping in this morning? One of the reasons that this is so important for many of us today, including the members at Liberty, is because it is easy for us to put our hope and our trust in the fact that we are um um in a a faithfully confessional and more importantly biblical church. Maybe you are putting your faith in the fact that you are here this morning. And that's it. I'm doing my part. I'm here. Maybe you put your hope in the fact that you have served even here in this church, maybe doing this, that, or the other, to serve the body of Christ. But here's where I know most of us in this room are Gentiles, and I know Paul is kind of speaking with a kind of a Jewish intellectual sparring partner in this section, but here's where the rubber meets the road for most of us. Like the Jews in the first century, many of us in this room were raised in a Christian family, in a Christian context, which by the way is a wonderful thing, but we were raised with the knowledge of the scriptures like the Jews. And many of us are tempted to put our our trust and our confidence and our hope in our being okay and squared away with God in the fact that, well, I was raised in a Christian family. Well, I was I I went to church growing up every Sunday. I never missed a Sunday unless where my parents took us out on vacation one week. Right? Or boy, I I did this or I did that. And we become no better than some of the Jews that Paul is kind of intellectually sparring with here because our con our confidence Our hope, our trust, our faith is in something other than Christ, and it's rooted in ourself. What Paul is trying to do here by laying the accusation and mounting the evidence against us is trying to break any and every semblance of self-righteousness and self-trust. I know in our modern day and age that sounds really mean, doesn't it? It's like so un unaffirming Right? But that's where we have to be if we're going to be in a place where we can actually have open hands then to receive the grace of God And so what Paul is trying to s get us to see and drive us to see here is that fundamentally you and I, and many of us in this room are believers. We have the same fundamental need apart from Christ as anyone else on the outside who is not a Christian. And believe me, in our day and age, it is so easy to divide over this, that, and the other, whether it's politics or whatever the case may be. Um you could post anything on Facebook, you know. You could post something like, I like Mustangs and I hate Camaros or something like that. And you are going to generate some kind of division, right? We can divide over anything. And we can end up looking down our noses at anyone for any reason, and yet Paul is driving us to see, no, no, no, no, no, no. If you're going to be a member of the local church, if you're going to be a member of the body of Christ, you need to understand we all have the same need. None of us are more righteous. None of us are worse off than anyone else. We all have the same need for Jesus Christ. And so that leads us to understand that membership at liberty should should should bring us to rest in the sovereign mercy of God because of our sin. That's kind of the other side of that coin there. It should lead us to ask this diagnostic question, what am I resting in this morning? Now Paul's going to unpack that a little more in our second point. But remember the question that's asked in this first membership vow, do you acknowledge yourselves to be sinners in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure, and without hope? save in his sovereign mercy. That's kind of a to put it in a non-question, put turn the question into a statement It's to say that you should be resting in God's sovereign mercy, which He's revealed in Jesus Christ, not in yourself. You could substitute the term mercy for grace, and the point would still be the same. And the follow-up question then is, are you resting in the mercy or the grace of God this morning? Or are you resting in something else? And that leads us to see that practically, and the way this works works itself out is membership at liberty or any church should lead us to take care how we speak about speak to and about one another. And boy, this is where the rubber meets the road, right? How many of you were told by your moms, like I was, Um sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. Is that true? No, it's actually not true. It's really not true. I want to combine Paul's statements here on the from the Old Testament on sin with the mouth and sin with violence here for this part of our application, but You know, I want you to think about what your church membership and how that should affect how we speak. And I'm going to break that down into just two things very briefly here. First is how we talk about other people when they are not present, or how do we talk about other people behind their backs? Right. One of the things I will just say that will tear a a church apart very quickly is gossip. And let's face it, everybody likes to hear a juicy tidbit of gossip. Everybody wants to be in the know. It's so easy to, you know. Succumb to the flesh and just listen to gossip. But gossip is one of those things that will tear a church apart. It could tear a family apart. It could tear a group of friends apart. It can create distrust. And the evidence of conviction in this passage should drive us to examine how we talk about other people when they are not around. And I want you to think about that. You don't have please do not say anything out loud right now, but just think about like have you participated in gossip Um and listen to go either listening to it or or perpetuating it regarding anyone sitting around you. You know, if you have, or if you do, that this is a call to repentance. Because the way that we use our words can certainly tear other people down. Right? The second way is not just how we talk about them when they're not present, but how do we talk to other people. Now again, living in a day and age where we have all kinds of forms of communication that are supposed to make communication easier and our lives easier, it seems to make it harder, doesn't it? You know, you think of like all kinds of social media, you think of like text messages, emails. Um I'm sure that this has happened to you, it certainly happened to me. You send a text or an email and somebody misreads the tone. in it and all of a sudden you're in some hot water that you didn't intend to be because they took it in a way that you did not intend and you're like, oh and you take a step back and you're like Okay, how did they take it that way? Um well they did. You know, we we tend to miss communication here. We don't hear things like tone of voice or inflection, or you can't see facial expressions and see those, engage those when you're doing text or email, right? But one of the questions that comes up when you think about how we talk to other people and all the misunderstandings that come from that is, are you willing to give someone the benefit of the doubt when you speak to them? In whatever medium? Is that your modus operandi? Is that your default position? I'm willing to I want to be gracious with this person. I want to give them the benefit of the doubt. Or do you just automatically assume the worst of them? And I'll I'll full disclosure, I there are there have been people in my life at various times where when I've gotten a text or a an email or uh the phone rings and I see their name and I'm like, oh gosh. What is coming? You know, I didn't have the best gracious attitude towards them, and I've had to repent of those things many times You know, or do people tend to feel like they have to walk on eggshells when they're around you because of what you say or how you might take things? I mean, I I would certainly hope that no one feels around me like they're walking on eggshells. Because I don't like to feel that way around other people. But it it this really causes us to take a step back and ask, how do we use our words? Are we tearing other people down or are we building them up? And the last thing and I'll I'll just say talk about this very quickly for the sake of time, but you know our membership vows should really get us to take a step back in light of this passage and think about how we not just talk talk to her about other people, but how do we treat other people You know, whether you're talking about the various forms of violence, whether they're like emotional or psychological or physical The point boils down to how we treat one another. And I want to look at I want you to look at verse 17. It's kind of the representative point here. The way of peace they have not known. Now, the the idea of peace will come up later in one of the vows at the end, but as members of the body of Christ, it is our job to seek peace and to pursue it with other believers in membership around us. And it goes back to the fact that we are all called to understand that we ourselves need grace. But because we have received grace. in Jesus Christ, we should be quick to want to show others grace. Again, giving them the benefit of the doubt when things are unclear or when there's a perceived wrong or injustice. And again, the diagnostic question comes up, and it's this, how quick or how willing am I to extend grace to those around me who really need it from me? Let's face it, we are all sinners. We are all going to at some point, in some way, at some time, rub one another the wrong way. It's inevitable. But the question is, how quick am I to seek that peace and to pursue it? To show them grace when they might legitimately need it. Because I myself have received grace from Jesus for far worse things that I've done against him than could ever be done to me. And that leads us to our second point. We've had this accusation. We've had this mounting evidence. Our second point in verses 19 through 20 is the powerlessness of the works of the law. And so what I want you to see up to this point is sin is not just what we do, it runs so deep into our hearts. Which is what informs verses 19 and 20. In verse 19, you see what I'm calling here the purpose of the law. Look at verse 19. Now, so he's transitioning, he's summarizing, he's making his point more full. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world may be held accountable to God Notice again, the law speaks to those under the law. You could translate that under the sphere of the law, under its authority. And what's the twin purposes that we find in our passage? There's two of them. What's the point of the law and what it speaks? That every mouth might be stopped. Notice what it does, it's it that's destroying any kind of boasting that we might have. It destroys any kind of self-righteousness. And why? Well, fast forward to verse 23. Many of you have memorized this verse. For all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Look, some of you might look really good on the outside compared to some of others in this room. I understand that. Some are further along the process of sanctification, but when it comes to seeing things from God's perspective and being measured by the standard of his glory and not by the standard of comparison with others around you. There's not a lot of bo not a lot of room for boasting there. There's really no room for boasting because all have fallen short of the glory of God And so what's the purpose of the law? That every mouth might be stopped. Stop your boasting. What's the second one? That the whole world might be held accountable to God. By the way, that word accountable to God accountable there is in Greek is kind of a compound word. Many of you know what a compound word is in English. You put you know a preposition and another word together. It's really the idea of the preposition there is under and then the word righteousness. It's under the righteousness of God. That's the standard. How are you held accountable to God? He is righteous. We are sinful. You're not going to be judged by being compared to anyone else sitting around you, but you will stand before the Lord and be held accountable to his righteousness. That's the purpose of the law, to kill our boasting and keep us accountable to God, which should make us humble. But look at verse 20 You see the power and the powerlessness of the law to make us right before God He says it very clearly. For by the works of the law no human being will be justified or declared righteous in his sight, since through the law comes the knowledge of sin. So the law cannot make you right before God. Good works cannot make you right before God. Why? Well, because the law can only bring the knowledge of sin. I'll focus on two passages here to make my point before we wrap up our application here. In Romans 7, 7 through 8, Paul says, What should we say then? That the law is sin? By no means Yet if I had not been it yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, You shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. That just illustrates the point that through the law comes the knowledge of sin. He came to recognize his own covetous heart by knowing what the tenth commandment said. Or Galatians 3. 19, why the law then? That's a good question. It was added because of transgressions. In other words, to show you your sin. It was added because of transgressions until the offspring, that's Christ, by the way. should come to whom the promise had been made, and it was put in place through angels by an intermediary. What's the point Paul's making? The law points out our sin. Our sin reveals our need. The law then points us to Christ. And so what effect should this have for the members here at Liberty Church? Well again, this should destroy every vestige of self-righteousness within us that might be there. We should be driven to faith in Christ. Brothers and sisters, membership here at this church requires seeing how the law can only condemn. You know one of the I said, you know, gossip will certainly destroy church, but one of the things that will also destroy any church fellowship is members who go around that have a sense or an air of self-righteousness about them Everybody hates those holier than thou kind of people. Christians should be no different. And the net effect of this should be that here at Liberty, we are in the process of developing a culture and an ethos and an environment of grace. And that's a tough question to ask. Now again, I I just I'm gonna ask this tough question. You don't need to answer it out loud. But if you were to take a step back, do you think liberty is really known as being a culture of grace? I'll be honest with you, I don't know, because I've only been here for a year and a half, but I hope that we would. And that's what I would like to see I've mentioned previously on a few occasions that one of the things I would like to see here is more of a culture of evangelism and missions and a concern for the lost. That would be, you know, a concern that's growing here at Liberty and put into practice. I know that I said that that was going to be our focus in 2025, but I want to be very honest with you and up front. I want to be clear that I do believe that developing that kind of culture in this church is going to take longer than a year. And that's okay. It may take longer than a year, but it should be something that's consistent in our church. And if you talk to unbelievers enough, one of the things that you will hear them ask Or share by way of concerns is how they see Christians as hypocritical and no different from anyone else I've heard that complaint many times from unbelievers. And I truly believe that if we take Paul's words this morning to heart, We see our need for grace, and we see that we are not saved by our own good works, our own righteousness. I actually do believe if that seeps into our hearts That will go a long way to developing a sweetness to God's grace among us as we learn to bear with one another more and more and more. Because remember what the scripture says Love covers a multitude of sins. And I believe that that will produce the savor of grace that will be attractive to those who come in our doors. And see how we love one another? Because at the end of the day, our membership, brothers and sisters, rests in the righteousness of Christ as the only thing that can make us right before God or that can justify us. You know, this is the one thing about Reformed theology. It is so humbling. And it comes right out of the pages of Scripture. And the question you have to ask yourself this morning is, are you driven to Christ? Paul's argument after this passage rests on the free gift of Jesus' righteousness that is credited to us by God's grace through faith. And the centrality of the gospel is what is central to our membership vows. If we do not get the gospel right, if we do not get grace right , Nothing else we do will be right. But if we get the gospel right, if we get grace right here at Liberty. Then everything else. Everything else. Missions, evangelism, mercy ministry, worship. discipleship, fellowship, everything else will fall into place if we get the gospel right. And that's what Paul is driving us towards. It leads us right back to our initial big idea this morning, which is that the pervasive power of sin affects every aspect of our lives. I would parenthetically say, but so does the gospel. And so does God's grace. And that means that we cannot be justified by works of the law, but by faith in Christ. Are you trusting Christ this morning? Or are you trusting something else? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today. We are thankful for your word, Lord. Sometimes your word tells us things that are really hard to hear, but we praise you nonetheless. We pray, oh Lord, that you would work in our hearts. Help us to really understand grace much more. We pray, Lord, that you would transform our individual hearts and lives. To really not just receive that grace, but want to show that grace to other people. And I pray, O Lord, that you would continue sanctifying us as a church corporately to make us a people that are known for the grace that they show to others and for how tenaciously we cling to the gospel of Jesus Christ. as our own righteousness, because of the knowledge that we ourselves are sinners. Help us, O Lord, to be humble in that as we think about reaching the lost. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.