Well beloved, if you have your Bibles with you or your bulletins, turn with me to Psalm 57, the Psalm of David, which we'll be looking at today. Now last Sunday we looked at the difficult subject of suffering. And how is it that a good and loving God allows suffering in the lives of his people. And last week we saw in John 9 a s it was sort of a springboard for us. And that we examine several reasons for which we find a purpose in our pain. And as way of review, the Lord uses affliction in our lives. to grow us in maturity, to make us more like our Savior, to deepen our dependency on Him and also to be a testimony to his grace and faithfulness through our adversity and through our affliction. And in our passage today, we see in this Psalm of David a believer's reaction to immediate suffering It's almost as if David's Crisis is being live streamed right before us. As if he's composing this psalm in real time while the events are happening. And so we get a glimpse into his reaction to adversity and also a sense of his relationship to the Lord. And even more importantly, we get a vivid understanding of the Lord's relationship to David. Now what sort of parable was David in? Well, to better understand the exact plight that David was in, all we need to do is to look at the superscription above the Psalm, which should be in your Bible. And while the superscription was not part of the original psalm, but added later, it gives us a bit of a historical background as to the occasion for the psalm's composition. Now the superscription reads, When he fled from Saul into the cave. And so there are two possibilities to which the superscription alludes to. 1 Samuel 22, when David hides in the cave of Adalam, fleeing from the king of Gath. But the more likely possibility is 1 Samuel 24. In that instance, Saul is pursuing David with a search party of 3,000 men And David and his men find refuge in a cave in the wilderness of Engedi. Now the context and of the superscription of the psalm best fits 1 Samuel 24. And we can see a connection between the events of Psalm of Psalm 57 and Samuel 24, which will become clearer as we continue. Now what is the situation in the Psalm? David is in great peril, and his life is on code alert. Notice how he describes his situation in verse 4. He says that men are pursuing him, and these men are like lions. They are after blood, they're ferocious, they have red-hot zeal. They are set on fire. They not only seek to destroy David physically, but they tear him up verbally. Their teeth are like arrows. They're they want to chew him up with their slanderous words. They have him for lunch. They want to rip apart his reputation. They want to tear up his good name. And David paints a striking picture of incredible peril. And we can imagine how David must have felt. How can we describe how he felt? Well that he was desperate. That he was trapped, that he was hemmed in, that he was hiding in a cave surrounded by bloodthirsty men. He was between a rock and a hard place backed against a wall. And in some way, we can relate to David. Now we're not anointed royalty being pursued by a mad, defunct king. But we know what it means and what it feels like to be between a rock and a hard place. Can we not in some way relate to David's plight? Where we are stuck in a cave with an enemy surrounding it. If David steps out of it, well, he would fear for his life. And perhaps you have felt that way since last March, stuck in your cave. fearing a pandemic of either getting COVID or giving it, and if you got it, will you become a statistic on the nightly news? And for many, the effects of the prevention for the virus have been in some ways worse than the threat of the virus There has been the insidious isolation, the masking where you cannot see smiles that might brighten your day. There is a brutal reality of watching your loved one go into a hospital and you can't be with them. And then there are questions regarding virtual learning. How much are my kids absorbing? How is their education going? And then there's the economic instability that comes from shutting down businesses as well, as well as the intense sense of loss of not being able to be at a wedding. or a funeral of a loved one. And then there are those missed passages of life. Graduations and birthdays and retirement parties, those special occasions that bring a bit of sunshine and break from the humdrum of life. And all we get is the incessant hum of the humdrum And if the effects of covert, COVID weren't enough, we have the increasing social unrest in our country. And the growing fear of an ever-increasing council culture where if you as a Christian say something that goes against the acceptable narrative about gender, about uh about s marriage you could risk an attack by an army of online warriors who would like nothing better than to see you fired from your job who would attack your family and seek to ruin your life for daring to express wrongth So maybe we're not all that different from David, are we? When he was surrounded by those men whose teeth are spears and arrows and whose tongues are sharp swords. So we can readily identify with David and his plight. And notice in the Psalm how he handles things. He's a sufferer. And we see how he deals with his affliction, with his suffering. First of all, he sees something, and then he says something. In other words, he doesn't sugarcoat his reality. He says it like it is. He doesn't sweep it under the rug. He recognizes the seriousness of his situation. He doesn't diminish it or dismiss it, but he looks straight at it. In the face of it, and he says that I am in a life-threatening situation. And yet despite this dire situation, his psalm exudes this assurance, this hope. His psalm is a song of great confidence, of calm in the midst of calamity. of conviction and chaos, so much so that he is apparently was composing it as the events progressed. Now this might be a bit quirky, but I like to go out in thunderstorms. Not in the actual rain. But I do like to go out and stand on our back porch and watch the rain come pouring down and have the lightning flashing all around me. Maybe that's my idea of living dangerously, I don't know. But there is a sense of security in being in the midst of a raging storm and yet feeling totally protected. And David's psalm has this sense of calm in crisis, of confidence, in calamity. He is confident that God will act. Notice in the following verses what he doesn't say. His plea for mercy is not some anxious wringing of his hands where he says, Oh, to you, O Lord, I cry out to you because you might well Well, maybe you might perform all these things for me. If you're able, could you possibly send me help from heaven? And if you're up to it, could you save me? David doesn't wonder if the Lord will act. He doesn't view the Lord as capricious or think that the Lord's love is fickle. like some kind of cosmic God where he has to say God loves me, he loves me not, he loves me, he loves me not. Oh, I sure hope that I'm on his good side today. No. There's none of that. No, he says, I call out to my Lord, the God most high, who is transcendent above all the heavens. who is powerful and mighty, who is so vast that I can find shelter under his wings. He is transcendent, yes, but he is one who is intimately involved with my life. that he performs all things for me. I am confident, I am confident that he shall send me salvation from heaven. He will not allow my enemies to prevail. No, he will be gracious to me. And he will send forth his truth. Which will vindicate me from the false lives of those who smear my name. How is it? How is it that David could be so confident? Well, first of all, he knew God's word. And he knew what it said. He could expect God's mercy because God had declared himself to be merciful to those who put their trust in him. And we see this in Moses' encounter with the Lord, when Moses asked the Lord to give him a glimpse of himself, to see just a glimmer of his glory. And as the Lord passed by Moses, well he not only gave Moses a glimmer, a vision of his glory, but he gave Moses a revelation of his character as well. saying in Exodus 34, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious. long -suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and sins. by no means clearing the guilty, visiting upon the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. So God had revealed that he is merciful, and Moses proclaimed it in Deuteronomy 4. 31, for the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forget you nor destroy you nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. Well, in response, one can say, well, it's one thing to say that God is merciful. But is he really? How do you know he's merciful? I mean, we're skeptical of mere words. Very few people will take a person's word at base value. We prefer to get it in writing. We want to see it signed on the dotted line. And we fail to keep our promises, even with the best of intentions. So how do we know that God Himself is really merciful? Well, David not only knew God's word, but he knew his character, and that he was true to his word. Throughout the centuries, the Lord had proved to God's people that he was merciful and that he had a perfect stellar track record of showing and extending mercy to them. When the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah in judgment toward sin, he spared Lot and his family. And the Lord delivered Israel from the bondage of Pharaoh. And he provided for his people for 40 years in the desert, feeding them, protecting them, even though they were very unfaithful to him. And if David needed any further proof, all he would need to do would be to travel to the border of Mitzvah and Shen and see the memorial stone that Samuel had erected there to remind God's people of the tremendous victory that he had won for them against the Philistines. So looking at history, David could say with confidence, as he said in Psalm 18, as for God, his way is perfect, the word of the Lord is proven. He is a shield to all who trust in him. David knew how the Lord had shown himself to be merciful throughout history. And David also knew personally, from his own experience, that God was merciful. When he was a young shepherd, he saw how the Lord protected him from the lions and bears who tried to attack him. The Lord protected him and the flock. And the Lord had given him a great victory in his battle against the lion. So the Lord was not only merciful to David, sparing his life on numerous occasions and giving him past victories over his enemies. But the Lord was gracious to David, making him king over his people. In replacing Saul. And in 1 Samuel 16, when Samuel comes to anoint the new king, who did he find to anoint? But a lowly young shepherd, a complete nobody from a small tribe and from an inconsequential family. And that was not all. Out of his grace, the Lord had committed himself to David in making him king. And then years later, after the events in the Psalm, the Lord once again reiterated his commitment to David, making a covenant with him. in which the Lord promised that David would have an everlasting kingdom, and one of his descendants would rule and reign forever. So what did David see? He saw that throughout his lifetime, David experienced the faithful character of God. He saw that the Lord is true to his word. And he also experienced the concrete commitment of God to David. So it's no wonder, it's no wonder that he could express confidence in the Lord despite his calamity. And with the Lord on his side, what were a few thousand angry men ready to kill him? They were nothing. His crisis was just simply a bump in the road onto his way to reigning over Israel, for nothing could ever stop God's plan and purpose for David. And David expresses this confidence in verse 2 and 3, where he says, I cry out to God most high. The God over all the universe, I cry out to God who fulfills his purpose for me. He will send from heaven and he will save me. He will put to shame him who tramples me. You see, David could argue from the greater to the lesser. He could say, if the Lord has committed himself to me and he has taken care of of my destiny as king, then he can take care of the conflict that stands in the way of his purposes. So that even in the midst of strife, even in the midst of adversity, David could be confident that the Lord would work out his purposes in David's life. Because the Lord was committed to him. And beloved, isn't verse 2 our song as well? Couldn't we sing that lyric? I cry out to the Lord Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. And in singing that song, do we not hear the tune of Romans 8, 28? For we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. To those who are called according to what? To his purpose. Paul is singing a similar tune in Romans that David is singing in Psalm 57. And we mentioned last week how the Lord works all things together. How he superintends the good along with the bad. without ever being the author of evil to bring about his ultimate good purposes for his people. The Lord does not condone evil, nor can he be the author of evil, but rather he's like a chess master who uses the evil actions of people to bring about his good purposes. And the good news is that he wins in the final match. checkmate because he is no match in terms of his omnipotence and his wisdom It's like the Lord is a skilled weaver, weaving throughout history even the distorted and disturbing threads of the acts of evil. And yet weaving them in such a way that the final tapestry is something that shines radiantly with his glory and with his goodness. So beloved David's song in suffering is a tune that we can sing as well. We can sing this song like David with a quiet confidence in calamity because we know even more about the Lord and his purposes than David knew We know from the advantage of hindsight how the Lord's promises to David were fulfilled, which were part of the covenant promises that the Lord had made with his people That he would be their God and that they would be his people. That despite how sinful and unjust and cruel that we can be , The holy God, the holy, just God, the God most high, he would enter into a relationship with us. How is it that a God who is just could do such a thing? That he could have a relationship with people who should be judged by him that by him for their sin. How could he maintain his holy character and still have anything at all to do with us who sin against him and against one another. Well he had to remove the stain of our sinful nature. And so he did what we could never do. And what did he do? Well, we see a glimpse of it right in verse 3 of this Psalm. Where David sings, he will send from heaven and he will save me. For what did our Heavenly Father do, beloved? But to send from heaven his only begotten sinless son, to come to earth and to take upon himself our humanity. To be born in David's royal line as a king, but to offer himself upon the cross as a suffering servant. in order to show the mercy and compassion of God. And as a suffering servant, Jesus fulfilled the prophecies of Isaiah, who said that one day there would come one who would be pierced for our transgressions. who would be crushed for our iniquities. Upon him would be the chastisement that brings us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid upon him the iniquity of us all. And paying the price that we should have paid for our sin. And in experiencing the judgment, we were spared. The Lord Jesus has reconciled us to himself, and we can have fellowship with the God Most High. His death gave us life and a relationship with the Lord, and his life and death fulfilled all the covenant promises of the Old Testament. And then Christ, having risen from the dead, has shown himself to be the promised Messiah and the king whose reign shall never end. And when we put our trust in Christ alone for our salvation, he says to us, you are my people. And I am your God. And he gives us eternal life. And he commits himself to us, promising to never leave us nor forsake us. And we get a glimpse of this wonderful gospel right here in this Psalm in verse 1. Where David says, in the shadow of your wings, I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by. What a beautiful image for what Christ has done for us. That David likens the protection of the Lord to an eagle who covers her eaglets. from danger by spreading her wings over them to shield them from harm. I heard a story, I don't know if it's true. But after a raging forest fire, the ranger came across the burnt carcass of an eagle. And when he lifted it up, under its burnt wings were the chicks. Still alive. And one theologian notes that what an illustration For how Christ covers us with his wings. That he experienced the very fires of hell, experiencing the judgment that we deserve in order to protect us and to spare us and to give us life And so like they that we can reason from the greater to the lesser, that if our Heavenly Father has taken care of our eternal destiny Will he not be there for our present calamity? So when you feel like your life is one long slip and slide and you're just trying to keep your bearings, You too can cry out, have mercy, have mercy, come to my rescue. You can cry out to the God Most high, who transcends the heavens and the earth, and who knows us and hears us. This all-powerful God hears us and he extends his mercy. Isn't that amazing? That though he is all-powerful, though he is all transcendent, he cares about the minutiae of our lives. That he knows the numbers on our head, that he invites us to cast all of our cares upon him. Because he cares for us. Paul, who was beaten and imprisoned, who knew what affliction was like, he could say In Philippians 4, 6 and 7, to be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, to let your requests be made known to God, and the peace of God. which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Well, we can have confidence in calamity because of our relationship with the Lord who is unchanging and who has committed himself to us. And as we grow in our relationship with him, we can also see his faithfulness to us over time. And his past faithfulness brings us a calm confidence in the present and the hope for the future. So when we remember the Lord's past faithfulness to us, it brings us a quiet confidence in the present and encouragement for the future. I love spring. I love spring when the tulips and the daffodils begin to pop out after a long cold winter. And it reminds me of the promise of warmer days ahead and sunny skies. But the tulips in our yard also remind me of past happy days. Many of the flowers were Easter plants and they spring up again in the spring to remind me of those joyous celebrations. And I think it's safe to say that the Lord's past acts of faithfulness are like tulip bulbs. We plant those memories of his deliverance deep in the soul of our hearts. And in the winter of our discontent, they are there waiting to spring up, to remind us of the beauty of God's past mercy, which gives us peace in the present. What are the flowers in the garden of your life? Those times in which the Lord has upheld you, in which he has strengthened you, in which he has comforted you Beloved, do we not need to plant those memories of his past faithfulness deep into our hearts so that they spring to mind when we face the dark winter days of life, to remind us that the unchanging God was faithful in the past and so he will be faithful in the present. and he will give us grace sufficient for the day. David knew the promises of God's word He had a relationship with the Lord who pledged himself to David, and in that relationship he had seen the Lord's faithfulness and mercy. over and over and over again so that David could then have confidence in calamity And we too, beloved, we know the promises of God's word. And we have a relationship with the living Christ who has pledged himself to us. And out of that relationship, we have seen his faithfulness and mercy to us over and over again so that we too can have confidence in calamity. That we too can say along with the Apostle Paul when we hear of a terminal illness, that we can say with Paul, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. And for Paul who knew the threat of death, what did he say? Death is swallowed up in victory. Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? The sting of death and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And let 's say that you are slandered for the sake of Christ. And what does Christ say? Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad. For your reward in heaven is great. And in the same way, they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And let's say you experience trauma or loss, what does Paul say? Who was beaten, shipwrecked, and imprisoned? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger our sword? As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, no, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I'm sure that neither death nor life nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Beloved, we have these precious promises and we have seen the Lord work in our lives, his faithfulness. And so did David. David's prayer was answered quickly. And the answer is reflected in verse 6. Speaking of his enemies, David writes, They have dug a pit before me, and into the midst of it they have fallen. Those who sought David's destruction fell into their own trap. And in 2 Samuel 24, we see how that played out. That Saul feeling the call of nature went into the very cave where David was hiding to relieve himself. And with great irony, suddenly the trapper becomes the one who's trapped And the hunter becomes the hunted. And David's men encourage him to take advantage of the opportunity and Saul's vulnerability. And they say, hey, David, this is your chance. Do him in and take the throne. It's rightfully yours anyway. Come on, David. What are you waiting for? David Go ahead. And David sneaks up to him and he takes a piece of his robe. But he doesn't kill him. And after Saul leaves the cave, David shouts after him, saying, See, Saul, I have torn a piece of your robe while you were in there. I could have killed you, but I didn't. I could have gotten my revenge. And in 1 Samuel 24, verse 12 and 15, he says, Let the Lord judge between you and me, and let the Lord avenge me on you, but my hand shall not be against you. Therefore, let the Lord be judge and judge between you and me and plead my case and deliver me out of your hand. And so Saul's heart was softened by the merciful action of David in sparing his life. He relented and he let David go and he acknowledged that David would be king one day And the Lord answered David's cry for mercy, and he delivered him from his enemy. And what did David do? Well, he wanted to let the whole world know of God's deliverance. He says in verse 9 and 10, I will praise you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing to you among the nations. for your mercy reaches unto the heavens and your truth unto the clouds. Oh beloved, have we not been delivered from a greater peril? We who have been saved from the curse of sin and death, are we like David? Do we want to proclaim to all the world that Christ has done for us? In saving us from our greatest enemy, sin and death, and giving us new life. Do we have hearts? So utterly overcome with what the Lord has done for us that we desire to proclaim Christ to the nations And to tell of his mercy and his truth, which reaches to the heights of heaven. This morning we have seen in this psalm that we can have confidence in calamity because of the unchanging character of God. Because of the commitment of God to us. And he's shown to us by his past faithfulness. And that faithfulness gives us peace in the present. And our response then is to praise him. And in praising him, to make his mercy known to the world. Let's pray together