Virtuous wife, for her worth is far above rubies. The heart of her husband safely trusts her, so he will have no lack of gain She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands She is like the merchant ships. She brings her food from afar. She also rises while it is yet night and provides food for her household and a portion for her maidservants. She considers a field and buys it. From her prophets she plants a vineyard. She girds herself with strength and strengthens her arms. She perceives that her merchandise is good, and her lamp does not go out by night. She stretches out her hands to the distiff, and her hand holds the spindle. She extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. She's not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet She makes tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. She makes linen garments and sells them and supplies sashes for the merchants. Strength and honor are her clothing. She shall rejoice in time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness. She watches over the ways of her household, does not eat the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. Charm is deceitful. Beauty is passing, but a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Oh Father, what a a beautiful picture. of a virtuous wife. Lord, how we thank you for blessing so many of us with such godly wives. We thank you for the precious gift of a godly wife. Her price is far above rubies. And today, as we revisit this passage, we pray for your spirit to speak to every heart. I pray for the men here, Lord, that they might see what a blessing Blessing they have in their wives, those who have been blessed to have virtuous wives, that uh that our women might see how precious and valuable they are in your sight. And in the sight of their husbands and children, that our children would see what a a blessed gift they have been given and godly moms and godly Lovely dance. Lord, may uh those who are not married uh be able to aspire to these things. Speak to us through your word this day. We ask in Christ. Christ's name. Amen. As I've uh noted before, it had been my practice for many years when I determined, and I don't always determine to do this, but when I determined to Preach a topical message on Mother's Day. As I said, it had been my practice to address the role and responsibilities of godly mothers. But the the result for some mothers who were already painfully aware of their shortcomings Was to sort of put a damper on that day, the day that they should feel honored and cherished. So what I'm inclined to do now, uh as a as a way of honoring and and I hope blessing mothers on Mother's Day And Fathers on Father's Day is to preach on the role of godly fathers on Mother's Day and to reserve a message on godly motherhood for Father's Day. If we want to find a picture of a godly wife and mother in Scripture, we can't do better than meditate on the virtuous wife described for us here in Proverbs 31. It has been uh seven years since we last considered this passage, so I thought it might be good for us to walk through it again together this morning. A number of years ago, Don and I uh toured the Natural History Museum in DC On display were diamonds and rubies and emeralds and other precious stones. And since I was uh quite sure they were not for sale, I determined that uh there wouldn't be any harm in letting Don, you know, see them. Some of them, like the huge Hope Diamond, were suspended in glass cases while others were displayed flat. as to reflect their exquisite beauty. Each of the gems, of course, was exceedingly valuable. Some of them are simply priceless. Such is the value, the scripture says, of a virtuous wife. The picture of a godly wife in Proverbs 31 is one to which One which every male can admire, and I think one to which every female can aspire. Let's consider it verse by verse. Verse 10. Who can find a virtuous wife for her worth is far above rubies? A virtuous wife, literally a wife of valor, a wife brave, strenuous, and good Her worth is far above rubies. In other words, it's incalculable. It's impossible for a man to attach a value To a virtuous wife. Whatever assets a husband may have, none is more precious than this. In these verses, the scripture develops the character traits of a godly woman, and it does so as an acrostic Like Psalm 119, the most familiar one to us. An acrostic, that is, the first verse begins with the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, uh Aleph. And then the second verse begins with a second letter of the Hebrew alphabet, base, and it goes on like that. So if this had been written originally in English, of course it was written in Hebrew And translated into English, but if it had been written in English, it might read something like this. A. A virtuous wife, who can find B. By her. Her husband will have no lack of gain. C. Can anyone estimate her worth? D. Diligently she works with her hands, etc. So we have here a description of the virtues of a godly woman, not categorized by topics necessarily, but as they happen to fit the structure of the acrostic. And as you can imagine, it would be easy then to remember this a portion of this uh proverb. Look at uh verse uh eleven The heart of her husband safely trusts her, so he will have no lack of gain. The heart of her husband Safely trusts her. Now we could pause here for several minutes. How precious is this thought? He can have implicit confidence in her, first of all, in her management of household affairs. He's not going to be surprised by an impulsive wasting of the family resources, so he will have no lack of gain. Proverbs says, he can trust her use of the checkbook. He can trust her use of the debit card. She takes initiative. She makes decisions. And he has confidence in her judgment. The heart of her husband safely trusts her, and he will have no lack of game. Who can set a value? Who can set a value on the peace of mind that it will bring to a husband to know that while he's laboring for his family His wife is not squandering their funds on foolish and wasteful purchases. He's not putting his wages into a bag with holes. Hagi 1. 6. Matthew Henry says, She is a good wife that is fit to be trusted, and he is a good husband who will leave it to such a wife to manage for him. Husbands, how can you calculate the value of such a wife who's careful and faithful and frugal with the family's substance? Her price is far above rubies. But is this the only sense of the phrase the heart of her husband safely trusts her? Of course not. What about the husband's confidence in his wife's faithfulness to him as regards her affections? How valuable is this? Who could put a price upon it? Consider the alternative. For example, the uh the wayward wife described in Proverbs 7 uh with the uh attire of a harlot and a crafty heart, her feet would not stay at home. What value would the husband of such a woman put upon being able to trust her implicitly To put it another way, what payment would that husband accept to appease his wrath at his betrayal For jealousy is a husband's fury, therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will accept no recompense, nor will he be appeased, though you give many gifts. Proverbs 6 Husband, can you put a value on having a wife who is utterly trustworthy? A wife who is so faithful to you, you never have to worry about who she's with or where she is. Who can find a virtuous wife? Her value is far above rubies. Verse 12, she does him good and not evil all the days of her life. She does in good and not evil all the days of her life, in sickness or health, in poverty or wealth, day out, day in, year in, year out, all the days of her life Who could put a value on such a woman? Even if she should outlive her husband, she will never dishonor her husband. Verse 13, she seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands. She's industrious. She's hardworking. She's active in her domestic duties. She's caring for her family. In her day, that meant creating clothing, household items from wool for winter, flax for summer, willingly working with her hands. And then verse 14, as a merchant ship brings food from far lands, even so she goes out and gathers what her household needs. Merchant ship will bring back the valuables to the port. Even so the virtuous woman may travel far to provide good things for her family. She may be off to the market to arrive there just as the farmers come in with their fresh fruits and vegetables. To the miller as he grinds the grain for baking, to the seaside to get that fresh fish as the fishing boats arrive with the uh uh last night's catch. Look at uh at verse fifteen. She rises early while it's still dark to provide food for her household, including her maidservants. She rises while it is yet night and provides food for her household and a portion for her maidservants. Let me remind the wives that the reason we husbands have uh you know by and large gotten away from this practice of providing maidservants. Is to relieve you of the duty of getting up so early to provide to provide for your maidservants. So you don't you don't have to do that anymore. Look at verse uh verse sixteen She considers a field and she buys it. From her prophets, she plants a vineyard. Just as the virtuous wife is not lazy, the virtuous wife is not rash. She considers a field. And buys it. She counts the cost. Can we afford this? Is it worth the price? How much will it produce if we had this field? And she buys it. Clearly her husband has entrusted her with these domestic decisions. He has confidence in her good judgment. And from her profits, she plants a vineyard. Literally, from the fruit of her hand, she plants a vineyard. She takes initiative. She's industrious. She's diligent. She's a great asset to the family, in other words Look at verse 17. She girds herself with strength and strengthens her arms. You might say she puts forth all her might toward what she undertakes. Gird yourself with strength. Remember to gird up one's loins was a phrase for tucking in the ends of your robe so that you could run or travel quickly. Or for hard labor. uh Elijah running before Ahab's chariot. The virtuous woman does not shrink from hard work, whether in the home or in the fields. Verse 18, She perceives that her merchandise is good, and her lamp does not go out by night. She takes pride in her craftsmanship Whatever it is that she makes, she takes pride in it. She perceives, literally, she tastes that her merchandise is good. And her lamp does not go out by night. Her ministry to her family continues even after the sun sets. Verse 19, she stretches out her hand to the distif, and her hand holds the spindle. A terms we don't use very often. A distif, a stick that holds the flax or the wool from which thread is drawn and spun by hand. The spindle, a slender rod that serves as an axis in the making of the cloth as it rotates. So, you know, think of an old spinning wheel. She's there, she's uh stretching out her hands to the distaff, her hands holding the spindle. She's making cloth with which she will then make clothing or other things for the household. Verse 20, she extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out to the needy. So her industry is not just for herself, but so that she may have an abundance from which she can share with those less fortunate. It's not just for herself and her family that she labors, but that she might have extra to give to those less fortunate, those who perhaps cannot work for themselves As one commentator put it, as her industry shines forth in acquiring, so her piety and charity shine forth in her giving. And when she's done all the good she can do in her own family, she looks for others to bless. And she's not afraid of the snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet The cold of winter doesn't distress her, doesn't cause her fear. Her family is clothed with warmth and beauty. Verse 22, she makes tapestry for herself. That is, she labors to beautify her home, to make it a place of comfort, to make it a place of refuge. And her clothing is fine linen and purple. Now, the scripture makes it clear that it is foolish for a woman to be preoccupied with outward beauty. while neglecting inward beauty, the ornament of a gentle and quiet spirit which is very precious in the sight of God, the scripture says. However, it's quite natural for a woman of inner beauty to reflect it outwardly. And the virtuous woman endeavors not only to beautify her husband's home, she endeavors to beautify her husband's wife. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. And her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. He's in the place of justice. He's with the town leaders. As uh commentators Jameson, Fawcett, and Brown put it, his wife's diligence and amiability at home Enables him with undistracted mind to attend to his public duties in high positions of state Matthew Henry remarks in the phrase Her husband is known in the gates. By his wise counsels and prudent management of affairs, it appears that he has a discreet companion, by conversation with whom he improves himself. By his cheerful countenance and pleasant humor, it appears that he has an agreeable wife at home. For many that have not have their temper strangely soured by it. Verse 24. She makes linen garments and sells them. She supplies sashes for the merchants. Not only does she provide good things for her family, not only does she reach out to the poor, but she makes garments and sashes for the merchants, which are then sold by them to in turn benefit her family. This is a lady who labors outside of the home, you might notice, but always for the benefit of the home, always for the benefit of the family. Strength and honor are her clothing. She will rejoice in time to come. She has strength of character. She's honorable. She has the comfort and satisfaction of her virtue in her own mind. And she shall rejoice in time to come Her faithfulness not only gives peace to her husband, as we said, but her faithfulness gives peace to her. Strength and honor on her clothing, she shall rejoice in time to come. Her legacy will give her joy in the future. She opens her mouth with wisdom. She's sensible. She's thoughtful. Her speech is with grace, seasoned with salt. She's not a gossip. She's not a mocker. She's not a complainer. She's not a murmurer. She's not a brawler. On her tongue is the law of kindness. She sets a watch on her lips. She doesn't berate or belittle her husband in private or in public. She doesn't berate or belittle her children in private or in public. On her tongue is the law of kindness She watches over the ways of her household. Her primary focus is her domestic duties. She is a keeper at home. That's the way the New Testament describes her. Before she is anything in the community. Note that God's picture of the virtuous wife is not a religious recluse. This is uh not someone who simply prays and meditates in in a room in her home all day, uh or in a convent, uh nor is it a religious uh gadfly going from one seminar or Bible study uh to the next while neglecting her home and her family. Nor is she some sort of minivan minister focused primarily on serving those outside of the home. The wife idealized here realizes that caring for her husband and her children is God 's calling for her. This wife and mother watches over the ways of her household. She knows what her children are doing. She knows what they're struggling with. She knows what they're praying about. She knows about their friends. She knows about the influences upon their life. He knows where they are where they are and who they're with. He may remember me saying, uh uh I'm sure I mentioned it before, that one of the members Of my first pastorate, which was up in western New York near near Buffalo, one of the members told me, uh, a lady in the church told me that sometimes her neighbor would call her at eleven or eleven thirty at night saying, have you seen my my little five-year-old? Time for bed. I'm trying to track her down. I know she's in one of the houses around here At eleven thirty at night. Uh maybe she heard a public service announcement, you know, after the news. It's eleven thirty. Do you know where your children are? Oh yeah. That little uh five year old, what's her name? I mean, can you believe that? Uh the primary focus of the virtuous wife is her family. She doesn't eat the bread of idleness, the scripture says. Doesn't eat the bread of idleness. We would say, you know, she doesn't eat the bonbons of soap operas or the tootie fruity of Judge Judy. Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her children rise up and call her blessed. They can see a difference between her caring involved hardworking, kind , their caring involved hardworking, kind, loving mother. They can see a difference between her And the mother who neglects her home and her family. So, mom, be encouraged by this. It may take a while, but your children will rise up and call you blessed. Some of you parents of teenagers would be happy if your children would just rise up. But one day they'll rise up on their own and call you blessed. Her husband also, and he praises her. So not only the children, but her husband. He recognizes what a precious gift he has and what his life would be like without her. He rises up and calls it, they rise up and call her blessed, and he praises her. And how does he do that? Uh how does he praise her? He says, Of all the virtuous wives, you are the virtuousest He uh he's in the gates, but he's not necessarily eloquent there in the gates Dr. Dobson points out how important it is for a nation to highly value its women. If women felt genuinely respected in their role as wives and mothers, They would not need to abandon it for something better. If they felt equal with men in personal worth, they would not need to be equivalent to men in responsibility. If they could only bask in the dignity and status granted them by their Creator, then their femininity would be valued as their greatest asset, rather than scorned as an old garment to be discarded. Without question, the future of a nation depends on how it sees its women. And I hope we will teach our little girls to be glad they were chosen by God for the special pleasures of womanhood. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. And what he actually says was rather eloquent Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. This is how he praises his wife. Many daughters have done well. There are other godly women, but you excel them all. As far as I'm concerned, you're the best. And then the poem and the book of Proverbs draw to a close with verses 30 to 31. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is passing. But a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Charm is deceitful. Beauty is passing. Literally in the Hebrew, it's vain, it's vanity. At best, such things are fleeting, are they not? A woman may be charming, a woman may be beautiful, but if she doesn't fear the Lord, if she's not beautiful within, it's all in vain, it's all vanity. It's a woman who fears the Lord who shall be praised. She knows the Lord. She honors the Lord. She is in awe of him. She endeavors to follow his word. Give her the fruit of her hands. That is, give her the praise that she has earned. Give her the praise that she deserves. Acknowledge her works. They speak loudly and clearly of her virtues to all who have ears to hear. Now, in conclusion, a word to the wives. There are some women And none here, I trust, who stand who spend a great deal of time uh sitting in front of mirrors or standing in front of mirrors. Some women who spend a great deal of time peering at themselves in mirrors. Well this passage has been called a mirror for ladies. It's something to look into to see how you look in the ways that really matter. Not uh, you know, does Your blush match your eyes or whatever it is you people do. It's uh It's a w it's a woman who fears the Lord who shall be praised, the scripture says. She knows him, she honors him, she's in awe of him. So ladies, how how will you measure up? How do you measure up as you look into this mirror? How do you measure up to the to the godly woman described for us here in Proverbs 31? Uh do you make it easy for your husband and children to see you in this passage? Can they say, yeah, that's mom, that's mom, that's mom, that's that's my wife, that's my wife, that's my wife. You make it easy for them to see you in this passage. You'll notice there's no mention of love here. There is no declaration that the godly woman loves her husband and children. But it's clear that she does love them by what she does for them. For the highest form of biblical love is not primarily a feeling, it's action based upon commitment. Gazo love the Lord world that he gave his only begotten son. And a word to children, the fifth commandment calls you to honor your father and your mother. Honoring them That means obeying them, of course. That involves obeying them, but it includes much more than that. It includes being grateful to them for all that they do for you. Being truly grateful. If you have a mother like the one described here, praise God for her and tell her how much she means to you. And if your mother falls short in some of these areas, then pray for the Lord's working in her heart and in her life Now, a word to the young girls, the young women in our presence, it's to passages such as this that you should look to get your image of womanhood. And of true beauty, not to beauty contests, not to the latest uh uh shooting star. in uh Hollywood. Charm is deceitful, beauty is vain. It's a woman who fears the Lord who shall be praised. And a word to our young men and boys When the time comes for you to think about marriage, some of you are there, I would urge you to seek a wife who has the characteristics that we see here. And it's certainly a good sign if you see these characteristics in her mother, by the way, because many or much of who she will be as a wife. is derived from who she had patterned before her as a mother. In other words, to the older women, I don't see any here, but There may be some who listen later. You are called by God to teach younger women. To teach them what? To teach them to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste keepers at home. There's that phrase. Good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be blasphemed. Titus chapter 2, verses 4 and 5. Older women are called by God to do that. So I ask you, are you doing what God has called you to do? In a word to husbands, many of you are blessed to have a virtuous wife. And as you read these verses, as you hear them, you say, yep, that's my wife. Praise God for her. I've had such a wife for almost 43 years. It'll be forty-three years next month, Lord willing. And it would be impossible for me to set a value on her her faithfulness, her companionship. and her support in my life and ministry. Who can find a virtuous wife? You can find one in the nursery this morning. I can tell you. And I believe there are many husbands here who value their wives just as highly as I value mine. But expressing feelings doesn't come easy to some men probably most men, perhaps all men. Nonetheless, I would exhort you, husbands, to give your wife the honor and praise she is due. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. I think there are women who would love to have a pastor just preach on that uh verse for a while. All the different ways a husband could praise his wife. I know there's one in the nursery, actually, who would And shouldn't be said, by the way, by the recording. We're trying to record this. Okay, a word. So to the husbands, let me encourage you to praise. To praise your wife. Give her the praise that she's due. Finally, uh a word for all of us Just as a virtuous wife is a gift from God, so is virtue itself. Virtue itself is a gift from God, right? We're not faithful and kind and inwardly beautiful and praiseworthy in our natural fallen state, are we? Naturally, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. That's the state we're in, as we've descended from Adam and Eve. True godliness comes only from God. If your life is not characterized by godly virtue, as described here, that suggests you are not indwelt by the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the virtuous one. That which makes a diamond or ruby necklace so valuable is not the setting, but the precious jewel itself. What makes a man or woman truly virtuous is the precious jewel of the Lord Jesus Christ's indwelling, that man or that woman. Virtue doesn't come to us by our striving to be virtuous. Yeah, I see that boy, I need to do that better, and I'm gonna do that more. I'm gonna get up earlier, I'm gonna stay up later, and I'm gonna bow No, no, no. Virtue doesn't come to us by our striving to be virtuous. It comes when we fall to our knees confessing that we missed the mark. Acknowledging that we're not virtuous on the inside, that we're in need of a redeemer, that we fall short, that we miss the mark, that we need a substitute. The Lord Jesus Christ, Emmanuel, God with us, he was the only truly virtuous man. Yet he endured God's holy wrath on the cross, not for his sins, but for the sins of those for whom he died. His sheep, his bride, his church, his own. If we'll see our sins as vile, recognize them as heinous in the sight of a holy God, turn away from them in disgust, and lay hold upon Jesus by faith. Lord, I believe you I believe you lived that sinless life and died upon the cross and rose again from the dead, and I want you as my Savior. If you'll come to God that way, pray that prayer in your heart, trusting not in yourself in your own efforts to be good. But in the only one who ever could be truly holy, if you'll transfer your trust to Christ, all your sins will be forgiven, the Bible says. And you'll have this precious gift of everlasting life. God made him to be sin for us. He who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. You can be a virtuous man, woman, or child Only if you're redeemed and indwelt by the virtuous Savior, the one who came to live that life in your place, to keep the law perfectly, the law you failed to keep. And then he went to die upon the cross to pay that debt. The debt that you owe. Jesus paid it all. All to him we owe. Sin had left a crimson stain, but he washed it Wives. Let's pray. Oh Father, thank you for This description for us of the godly wife, the virtuous wife, whose price is far above rubies. Thank you, Lord, for this image of this godly woman you've given us in Scripture. Help us. uh each woman here to aspire to it and help us as men to admire it and to praise our wives, our mothers, when we see such virtues displayed And Lord, I pray, especially for anyone who might be here outside of Christ. I pray this might be the day of salvation, that your work in that heart draw that soul to true saving faith. We ask it in Christ's name and for his sake. Amen. Would you stand with me and let's close with that beautiful hymn? Uh Jesus paid it all, it's number six hundred and ninety