As we read the first six verses in Ephesians 4, and children you are dismissed for children's church. Let's hear God's word as Paul writes to the Ephesians. Paul writes, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called. with all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. Let's pray. Father God, Lord, we thank you for these stirring words. We pray, Lord, that your word would be at work in our hearts now. Father, I am a man of unclean lips, and I need the anointing of your spirit. And Father, we need your power at work in our hearts to open up our hearts to your word. Teach us now. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. On any given day, we all get all sorts of calls. Calls from family and friends, calls from co-workers. Calls to confirm doctor's appointments, and my least favorite calls, telemarketers. But there is my favorite call, the call to dinner. And some calls that we receive are life-changing. Calls after which we hang up our lives are never the same again. Some calls are calls to celebrate. A call to say that your grandchild was born, or a call to say that you got the new job. or the promotion or that you're accepted into the program or that you can sign the contract on your new home. And then there are calls which just absolutely take your breath away. They're like a punch in the gut. It was over 22 years ago my dad called me to tell me that he was diagnosed with incurable cancer. And I will never, ever forget that call. It seemed like the room was spinning as I heard him say that he had cancer. So there are all sorts of life-changing calls. The good, the bad, and the ugly. And in these verses in Ephesians, Paul talks about yet another kind of call, which is also life-changing. And it's glorious in its scope and in its depth. Let's read again from verse 1, where Paul says, I therefore The prisoner of the Lord beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you are called. Now what is this calling? And who does the calling? Well, if you have any doubt at all. What Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians 2. 12 makes it very clear for us, because 1 Thessalonians 2. 12 is a parallel verse to Ephesians 4. 1 and helps to illuminate it. And in that verse, Paul says, you would walk worthy of God, who what? A God who calls you into his own glory and kingdom. So the calling in Ephesians 4. 1 is a calling of God, by God, to be in his kingdom and to share in his glory. Now one thing that Paul has in mind here in Ephesians 1, in Ephesians 4. 1, what this verse is not talking about is the general call of the gospel, in which the good news is proclaimed to all nations and to all peoples. And for when the gospel is proclaimed through the preaching and the teaching of the word, it is like sown seed. And sometimes it falls on fertile soil, and people receive that word, and fruit is born. And yet other times that same seed falls on hard hearts, and there is no belief, and so no fruit is produced. But what Paul is talking about here is not the general call of the gospel and the proclamation and the teaching of the gospel to all people. No, what he is talking about is the specific effective call of God upon his chosen people. And that call, that call, beloved, is an irresistible call. A call which cannot be ignored. A call which God has you on speed dial. And you will answer it. Paul also talks about this kind of effective call in 2 Thessalonians 2. 13, in which he writes, God from the beginning chose you for salvation. through the sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth, to which he what? He called you by our gospel. So God chooses you And then he calls you. He calls whom he chooses. So if you're a believer in Jesus Christ today. He has called you with an irresistible, effective call. And when he called you, it was a summons that you could not ignore. It was a summons that you would respond to. Why? Because you were smarter than your neighbor who didn't? Because somehow you were more worthy to receive this call? No, not at all. Because we know that apart from God's working in our lives, we would have never answered that call to begin with. We would have hung up on him. but for the transforming power in your life. For in that moment, his spirit transformed your dead heart. And he made you alive to the gospel. to where you could respond, yes, I believe in Jesus Christ. So if you are trusting in Christ today, Then you are a living testimony to what the Lord said long ago through the prophet Ezekiel in of chapter 36, 26 where he writes, I will give you a new heart, and I will give you a new spirit within you. I will take that heart of stone of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you, and I will cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will keep my judgments and do them. Now as we read that passage in Ezekiel 36, that is you, beloved, written right there on the page. That is your life. That is what you have experienced, what God has done for you solely out of his good pleasure and out of his mercy and grace to choose you. And then to call you. Amen. Now if there's any doubt That Paul is talking about this particular effective call in chapter 4, verse 1. All we need to do is to go back to the beginning of Ephesians, to chapter 1, verse 4. Because Paul writes at the very beginning, he makes it very clear that what the Lord has done for the Ephesians and what the Lord has done for us. And this is what he says. God chose you in Christ before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him in love Long before you were a glimmer in anyone's eye. In fact, before the world was even spoken into existence, God chose you to be His. And then his sovereign decree was made real to you when he called you to the gospel, and you said, yes, I will trust in Jesus Christ as my Savior. And that is why Paul writes in chapter 2 that the gospel that we have embraced, that we have received, is a gospel that is a gift. That there is no room for boasting on our part, that we cannot in any way give an inch in our lives to self-righteousness that somehow we deserve this great gift No, not at all. It's all God's grace, and it's all his doing that we trust in him Well, so far we have seen that we are effectively called by God. But what is this calling all about? What does it mean to be called by God Well, Paul alludes to it right here in verse 1 in chapter 4. And he does it with just one simple word. Therefore. That singular word, therefore, contains all that it means to be called by God. Well, how so? Well, we know that when there is a therefore in the text, we need to consider what what went before the therefore. So when Paul writes, therefore, that word therefore acts like a hinge pin that connects all that went before with all that follows after. So Paul describes for us what it means to be called by God and what he wrote before the therefore. And in the remaining chapters, he then tells us how to live out that calling. In other words, Paul first describes the foundation of our calling in chapters 1 through 3. And then in the following chapters, he gives us the implications of that call. Paul first gives us the doctrine and then the doing of it. Because doctrine is what motivates us in the doing. When we understand what we have received in Jesus Christ, it motivates us to live for him. So Paul is always careful to join together, to marry together truth. First, with application for truth that sticks to our hearts results in life change. Now, if we could set the first three chapters of Ephesians to music, it would make this wonderful, glorious symphony of what it means to be called by God. And in that symphony we would hear two musical themes. The first, the first one would be dark. and foreboding, a dark and foreboding tune, we would hear the low beat of the timpani boom Boom, boom, boom, as the clarinets and the elbows would play a mournful dirge And this music, this music would represent what we've been called out of, what we've been called out of. And Paul describes it in chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. in which Paul tells us what we were like before we came to Christ. Boom, boom, boom. We were like the walking dead. We were dead in our trespasses and sins, he writes. We were living in futility, seeking after things which do not last or satisfy things. which lead to death, living in a kingdom leading to death. And so we are on a death march. Boom. Boom, walking toward our own doom and destruction as children of wrath And that, that, beloved, is what we were called out of. But then Then the music changes, and it changes to a new theme, a theme which sounds like the dawn of a new day The violins and the cellos and the flutes begin this sweet melody which lifts us up to new heights and a new hope. As Paul describes what we've been called to. What we've been called to. For God has stopped us dead in our tracks and has lifted us up to new life In chapters 2, 4, and 5, Paul writes, God who is rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he has loved us. Even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By the transforming, regenerating power of the Holy Spirit, the Lord Jesus has called you to new life And yet it gets even better than that as the music continues to build, for not only have we been called to new life, we've been called into a new family. And Paul writes in chapter 1 verse 5, that God has predestined us to adoption as his children. And yet, if that were not enough, the music continues to go on and build, for he has also called us to a new inheritance in which we share the riches of Christ's glory. in chapters 1 and 18. And then finally, the music reaches a grand and glorious crescendo The strings are playing full tilt. The horns are blaring a triumphant tune as Paul tells us that we are called to a new destiny. He says in chapter 2, verses 6 and 7, that we have been raised up together to the very heights of heaven, where we are seated together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. Wow Beloved, just take a moment to ponder that truth to dwell on what you've been called from and the glorious things that you've been called to. Just allow for a moment that truth to wash over you. And as you do, you cannot help but be overcomed by the depth of God's grace and its soaring beauty in your life Why? Because we know we know we don't deserve any of it. Does it get any better than this? This calling of God upon our lives. For our very lives echo the words of 1 Peter, that we have been called out of darkness. And into his marvelous light. And Paul gives us this glorious vision of the gospel. We have seen that we've been called out of darkness And that we've been called by God is to be taken to the very heights of heaven. But then Paul brings us down to earth. to tell us how we should live it out that calling in the here and now. And what does he say to do? He says one word. Walk. In the first three chapters, Paul stirs our hearts. so that we would move our feet. He urges in verse 1 for us to walk worthy of this great calling with which we were called Let's take a moment to consider what he says here. Notice he says, walk. He could have simply said I urge you to be worthy. I urge you to live a life worthy. But no, he says, walk. The word walk is a word of action. It implies going forward. It reminds us that the Christian life is not a stagnant one. That once we receive Christ, we don't remain at a standstill like waiting for a bus. No, for the Christian His life, her life, is a walk with a sense of advancing forward. And notice It's not a stroll where we kind of wander around aimlessly admiring the view. No, walking conveys intention. It conveys a sense of purpose and direction. It is not a sprint that we should just burn out quickly. It is a walk. So as believers, we should see progress in our faith and evidence of growth. Now some may make great strides. And some only take baby steps. But beloved, we should all be advancing forward toward maturity. I've never seen an Apple Watch. But I understand it has a special app that tells you your activity level throughout the day. How many calories you've burned up on a given day. It tells you how long you've been sitting, how long you've been standing, how long you've been moving. It even tells you to stand up and get moving. I don't know about you, but I would find that kind of annoying. I don't want my watch to nag me. But I'm sure it has its use. And if there were an app for our spiritual growth , What would illuminate how how far we have gone and grown since we were called by God? Well, I don't think an app like that exists. And we really don't need one, do we? Because all we need to do is look back, to look back over our life and see how we have changed over the years since we were called by Christ. We can see for ourselves how we've gotten rid of the cellulite of certain besetting sins. And we can also notice how painful trials have firmed up our flabby faith And we can look at our character and see through the that through the power of the word we have been shaped to be more and more like Christ. I'm not suggesting that we ever reach perfection or that we ever stop struggling with sin. But what we should see is a growing dynamic evidence of the reality of Christ's call in our life. That our lives are showing steps moving forward. That as we follow his steps, we are growing. If we had such an app on our watches, what would yours say about your spiritual life? Well, let's move on to the next word, which is worthy, to walk worthy. Worthy can be translated becoming. Paul urges us to live lives that are becoming to the gospel, that our lives fit with the calling to which we've been called We can highlight what Paul is urging us to do if we take the opposite view, that there should be nothing unbecoming to our faith in our lives. That there isn't anything jarring like someone wearing polka dots and plaid together. Oh gosh, call the fashion police on that one. Instead, our lives should be flattering to the gospel, to fit right with God 's Word. Let's take, for example, Joe. Joe was invited to an evening wedding, but Joe was working on his car all day and he was covered in grease and his dirty t-shirt. But he says, you know, I'll just go to the wedding like this, and he doesn't even bother to get cleaned up or changed. So he shows up in the wedding in his greasy t-shirt and his jeans, which are ripped at the knees. Now what do you think would be the reaction at the wedding? Well, wouldn't it be an insult to the bride and to the groom for him to show up like that? It would show a lack of respect to them and to their ceremony and to their wedding, to not be dressed in a proper way for the occasion. Likewise, when we don't live lives becoming to the name Christian, we insult the groom, Jesus Christ, and we do harm to his bride, the church. So this really causes us to reflect. Is there anything in our spiritual wardrobe that needs to be changed? In the walk-in closet of your life, is there anything that you need to get rid of in order to walk in a manner worthy and becoming of one who has been called by Christ? Do you have any sinful attitudes or sinful patterns that are like an old sweatshirt that are comfortable to feel, but they're torn and would be unbecoming to wear in Christ's kingdom? How well does the fabric and texture of your life fit God's word? Several years ago, it was reported in the news that Kate Middleton, who is a commoner, had to undergo princess training when she married Prince William so that she could learn how to act as a royal She had to learn about different government institutions, about different charities, and the appropriate protocol for a princess. How to stand, how to sit, and how to greet people. Why? Why did she have to go through all that? So she would not bring dishonor upon the royal family by acting in a manner unbecoming to a royal. Well, how much more important is it for us, who Peter describes as a royal priesthood, who have been called to a greater kingdom? That we should reflect the King who has called us out of our own way of life to a new way of life in Christ. It is why Paul writes in chapter 422 that we are to put off concerning your former conduct, the old man, which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. And to be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and to put on the new man, which was created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness. And should we wonder what Paul is talking about here in terms of what we should put off and what we should put on, he gives us an example in 431. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice And put on, be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Well, in light of this, now let's move down to verse 3. In our calling by God, there is one thing that we need to put on. And that is unity. In Christ's kingdom, we are called to unity. Paul says in verse 3 that we are to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now let's consider that for a moment. What does it mean to endeavor to keep the unity? Well, the word there endeavoring means more than just kind of a passing attempt. What it really means is to be diligent and derives from the word that suggests speed. Paul is saying with all urgency And with all persistence and tenacity, keep the unity of the Spirit. And it is a very strong command, is it not? Because Paul knew the vital importance of unity among believers. If there are fractured relationships between brothers and sisters in Christ, they bring dishonor to him. So they need to be fixed and restored. Why? For what is at stake? Nothing less, Paul writes, than the unity of the Spirit. As believers, we share the same Spirit who dwells within each of us. So how can God's Spirit then be divided? In verses 4 and 5, Paul describes this unity we share. He says, you, we are one body in Christ. We have one Lord, we share one faith, one baptism, we have one God who is our Father. So there is this repetition of the word one, one , one. One to represent and hammer away the fact that we are united as one. And Paul is making the point, as he did in chapter 2, that what binds us together as believers in Christ is greater by far than any of our differences, which are swallowed up. by all that we have received in our calling as Christians. So how can it be that God's Spirit can be divided? Yet, it is a rather odd statement when you think about it. It's an odd phrase because Paul tells us to strive to keep the unity of the Spirit Now how can God's spirit be broken? It can't, right? So how do we explain Paul's exhortation to keep the unity of the Spirit? if that unity of the Spirit cannot be broken. Why are we called to maintain that which is impossible to break? There's only one explanation. That we are to show externally what we possess spiritually. That we are to give visible evidence to the inner reality that we share in common. Years ago, when I was driving south on I-95 towards Georgia, I saw this sign, this big, huge billboard that said, enjoy a Claxton fruitcake. with a monstrous fruitcake on the billboard. And then several hundred miles later, there's another billboard and it says, you are getting closer to a Claxton fruitcake. And this went on through North Carolina and South Carolina, signs enticing me to stop and get a Claxton fruitcake. And finally, as I drove by a large kind of dilapidated roadstand where you could buy a Claxton fruitcake It wasn't very impressive at all, given all the advertising that was put into it. There it was, the Claxton fruitcake. Furthermore, those billboards marred the beautiful landscape of three states. Claxton fruitcakes obscured the green trees and the rolling hills of Virginia and the Carolinas. And the point is this. The landscape was always there. But it was marred. It was obscured. And when we have fractured relationships between believers, That brokenness is like a Claxton fruitcake billboard. It mars the wonderful landscape of God's glory as revealed by his church So disunity is a blight on the church. If we're to walk in a manner worthy of our calling, we must strive to keep the unity of the body. But how do we maintain the unity? Paul tells us in verse 2, he gives us four virtues that are necessary for unity. And the first of the four is the starting point for the rest that follow. The first is loneliness or loneliness of mind. In other words, humility. Now what Paul is saying here is totally countercultural to his day and ours, because humility was a sign of weakness to the Greeks. And yet for Paul, humility is an essential for unity within the body. How so? Well, the importance of humility becomes clear if we consider its opposite, which is pride. Pride can be the source of division in the church, and it takes many forms and it has many flavors like Baskin Robbins ice cream. There is a never I'm never wrong pride flavor. I can't admit when I'm wrong or take responsibility for what I've done, but I blame someone else for it. And then there is the clogged mouth form of pride in which the voice is stopped up and you can't say, gee, honey, I'm sorry. And next would would be the clogged ears kind of pride in which I cannot hear the truth and then I'm willing to receive constructive criticism or I am unteachable. And then there is a hard-hearted pride, where I have a totally unforgiving spirit, and I coddle old grudges, and I nurse old wounds, and I recount past wrongs like Scrooge counting coins. And then there is the my way or the highway kind of pride. And James describes this in chapter 1, verse 4. Where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your numbers? Well, what's the antidote for pride? It is lowliness of mind. It is an attitude of the heart. As Paul says in Philippians 2. 3, in humility let each esteem others as better than himself. And then Paul goes on to say in Philippians that Christ himself is our supreme example of humility, who being in the form of God did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself of no reputation Taking the form of a bondservant, he humbled himself to the point of death, even death of a cross. So living out our calling from God in a worthy manner involves keeping unity. through humility. And then humility easily connects with the next virtue, gentleness. Gentleness is humility in action, the practical outworking of a humble spirit. Another word for gentleness is meekness, but meekness does not imply weakness, rather gentleness is strength under self-control, like a stallion under the control of a bit. To understand gentleness, we can consider its opposite, which is harshness. Someone who is harsh is a person who is easily provoked and provokes others. They have a quick temper. They use their strength or power to bludgeon others with their words when wronged. But gentleness, on the other hand. Is self-control. It's not the unleashing of power of the tongue when provoked or angered. And of course, we have again, once again, the example of Christ Himself, who said, Take my yoke upon you. And learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. And in Christ was the fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah that the Messiah would not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not extinguish. And so we are called to follow the example of Christ. Writing to Titus, Paul instructs him to remind the believers. to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. Well related to the next to gentleness is the next virtue, long-suffering And long-suffering is gentleness for the long haul. It could also be translated patience. In this verse it refers to a slowness in avenging wrong or retaliating when hurt by another. And beloved, wasn't that certainly the attitude of Jesus Christ towards us? That he is patient with us, that as Psalm 103 says that God is slow to anger. and abounding in love and mercy to his children. So as his children, we are to exhibit the same attitude toward others. As Colossians 3. 12-13 says, Therefore, as the elected God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another. and forgiving one another. If anyone has a plaint complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you must also do. Well that brings us to our last virtue. Related to long-suffering is forbearing with one another. In other words, putting up with others' irritating ways, recognizing that you might find my faults and my failings and my sins just as annoying as I find yours. You like potato and I like potato. You like tomato and I like tomato Potato, potato, tomato, tomato. Let's call the whole thing off. But we can't, can we? Because we will always remain brothers and sisters in Christ, even though we annoy one another with our faults and our failings And it doesn't mean that we don't acknowledge them or that we may even address them. However, we continue to stand by each other, our fellow Christians, despite our failings. We don't call the whole thing off. Well, these are hard words. They're challenging words for us. These virtues do not come about naturally. It is where the rubber meets the road in terms of faith and practice and what we believe and how we live it out. And we find that as the rubber meets the road, it rubs us the wrong way. It goes against our old nature. And yet how do we do it? How do we find the means to demonstrate these virtues and walk in a manner worthy of the gospel? Well Paul tells us that we're to forbear with one another in love. The answer is love. The sum of all virtues is love. How can we love difficult people? Which doesn't necessarily mean we have the warm fuzzies toward them, but that we care about them. How do we love difficult people who are hurtful? Well, we go back to chapter 3, where Paul prayed that the Ephesians would be rooted and grounded in love, that they would comprehend the vastness of Christ's love. And the source of our love is understanding then the breadth and depth of Christ's love for us For how can we be stingy towards others when we see the depth of God's forgiveness in our lives? How can we be unforgiving towards others when we have been forgiven so much? How can we be proud and haughty when we have nothing to boast in but Christ alone? How do we love as Christ has loved us? Well we can't in our own strength. We need Christ and His Spirit. So as we yield our lives to Him and He begins to produce His love through us, we are able to love others as he has loved us to walk worthy of the calling in which we were called. Years ago I saw saving Private Ryan and it was such a riveting movie and the last few scenes really have stuck in my mind. Particularly the scene where Captain Miller, who was sent on a mission to save Private Ryan, is dying. In the attempt to save him. And as he lays there mortally wounded, he whispers in Private Ryan's ear, Earn it. Earn this, Jack. And for the Christian who has been saved by Christ's death , We have nothing to earn because we can never repay Christ for what he's done for us. It was all a gift of his grace. So he doesn't whisper into our ear, earn it, earn this. No, what he whispers in our ear is reflective. this. Reflect this in your life by living a life worthy of being called into my kingdom. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, as we consider these verses, we are just overwhelmed by what you have done for us. We praise you that you have called us out of a life of darkness and doom, and that you called us into a new life, a new hope, and a new destiny. And Lord, we ask that you would examine our hearts, that you would convict us of sinful patterns, that we would put off, and that you would encourage us, encourage us also by your same Spirit to put on the unity in the bond of peace, that our lives would be a reflection of your humility, of your gentleness, of your long-suffering and patience and love, which binds them all together. Together. Oh Lord, may we reflect you in our lives and in what you've done for us. We thank you and praise you. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's all stand together and praise to sing our root close