Thanks to the Lord for the wonderful gifts that He's given His church. Hallelujah. We're going to be reading from Genesis 17. I encourage you to turn in your copies of God's Word to Genesis 17 at this time. Children ages four through second grade can go down to wonders of worship. Let me pray before I read from God's Word O Lord, I'm weak. I'm a sinner. But your word is pure and it's powerful. It's wonderful. I pray that I would decrease and you would increase this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. The first preaching of God's word is the reading of his word. Hear the word of the Lord from Genesis 17. When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly Then Abram fell on his face, and God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you. And you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful. I'll make you into nations, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. To be God to you and to your offspring after you, and I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings. all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, As for you You shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant, which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male, throughout your generations, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring Both he who is born of your house and he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. I will bless her, and moreover, I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of peoples shall come from her. Then Abram, Abraham, fell on his face and laughed. It said to himself, Shall a child be born to a man who's a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who's ninety years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. God said, no. But Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son. And you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him. As for Ishmael, I've heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and multiply him greatly. He shall father twelve princes, and I will make him into a great nation. But I will establish my covenant with Isaac whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year. And when he had finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham. And then Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his house, or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abram's house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very day. And as God had said to him, Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, and Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin And that very day Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised, and all the men of his house, those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Have you ever gotten a good deal? A really good deal Maybe like an ongoing food deal. Those sound the best to me. Like free Chick-fil-A every day. Or for Phil Thomas, free chipotle every day. Okay? For how long would you want that deal to go on? Year? Lifetime? Longer? You know, if it were me, I'd I'd probably name my son after myself, give him my card, and he could go in there and get it after I died. All right. When you get a good deal, you want to hang on to it. Let's talk about deals after you die. If you're a car owner, what's going to happen to your car after you die? If you're a homeowner, what's going to happen to your home after you die? If you're a parent, what's going to happen to your children after you die? What do you want to happen? Is it okay if when you die all your stuff, all your money goes to the government? Is that okay, Ross? No. You're like you're like basically that's how it is anyway right now. Uh but um no, you you want to leave a legacy. After you die. How about this? Is it okay if after you die, your children become Muslims, join ISIS, move to Iraq, and disavow you their Christian parents? Is that okay? What would a good legacy look like? Maybe for them to carry on in your footsteps, avoiding the pitfalls that you fell into, building off the foundation that you and your parents made. And holding firm to the faith that you entrusted to them. That would be a good legacy. And a godly legacy is the primary concern in the passage here before us today. God initiates a deal with Abraham and he's not just concerned about Abraham. He's concerned that the deal with Abraham that God makes with Abraham reflects God's concern for all Abraham's offspring. Here's the main point I'm trying to tell you today. God's covenant with Abraham reveals God 's emphasis on raising godly offspring. God's covenant with Abraham reveals God's emphasis on raising godly offspring. And God's covenant with us likewise emphasizes raising godly offspring. God's covenant with us likewise emphasizes raising godly offspring. Notice how things start in this passage. God appears to Abraham and tells him what to do. Abraham didn't come to him. This is a covenant. Remember, it's sovereignly administered. It's initiated and the terms are set by Almighty. And he tells Abraham to be perfect so that he can make a covenant with him. Isn't that putting the cart before the horse? Doesn't Abraham need a covenant in order to make him perfect? God speaks as if Abraham needs to be perfect, blameless, in order for God to make a covenant with him. Well, Abraham isn't perfect. He's fallen. We don't begin blameless in our covenant with God. We don't begin innocent. Abraham didn't. Blameless is how we remain in covenant with God. Perfection is our obligation in covenant with God. Perfection is God's expectation for us, and He's made it clear from the outset. But the only way that we actually achieve blamelessness, holiness, righteousness is in covenant with God Almighty Righteousness is the prerequisite to be in covenant with God. Righteousness is the requirement to stay in covenant with God. And thanks be to God, righteousness is the outcome of being in covenant with God. But given this sinful state, it doesn't sound like the covenant with Abraham is going to get off the ground or last long if holiness is required as a prerequisite. But the way that God works around that is through faith. Abraham believed God. And it was counted to him as righteousness. He didn't have righteousness. He didn't have faithfulness All he did was believe that God would be faithful for him. And the righteous live by this faith. You see, this is the starting place for Paul's argument in Romans 1. 17. And this was the seed of the Reformation through Martin Luther, that the just shall live by faith. It means that those who are justified, righteous in God's sight, are righteous because they have faith that God will save them. Hallelujah. This righteousness by faith, apart from works of the law, isn't just a New Testament idea. Paul was basing his argument on Abraham as an example and quoting Habakkuk 2. 4. God 's people have always been justified by faith. Always. Not by works of the law that any man may boast. Some say, oh, the old covenant was about being justified by obeying the law. It never was. Justification from the beginning comes by faith. Look at verse 2. That I may make my covenant between me and you and multiply you greatly. What's the first thing that God mentions? What's the thing that He keeps repeating Where's he going with this covenant? What's his angle? What's it for? He wants to multiply Abraham. God wants offspring. He wants godly offspring. This is what Malachi 2. 15 says. The guys read it this morning regarding marriage. God is seeking godly offspring. He shows his cards in the first round of negotiations about this covenant. God wants godly offspring. He cares about children. Children. God cares about you. This is the founder of the faith, and the first thing that he's talking to him about is children. Children born in the context of covenant. Then Abram falls on his face. This contract is not going the way that he expected contracts to go. First of all, it's initiated by God who needs nothing from Abram. God could raise up godly offspring from the dust. Then the bargaining begins with all that God wants to do for Abraham. Usually in a contract, each party is looking for out for its own interests and to get something. But God is first and foremost looking out for Abram's interests. Especially that aspect of life that has so eluded Abram. It's caused him the most trouble. Godly offspring. And the main thing that God wants is the main thing Abram wants. And Abram knows how unworthy he is of this honor. God wants a covenant with you. God wants to bless you like crazy, just as he did with Abram. Right in the area that you're struggling with the most. Are you gonna haggle with him? Or are you gonna fall on your face and worship? Look at verse five. The covenant then goes from crazy to preposterous. God gives Abram a nickname. Okay, it was Abram, which means exalted father, or probably in his native tongue, loves his father, so daddy's boy. Okay And God changes that to Abraham, father of a multitude, big daddy. Alright? It sounds like a joke to Abram. It's like calling the biggest kid in the church tiny. Or calling a prepubescent boy Big Daddy. It's a joke. But not to anyone with eyes of faith God's grace to Abraham to us is so outlandish that at first we laugh. And then we realize he's for real. We know our sin. We know that God knows our sin. And then God comes to us with such overwhelming grace that we must worship him. We must fall on our faces at his great grace. Listen to God's emphasis with Abram. God says, your new name is going to be Father. This covenant is not just about Abraham. It never was just about Abraham. This is about Abraham and all his children. Biblical covenants are agreements between God and families, God and groups of people. Children, people not yet in existence. So when I say to you that in the new covenant we should apply the sign of the covenant not only to believers but to their families, you should say That sounds biblical. That sounds normal. God's covenant with Abraham immediately involves his children. God's covenant with you involves your children. Or your future children. This is how God worked in the Old Testament. This is how He works in the New In American evangelicalism, we talk about a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And we've been taught to think of a testimony as a personal conversion experience from darkness to light. And I used to start my testimony starting with when I was conscious, or when I can remember being conscious, of God's work in my life convicting of me as sin. But my true testimony begins long before that, right? God had been thinking of me before I was born. Did you know that you can be filled with the Holy Spirit in a womb? John the Baptist was. Did you know that God can be your God, your God, from the womb? That's what David says in the Psalms. I was baptized as an infant in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. God marked me. That doesn't mean nothing Infant baptism didn't predispose me to be careless about my faith. On the contrary, I point back to my baptism as God's pouring out on his love for me before I was able to speak. He loved me first. He called me by his own name first. He adopted me into his family. He chose me long before I chose him. That's the gospel. That's reformed theology. That's the story of Abraham. Is it your story? Are you ready to look back with different eyes on your story and see God tying Himself to you before you were even aware, before you made the decision to come to Christ? Maybe we might be justified in applying the sign of the covenant to a covenant child before we come to realize the Spirit's moving. Maybe. What's a covenant? This is the third in the series of covenant theology that I'm doing. How does Opalmer Robertson define covenant? A bond in blood sovereignly administered. And my addition is through a representative. We've covered the sovereignly administered part. God initiated this contract. He's setting the terms. The blood part we'll get to in a moment in the circumcision. This covenant is being done through a representative. What's a representative? A representative is someone who represents you and your interests at court in official proceedings. You have representatives in your state government. You have representatives in the federal government. This is for expediency. We don't have time to all go down to Annapolis and haggle and craft bills and vote on them. So we have representatives. And much as we might not like or approve of what they've done, we're bound by their corporate decisions. And if you don't like it, you can leave the state or the country, as it were. Do we have representatives in the spiritual realm? Does someone else Make decisions and then we're bound to them unless we leave. Does God enter into an agreement with someone else and then we're wrapped up in it? Is that fair? In the text, the answer is yes. Abraham represents all his progeny and his household. Abraham enters into covenant with God on their behalf The children and household members ratify that by allowing themselves to be circumcised and staying in that household. But this sounds very offensive to us. We have a hyper-individualistic meritocratic culture in America. In other words, we like to make our own decisions. We want to be judged by our own actions. We prefer to be thought of as individuals and we think of others as individuals. In a language with 500,000 words, we don't even have a proper second person plural. Y'all. I need to call Oxford and talk to them about this. Look at verse 6. God says, I will make you masculine singular. Abundantly, abundantly fruitful. And kings will come from you, masculine singular, and I will make nations from you, masculine singular. First of all, God is saying you, but what he really means is you and Sarah. Right? Abraham didn't give birth to a multitude from like a giant growth that kept growing on his arm. And exploded and gave birth to a hundred kings. Okay? No, uh Abraham had a child with Sarah. So God is saying you, but he means more than one. At the very least. Um Sarah as well. But But with Abraham and Sarah, that's not all. God says, multitudes shall come from you. Did Abraham and Sarah have multitudes of babies themselves? No. They had one baby. They had a grand total of two grandbabies. But then things began to multiply. Jacob, father of the twelve tribes of Israel, they went into Egypt a small number and came out in multitude. The point is that when God covenants with Abraham, even though he says you, masculine singer, he means y'all. You and your family. You need to wrap your mind around this. You and your household. God is covenanting not just with one person, but with a whole mighty host of people, a whole household. He's allowed to do this. This doesn't compromise their responsibility to ratify their covenant with him, but that means that the sign of the covenant, get ready for this, is going to be applied to people who end up Not in covenant with God. That's okay. God perceived that. It's not a surprise to him. God covenants with a representative for a host of people. And God says the sign of the covenant should be applied even to people who he knows will end up estranged from him. Ishmael. The Muslims claim Ishmael is their for their forefather. Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. High school guys. We just read about this in middle school guys All of Esau's people who are the Edomites, they rejected the Lord. They did not ratify the covenant. This is not a problem for God. If he does say that in the old covenant, maybe, just maybe, he might do it in the new covenant. But you would say, but isn't the new covenant better? Haven't we worked out those kinks and improved functionality such that we mostly only apply the Son of the Covenant to actual believers? Well, the new covenant is better. It's more inclusive. It's less restrictive. Now the sign of the covenant is given to girls as well as to boys. The covenant is going out in large scale to non-Jews. But shouldn't the sign of the covenant only be applied to those who actually believe now? Well, it shouldn't be applied to those who believe. They and their households. Now we're getting down to some of the frequent argument that happens between Baptists and Presbyterians, between those who believe in infant baptism and those who exclusively believe in baptism for believers. And there's several passages where baptisms are mentioned in the New Testament. And they're mentioned with this funny little word, household. When Cornelius is baptized in Acts 10, and when Peter is describing the situation in Acts 11, he says that he proclaimed the good news of the gospel for the salvation of Cornelius and his whole household. And then they were baptized with the Holy Spirit, so Peter baptized them with water as well. Then in Acts 16, the word household is mentioned three times. Lydia was baptized and her household. And then we get to the Philippian jailer. And let me read Acts 16, 29 through 34. And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas. Then he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house, and he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them, and he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God. Now my Baptist friends would emphasize that the whole family rejoiced, and therefore they must all be able to articulate faith and belief. But that's an overly literalistic way of interpreting language. If I say that our whole family prayed and praised God and sang a hymn, Does that include Annalise, my 19-month-old? I can say that my whole family rejoiced, even if Annalise contributed no more than a smile and a grunt. And I'm not doing damage to the English language. Therefore, just because the household rejoice doesn't mean they're of a speaking age. Furthermore, in 1 Timothy 3. 4 and 1 Timothy 5. 4, household explicitly refers to children. 1 Timothy 3. 4, 1 Timothy 5. 4. In 2 Timothy 116 and 419, household seems to refer to a slave owner's family. And if a household includes slaves, it certainly includes little kids. And then earlier in the Gospels in John 4. 53 it says, a household believed. It doesn't mention baptism. It's John 4. 53. But regarding the household, it says it explicitly included children. Therefore I think that the New Testament leaves itself very open to a corporate household understanding of conversion and baptism. Our Baptist brothers who insist rightly that there's no mention in the New Testament of the covenant sign being applied to a child should at least Be very understanding of why we Presbyterians feel justified in applying baptism to our whole household. At least understand where we're coming from. When we look at the New Testament, Baptists and Presbyterians view it from different angles and bring different assumptions to the table, and the New Testament evidence is somewhat inconclusive. Therefore, let's look at the assumptions that we bring to the table. Do we assume, okay, this is getting a little bit technical, okay? Do we assume that everything from the Old Testament is still in effect? unless we see it specifically abrogated in the New Testament. Or do we assume that everything from the Old Testament is done away with? unless we see it specifically authorized in the New Testament. So does it all is it all still going unless it's specifically abrogated, or is it all tossed unless we see specifically specifically authorized. I think Jesus would be an authority on this matter. Matthew 5, 17 through 19. States succinctly, do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law, until all is accomplished. Therefore Whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Listen, the New Testament isn't set up like a whole bunch of laws and regulations. We already had that in the Ten Commandments and the law. The New Testament is about Gentile believers being grafted into the pre-existing people of God, the people of faith. So the question isn't, what specific guidelines does the New Testament prescribe for Situation X? The question is rather, what specific guidelines does the New Testament say Jesus fulfilled already? Otherwise, we assume the Old Testament guidelines are still in effect. Should we circumcise infants then? This this is precisely along the lines of a question that you should be asking. If it's all still going, should we circumcise? Acts 15. 20 answers this question and by extension a great many others. The answer for Gentiles is no. We do not have to become Jews to receive the Holy Spirit. Nonetheless, we should abstain from food offered to idols to sexual immorality and things strangled in blood. I'm not going to get into all that. Can we eat anything with anybody? Because the Jews certainly couldn't. And this is answered explicitly when Peter is shown the vision. At the house of Simon the Tanner, of a banquet of food coming down to him out of the sky of clean and unclean animals. And the Lord says to Peter, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. And the and Peter argues with the Lord about this. Oh no, no, I couldn't. I I never eat unclean food Yes, you can eat crabs and oysters and pork. Hallelujah. But it's been specifically authorized What about the temple and the whole sacrificial system? Jesus is our high priest. He is our perfect sacrifice. Christians are his royal priesthood, and holy works are our vestments. All the laws associated with that have been fulfilled in Christ. And this includes all the calendar laws, which were all intertwined with the sacrificial system. What about the civil laws? When to put someone to death and safety legislations like building parapets Well, we should still feel bound by the spirit of those laws, but their specific application will be worked out by our states, and we are explicitly told to abide by their laws. Inasmuch as they don't contradict the Lord's laws. So our states have different uh laws about what constitutes a safe place for children to sleep at night With the loss of the civil state of God's people, those laws are no longer in effect. So then, the ceremonial law has been fulfilled in Christ. The civil laws of the nation, the state of Israel, have been replaced with the civil laws of our state. Which we're bound to obey, as much as they don't contradict the laws of God. And that leaves the moral law. The moral law is the sum of the law, and it's contained in the Ten Commandments. And the Ten Commandments are summed up into two commandments. What's the greatest commandment? People of God? And the second is like it. Very good. Does Jesus act like these commandments are done away with? Not at all. And so we're going to err on assuming That certain aspects of the old covenant are still in effect unless they've been abrogated. And so that's why we as Presbyterians are going to err on the side of applying the covenant sign to our children. Look at verses 7 and 8. I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you, throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I'll give to you and your offspring the land of your sojournings. Notice how the covenant includes Abraham's offspring. What a wonderful covenant! See how intent God is on giving the benefits of the covenant to the children of those who trust him by faith. Verse 9, you and your offspring, verse 10, between me and you and your offspring after you. Some who have seen all this emphasis on offspring mistakenly think that the covenant was only for those born directly of Abraham's bloodline. S some people still think this. They think, oh, this is about in in the Jewish times, in the Old Covenant, it was about a physical bloodline. No. We know this isn't the case because look at verse 18. God has just told Abraham that Sarah shall bear Abraham a son in their old age. Abraham laughs at God and pleads, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. This is so embarrassing. Abraham's asking that his little son, his little man from Baby Mama on the side can get the covenant. It is shameful. I I can't I can't I can't imagine, you know, as he's going back and telling Sarah this story and he's like, Yeah, you know, I said you're too old, you know, Ishmael's fine. And you said, what But, lest we be too judgmental of Abraham, this story is in there. He he shares with us his story Can we can we be so vulnerable as as Abraham But it's not just between Abraham and his physical offspring. God contradicts this line of thinking. He graciously blesses Ishmael, but says that his covenant will be with the child born from Sarah and Abram. So the covenant with Abraham has never been about the blood of Abraham. And the whole scene is so comical. God just blessed this guy like crazy. He told Abraham how the covenant is going to proceed with, not surprisingly, his wife. And Abraham has the audacity to suggest that the covenant goes through his adulterous relationship with Hagar. It's so embarrassing. So if the covenant isn't going through Abraham's physical offspring, it begs the question, is it about the blood of Sarah then? Well, look at verse 23. Then Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his house, or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abram's house, and he circumcised them in the flesh of their foreshadowers. And then again in verse 27, all the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money from a foreigner. So the answer is no. It's not about the blood of Sarah either. The covenant isn't about Abraham's blood or Sarah's blood. And you'll remember that even though Esau was of Sarah's bloodline, he wasn't chosen either. The Lord even goes so far as to say that Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. The covenant isn't precisely about a bloodline. Do you notice who it was with? His household. The household of Abram gets the benefits of the covenant sign. Even after the Lord said the covenant line wasn't going to go through Ishmael, Abraham still circumcised Ishmael as the Lord commanded. So to be clear, there's precedent for the sign of the covenant being applied to people who may not remain in the covenant. Therefore, if your scruple with infant baptism is that we may be applying a kind of sign of the covenant to someone who ultimately rejects the covenant, That's not a problem for God. That's not something that He seems to be worried about. Then we come to this line in verse 13b. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. What's everlasting? How is that everlasting? So Father's Day is coming up, and some of my children, one of my children, is thinking about what to get me for Father's Day. And um he said, What do you want, Daddy? And I I said, What what Annie always says for her what she wants for her birthday is for you to love God. We want for you to love God. That's the greatest gift. I love how God is intent on that here. But he said, what else? And he said, I'm not going to get you an everlasting gift. I said What? But this is what the Lord's gonna give, and everlasting gift. And it's just kind of funny that everlasting and flesh are mentioned in the same sentence. I mean zombie movie much? Is flesh everlasting? Is it the covenant itself that's everlasting? Is it the sign of the covenant that's everlasting and Jews will be circumcising in heaven? Is it the lasting effectiveness of God's covenant with Abraham that's everlasting? It's confusing since we know from Acts 15 and other places that Gentiles no longer have to be circumcised to be part of the temple of God. Wouldn't it be better to so they put the this everlasting covenant in the flesh, wouldn't it be better to put the sign of the covenant in something stone or metal? That lasts longer than flesh. Or does it? God writes a covenant that will last forever into human flesh that dies and passes away. God calls this an everlasting covenant, even though it will not always be the sign of access to the covenant, baptism will. God calls the land of Canaan an everlasting possession for them, even though it's been under foreign rule countless times since the time of Joshua. And now as the physical land is under the authority of secular folks, be not confused, people of God, secular folks who have no regard for the Lord's anointed king. So how is this covenant everlasting? We've got to look at verse 14 Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Now the word cut off there is the same word that's used to describe how to make a covenant. You make a covenant by cutting. You cut a covenant. And if Abraham's seed didn't cut this covenant, they'd still be cut. They'd just be cut off, cut from the team. This cutting off language is used in Exodus 12, 15 and 19, and it means they'd be killed. Either providentially or by the government. So then the question is, who Of all people was truly cut off. Who was killed providentially and by the government? Who was cut off from his people, the land of the living? Who was treated as a covenant breaker? Who cried out at his death, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It was Christ Christ. Christ was cut off for our sakes. Christ was treated as a covenant breaker, though he was not. He was killed. He had been circumcised. He was circumcised, cut off from the land of the living. And this was done in his flesh. And this is how the covenant can be cut in flesh foreverlasting. Because the effectiveness of Christ being cut off on the cross is everlasting. Hallelujah. He was cut off that we might be engrafted in. He was cursed by hanging on a tree that we might be blessed and live in the house of his father. Jesus was circumcised on the eighth day, but the cross was his real circumcision, his real cutting off. Let's look at Colossians 2, 11 through 15. In him also, you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands. He's talking to Gentiles here by putting off the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith and the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and the authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. You Gentiles were circumcised with the circumcision of Christ. Where were you saved? On the cross. That's where Jesus was cut off. That's metaphorically the circumcision of Christ. And four things are synonymous in Colossians 2. Your metaphorical circumcision, two, putting off the body of the flesh, it's wickedness, three, the circumcision of Christ as he was cut off on the cross, and four, your burial through baptism. Christ was cut off for us. He died that we might die to sin. Let us die to sin. We're dead to sin. It has no power over us. Let's act like it. And your baptism is a burial. It's a burial of your old self. Here's where my Baptist friends get it right. They die and rise again. And this is a mode that's allowed in Presbyterian circles, but it's treated like the red-headed stepchild of the modes. Okay? You're allowed to immerse somebody. Alright? All my Baptist friends said amen. Alright. Sometimes they understand it better than we Presbyterians do because of the wonderful mode they use of descending into the water and rising up. This is a good picture of what baptism is. Dying and rising to new life. Because you've been baptized, put to death sin in your bodies. And notice that your metaphorical circumcision is your baptism. Your baptism is synonymous with your metaphorical circumcision. They both symbolize putting to death and walking in purity of life with the Lord. And if they're so closely linked here, It makes sense to baptize infants in the new covenant even as infants were circumcised in the old covenant. We should think of circumcision as pointing forward to baptism. So, our metaphorical circumcision is our baptism. Jesus' metaphorical circumcision was on the cross. Do you know what Jesus refers to the cross as? His baptism. Luke 12, 50. Jesus says, I have a baptism to be baptized with. Luke 12, 50. This is after his baptism with John, okay? I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it's accomplished. It's weird. Weird Jesus says this long after he'd been baptized, but Jesus is referring to the cross as his baptism. And we saw previously that Paul regards the cross as the circumcision of Christ. At the cross, we find again that baptism and circumcision are used interchangeably to describe the same ordeal Therefore, isn't it proper to take our knowledge of Old Testament circumcision and fill in the blanks of the New Testament baptism? And if you're unconvinced that the New Testament teaches that baptism should be applied even to household members like children, at least give some weight to the Old Testament precedent that the sign of the spiritual covenant was applied to infants. But how important is this really? I mean, not applying the sign of the covenant to one's children, even of One's own household seems to be of deadly importance to Abraham. He obeys right away in spite of the discomfort He leads his men, men, in obeying God's awkward command. Wouldn't it be enough for Abraham to say, God, you know, I'm I'm committed to you. Just trust me. I don't really mean to go so far as to mutilate my flesh to prove my commitment to you. No, he doesn't say that. He obeys In Exodus 4, 24 and 26, Moses was on his way to Egypt to deliver God's people from bondage. And the final thing that he was going to say to Pharaoh was, if you don't let my people go, I'm going to kill your firstborn son. Meanwhile, Moses has a firstborn son. He's taking him down to Egypt with his wife. And the Lord sends an angel of death after him, after Moses, the chosen servant, to kill Moses. Why? Because he hadn't circumcised his son. And by God's grace, Zipporah, his wife, circumcised their son and threw the foreskin at Moses' feet, saying, You've become a bridegroom of blood to me. Is this applying the covenant sign to children serious? This is deadly serious to God that a parent should apply the sign of the covenant to their children. The wonderful grace of the Lord is that he allows us ruined sinners to have children. God desires that we have children? Yes. Us sinners make more little sinners into the world? Are you sure about this, God? God desires godly offspring and he desires to covenant with them almost immediately. He wants them marked as his. He wants them you to know that your children are really his. For those of you who don't have children and don't think you'll ever have children, that was Sarah's situation. God sees you He hasn't forgotten you. You won't be passed over and being provided for or having a godly legacy. Remember that I said that the covenant with Abraham was never about his bloodline specifically. It's not about yours either. You can have children of the covenant without ever having children. You can adopt, and of course, that's wonderful. You can also disciple This is what the New Testament expects older women to be doing with younger women and older men to be doing with younger men. And you can bear spiritual fruit, offspring by discipling. As you become more and more concerned for godly offspring, you get closer and closer to God's heart. Some applications. For children. God cares about you. His covenants are designed with you specifically in mind. Are you keeping him in mind as you become an adult? As you learn about who you are, do you recognize that a big part of who you are is a child of God? A lover of God? A servant of God? If you realize this and want to emphasize it, talk to the elders about getting baptized, or if you've already been baptized, becoming a communicant member. For those of you not yet convinced of payda baptism, did you put your mark on your children? Did you give them a name? Have they lived up to it yet? Isn't it a little presumptuous to call your child Joshua, Josiah? Isaac, Stephen, those are big names And the point is, we name and mark things before they've really come into their own. That isn't considered presumptuous, that's faith. And God has a mark that He'd like to put on your child before they believe, before you realize that it's the Holy Spirit working in them when they pray and obey and praise him. Before they deserve the mark of Christ, he still wants to mark them as his. Is it so dangerous to allow them to do this? Holding back baptism doesn't guarantee that if they're baptized later they will always be with the Lord. Holding back on applying the covenant sign to covenant children doesn't cure people of presumption, hypocrisy, taking God's name in vain. So if being a Cratobaptist doesn't solve these problems, perhaps it's time to allow for the idea of paidobaptism. If you've already been convinced of paedo-baptism, applying the covenant side to your child and baptism, make good on your baptism. Die to sin. Rise to new life. Look back at that line in the sand that God drew and be encouraged. You are his. He is yours. You're his child. Act like it. It's the lack of holiness that has created a lot of has caused a lot of people to reject a lot of teaching of the church and go into This is one of the reasons why Baptism started in the first place. At the Reformation. At the time of the Reformation, that's when the Baptist faith, a lot of it came about, and they were rejecting the presumption, the hypocrisy. The emptiness of religion when Paedo-Baptists would say, I've been baptized, I'm fine, and live a worldly life. Don't do that. Honor the name that you've been given. Christian, little Christ, adopted by Christ. Because we have So many who were baptized as an infant that think they're fine, that think they don't need to repent, that think they don't need to die to sin, that they don't need to hold fast to the teachings of Scripture And it's because Pedo-Baptists have been lazy about their conversion and sanctification that's given rise to a great number of rejections of it. In conclusion, we have a wonderful covenant from the Lord. And he wants a covenant not only with us, but with our offspring. The Lord desires godly offspring. Do you see his emphasis on that? Is your emphasis on that as well? Are you being godly offspring? Are you honoring the Lord? Are you honoring the mark that he put on you as Christians? The sign of baptism is a sign of dying and rising to new life. Are you doing that? You are dead to sin. He has put his mark of grace on you before you ever deserved it. He has saved you from sin. Now let's act like it. Let's act out of thankfulness. Let's pray. Oh Lord, thank you that you loved me before I ever realized that I loved you. How amazing it is that you put your mark on me. I don't think much of The church that did that, but Lord, you were sovereignly working through that to mark me. Thank you, Lord. I pray that my friends here would be encouraged by their baptism. seek to make good on their baptism. And those that have not been baptized should seek actively to be baptized, knowing that covenant signs are deadly serious to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're going to confess our faith from the official words of our of our beliefs stated in the Westminster Confession of Faith. And um and then after that Prem and Kelly and Elizabeth and Joshua, could you guys come up? I just want to pray for you. This is their last Sunday here with us before they go on south. And I just want to pray with them and then we'll uh sing Jesus' Son. loves me. I'm going to read the light print and you guys are going to read the bold print. Let's confess our faith with the words found in your bulletin. The distance between God and the creature is so great that although reasonable creatures do owe obedience unto him as their creator, yet they could never have any fruition of him as their blessedness and reward. But by some voluntary condescension on God's part, which he hath been pleased to express by way of covenant. Man, by his fall, having made himself incapable of life by that covenant The Lord was pleased to make a second, commonly called the covenant of grace, wherein he freely offereth unto sinners life Life and salvation by Jesus Christ, requiring of them faith in Him that they may be saved, and promising to give unto all those that are ordained unto eternal life. And to the everlasting inheritance with all things belonging to Him. This covenant was differently administered in the time of the law and in the time of the gospel. Under the law it was administered by promises, prophecies, sacrifices, circumcision. the pastal lamb and other types, and ordinances delivered to the people of the Jews, all for signifying Christ to come. Which were for that time sufficient and efficacious through the operation of the Spirit to instruct and build up the elect in faith in the promised Messiah, by whom they had full remission of sins. and eternal salvation, and it's called the Old Testament. And let us have her glory. And spiritual activity to all nations , both you and Gentiles, and to all the trust. You can turn your hymnals to 633. Banders, if you would come up, I'm going to pray for you, and then we're going to sing Jesus Loves Me. Guys, the in India the persecution is getting worse. There's a current administration that is uh not renewing old business visas. Christians are not able to return. doing good work for the Lord. Native Indians are having trouble returning. We really need to pray for the Bandarus in their ministry. It's it's come on up. And it it's it's it's very much morphed since our last time with them. And it's been a response to some of the persecution, but it's mostly you know also been in response to the Holy Spirit and his working. So let's let's let's pray for them. Oh Lord, we lift up see the bandaries, give them power Send them your Holy Spirit in power. Lord, send your spirit that they might