If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Acts chapter 7, verses 1 through 16. I love the providence of God when arranging sermons. This morning we are looking at Acts 7, and this is Stephen's sermon, which begins with Abraham. And in our evening worship, we just began our uh study of Abraham And so these two passages coincide very nicely. And I invite you just to go back at some point and listen to the evening service. sermon a few weeks ago on Genesis 12, and it gives hopefully a good introduction to Abraham and the significance. of Abraham within the redemptive framework that God established with his people. So we'll be looking at Stephen's sermon for the next three Sundays. So it's it is a long sermon. It's not quite as long as Pastor Barry and I preach, but it is a long sermon nonetheless And it's an important sermon because it's the sermon of the very first martyr of the Christian church, Stephen. We were introduced to Stephen a few weeks ago, if you recall, when the need arose to elect deacons to take care of the Hellenistic Jewish Christians. And Stephen was a man full of faith and full of the Holy Spirit, Acts 6. 5 said. So he is a good candidate. to preach this sermon that he is about to give. Now, I keep calling this a sermon and not a speech. Perhaps it says speech in your Bible as a heading above chapter 7. It does so in the ESV at least. And this is not wrong, but it is somewhat difficult to differentiate. Can a speech be in the church? Can a a sermon be outside of the church? I think we need some clarity on what is A speech versus a sermon. When a seminary professor expounds the word of God in seminary class, is that a sermon? No. And this is my definition. I'm sure there are others out there, but a sermon is preached content. The key word here is preach. When you preach the Word of God, you do so by the grace of God to effect change, to effect conversion. Edification, sanctification, exhortation, edification. Rather than just relaying information So a sermon is preaching. Now notice, however, the sermon can be conducted inside the church, inside these walls, or it can be conducted outside the church. Jesus preached to the masses on fields, and it was called the Sermon on the Mount And this is a sermon today. I'm preaching the word of God to you in order to effect change, to exhort you, to admonish you, to encourage you, to convict you. Now, whether it's a good sermon or not, that's for you to judge. But I can also preach a sermon out there to the lost. To evangelize. And this is what Stephen's doing here. He's not preaching to the church, to the disciples. He's preaching to his Jewish brothers Those who are still Jewish. Remember, though Stephen is a Greek, he is a Jewish Christian. And Stephen's sermon Goes into the detail of the long history of God 's people, the nation of Israel. That's how Stephen starts this sermon. By beginning with the long history of Israel. Why? Why does Stephen go all the way back To the beginning of the redemptive history of Israel, when all the high priest was asking about here were the current charges that were against him. It would be like if you were arrested for shoplifting, let's say, and standing before the judge, you began to go into this soliloquy about how your ancestors came over from Europe and they landed here in New York City and then and you begin to explain. I don't think the judge would allow that to go on for for too long. But here Stephen's going all the way back to the beginning. And his story is directly related to what the high priest is asking. He's making a very clear point. It's this, the people of God have always rejected the true leaders whom God appoint. They always reject the leaders that God appoints. And we're not going to fully realize this point of Stephen until the very end of Stephen's speech, but there are clues along the way that we can notice. Verse 1 starts with the high priest asking Stephen, are these things so? These things are the accusations levied against Stephen way back in chapter 6, verses 11 through 14, that Stephen was speaking blasphemous words against Moses. Against God, against the temple. And it's against the temple that is the crux of the matter. I've been saying this for weeks That there is a a temple showdown brewing. And it starts all the way back in in Acts chapter 3. The temple is going to be the fulcrum that the Jews will lever upon to persecute the church and to eventually jettison them or try to jettison them out of Jerusalem. I mean, temple, the temple is from God. Every Jew was clear on that. And yet, this man, Stephen , is speaking against the temple. And he's thus speaking against God. This is a holy place to the Jew. Jews. Not so any longer. The temple now Is you. The Spirit of God is housed in your body. God has written his law on your heart. But in a Jewish society revolving around temple worship, these accusations were Punishable by death. They were very serious. Recall Gamelel in chapter 5. He advocated for a position of prudence and caution when dealing with the disciples. However, all that gets tossed out the window here. The Jews here, they have their finger on the trigger. They are ready. They are ready to condemn. And the high priest asks Stephen, are these things so this is not an inquisitive query. This is has murderous intentions at the heart of the question. The high priest knows they are so. The high priest knows that Stephen has been saying these things against the temple. He wants to condemn Stephen with his own words. He did the same thing to Jesus. When he asked Jesus, when the Sanhedrin asked Jesus, tell us, are you the Son of God? They knew that Jesus was claiming to be the Son of God. He had been claiming to be the Son of God for three years. But are you the Son of God? Say it with your own words in front of us all. And Jesus gives the good testimony. You have said so. But I tell you, from now on, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. And Stephen , unafraid, undeterred, just like his master, begins his sermon. Brothers and fathers, he says. Even in the midst of his enemies, he calls them brothers. Stephen is well aware of the seriousness of the situation. He understands that the dogs have encircled him, and yet lovingly. And respectfully, he calls them brothers and fathers. There are enemies of the church. And Jesus did not try to manipulate our thinking about this. He did not suggest to us in a kind of a new age or Zen-like fashion. Don't think of them as as enemies, think of them as friends. Just change the way you think about them. Now he goes so much deeper So much harder than just thinking of them differently. There are enemies of the church There are people who hate the church, who hate your Christian faith, who want the church removed. And yet, Jesus calls us to love them. He does not call us to do anything that he himself is not willing to do. It's a call that's universal to all of his followers. And Stephen shows us the way. On trial , About to be stoned to death, Stephen was well aware of the punishment of blasphemy. Surrounded by these men with evil and murderous intentions. What would you say to them, your first words out of your mouth, brothers and fathers? I would have some choice words for them to be honest. Stephen shows us the way of Jesus Christ. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. You and I will not have anyone arrest us. You won't have anyone arrest you and bring you to trial about a temple in Jerusalem. I assure you, that will never happen. If that happens, I will bail you out personally. But you will have someone call you a derogatory name. You will have someone slander the name of Jesus Christ. You will have someone ridicule your Christianity. You will have someone dismiss your faith. Remember Stephen. Right here at this moment, this present hour, Stephen was faced with the decision to love or to hate his enemy. And Stephen chose the Christ-like path. Where does he start his sermon once he gives this respectful address? Well, not at the creation of man in Genesis, nor the flood, so it's not at the very, very beginning of redemptive history. It doesn't start at the Tower of Babel, but he starts at Abraham. Well, neither Adam nor Noah were leaders of Israel per se. Noah was the redeemer. of God's people, but he did not necessarily lead them. So Stephen starts with the first true leader. Remember the the point of the sermon. Right? Is that Stephen is going to show that the Jewish people have always rejected the true leaders that God has appointed And so where does Stephen start? He starts at the first real leader of all of Israel, and that's Abraham. He's the father of Israel. In fact, he's the father, not just of Israel, but of the nations. Look what Stephen says. God appeared to Abraham in Mesopotamia. Whenever I hear Mesopotamia in scripture, I'm reminded of what was said about that great preacher, George Whitfield. That whenever he uttered the word Mesopotamia, he made men weep. That's a great preacher. You can do that. I confess I don't have that ability. Stephen says something very interesting here. Those of you who have heard the introductory introductory sermon on Genesis 12 , A few weeks ago, know that there's some reconciling to do here between what Stephen says and what Moses says in Genesis 12. Notice, Stephen says that God appeared to Abraham before they moved to Haran. Whereas Genesis leaves this out and starts the call of Abraham at Haran. Now I don't want to get bogged in the details, and I explain this Like I said a couple weeks ago, but it is my contention that God appeared to Abraham's father, Terah , and his family first. Which includes Abraham, while they lived in Mesopotamia. And he appeared to Terah, and he told them to go to the land of Canaan, many, many miles, hundreds and hundreds of miles to the west. And Tarog gets up with his family and they begin to leave, head to Canaan, but they don't get there. They settle in a pagan city of Haran. And there's an illusion in the Hebrew when it says that Tarah and his family settled in Haran. It's the same word used just the last chapter to describe the people who settle in the east. And began building the Tower of Babel. Tarah and his family, Tarah did not lead his family to obedience of the Lord. But after Tarah died, Abraham obeyed God and left for Canaan. Abraham did not receive an inheritance in the land. It was for his offspring. Abraham was looking forward to a greater land that would one day be his and would one day be his spiritual progenies. And this is important to keep in mind. There are physical descendants of Abraham who do have a claim On a physical land in Canaan. And there are spiritual descendants of Abraham who have no such claim on a physical land. In Canaan. And this is important to consider when thinking about the relationship of ethnic Israel And the church. We, the church, are the spiritual offspring of Abraham. And just like our spiritual father. We are looking forward to a land not yet ours. So stop talking about the physical land of Israel. We're looking to a far greater land, just as Abraham was doing. A land prepared for us in heaven, an inheritance waiting for you, a new heavens and new earth, the new Jerusalem that will come down as the heavenly bride, and we will live together. As God's people, worshiping God and Jesus and the Holy Spirit. This is what God's promised to Abraham. It's what he promised to him. And Abraham believes this promise. It was counted to him as righteousness. And then Stephen talks about how God portends to Abraham the future sojourn into Egypt and the subsequent enslaving. We see that here in verse 6 There would be a sojourn in the land, and there would be enslaving of the Hebrews. So the promise of inheritance certainly was accompanied by pain. And that's to come later in more detail in Stephen's sermon. Stephen goes on to say here that Abraham received the sign and seal of the covenant Of God's promise. God made a covenant with sinful man. He establishes that covenant. He establishes that promise with a covenant. The sign of the covenant is circumcision. God tells Abraham to circumcise not only himself, but also his children. It's to be a perpetual sacrament. So this is exactly what Abraham does. He circumcised himself, then he circumcised Isaac. Isaac then has Jacob. Jacob is circumcised. Jacob has the twelve patriarchs that become the twelve tribes of Israel. And all these were included in the covenant. They're all part of the covenant family of God's people. But look at verse 9 And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt. But God was with him. This is the first sign in Stephen's sermon that Israel, the people of Israel, were against the leaders. So this is the first cue that we're given. There's jealousy. And this is the stance. This is the reflex of the people of Israel towards those whom God appoints. Jealousy. They were jealous of Joseph. They were jealous of Moses. They were certainly jealous of Jesus. This jealousy stirring within the Jewish people. Thousands of years before Jesus Walked on the earth. They were jealous. Jealous of Joseph. Fast forward hundreds and hundreds of years after that, they're jealous of Moses. Hundreds and hundreds of years after that, they're jealous of Jesus. In fact, Paul says they're still jealous. This is exactly what Paul says. In Romans 11. I'm speaking to you Gentiles. Chapter 11. He said, now I'm speaking to you Gentiles. Now this is a sign. a a note or evidence that there the church in Rome was very mixed, it's Jew and Gentile. But this is the way he said, I'm speaking to you Gentiles now. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous. He's continuing this long line. Paul knew his redemptive history very well. He knew from the very beginning That there was this jealousy that resided in the hearts of the Jewish people all the way down through the line. And now Paul is saying I magnify my ministry to the Gentiles in order to make them jealous. Why, Paul? Why would you want to make these people jealous? He says the very next line, and thus save some of them. He's doing it all in order that some of them may be saved The jealousy that the Jews were experiencing, from Joseph to Moses to Jesus to Paul, led many Jews to murder. They were so jealous for the right worship of God, the true worship of Yahweh, the temple. They were so jealous for these things. That they would, as Paul did before he was converted, go door to door dragging people out and murdering them and stoning them, as they're going to do to Stephen here soon. But just as many people respond, many Jews responded to that jealousy by murdering those those Christians. Paul acknowledges that some of them, some of them will repent and believe. And this is Paul's goal. That this jealousy for the true religion, the true worship of God, would lead them to seek God, to repent, and put their faith in Him. The jealous actions against Joseph were mitigated by God. It says here In verse 9, in verse 10, God rescued Joseph out of all his afflictions. God protected him. God vindicated Joseph. God ultimately exalted Joseph. That sounds familiar, of course, to all of us. Joseph, the despised, now becomes the head. The rejected was made the prince. And those who turned to Joseph, who came to him , In repentance, in sorrow, his brothers namely, Joseph had mercy upon them and saved their life by means of food. And Jesus Christ, the greater Joseph, who was despised and rejected by men. was exalted to God's right hand not as a prince of Egypt, but as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And those who come to Christ through faith and repentance, Jesus Christ says in John, I will never turn away. Whoever comes to Jesus Christ by faith, repenting of your sins, Jesus says, you are welcome. And you will receive forgiveness for all sins that you have committed against a holy God. And this, brothers and sisters, is the main point of Stephen's sermon. It is Jesus Christ. He is preaching Christ. He won't get there until a couple weeks from now. But it is Christ through and through. It is Christ undergirding all of redemptive history of God's people. Every sermon is about Christ. It must be. Abraham is the father of the nations, but Christ is the savior of the nations. From Mesopotamia to Egypt to Canaan to Maryland, there is no other name under heaven by which we can be saved. So what does our nation what does our nation need right now? It's the very same thing that our heart needs right now. The gospel of Jesus Christ that declares me forgiven. The gospel of Jesus Christ that declares you a child of God, adopted into his family, and awaiting an inheritance in heaven for you. One that no moth can destroy. The gospel that declares that Christ is in us and that we are in him. Jesus Christ truly is the leader and the savior of the nations. And to him we bow and pledge allegiance. Let us pray.