Now turn with me to Acts two, twenty-two through twenty-eight. This is part two of Peter's sermon at Pentecost, and we'll finish with his sermon next week. So it's taking me three sermons to say what Peter was able to say in just one. Now you know why my sermons are so long. In Peter's sermon here, it's all about Christ. And this is what every sermon should be about. about. The church is in the business of publicly proclaiming the good news of Jesus. I mean Paul declared to the Corinthians Corinthians, that for Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the good news. And baptism is very important. But there is even a greater calling. And the ultimate purpose of the church is to worship God. That's the purpose. That's the direction that the church must be headed to worship God. But the means which the church uses to accomplish that end is primarily the preaching of Christ. And we see this preaching right here in Peter Peter so vividly displayed. And Peter had just quoted the book of Joel, which we saw last week. And this prophecy from the book of Joel contained three major parts. It contained the desolation of Israel due to her own sin, the call for Israel to repent, and the outpouring of the Spirit of God upon Israel. When they actually repented, when that call of repentance was heeded. And now Peter is going to elaborate on the prophecy found in Joel He's going to elaborate on it for the Jews who were gathered together for the Feast of Weeks, for the Pentecost. And he's going to explain to them in real time what this prophecy means. And it means Jesus of Nazareth. This is what he says here in verse 22. Men of Israel hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth. Now why did Paul Peter use this term? Jesus of Nazareth. He could have said Jesus Christ. I mean this might not be a major issue, but it's interesting to think about that this could be a derogatory term. It could at least be viewed as a derogatory term, this idea of Nazareth, and we see this explicitly in the Gospel of John, chapter one. Says Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathaniel said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? I mean, clearly, though, Peter is not meaning this to In fact, Jesus of Nazareth, that name, is a designation that will be used a few more times in the book of Acts. Acts 3, Acts 4, Acts 6. But still interesting to think about. Perhaps it's indicating Jesus' humanity. He came from a a locale that they knew of, that they were aware of, an actual place and time. But doesn't the name Jesus itself uh indicate Jesus' own humanity, Jesus son of Joseph. Well I believe that this name is used to indicate Jesus' association with a A people who would later become the Nazarenes, the sect of Nazarenes, as they were And this name of Jesus associates him with these disciples who primarily came from the Nazareth area, the region of Galilee. In Acts 11, which we'll get to eventually, the name Christian is first applied to these Nazarenes. all the followers of Christ. And the name Jesus of Nazareth at that point is no longer used. After Acts 11, it's now Jesus Christ from then on out. Except for one instance in which Paul is recounting how he met Jesus of Nazareth on the road to Damascus. In other words, this has become a global phenomenon. It's beyond just little old Nazareth. It's spreading and has spread. And so now those who are followers of Christ can't be called a Nazarene Satan. sect. They are now Christians. But also it's Jesus associating with his people and now Peter is associating with Jesus. And this is part of the newfound boldness of Peter. I mean, he was afraid before to associate with Jesus of Nazareth. He didn't want anything to do with that association. Recall during Jesus' trial when a servant girl Asked Peter, you also were with the Nazarene, weren't you? Someone else says to him, Your accent betrays you. This idea of Galilean accent. And what does Peter say to them? I do not know the man. And now, filled with the power of the Holy Spirit, Peter the Galilean, proclaims Jesus the Galilean, come what may. He's associated. With Christ, no matter the cost, for he realizes what I hope we all realize: that it 's all about Jesus of Nazareth. It's Jesus who performed the mighty works and wonders and signs that Peter describes here. These mighty works are just one of the many testimonies that are witness to Jesus' divinity. That Jesus truly is who he says he is. And Jesus surrounded himself with witnesses. There's actually quite a few witnesses who attest to his glory. John the Baptist was one of those first witnesses who was calling people's attention to the Christ. The scriptures, the Old Testament, were one of the Foreshadowing the reality of who Jesus is. We see that God the Father Himself was a witness when he spoke from the cloud at Jesus' baptism. He was a witness. attesting to Christ. And we see too now that these miracles, these wonders, these signs, these are also witnesses to who Jesus is. What he's done. Well, who's the last witness? It's the church. It's you and I. We are the witnesses now. Declaring to a lost and dying world who Jesus is and the mighty signs and works and wonders that He's performed, namely dying on a cross for the sins of the The world. And the Jews here in this passage had traveled from all over the known world to come to Jerusalem for Pentecost, and they knew of these mighty works. And signs and wonders that were occurring in Israel. I mean, the messianic hopes of these Jews was palpable. And they would have turned an ear to hear about the miracles that Jesus was performing. Even the Jewish historian Josephus, who was just wrying a few decades after the death of Christ acknowledged that there was a Jesus who, quote, was a worker of remarkable things. And people had heard of Jesus. And perhaps some of these Jews who had come to Pentecost were not there just for the feast. of weeks, but we're also there to hear a little bit more about this Jesus character. But rather than embracing these Jews , rather than politely instructing them in the faith as they were perhaps seeking some maybe we're seeking. Rather than doing that, what does Peter do? He turns to them and says, This Jesus You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. I mean, if there was ever a passage that absolutely repudiated the seeker-friendly model of church, of modern-day church, this would be it. I mean you do not say this type of thing to a first-time visitor of your church. You you uh you you do it more gently. You do s Peter should have avoided confrontation. He should have avoided offending. He should have brought in them gently. Well, let me tell you, the gospel is Is offensive. And we do not need to put stumbling blocks in front of people who are earnestly seeking the faith. We don't want to do that. And so in that sense, we're not going to be able to do that. We are seeker-friendly. We don't put stumbling blocks arbitrarily in front of them, telling them how to act, what to do, how to dress. The gospel is a stumbling block enough. And when we preach the good news, we are inevitably preaching bad news as well. And this is the bad news. This Jesus. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men That's not just bad news for the first century. It's bad news for the 21st as well. If you were not a sinner, Jesus would have had no need, certainly no desire, to go to the cross and pay a penalty of God's divine wrath. It was your sins. It was my sins that led him to his death. And we didn't nail Jesus to the cross personally. Neither did these Jews who were at Pentecost. He was delivered up, Peter says in verse 23. It was through the hands of lawless men, i. e. the Romans. But we are all involved, whether directly or indirectly in Delivering up Christ to be crucified. It's our guilt, it's our shame, it's our sin that has nailed Jesus to the cross. But a sinner is what you You were. You may have caught that when I mentioned this in the introduction. Saw some eyebrows raise. A sinner is what you were. When you come to Christ, By faith, humbled by the reality of your sin, and you turn to Him for forgiveness. He who died on your behalf He who took your sins upon himself, substituting the righteous for the unrighteous. When you come to Christ by faith, you are washed, you were cleansed, you were sanctified. You are a saint of God. The world is indeed guilty of delivering up Christ, but But no one took Christ's life. He laid it down on his own accord. And this was all according to what Peter says is the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. The definite plan and foreknowledge of God. That's a weighty truth It's a truth that actually has a double-edged sword. On the one hand, you can have comfort. Massive comfort from knowing that God is sovereign, that nothing can befall his son or his children without his consent, without his express will And permission. He rules over all diseases, all conflicts, all wars, all persecution. And there is nothing in the world. That God cannot at once say, stop, and it will immediately cease. That's sovereignty. That's power. But on the other hand, this doctrine of the foreknowledge and the will and the plan of God should certainly cause a You mean God's in control completely, and yet his son was crucified You mean God is in control and yet I've lost my job or I'm sick Or have lost a loved one. God's definite plan and foreknowledge is indeed a comfort to us, but it matters great. Upon your viewpoint. Those who are outside of Christ and who suffer have no recourse of strength. That is outside of themselves. It's their own will, it's their own strength of resolve, it's their own determination to fight Through the pain of this life, that's what they have to weather the storm. But those who are in Christ have a strength outside Of themselves. An alien strength, in a sense. And the ultimate vindication that God points to with Christ's suffering Is the same vindication that he points to with your suffering. You will be raised. Up. And that may seem like little solace as you traverse in the shadow of the valley of death. That you have to wait until the day of resurrection? But what is your life? You're a mist. You're here today, you're gone. tomorrow. And so your consolation is at hand. Your vindication is right around the corner. And Christ went first, and you're soon to follow God raised Christ up. He released him from the pain of death, Peter says. Death was found to be absolutely powerless. When it came to holding Christ down, it's going to be absolutely powerless when it comes to holding you down Peter connects the suffering of Christ to the suffering of the first suffering servant of God. God, David. And David's life was one of immense suffering. I mean, one right after another, uh much of it self-inflicted, to be honest. It was David who spoke of suffering the most in the Bible. I mean littering the Psalms with lament. about his own suffering, the suffering of his people. And David, it was David who saw, though through a veil, the suffering of his son, his greater son, Jesus. Jesus Christ. And this is what this Psalm is is about. I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. And this is taken from Psalm 16. And the context of this Psalm is David's desire to be preserved. It's uh to be watched over by the Lord, to be guarded. The psalm is a psalm of refuge, it's a psalm of defense, it's a psalm of of confidence within the context of suffering. Even in the midst of painful circumstances, look what David declares. That his flesh dwells secure. Well, what does this mean? It does not mean that David did not think he was going to die, but rather that in death David would be found by God. Job says the same thing, very similar to what David says here. Job says, and after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God. Job fully acknowledged that his flesh may be destroyed, that it would be far from secure in this life, but that does not prevent God from preserving his flesh in the life to come. And again, it's because of the resurrection that both Job and David hoped in. Look what David says next. For you will not abandon my soul to Hades or let your holy one see corruption Well in the context here the Holy One is David, I believe. It's it might be better translated, pious one, righteous one. And those who belong to God, who have his righteousness, will not be ruined or destroyed. And David is certain of it. This. And since David believed that all this flesh dwell will dwell in hope, then it must mean that all his flesh will not be dwelling in Hades. Which is what he mentions next. You will not abandon my soul to Hades or let your holy one see corruption. Now the corruption here is the decay of the flesh. And David is certain that even his flesh will be preserved at some point. And we believe this as the church with a fuller and more developed view of eternity in the afterlife, we believe that we will not be bodiless souls wafting around heaven, but that we will be given new bodies, glorified bodies in the New Jerusalem. But David adds an aspect to this hope. Even his soul, he says, won't be abandoned to Hades I mean, this is such an important theme. It's really the crux of Peter's sermon that he he mentions it again in verse 31. We don't have that. um in your bulletin but we we see in verse thirty one he he repeats this line of Psalm sixteen that his that his uh soul would not be abandoned in Hades. Now the Hebrew word here for Hades is is Sheol, which you've I'm sure heard heard of. And there is a difference between Hades and Hell. The English word hell is actually a translation of four different terms that are found in the Bible. We have Hades, we have Gehenna, we have Tartarus, and I've heard that one. in 2 Peter, and we have Sheol. And Sheol does not mean hell in the in the same sense that we think of hell today. It's a little bit of a confusing term. It's used widely in the Old Testament. It has no cognate in the ancient Near East. There's no Egyptian loanword or Akkadian or something. Sumerian loan word. It never occurs without the definite arg article in the Old Testament, so it's not the Sheol, but it's more of an abstract meaning of the death. and the underworld and the being idea of being buried and decaying in the earth, the physical earth. This is not David's end. He is not on the path to Sheol. Look at verse 28. You have made known to me the path of life. A path that leads straight to God. If you go back to the Psalm, Psalm 16, read it, you realize that though suffering abundantly Bounds in the Psalm, the Psalm ends in triumph. A declaration that God will indeed vindicate him. David is triumphant. Not because he got a new job. Not because he he struck glory. Not because he was sick and now he's feeling better. It's triumph because the day of suffering will pass And when that day passes, David believes that he will see God. Do you believe that? That David will be in the presence of Almighty God and have eternal joy. This was the destiny of the great king of Israel. No more corruption, no more tears, no more betrayal, no more pain, just the joy of being Being in the presence of God. This is the destiny of the great Son of God. Death could not hold him as he was in The grave. He would not remain there. Neither the Romans nor the Jews nor Satan himself would be victorious against Jesus Christ. But by his death on the cross, he reconciles to God God, everyone, all those who've come to Him by faith. And this is the destiny of you. The great Great children of God. And your day of suffering will pass, and you will stand victorious, not in your own power. Not in your own self-help, not in your own resources, but in Christ. You will not see decay in Sheol You will see God. And that gives us hope. No matter our circumstances, as God leads us in the path of life, a path that leads right to Him. Liberty Church, let us take this path all the days of our life.