If you have your Bibles, turn with me to Acts 4. 32. I'm going to be looking towards through the end of Acts through Acts 5. 11. And our passage this morning continues an in-depth look at the the inner workings of the early church. And actually it builds off of a previous passage in Acts, Acts 2. 42 through 47. In fact, much of the language of these two passages is the same. So you can put your finger in Acts 2, 42, 47, but I'm going to describe some of these similarities. In both, there is a devotion to the church that's described, a devotion to the apostles' teaching. In both, there is a great power that's being exercised in the midst of the church. In both of these passages, there's a commonality and a oneness. Amongst the members, a oneness of heart and soul and spirits. And most strikingly, there was agreement in both of these passages of the use Proper use of material possessions. Recall back to Acts 2. 44. All who believed were together. And had all things in common, and they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. It's very similar to what we see here in Acts 4. Well, what's the purpose then of Acts 4? Well, Acts 2 is a portrayal of an idealized picture of the early church. It was an accurate description. Those things actually did happen in Acts 2. But it's a picture of the church running very smoothly, running in accordance to the will of God. It's similar to the way Liberty Church runs, always very smoothly, is it not? And uh this church, though, and in the early church, is is being run like a well-oiled machine. But here in our passage, we find that there's a foil to the church's oneness. And the church's generosity. And that foil comes in chapter 5 with Ananias and Sapphira. Now there's an arbitrary chapter division. Between four and five, that I believe is misplaced. That chapter division was put there actually by the Archbishop of Canterbury in the 13th century. So much, much later. But 4, 32 through 37 is inextricably connected to chapter 5, 1 through 11. Luke. is purposefully and skillfully presenting a juxtaposition to that idealized model of the early church He's showing the good, Acts two, and as well as the bad of the church's fellowship or lack thereof. And in every church that's the case. There is good and there is bad Bad, there is true worship of God, and there's unfortunately also worship of man. As we shall see. Well, verse 32, look at this with me. The full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul. The church was together. There were not any stragglers left behind. They were connected. They were all included. The full number were painstakingly counted. We see this in uh previously in Acts. And the church was a unit. There was unity as a body of believers with Jesus Christ as the head. And there was no division among them. Now we know that division will come rather quickly in the church. And this division, indeed all division, is the cause of Satan's schemes. And our own inclination towards evil. And that's why division comes. But here at this particular time in the life of the church , It's a beautiful picture of the church being one. In fact, there was no other church. They are the only one. All of the church was gathered here in Jerusalem. Persecution had not yet come, which is going to drop them out to all areas, surrounding areas, and to the four corners of the earth. But this early church they're maintaining an amazing amount of of continuity despite the the very good problem. of having thousands of members, church members on the rolls, so to speak. The oneness and heart that uh Luke mentions gives the impression of friendship. The church were truly friends. And it's a beautiful thing. Many, let's just be honest, many of you or some of you may not be friends if it were not for this church. But because of this church, because of your relationship with Christ, it changes the way you relate to one another Because of the bond that you have in Jesus, it also creates a bond with one another. And we are of one heart. one soul, one mind, when we're walking in step with the gospel. We are about the main things, even if we disagree about some things that are And just as in Acts 2, the believers are being taught the word of God by the apostles, the apostles are the foundation of the church. It's the apostles' writings that we possess as the Word of God. It's the apostles' traditions that we continue even today. The church is built upon this, with Christ being the chief cornerstone. Or the chief capstone, or the chief keystone, as I preached on a few weeks ago. He's all those things. Verse 33 states that the apostles were giving testimony. or or giving witness actually to the resurrection of Christ. Now, this does not mean that the apostles We're only teaching and giving witness to the resurrection of Christ at the expense of other aspects of the Christian faith. But front and center , Of the apostles' teaching, of the apostles' witness, front and center was the resurrection. And front and center of modern day preaching must be the resurrection. And front and center of your faith has to be the resurrection. It is the resurrection that unites us. It is a belief in a bodily resurrection. Evinced by Jesus Christ Himself first, convinced to us by the Holy Spirit, that draws out people from this world to gather together. And await that glorious day. Front and center of our union with one another is the resurrection And the resurrection is the impetus for the church to give freely and to give graciously of their possessions. It's the power of the knowledge of the resurrection that actually compels you to do that. If we believed that we were able to take everything with us, like the ancient Egyptians believe, that's why they were buried with all their treasure, all their possessions. Because in the afterlife to them, they would take all that with them. But if we believed that, it would certainly make it at least a little bit more difficult to give freely, to give generously. But if we believe that we will be raised up at the last day. If we believe that our broken and sick and dying bodies will be transformed into imperishable Bodies. If we believe that we will see Jesus Christ in person and receive from him an unfading inheritance that's been long Promised to you that will neither rust nor be destroyed. If we believe that in resurrection we will see Almighty God have forgiveness of all of our sins. And spend everlasting days with him in glory. If we believe that, it changes how you view your material possessions When that theology enters the mind, is believed, and faith is applied to it, it changes our actions, it changes our heart. And we begin to look at worldly possessions in a way that's unique and different to the Christian. We begin looking at them as wood, hay, and straw. And we look past them to the beautiful treasure of Jesus Christ. And so we give freely because of this resurrection truth, this resurrection. power. We give to the church, and we also give to one another in love. And we see this. The early church was committed to believing in the resurrections and the ramifications of that resurrection and giving freely of their possessions. And what does Luke say about them? That God gave them great grace. He blesses this type of obedience. Verse 32 says that the apostles had everything in common. Now this word translated Common is a word that you're probably familiar. You at least probably have heard this Greek word, koinea. It's the the root word for koinania, fellowship. So what's that tell you? Fellowship is made up of that which we have in common with one another. That is true biblical fellowship, is that there is a common bond between believers, so fellowship could be called commonship. sense. And this is what makes the church unique. I mean other groups have quinineas. There's all types of common groups out there that gather together. uh to discuss their hobbies or activities, their neighborhoods, their political views. We gather because of the blood of Jesus Christ. That's been shed for every single one of you. There is no greater bond. There is no greater commonality. There is no greater reason to give Gather than to know that we have been redeemed by the precious blood of Jesus. And the evidence of this common bond, this fellowship Amongst the saints, at least here in the early church, was that they shared material possessions and they gave generously to the church. Notice here that they were selling and laying the proceeds at the feet. Of the apostles. Now, this does not mean that they were giving to the apostles per se. They were giving to the church, and the apostles were representatives of the church. They were stewards of what the congregants gave. to the church as worship. And the apostles accepted this gift. They accepted it freely Unashamedly. They made no apologies for it. Later on they're going to ask for it more. Again and again. Letters of Paul, the epistles of Paul, we see this. And pastors today can sense a felt or perceived tension that arises when they speak about money. Perhaps they they can imagine this internal groaning going on in the church as he talks about money. Here he goes talking about money again. Well, I don't feel that way. Just so you know. For one, I believe that this church is a faithful church that has already demonstrated your love for God by your generosity to one another, your generosity to the church, your support of missionaries and ministries of the church. And I thank you for that. But secondly, and most importantly, I'm not after your money. I'm after your worship of God. And I know by even a cursory reading of scriptures that you cannot serve God and money at the same time. That one has to give. And how you view money How you treat money, how you think of money, either greatly enhances or greatly diminishes your allegiance to Almighty God. That is the plainest day in the scriptures. And no one is exempt. We're all exempt from that. None of us are exempt from that. We're all held to that standard. And therefore, we must see money not primarily as a tool to benefit ourselves, but as an offering to present to God. And this is what the early church was doing. They shared a common bond with one another. So they gave to the needy among them because of their love for Jesus Christ, first and foremost. And because of their bond with one another. They were friends. This is what you do with friends. And their giving to one another and their giving to God was not a Quid pro quo. It wasn't something that they gave expecting something in return. It was not a seed being sown that you you know is going to produce something. Uh it may produce something, it will produce something, but we don't know what that is going to produce in the economy of God. Their giving was free. It was generous. It was gracious. They were not constrained to give, except constrained by the grace of God, by the Spirit. of God. That's that was their constraint. They were compelled to give by that graciousness. And this was not complete liquidation of all they had when they're giving and the Luke records that they sold homes. They did not become poor. and have to be provided for by the early church. That would defeat the purpose of providing for the poor. They took care of their families. Paul says later that if you do not take care of your families financially, you're worse than a pagan. They saved, they they gave inheritances inheritances to their children and to their grandchildren. if they're in any way obedient to the book of Proverbs. We see later on in the book of Acts that Mary, the mother of John , continued to own a home in Acts 12. She still has her home. But here is where they were distinct. Okay? Here is where the standard, this high standard of how we view money is to be applied. In the church there is to be no poor. That's the standard. In the church, we are to provide for the members of that church in such a way, spiritually and materially. That there's not a poor person among us. Outside of the church, we know as Jesus said that there will always be poor. And we are to do what we can do to help them. And that's complex and that's complicated, and there's a whole other sermon just on that. But we start with the house of God. And provide for the needs of the members within this congregation. And this is clearly stated in the Torah. This is clearly stated as a prescription, not just a description, of the first church, the early, early, early church, the people of Israel. And we see this beautiful picture of brotherly love for the fellow Israelites found in Deuteronomy chapter 15. Listen to what it says. If among you one of your brothers should become poor , one of your brothers should become poor. in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart. Or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need. Whatever it may be, you shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be begrudging when you give to him The prescription was given to us thousands of years ago. The Church of God, the people of God, we have a unique responsibility to take This does not mean that we are blind to the needs of the world. It does not mean we're not involved in various ministries and philanthropies outside of the walls of this church. But we don't neglect the people of the church in order to accomplish those ministries. We start with the church. And it's Christ who is our prime example of this. This generosity. He who was rich, he who was rich not only gave to us who were spiritually bankrupt And morally bankrupt. He who was rich became poor for our sake so that we may be rich. Not rich in silver or gold, but rich in righteousness, rich in forgiveness, rich in salvation. And all who repent and believe in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, as one who has stood in your place and has taken upon himself the wrath of Almighty God. God for you, all who believe this by faith will receive forgiveness, will receive immeasurable and invaluable grace. And Christ is certainly the apex example. But here in our passage, Luke also holds out Barnabas as an example of Christ's generosity in verse 36. Barnabas was to become a pivotal figure in the book of Acts. Here he's just a diaspora Jew. He's either living in Crete and only in Jerusalem for the time being, or he is from Crete, but he's an inhabitant of Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Now later, Paul and Barnabas are going to have a fruitful ministry in Crete, the homeland of Barnabas. And this is where Paul leaves his protege, Titus, to pastor the church. that's in Crete. And Barnabas, it says, is an encourager. He's a son of encouragement, Luke says in verse 36, which is why Paul probably enjoyed having him along on his missionary journeys You would not want to be stuck on a ship for months with a son of discouragement. So this is good for uh as a c traveling companion for Paul. And Barnabas is a Levite, which means he's associated with the temple, which means he was probably well off. Typically Levites were. However, what's something interesting about Levites that we know of from the Old Testament? They didn't own land in Israel. They weren't allowed to own land. And so the land that Barnabas sold must have been land that was either outside of Israel or possibly land in his native Crete. And all of this, oh I'm sorry, Cyprus, not Crete. I I was saying Crete, but I meant Cyprus. And all this is a very positive picture of the early church and their generosity. And Barnabas 's example is immediately contrasted. By Luke in the next chapter with this infamous couple, Ananias and Sapphira. Look at this, verse 5, verse 1, chapter 5. Now the two of them do just what Barnabas had done. They sell a piece of property, the proceeds of which they lay at the apostles' feet. And the proceeds were totally at their disposal, but they give to the apostles. However, they lie about the gift. And their sin was not that they didn't give everything to the apostles, to the church. That is a little confusing by the order, the pattern of this. It's that they lied. They lied first to the Holy Spirit, and then they lied to the church. And we don't know the reason for their lying, except that they were tempted by Satan. And they lied, perhaps to seek some type of recognition or status for themselves, whatever the reason, we do not know. But they lied, they cover up the truth. in order to gain for themselves. And we're here, we're connected to another story that you, if you're familiar with your Old Testament. you you should maybe have should have come into your mind and and that's another liar in the Old Testament, someone who covers up wealth and doesn't tell the people of of God, and that's the story of Achan. Found in the book of Joshua, Joshua chapter 7. We may call the Israelites go out to war against the city of Ai, and they get defeated. And the reason why they're defeated is because Joshua 7:1 says the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things. For Achan took Some of them, and the anger of the Lord burned against Israel. And when Joshua confronts Ach Achan, he admits his sin, and yet the Lord's wrath still Is poured out upon him. Because a holy God hates evil. And we have here a comp a Story that takes place in the beginning of the church, just like the story of Achan began right at the beginning of the people of God entering into the land of the church. of Israel. And what was the purpose of God destroying Achan at that time was to sh to show his holiness. The very start. of this fledgling people of God. The very start of this church, God wants to make something clear is that He is holy, holy, holy. Holy, and that the church and the people of God are to be holy as well, and that we are to purge evil. And I and Sapphira are confronted as well by Peter. Unlike Achan, they do not admit they're wrong. They lie against. Sapphira is given a chance to acknowledge the truth. And yet they they both lie again to God, to the Holy Spirit, to the church. And God's anger breaks forth upon them, just as it did it on Achan. And they both says, fall down, and they breathe their last. shock to the Christian community. And there's just all this positivity we see in the first few chapters. All these things are happening. They're miraculous and spectacular. And it's almost like the church can forget. When everything's going well, the church can forget. Oh yeah. God is holy. It reminds me of the story of Uzziah and the Ark of the Covenant. All this jubilation surrounding the Ark now returns Back to Jerusalem, you've heard the story, coming back, and there's dancing, there's parades, there's David singing, there's David dancing. Uzziah sees that the ark is about to fall off the cart, and he puts his hand to the ark. And he's struck dead. It's a sad thing that we have to be reminded of God's holiness When he disciplines us. Or when there's tragedy, or when there's suffering, or when there's pain. It's far better To contemplate God's holiness all the time. And the point that the this story I think is trying to engender To us is the idea that God 's Spirit is present everywhere. And Nice and Sapphire didn't think that they were lying to God. God. They didn't think they were lying to God's spirit. That's not what they but what has Peter said? You lied to the Spirit, to the Holy Spirit. What was being done in secret had a tremendous effect upon their spiritual health. What was being done in secret was actually being committed against a holy God who sees all, a spirit of God who sees all. And this, what can be done in secret, can not only have a tremendous effect upon your own spiritual life But also upon the community, which is why God is furious here, as he was in Joshua 7, about purging that by making an example of Achan and Uzziah and Ananias. and Sapphira. But the truth is you and I are presented every day, every day, with options. Opportunities to live a secret life and to not let anybody know what you're doing. You and I are presented every day with opportunities to break faith with God. This is what Peter tells Anaias. You broke faith with God. This is what Achan is told. You broke faith with God. And we're presented opportunities every single day. To live a secret life before each other, before the church. And we thank before God. Opportunities to lust in our heart. Opportunities for greed, for jealousy Anger. Every single day we have opportunities To either hold faith with God or to break it. And the goal of sanctification The goal of sanctification is that you would break faith with God less and less. Why do I say that? say it like that is because the reality is we will break faith with God, sadly. But as we're growing in our Christian experience, experience as we're growing our love for Jesus Christ. The goal of sanctification is that your secret, hidden, unrevealed life would be just as pleasing to God as your public display of Jesus Christ today. That's the goal of sanctification And God begins working these outward traits of us often first because those things are so damaging. Even to those around her, they spill out to other people hidden sins. The sins of the heart sometimes spill out more slowly, still just as insiduous. And the goal of sanctification is that that inner life, that private life, is keeping the faith just as much as that public outward life. And one place to start is by offering to God worship by means of giving. Giving to Him. giving to the church, giving to each other by loving our neighbor as ourself, starting with our brothers and sisters in Christ. Christ. Liberty Church, let us be a church. Far from breaking faith with God, we keep faith with God all of our days. Let's pray.