Give my right arm to be able to play the piano like that. We uh would like to dismiss the little ones. Oh w not today, I guess. The wonders of worship, not today. Sorry. But we will ask you to open your Bibles to John chapter 4. And as we do, let me say we've got Nyan Kylie with us here for the first Nyan Kylie Hammer for the first time since Since little uh Jeremiah was born. It's good to have you with us. Back and healthy. Little uh Graydon and Levi. And uh Ron Smith, I don't know if all of you know, but we ought to say, I guess, that uh Ron Smith starts a new job this uh Monday, is that right, Ron? July thirteenth. Oh July thirteenth, sorry, all right. But soon. Soon, so praise God for that, yeah. Okay. Anyone else something to share? Uh we don't have much time for testimonies, uh but uh anybody? All right, well let's uh let's turn to God's word. John chapter four. And let's uh begin, as we did uh last week, with verse 3 of this chapter and read a little further. He left Judea and departed again to Galilee, but he needed to go through Samaria So he came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there Jesus, therefore, being weary from his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman of Samaria came to draw water, and Jesus said to her, Give me a drink For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself as well as his sons and his livestock? Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into everlasting life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here. The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands And the one whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshipped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship for salvation is of the Jews But the hour is coming and now is when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking spirit Such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He And at this point, his disciples came and they marveled that he talked with a woman, and yet no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? The woman's then left her water pot, went her way into the city, and said to the man, Come see a man who told me all things that I ever did. Could this be the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came to him. In the meantime, his disciples urged him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat of which you do not know. Therefore, the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him anything to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to finish his work. Do you not say, there are still four months, and then comes the harvest? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest. And he who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life, that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together For in this the saying is true, one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored. Others have labored and you have entered into their labors. Let's go on a bit. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified, he told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans had come to him, they urged him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his own word. Then they said to the woman, Now we believe, not because of what you said, for we ourselves have heard him, and we know that this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world. May God bless this portion of His Word. Let's pray. Father, speak to us now from your Holy Word. Forgive us our sins and use your word in our hearts to accomplish things that will last forever. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The brief visit that the Lord Jesus made to this well in Samaria has been memorialized by the Holy Spirit through the Apostle John. And as we saw last last Sunday, there are wonderful lessons here for us. Lessons about the providence of God. He must needs go through Samaria. Lessons about the unique person of Christ. He was weary. He sat upon the well, and yet he's the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Lessons about the way Jesus dealt with unbelievers. Go call your husband and come here. Lessons about the needs and opportunities that are surrounding us. Lift up your eyes and look upon the fields. They're already white to harvest. And lessons about the rewards awaiting Christ's servants. This morning, as we continue our series, we call Advancing God's Kingdom. I want us to think about what we can learn from this passage about the personal testimony and how God can use personal testimonies in the hearts of unbelievers. My comments on this passage were influenced by a sermon Spurgeon, Charles Haddon Spurgeon priest in 1872, presumably before most of you were born, and I'd like to follow his simple outline this morning. As we begin, let's look again at chapter 4 and verse 28. The woman then left her water pot, went her way into the city, and said to the men, Come! See a man who told me all things that I ever did. Could this be the Christ? And then look at verse 39. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified He told me all that I ever did. Notice, first of all, the personal testimony is often the means that God uses to produce faith in men's hearts. The personal testimony is often the means that God uses to produce faith in men's hearts. Philip said to Nathaniel, we have found him. Him of whom Moses in the law and the prophets did write. Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. John 1. 45. Nathanael came and believed. Andrew found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, We have found the Messiah. Simon came and believed. In my own experience, my brother was brought to faith through the testimony of a friend at college. My wife and I were brought to faith through the testimony of my brother. My mother was brought to faith through the testimony of my wife. And so the scarlet thread of redemption is weaved by the master's hand throughout the fabric of history. How many of you first heard the glorious news of Christ through the personal witness of your parents or a relative or a friend? Let me see your hands. How many of you? Through your parents, raise them up high. Through your parents or through a relative or a friend. Look at that. That's uh certainly uh it seems to me the majority of those of us here. Personal testimony is most natural. It's the first impulse of the genuine convert. He wants to tell those he cares about the most that there is salvation to be found in Jesus Christ. Not far from this very spot where Jesus spoke to the Samaritan woman. But about 800 years before, the Syrians were besieging the city of Samaria, and there was a great salmon. Four lepers who lived in Samaria decided to throw themselves upon the mercy of the Syrians. We stay here in the city, we're going to die like everybody else. in this famine. But if we go and throw ourselves on the mercy of the besieging Syrian army, perhaps they will have compassion upon us as lepers, maybe, is what they were thinking. Anyway, they concluded if they stayed in the city they would die. So they went out to the Syrian camp, and they were shocked to find the camp empty. The scripture says what had happened is the Lord had caused the Syrians to hear a noise of horses and chariots and a great host. They uh jumped to the conclusion that it might be the Hittites or the Egyptians who were now in league with Israel. And so they fled in fear in the midst of the night. The Jewish lepers found the camp deserted, but with all the food and provisions left behind. in their haste to save their lives. They left behind their food and provisions. And so these four lepers began to plunder some of those tents. They gorged themselves upon the food. Remember there was a famine in Samaria. They hadn't eaten in uh many days, no doubt. And they began to hide gold and silver and some clothing, so they could find it later. Then they came to their senses. And they said to each other, we're not doing right. This day is a day of good news, and we remain silent We're here in the Syrian camp keeping the good news to ourselves, to us four. And so they said, now therefore come, let us go and tell the king's household. This is good news. And so they shared the good news in the city. And the barley and the flour flowed again in Samaria by the next afternoon. The proclamation of the gospel, as you know, has been described as one beggar telling another beggar where to find bread. That's what we do. One beggar telling another beggar where to find bread. Can you imagine John 9? Jesus healed a man who was born blind. Imagine this man having been healed by Jesus, going back to his friends, who his family members, going back to other blind uh people that he may have known, and not telling them, number one, that he had received his sight, and number two, where they could find this Jesus who had given him sight. You can't imagine him not spreading that good news. It's most natural for those who, as John Newton, once were blind but now see, once were lost but are now found, it's most natural for them to tell those they love, first of all About what Christ has done for them. Note that this was not just a personal testimony, this was the testimony of a woman to these men in Samaria. It's quite true that God has ordained that men are to pastor churches and preach his gospel. 1 Timothy 2. 12 Paul instructs Timothy on the organization of the local church. I do not permit a woman to teach or have authority over a man, he says. And he makes it clear that this restriction is not culturally based. That is, it's not predicated on the particular position of women in the ancient world, but rather on the history of the creation and the fall of man. For Adam Paul says, for Adam was first formed, and then Eve. Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into transgression. It may not seem fair to you. It didn't seem fair to me that my wife had all the joys of carrying and giving birth to our children. And I was relegated to simply sitting by reading books. Holding her hand and saying once in a while to breathe deeply. She had all the joy, she had all the uh the involvement. of giving birth to our children. And I was left on the sidelines. But I digress. It's clear that God has given men and women different roles. But we should never imagine that women cannot be mighty instruments in God's hands for salvation. Consider the hymns of Fanny Crosby, the writings of Corey Tenboom, Ministry of Johnny Erickson Totta, or Edith Schaefer, or Elizabeth Elliott. How many millions have been led to Christ at the knee of a godly mother? How many millions have been led to Christ at the knee of a godly grandmother or a Sunday school teacher? The first witnesses to the resurrection were women. The first convert in Europe, recorded for us in Scripture, was a woman, Lydia. The Samaritans were despised race. The Jews wouldn't even speak to Samaritans, generally, yet this woman was instrumental in bringing many of them to faith in Christ. Note, not only was this the testimony of a woman, it was the testimony of a sinful woman. How could the impure bear witness to the pure Savior? She was a sinful woman. We are all sinners, of course, but she was living a sinful lifestyle that was evident to those who lived by her. Listen well. Your past life does not limit What Christ can do through you today. Amen? Your past life does not limit what Christ can do through you today Today, Matthew was a collaborator with the hated Romans. He was a tax collector, and he was presumably a thief, because that's how the tax collectors, we're told, would uh make their own money uh by uh by profiting from the taxes they took from others. Uh another apostle, Simon, was a zealot. The zealots As you know, we're attempting to violently overthrow the Roman occupiers of Palestine. It's entirely possible that Simon's hands were stained with blood. I knew a woman who was divorced while an unbeliever. She later came to faith in Christ. She remarried a believer, a believing husband. But she was told by the leaders of her evangelical church, you can join our church, but you can never teach children. You can never sing here. You can never hold any prominent position. Why not? Because she had previously been divorced before God saved her. Listen, the church is an assembly of sinners who've been redeemed. The church is an assembly of sinners. We're still sinners, right? We still struggle, but we've been redeemed. We've been forgiven. If God can use a repentant Saul of Tarsus, who hauled innocent Christians off to prison, who consented at the stoning death of Stephen Then God can use anyone. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the chief, Paul said. In the Church of Corinth, there were those who had been fornicators, that's sex outside of marriage, sex before marriage primarily, idolaters, adulterers. Homosexuals, thieves, covetous, drunkards, revilers, extortioners, and yet the Apostle Paul declared to them, but you were washed. But you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 1 Corinthians 6, 11. This Samaritan woman was not so inhibited by her sins that she refused to speak for Christ She was not so inhibited by her past sins that she refused to tell the people of Sikar, and particularly the men of the city. About Jesus. She might have said, Well, they're never going to listen to me. They'll tell me to put my own house in order. They'll laugh at me. They'll mock me. They'll scorn me. But she was compelled to speak to them. It would have been most unnatural if she had not, if she had any compassion at all for her fellow Samaritans. And note, her testimony was personal. You may remember the words of the C. H. Spurgeon here. He said, Now suppose she had said, Come see a man that opened up to me the prophecies. Why, they would have said, prophecies? What have you to do with prophecies? Go and fetch your water pot and attend to your business. Mend your character and don't talk to us about prophecies. Or she had said, I find by reference to Rabbi Simeon that the Messiah is to be very like a person whom I have just now seen sitting at the well. They would have cared very little for the rabbi or for her inference from his works. But she told them what she had experienced. She told them what she knew. Come, see a man who told me all that ever I did. Is not this the Christ? Like the man from John 9, who had been given sight by Jesus, he was interrogated by the Pharisees, you'll remember. And they said, Give God the glory. We know that this man, Jesus, is a sinner. He answered, whether he is a sinner or not, I do not know. One thing I know, whereas I was blind, now I see Now, in case you're thinking, yeah, well, describing your personal experience, that may be fine for an uneducated formerly blind man. Or for a Samaritan woman. But I'm a student of the scriptures. I prefer to give forth God's word alone. That's where the power is, not in my personal testimony. What I will I would ask you to ask yourself , was the Apostle Paul a student of the Scriptures? Yet, listen to his testimony, Acts chapter 26 and verse 9. Indeed, I myself thought I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. This I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints I shot up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests, and when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. And I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme, and being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. While thus occupied, as I journeyed to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priest, at midday, O king, along the road I saw light from heaven, brighter than the sun. Shining around me and those who journeyed with me. And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me and saying in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads. And so I said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand on your feet, for I have appointed, for I have appeared to you. For this purpose, to make you a minister and a witness both of the things which you have seen and of the things which I will yet reveal to you. I will deliver you from the Jewish people as well as from the Gentiles to whom I now send you, to open their eyes in order to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God. that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision. If the Apostle Paul felt it important and necessary to give his personal testimony as to what Christ had done in his own life, Then surely you and I, though we might like to think of ourselves as students of the scriptures, may give our personal testimonies to what Christ has done in our lives. Well, yeah, well maybe if I had been stricken blind, as the Apostle Paul had, uh maybe I'd have some sort of a dramatic testimony to tell people. Listen, Jesus said to his apostles, You shall receive power after the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. You think that uh that all the witnesses for Christ uh died in that first century Do you suppose that the responsibility of believers being witnesses ended with the death of the apostles? What does a witness do? He tells what he's seen. He tells what he's experienced. He tells what he knows happened as he perceived it. Can you not say Jesus gave me peace? Can you not say that? Can you not say he took away my fear of death? Or Jesus removed my guilt. I had a great weight of guilt for my sin, and Jesus removed that weight. He gave me joy. He changed my ambitions. He helped me overcome bad habits. He helps me to speak with more kindness. He turned my heart toward my family. He calms my anxious mind. Can you not say what you have experienced? What Christ has done in your life? Notice verse 28 back in John 4. The woman left her waterpot, went her way into the city, and said to the men, Come, see a man who told me all things that I I ever did, could this be the Christ? And then they went out of the city and came to him. Notice that her testimony was in earnest. She didn't even mess with the water pot. She left the water pot. That's her water pot. She left her water pot. She ran to the city and she told the men, earnestly, beseeching them, come. See a man who told me all that I ever did. Is this not the Christ? Could this not be the Christ? She went immediately. She urged them to come. She was in earnest. What was it in her words or her demeanor that caused these men to drop whatever they were doing, their business in the middle of the day, and to follow this Samaritan woman that they presumably all knew to be uh a woman of uh uh of uh of disrepute and they followed her out of town back to the well You know, those who study such things tell us that over half of what we communicate is conveyed through facial expressions and gestures and body language. Now uh let me illustrate that. Uh hey Jim, how are you doing? I haven't seen you in months. What's going on? How are you? Oh, I I've never been better. Uh You know, my youngest, she she just graduated first in her class. Uh she received an appointment at the Naval Academy. And then my oldest son, his wife and they just had twins. And uh Yeah, my wife she got one of those, what do they call it, the Nobel Prize for Literature. Uh you know, that children she wrote a children's book and I don't know, something about a bear or something. And uh and then uh you know just the other day some guys came to my door, you know, people with a big giant uh cardboard check and uh And the boat the balloons. Yeah, yeah, I guess uh I don't know, it was it ten thousand a month or ten thousand a week or something for the rest of my life. Uh something like that. So yeah, I'm doing fine. I'm doing great Oh really? Because you sound a bit down. Really? You see what I'm saying If your personal testimony is to have impact, you must be in earnest. This is important. This matters. This is a matter of life and death. The Samaritan woman believed that she had just met the promised Messiah. I who speak unto thee am He, or I am the Messiah. And the men of Sikar could see that she was in earnest. We don't know what it was about her demeanor, about her her words. We don't know all that she said. We know a little of it. I suspect she said much more, but she was passionate about it. Clearly. Many of you will remember the name Terry Scheibo. She was a Florida woman who suffered cardiac arrest at the age of 26. It resulted in severe brain damage. She was in a coma. And she was declared by physicians to be in a vegetative state. After a number of years, her husband sought by legal means to have her feeding tube removed, which would eventually lead to her death by starvation. Her parents battled valiantly to keep her feeding tube inserted, arguing that they had seen signs of consciousness in their interactions. Remember there was a big battle over that, and some physicians said no, no, that's just her body responding. She was not really there. The result was a mammoth legal battle and a big national debate. At the time, commentator Peggy Noonan wrote a powerful commentary which included this passage: God made the world, or he didn't. God made you, or he didn't If he did, your little human life is and has been touched by the divine. If this is true, it would be true of all humans, not only some. And so, again, if it is true, each human life is precious, of infinite value, worthy of great respect. Most, not all, but probably most of those who support Terry Schiavo 's right to live believe the above This explains their passion and emotionalism. They believe they're fighting for an invaluable and irreplaceable human life. They're like the mother who's famously said to have lifted the back of a small car off the ground to save a child caught under a tire. You're desperate to save a life, you're shot through with adrenaline, your strength is for half a second superhuman, and you do the impossible. This is what they are trying to do. They do not want an innocent human life ended for what appear to be primarily practical and worldly reasons, for example, her quality of life is low, her life is pointless. They say, who is to say it is pointless? And what does pointless even mean? Maybe life itself is the point. Unquote. How much more passionate, how much more involved should we be when what hangs in the balance is not physical life or death, but eternal life or death? The very soul of a man or a woman. The preacher Roland Hill has such a passion for souls, people called him a madman. Is this the madman? He responded, while I passed along yonder road, I saw a gravel pit cave in. And bury three men alive. I hastened to the rescue. I shouted for help until they heard me in the town almost a mile away. No one called me a madman then. But when I see destruction about to fall on sinners and entomb them in the eternal mass of woe, and I cry aloud, if perchance they may behold their danger and escape, they say I'm beside myself. Caesarean governor Festus, listening to Paul's personal testimony, along with King Agrippa, jumped to the same conclusion as the hearers of Roland Hill. Paul, you're beside yourself. Your much learning is driving you mad. But he said, I'm not mad, most noble Festus, but I speak the words of truth and reason. The woman of Samaria was in earnest, and the people of the town responded to her earnestness. Spurgeon noted something else here that we might just pass over. The judiciousness, as he called it, of the woman's testimony. We would call it her discretion, her tact, her sensitivity. She believed Jesus to be the Messiah, but under those particular circumstances, she wisely chose not to affirm it. She deferred to the self-assumed wisdom of the men of the town. And she said to them, Is not this the Christ? Or could this not be the Christ? She deferred to their assumed wisdom. Don't you think it is? As though she would have her belief confirmed by their judgment and humbly requested them to come and see. Spurgeon says, We must be wise to win souls. Souls are not won by fools. We must have a sympathy with men, even reaching to their infirmities, and we must woo them as men, dealing with them not as they ought to be, but as they are. And putting truth in the shape in which it is likely to be acceptable to them. If you bear witness for Christ, ask the Spirit of Wisdom, the Holy Spirit, to guide you. Let prudence be mingled with your zeal. In other words, as the Lord Jesus and his apostles did, you were to adjust your message to your audience. As we noted last week, Jesus didn't speak to the Samaritan woman in the same way he spoke to Nicodemus, John 3, or the same way he spoke to the rich young ruler. The Apostle Paul said, I am become all things to all men that I might by all means save some. You don't speak to a child in the same way you speak to an adult. You don't speak to a legalist in the same way you speak to someone who is a prosligate. She was in earnest, and yet she was tactful. She was sensitive. And then consider the result of her testimony. Verse 39, many believed, and others were awakened. Many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified, he told me all that I ever did. Her speech was simple. There were no stories, no analogies , nothing that could be called eloquence as far as we know. She had no seminary education, we presume, no evangelistic training, no practice. She just told what she knew. And she told it earnestly and from her heart. Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Could this not be the Christ? Perhaps she said other things, as I said, not recorded for us. But it was a simple testimony. And whatever it was, she said, the men came. Notice something else. Faith may arise apart from a personal witness A personal witness is important. Most of us here came to faith through a personal witness from our parents or a relative or a friend. A personal witness is important, but God can use other things. Verse 40. So when the Samaritans had come to him, they urged him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days, and many more believed because of his own word. And then they said to the woman, Now we believe not because of what you said, for we ourselves have heard him, and we know this is indeed the Christ the Savior. So when you've given your testimony and you've shared the gospel with someone and you see no results, don't lose hope. The Lord has many ways of causing that seed to sprout. It may be other people. I planted Apollos water, God gave the increase, Paul said. Maybe someone else will come along later and water that seed. Of course, God can use witnesses other than human witnesses. Financial collapse, family problems. Cancer, heart disease. These are God's Moses and Elijah and Elisha and Jeremiah to many lost souls today. As you may know, the late D. James Kennedy was awakened, literally awakened, by an alarm clock. uh radio clock alarm one morning and it was doctor Donald Gray Barnhouse, pastor from Philadelphia, I believe, who was on on the radio and D. James Kennedy came to faith hearing that message from Dr. Barnhouse. I think he was in his Dr. Kennedy was in his thirties at the time, and wasn't Dr. Kennedy at the time. was uh I think a uh dance instructor at the time. I heard Dr. Kennedy tell this incident in Dr. Barnhouse's life that illustrates this point, I think. Dr. Barnhouse, so the man that was on the clock radio when D. James Kennedy came to faith, Dr. Barnhouse, a pastor, had a friend who was a committed atheist. Don't talk to me about your Jesus. That's all poppycock. I don't want to hear it. I have my lodge. I have my friends. I have my clubs. I don't need this Jesus business. These things are sufficient. Well, these uh Dr. Barnhouse lost touch with his friend. A couple of years went by, and Dr. Barnhouse heard that his friend was dying. He heard he was sick and approaching death. So he went to see him, and he slipped into his room uh unannounced, and he sat sat there, and uh and then the man o awoke. And uh but but first he heard the man uh crying out in in in his bed, No, no, no, thrashing And uh Dr. Barnhouse just sat and kind of watched. And then the man awoke and he said, Well what are you doing here? Oh, don't mind me, said Dr. Barnhouse. I just came to watch. I've always wanted to see how an atheist dies. You just go about your business. You don't mind me. Would you mock a dying man? He said. Tell me again about Jesus and the resurrection. And Barnhouse told him he said, Well when Barnhouse left that room, he left the brother in Christ. Praise God So don't dismay if your testimony, your personal testimony, doesn't seem to bear immediate fruit. Be not weary in well-doing. In due season we shall reap if we faint not, the scripture says. And then finally, personal experience eclipses human testimony. Now we believe, not because of what you said, for we ourselves have heard him, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. That was the same in my own experience. My brother Doug told me that Christ could satisfy my soul. My brother Doug told me that Christ's word could answer my questions, that he would freely grant me forgiveness and eternal life. Taste and see. He said, taste and see. I tasted and I saw. Months after his hearing his testimony, God was working in my heart. And I came to faith in Christ. I said, okay, I believe. I drank at Christ's well. I experienced living water in my own soul. And from then on, I believe not just because of what my brother told me. But because of what I experienced myself through God's Word and through God's Holy Spirit indwelling me now, through God's regeneration in my own life. Old uh Jacob was told there was grain in Egypt. There's grain in Egypt, Jacob. I think he believed it, but when he saw those donkeys laden with bread and with meat, he knew it by experience. You've heard that there's life in Jesus. You 've heard there's new life in Christ. But have you come? And have you taken the bread? Have you eaten his flesh? You've heard that unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. John 6. 53. It's one thing to hear about it It's one thing to hear about a medicine that can save your life. It's another thing to take the medicine. It's one thing to know in your head that when you're drowning, a a life preserver can save your life. It's another thing. when you're drowning, to have someone throw you a life preserver and for the life preserver to to literally save your life. You've heard of Christ's power to redeem you. That's good. But are you redeemed? You 've heard he's the light of the world. That's good. Is he the light of your life? You've heard he's the door into the sheepfold. Have you entered the door? You've heard that he said, no one comes to the Father except through me. Have you come to the Father through him? Is he your shepherd? Is he your Lord? Is he your savior? Is he your king? If not, will you come to him right now? If you know you're a sinner, you know you can't save yourself, you believe that he died on the cross and rose again, you can come Closing word to Christians. Is there an unbeliever in your family? Is there an unbeliever in your family? A cousin? A niece? A nephew? A brother? A sister? An aunt, an uncle, even a friend, a close friend. Is there an unbeliever in your family or a close friend who's never heard your personal testimony? Who's never heard the gospel message from your own mouth? Will it not be a source of regret and shame when that friend or relative perishes? for you to recall that you didn't care enough for his soul to even tell him or her what Christ has done for you? Will you gorge yourself on the bread of life while those you call friends perish with hunger? Remember the Israelites who in a time of famine found abundant food and temporarily kept it to themselves. We are not doing right. This day is the day of good news, and we remain silent. Let me encourage each believer here to do something right now. I want you to think about a cousin or an uncle or a niece a nephew or a friend who doesn't know the Lord. Who's the first one that comes to mind? Someone who doesn't know the Lord or at least gives very little evidence of knowing the Lord. I want you to focus on that one person right now for just a moment, if you would. Just focus on that one person. Now ask yourself, have I shared my faith with him or her? Have I shared my faith with him or her? Have I told him or her what happened to me, what Christ has done in my life? Have I been a witness as this Samaritan woman was? If not, let me urge you, as Christ's ambassador, to simply say to him or her, you know what? There's something I want to talk to you about. It's really important to me. And I don't think I've ever shared it with you. Can we have lunch sometime this week? Or breakfast? Or coffee? And then you sit down and you say, look, in all the time I've known you, I don't think I've ever told you about how I received this wonderful gift of eternal life. It's the most important thing in all the world. Jesus said, What shall profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? I don't think I've ever told you about it. So let me do that now. Give me a few minutes. Let me share that with you. And then you tell them what happened. In simple words, it didn't take this woman long. See this soul, what happened? Tell them what Jesus means to you. Tell them what a difference he's made in your life. Give them the Gospel of John. Give them a CD of a gospel message. Give them a tract. Tell him you're going to pray for him. Invite them to church. And then pick up the tab for the breakfast or the coffee or the lunch or whatever it was. And then pray that God will water that seed. And that God will bring others to water the seed. Bring others into that friend's life. Can you imagine what good could come if each of us would actually do that not just hear about it but do it well you say well my cousin doesn't live anywhere near well put it down in written form then Get yourself one of those fancy new computer things and send an email message. Yesterday uh America celebrated the anniversary of the signing of our Declaration of Independence. It's a day we recognize as our nation's birthday. We are now as a nation 239 years old. It struck me there are some here who have lived for more than one-third of that time. Think about it. If you're over 80, today you've lived for more than one-third of the history of our nation. And you've seen many changes, some for the better, and of segregation. victory or great progress over certain diseases, polio, TB, much better highways, much safer vehicles, etc. And many cases for the worse. The sexual revolution, the legalization of infanticide, the soaring divorce rate, the illegal drug trade, the increase in pornography, the redefinition of marriage. And you pray for America and you long to see God's word honored here. But I believe the changes that Christians yearn for will not be accomplished in Washington. They will not come from the top down, certainly not primarily. The changes Christians yearn for will come when believers do what the woman of Samaria did. When we say to our relatives and friends, come and see a man who told me all that I ever did, is this not the Christ? If every believer could reach just one person with a good news, think about it. If every believer could reach just one person with a good news. And if God blessed that witness as he blessed the witness of the Samaritan woman, how soon could our nation become a nation of believers in Jesus Christ? The Samaritan woman told what she knew of Jesus, what she had personally experienced. She did it with simplicity. She did it with earnestness. She did it with tact or sensitivity. And her testimony was mightily used of God. So go back in your mind to that cousin or that aunt or that uncle, nephew, or niece. Will you be not just a hearer of the word, but a doer? Will you have that talk? Will you write out that testimony? Will you send that email with maybe a link to a gospel message? God can use it as he used the testimony of this woman. Many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified. He told me all that I ever did. Let's pray. Oh Father, you've redeemed us, many of us here. You've given us a personal witness, a personal testimony. We know what you've done in our lives. We know what life was like before Christ. We know what life is like now. We can see changes, Lord. We know the power of your Holy Spirit to redeem. Lord, loosen our tongues. May we give forth this gospel message, and we pray that you will use it and bless it That you will water the seed, that it will grow. You can do this, Lord. We know. You did it in our hearts. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.