So uh that's all you're getting by the way. That's enough for her. Uh we uh at this time uh we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. That's uh Bible stories presented on their own level. If you'd like your kids to be involved, you can send them down now. And if you have your Bible, would you turn please to the Gospel of John And a very uh precious passage to us, John chapter four. Gospel of John chapter four, and let's pick it up in verse three. It's speaking of Jesus, of course, and it says, He left Judea and departed again to Galilee. But he needed to go through Samaria. So he came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there Jesus, therefore, being wearied from his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. We would call it noon. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is, who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as well as his sons and his livestock? Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband, and come here The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband In that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship. For salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. And at this point his disciples came and they marveled that he talked with a woman, and yet no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? The woman then left her water pot, went her way into the city, and said to the men, Come, see a man who told me all things that I ever did. Could this be the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came to him. In the meantime, his disciples urged him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat of which you do not know. Therefore the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him anything to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to finish his work. Do you not say there are still four months and then comes the harvest? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest. And he who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life, that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. For in this the saying is true: one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labors. May God bless this portion of His Word. Let's pray. Father, once again, we acknowledge our utter dependence upon you as we open up your word. We can read it, we can expound it, but we need your spirit to apply it, Lord, to open our eyes, open our hearts. to plant it deep within us. So use your word this day, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As we continue to focus on the part that we play in advancing God's kingdom, we turn to one of the most insightful and instructive dialogues in all of Scripture And here we learn something about God's providence, something about Christ's nature. We learn of the way Jesus dealt with unbelievers We learn of the needs and opportunities that are surrounding us, and we learn of the rewards that are awaiting us as Christ's servants. First of all, just a word of reminder about Samaria and the Samaritans. Samaria was located between Galilee and the north. where Jesus was from, of course, and Judea in the south, the Judea that contained the city of Jerusalem. It was populated by the descendants of those who had intermarried with the area's pagan conquerors, the Assyrians. generations before. And Samaritans had developed their own religious practices, sort of a mixture of Judaism and idolatry. In fact, 2 Kings chapter 17 says this. They feared Jehovah and served their own gods. In reference to the people of Samaria, they feared Jehovah and served their own gods. 2 Kings 17, 33. So Samaritans were despised by the Jews, by those who believed they were keeping the true laws of Jehovah and worshiping him as he commanded. And the term Samaritan came to be synonymous with a troublemaker or a rebel. Remember, angry Jews said to Jesus in John chapter 8, Do we not say rightly that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? John 8, 48. Historians tell us that in the years of Christ's public ministry, animosity between Jews and Samaritans had never been greater. Which makes this interaction between Jesus and the Samaritan woman all the more remarkable. First of all, we learn something here about providence, about God's providence. Look at verse 3. He left Judea and departed again to s to Galilee, so he's heading north now, but he needed to go through Samaria He needed to go through Samaria. We're told that pilgrims from Galilee, who were headed to or from Jerusalem for feast days, would go out of their way to avoid Samaria. So they wouldn't have to mingle with those they perceived as half-breeds. But Jesus needed to go through Samaria. I think what the scripture means is he had what you might call a divine appointment. with this woman at the well. Zacchaeus, come down, for today I must abide at thy house. Had a divine appointment with Zacchaeus. It had already been determined. Go into the village opposite you, you shall find there a colt tied on which no one has ever sat. Loose it and bring it here. Luke 19, 30 Did Isaac's servant find Rebekah by accident? No, there are no accidents with God. We're predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things. after the counsel of his own will. Ephesians 1. 11. There are many devices in a man's heart. Nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that shall stand. Proverbs 1921 Naaman the leper happened to have a faithful Jewish servant who happened to tell him about the prophet Elisha, who could heal him. The Ethiopian steward, described in Acts 8, happened to ride by the evangelist Philip, just as the steward happened to be reading from the scroll of Isaiah. We happen to be reading the passage in what we call Isaiah 52 and 53 that talks about the coming servant who would be despised and rejected of men. My brother in my own life, my brother Doug, far away from his family, far away from Christ, happened to hear a bold witness for Christ. uh who presented the gospel to his fellow students in an art class in Doug's last year of college. Many of you just happened To be born into a Christian family where you heard the gospel at a young age and came to faith maybe at the age of four or five or six. The fact is the scripture makes it clear, nothing in our lives just happens. Not even a sparrow falls without your father. Even the hairs of your head are numbered, Jesus said. If you're a believer today, it's because the Lord Jesus had a divine appointment with you, just as he had a divine appointment with this woman at the well. Look at verse 5. So he came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied from his journey, sat thus by the well, and it was about the sixth hour. Here we're reminded of the uniqueness of Christ's person. The scriptures declare, he is overall God blessed forever. Romans 9. He is the mighty God, the everlasting Father, Isaiah 9. He is the one whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting, Micah 5. 2. He's the one who said, Before Abraham was, I am , John 8. 58. He's the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation, Colossians 1. 15. And yet we read, Jesus, therefore, being wearied from his journey, sat thus by the well. The creator and sustainer of all that we see, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, became tired and rested by a well. Well, wait a minute. Doesn't the scripture say, have you not known, have you not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? Isaiah 40, verse 28. And yet here the Creator is weary from his journey sitting by a well. Behold, he who keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. Psalm 121, verse 4. And yet, of course, the Lord Jesus slept in the midst of a storm on the Sea of Galilee. Why? How? Of course, the answer is because he took upon himself our human nature. Such is the wonder of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. God became flesh and dwelt among us. He was not part man and part God. He was fully man and fully God. He was and is, as our shorter catechism puts it, God and man in two distinct natures and one person forever. How much does he love his bride? The creator of all things is willing to be bound in human flesh. What wondrous condescension is this? Notice something else. What we can learn here about the way Jesus dealt with unbelievers. Verse 7. A woman of Samaria came to draw water, and Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. Or his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. And then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? And then for our benefit, the scripture says, For Jews have no dealings. with Samaritans. Jesus uh asked this woman for a drink What do we learn from this? He interacts with her. He acknowledges her. He asks a kindness of her. In other words, he is willing to, in a sense, become indebted to her. And she's amazed. She's not accustomed to being addressed by a Jew, much less to having a Jew ask the favor of her. But remember, the gospel was going to be proclaimed not only in Jerusalem and in all Judea, but in Samaria and unto the uttermost ends of the earth. Acts 1. 8. This Samaritan woman was not beyond the reach of God's love. Think about it. She was in Samaria. Jews very seldom visited Samaria. They had their own idolatrous practices. They were far from uh the the true worship of the true God. And yet he must needs go through Samaria. Jesus had a divine appointment with her. She was not outside of the reach. And this is true of every person and every nation, tribe, and tongue, including those who, like the Samaritans, we may have grown accustomed to disliking or avoiding. There's reportedly a movement of God's Spirit among Muslims around the world. Reports are arriving that Muslims are coming to Christ in large numbers. In Iran, for example, and other Middle Eastern countries, David Garrison, who wrote the book called A Wind in the House of Islam , A wind in the house of Islam believes that there are over two million who have come to faith in Christ from Islam in the last couple decades. And he thinks that figure may be much higher, but he he knows at least two million from what he has studied. Often they have come as a result of vivid dreams that God gave him. Vivid dreams. Uh in fact I was just reading last night uh of the account of one man Who had a dream. Jesus was uh sitting beside him and he said, What you've heard of me, what you have heard from uh uh from the Muslims is not true. I'm the Son of God. I'm uh the the light of the world. It was enough to cause him to seek out a a believer. Muslims have been told that Jesus was not the Son of God. He was, however, a prophet He was not crucified, and of course, therefore, he was not raised from the dead, but many of them are testifying that Jesus appears to them in visions or in dreams and proclaims the gospel to them. It it's it seems to me anyway that uh that it's it's very hard to reach people in that culture and so the Lord's just intervening and bringing people to himself. through this remarkable way. Note, not only was this woman one of the accursed Samaritans, she was a woman of no social standing. She was one who would probably have been shunned by her proper neighbors. Which may explain why she was making her visit to the well in the in the heat of the day, about noon. Yet Jesus was as ready to speak to her as he was to speak to Nicodemus, the ruler of the Jews, or to a synagogue ruler. Today in India, thousands of those considered untouchables Those on the lowest rung of the social ladder are coming to faith in Christ because Christians are reaching out to them instead of shunning them. Uh as many of you know our missionaries in India, Prem and Kelly Bandaroo had formed a rescue ministry, been pulling kids, street children off the streets and providing uh a home for them and uh Christian love and care. And that ministry ha is now going to have to change because as I understand it, Barbara was saying to me this week, the Indian government is now requiring that these children be sent back to their uh homes to their parents wherever they may be. Many of them fled home uh perhaps because of abuse, but so the the ministry is changing. But my my point is simply that Uh there's been a tremendous impact upon those who were at least once called untouchables and are still low on the social uh ladder in India because Because Christians are caring for these people and providing them with uh food and and shelter and and uh job uh uh ins instruction. This woman was shocked that Jesus would interact with her. The question for us is: do we bestow special attention upon the wealthy, the educated? The powerful, the handsome, the beautiful. How about you? Do you bestow special attention upon such people? This woman was shocked that Jesus would interact with her. How is it that you, a Jew, ask a drink of me, a Samaritan? And note how Jesus then turns the conversation to what is most important, her relationship with God. Verse 10. He answered and said, if you knew the gift of God And who it is who says to you, give me a drink. If you had any idea who it is you were talking to, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Notice that Jesus' personal need for water was uh precluded by this opportunity to be a spiritual blessing. to this woman. Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O my God. Look at verse uh eleven. The woman said to him, Well, sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as well as his sons? This livestock? Like most of us, she was thinking along material lines instead of spiritually. Jesus was talking to her about living water. He was talking to her about something else. But notice how patiently Jesus dealt with her. Verse 13, Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into everlasting life. Well now he's got her attention. The woman says, Well, sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw She expresses a desire for this water, but there's a problem. Jesus cannot grant that uh fulfill that desire until he first deals with something in her life. Verse 16. He says to her, Go , call your husband and come here. She said, Well, sir, I have no husband. And Jesus said, You have well said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly. In other words, out of wedlock, and she's had uh uh five other men before that Jesus had to speak hard truth to her. He didn't just say, smile, God loves you. He had to speak hard truth to her. But he didn't do it with cruelty or with disdain. He didn't say to her, You are a disgrace to all womankind. He said, Go call your husband and and come here. He engaged her in a conversation about her past. And of course she immediately concluded obviously uh she must have been carrying some burden of guilt for her past life. And she immediately concluded that for this stranger to know these facts about her, right? He's not a Samaritan. He's just passing through, obviously. Did someone find him and take him aside and say, by the way, a woman's going to come to the well. She's had let me tell you about her background. She was amazed that Jesus would know this. And so clearly I'm speaking to a prophet here, right? If this man knows all about me, knows my background. Then I'm talking to a prophet. This will be a good chance to get my questions answered about who's right, the Jews or or the Samaritans. So verse nineteen. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshipped on this mountain, Mount Gerizim. And you say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Who's right about this? I've always wondered. And Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. In in just a few short years, Christ's New Testament church would be established, pilgrimages to Jerusalem would no longer be necessary, believers will be worshiping in spirit and in truth. They won't have to trek to the Jerusalem temple to offer worship. But we ought not to rush by verse 22. Because it's an astounding statement in light of the pluralism that we're constantly being force-fed in our culture. Look at verse 22. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. We're constantly being force-fed pluralism in our culture, in other words, the idea that uh all religions basically teach the same thing, love God and love others. the idea that no religion has the inside track to God and salvation comes from an honest belief in uh honest belief in and an earnest practice of Any one of uh scores of religions. The important thing is that you you're faithful, that you believe, and you're dutiful. And attempt to do the right thing as as your religion teaches it and as the the God that you uh uh the the higher power that you uh worship uh desires And yet Jesus says to this woman, you don't even know what you worship. You worship, you know not what. We know what we worship for salvation is of the Jews. That is, salvation is through the revelation that God made to Abraham and his descendants. You can't just cook up your own religion. And take a little bit of this, a little bit of that. Some sort of amalgamation of pagan religion and biblical truth The idea that all religions teach basically the same thing and that salvation can be achieved through any and all of them is one of Satan's most effective lies. Even though it can be revealed to be false with a few moments' contemplation, right? Some religions teach that there are a multitude of gods. Some teach there's only one. Some teach that we're reborn over and over again as animals or people The sun teach that ultimately, after we've lived righteous lives and tried to do the best we can, ultimately we reach a certain point where we're absorbed into some sort of life force. And we cease to be as individuals. One teaches that it is to be spread throughout the world either by conversion or by the sword. I want to camp here for a few minutes. We often hear that Islam is a religion of peace. Well, if what is meant by that is that the majority of the 1. 6 billion Muslims in the world, including six or seven million in the US , are not taking up arms against other people, then that's certainly true. Well obviously the majority the the majority of the 1. 6 billion Muslims in the world, they're not going out taking up arms against others. Certainly true in the United States. You don't have to fear some Muslim coming to your house to touch your throat. But it's also true that as he reads the Quran and the Hadiths, the biographies, you might say, of Muhammad, the observant Muslim could logically conclude That Allah wants him to slay infidels who will not bow the knee to Allah. The Quran is divided up in into what they call surahs, surah, I guess it's they pronounce it. it and uh we would call them chapters and in surah 47 you can look this up yourself you can find English translations of the Quran We read this. Let me give you the whole context. Those who reject Allah and hinder men from the path of Allah, their deeds will Allah render astray. But those who believe and work the deeds of righteousness and believe in the revelation sent down to Muhammad, for it is the truth from their Lord, he will remove from them their ills and improve their condition. This is because those who reject Allah follow vanities, while those who believe follow the truth from their Lord. Therefore, when you meet unbelievers, and then in parentheses it says in fight In battle, in other words, because that's apparently the , implication here. Therefore, when you meet unbelievers, smite at their necks. At length, when you have thoroughly subdued them, bind the bond firmly on them. That's Surah 47, 1 to 4. In Surah 2, verses 190 to 193, you read, Fight in the cause of Allah those who fight you. and slay them wherever you catch them, and fight them until there is no more tumult or oppression. Surah nine five reads Fight and slay the pagans wherever you find them, and seize them, beleaguer them, and lie in wait for them in every stratagem of war. But if they repent and establish regular prayers and practice regular charity, then open the way for them, for Allah is oft forgiving and most merciful. It's not just Christians who have been sounding the alarm about such things. A PBS, a frontline program called the Saudi Time Bomb, aired on national PBS stations several years ago now. The program cited excerpts from Ministry of Education textbooks, which are used by middle school students in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is one of America's allies, by the way. It's used by middle school students in mandatory religion classes. In a segment of the textbook that's entitled The Victory of Muslims over Jews, the following saying of Muhammad is quoted. The last hour won't come before the Muslims will fight the Jews, and the Muslims will kill them. So the Jews will hide behind rocks and trees. And then the rocks and trees will call, O Muslim, servants of God, there is a Jew behind me. Come and kill him. The textbook then summarizes the teaching for these middle school students, and it says this: quote, Jews and Christians are the enemies of believers. They will never approve of the Muslim. Beware of them. Abdul Saleeb is a former Muslim who has come to faith in Christ. He said, after citing some of these passages I've quoted from here, And several others, he said in an interview with R. C. Sproul, yes, not all Muslims are violent or terrorists, but the ones who are are justified by their Islamic convictions. He made the point that when the immoral garbage being exported from the West, our films our TV programs, our music, our magazines, when the the moral garbage that's being exported from the West comes to these countries. Islamic countries, it drives Muslims, both parents and clerics, to get serious about their faith in response to what they perceive as the filth coming from the infidels. the Western infidels. And many Muslims then, when they go back to the Quran and to the hadiths of of Muhammad, see passages such as this and determine That Allah wants them to take up the sword. If these if these infidels will not convert, they're better off dead, and the world is better off that they be dead. No, all religions do not teach that God's cause may rightly be advanced by killing those who refuse to bow the knee to Him. The idea that all religions basically teach the same thing is one of Satan's most effective lies. There's only one phase that teaches that Jesus was the sinless Son of God who lived and died and rose again. And that all who embrace him by faith as their substitute will have their sins forgiven. And that's not based upon their works, but based upon his righteousness. No other religion believes or teaches that. So clearly, all religions do not teach basically the same thing. Jesus was very clear about this here and elsewhere. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. I'm the door. By me, if any man enter in, you shall be saved. Go in and out and find pasture. And he was very clear with this woman. Your worship is false worship, he said to her. You don't even know what you worship. But the hour is coming when you won't have to go to Jerusalem or Mount Gerizim. You'll be worshiping in spirit and in truth. Look at verse 25. The woman said to him, Well, I know the Messiah is coming, who's called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. I may not know much about worship, but I know that there is a Messiah coming. And when he comes, he's going to reveal things to us. He's going to clear up all these questions. Look at verse 26. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. I who speak to you am He And when I was a kid, uh I I got the idea in my head, and maybe you did too, that Jesus was just a good man who said and did good things. He never claimed to be the Messiah, and that's stories got told about him as time went on. He never claimed to be God in the flesh. Well, this is just one of the many places in which he made it crystal clear who he was. John, the son of Zebedee, gave us this account, presumably receiving it from the Samaritan woman or from Jesus himself, or revelation directly from God. Jesus said, You are speaking to the Messiah. I that speak unto you am He. One more thing about Jesus and unbelievers. He didn't deal with them all the same way, you'll notice. He didn't rebuke this woman for her lack of spiritual understanding, but he expected quite a lot more out of Nicodemus. Art thou a teacher of Israel, and you don't understand these things? He dealt with this woman with some tenderness, but he was much more blunt with hard-hearted Pharisees. You're of your father the devil, and the desires of your father you will do. John 8 44 And even so, we need to pray for wisdom, discernment, to know if if we're speaking to, for example, a self-confident legalist. Or to a despairing soul feeling the burden of sin. And then, fourthly, this passage reminds us of the needs and opportunities that are surrounding us. Look at verse 27. And uh at this point his disciples came and they marveled at he talked with a woman, and uh and yet nobody said, Well, what do you seek, or why are you talking with her? She left her water pot. She goes back to the city and tells the men there, come see a man that told me everything I I've done. But what I want you to see here is that the disciples interact with Jesus. And here, rabbi, we brought food. Here, eat. But he says to them, I have food to eat of which you do not know. And it's just like the disciples, isn't it just like us? What's he talking about? Somebody bring him food? Philip, did you bring him food? Because I thought you were with us. Who brought him food? No, no, no, no. That's not what he's talking about. I have meat to eat. I have food to eat that you do not know of In other words, his food is to do the will of his father. But the disciples are always a bit dull when it comes to spiritual things. uh started fixating on physical food. Jesus trying to get them to stop fixing fixating on the material things. And he urges them to recognize the needs all around them. Verse 35, do you not say there are still four months and then comes the harvest? Behold, lift up your eyes, look on the fields, they're already white for harvest. Open your eyes, look up. The fields are white for harvest. Now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Jesus had compassion upon this woman's soul. He wanted her to come to saving faith, and he wanted others in Samaria to come to saving faith. And he wanted the disciples to have that same compassion. Open your eyes, lift up your eyes, look at the fields. There's a woman here who's burdened with her sin. Think about it. They had just been to Sikar, the city, to buy food. Had they told anyone there? Oh, by the way, the Messiah is here Come with us. He's only a few minutes away. The Messiah is key is here. The Messiah has come. He's even now at Jacob's wealth. Come with us He's a short walk away. The savior of the world is a short walk away. But they returned evidently empty-handed other than with food. We don't know whether they said anything to anybody in the town or not. I'm reminded of uh two dear friends we had uh when in uh this would have been the second church that we pastored, it was in Florida, it was a church planting situation. It was on the west coast of Florida and it was the nineteen eighties. And uh so uh there was a a a couple, we knew them w when I attended college, my last year of college was at a Christian school on the opposite side of Florida and Cape Canaveral on the so on the eastern side. And uh this couple, retired missionaries, uh w lived in a little mobile home there. And they would drive over, it's about three hours, they would drive over to worship with us, just to encourage us and to help the church in the early days. And then uh what I remember one night they left our home at nine o'clock to drive back to Cape Canaveral, so they should have gotten home around midnight, uh a little later maybe if they stopped for food or whatever. But they told us later they didn't get home till four a. m. and we said, well why? And they said, Well, we were at a restaurant and we got into two conversations with people uh about the Lord and one of them They they apparently it was so long that uh that they didn't get home till four in the morning. And you know their their food was to do the will of their father. They were looking for opportunities to talk to others about Jesus. They said one young man they were speaking to told them after they uh finished their conversation that he was going to go home and find his Bible and take it out and begin to read it. They had food to eat that we know not of. The disciples looked at this woman talking with Jesus, and all they saw was an unclean woman of a mixed race. That's what they saw. Jesus looked at the same woman and he saw someone burdened with guilt in need of salvation. The spiritual world was so real to Martin Luther that it said that his walls were stained with inkwells that he would throw at Satan. Behind me, Satan. The spiritual world was so real to William Burns that on visiting Glasgow with his mother for the very first time as a lad of seventeen She lost him in the crowd, and after many anxious moments, she found him sobbing in an alley, with his head in his hands, and she said to him, What ails you, lad? And he said, oh Mother, Mother, the thud of these Christeless feet on the way to hell, it breaks my heart. The thud of these Christeless feet on the way to hell, it breaks my heart. The compassion born in the heart by the Holy Spirit led that man, William Burns, to give his life as a missionary to China. So I ask you, is the spiritual world real to you? Is it real to you? Do you see others as Jesus sees them? What do you see? You see a crabby old woman, or do you see a needy soul? You see an unruly child or a lamb in need of care? Do you see an antagonistic boss or a soul bound by Satan in need of redemption? Do you see a sharp-tongued relative that you want to avoid? Or a baby Christian who needs the milk of the word? What do you see? You see a harried waitress who can't seem to get your coffee filled on time , can't seem to fill up your tea. You see a cable installer who's just running late and and making you annoyed. You see a kid with tattoos and body piercings. Jesus sees souls in need of a savior. Lift up your eyes. Look upon the fields. Lift up your eyes. There's no indication in this passage that Jesus ever did get his drink of water. That wasn't his top priority. His food was to do the will of him who sent it. And then finally, he who reaps, he says in verse 38, receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. And then he reminds his disciples, this is true. One sows, another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labors. Here Jesus reminds us that Many of those who reap, bring others to faith in Christ, are harvesting crops that were planted years ago by others, right? I planted, Apollos watered, God gave the increase, Paul said. Robert Murray McCain, who prayed and preached and wept for his congregation in Dundee, Scotland for years, was in Palestine when revival broke out in his church It was in 1839. It took place, by the way, under the ministry of William William C. Burns. That uh man who was at the age of seventeen weeping for the lost in Glasgow. Some plant, uh some reef Many Christians gave me tracts when I was a high school student working in a gas station in Orlando. Yeah, that's nice. I read it. But uh it planted a seed. A seed that was uh later harvested a few years later. Jesus said there are rewards for faithful servants, rewards that are tangible and intangible. Paul writes to his spiritual children, What is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming? For you are our glory and joy. You are our glory and joy. Your presence with Jesus at his coming. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth, the Apostle John said. That's his greatest joy. Not money, not finding homes. My greatest joy is to know, to hear that my children walk in truth. Do you know such joy? After a month of Christian life, most of which was spent upon a sickbed, a thirty-year-old man lay dying. Suddenly a look of sadness crossed his countenance, and a friend inquired about that look. The dying man replied, no, no, I'm not afraid. Jesus saves me now. But oh, must I go and empty-handed? Charles Carroll Luther, a Baptist pastor in Bridgeport, Connecticut, heard that story and wrote this hymn in 1877. Must I go and empty-handed? Thus my dear Redeemer meet. Not one day of service give him, lay no trophy at his feet. Not at death I shrink nor falter, for my Savior saves me now. But to meet him empty-handed, thought of that now clouds my brow. Oh, the years in sinning wasted, could I but recall them now, I would give them to my Savior. To his will I gladly bow. O you saints, arouse, be earnest, up and work while yet is day, ere the night of death o'ertake thee, strive for souls while still you may. Christian, there's no need for you to go empty-handed. Can you not find some way to help advance Christ's kingdom? Lift up your eyes. Look upon the fields. They're white unto harvest. But of course, they can't assume that everyone here is a believer. Perhaps you're like the Samaritan woman before she met Christ, burdened with sin, with no assurance of salvation, weighed down, with his constant, constant reminder of sin. Jesus says to you, as he said to her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me a drink, you would have asked of him, and he would have given you living water. How? Cry out God be merciful to me a sinner. Lord forgive me. I see my sin. I know it's vile, but I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life and died upon the cross and rose again again from the dead. Come into my heart and save me. Give me this new life the Bible talks about. You come to God and pray that simple prayer. Boys, girls. Men, women, young people, you come to God. Pray that simple prayer. Mean that in your heart. God says, and I declare on the authority of God's word, all your sins will be forgiven. You will have everlasting life Freely offered to you. Not because of anything you have done, not by words of righteousness which we have done. According to his mercy, he saves us. I believe Jesus is the Messiah who has come. Give me this gift of everlasting life. You pray that. Give me this water. That I never thought Thirst again. Let's pray. Oh Lord, I do pray, we do pray Or any soul who may be here, boy or girl, young person , adult, who's never yet bowed in knee to Christ, who's never yet acknowledged his sin and cried out for mercy. Please, Lord, have compassion. Send your spirit. That same compassion you freely bestowed upon us. May it be bestowed upon them. Draw them, Lord. You say in your word, you're not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Lord, we know your heart yearns for them. We pray for an outpouring of your spirit today. And Father, those of us who know you, Lord, We know when Jesus spoke to his disciples, he was speaking to us. Lift up your eyes and look upon the fields. They are already white unto harvest. Use us, we pray, in the brief time we have here. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.