Amen. Thank you, Bill. If you have your Bible with you this morning, would you turn please to First Corinthians chapter one? The very first chapter chapter of 1 Corinthians, and we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs with Luke and Rebecca. First Corinthians chapter one, let's begin in verse ten and read a little bit into chapter two. The Apostle Paul says, Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no division Among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it has been declared to me concerning you, my brethren, by those of you Chloe's household, that there are contentions among you. Now I say this: that each of you says, I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, or I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, lest anyone should say that I had baptized in my own name. Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanus. Besides, I do not know whether I baptized any other, for Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God It pleased God through the foolishness of the message priest to save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews, a stumbling block. And to the Greeks, foolishness. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men. And the wisdom weakness of God is stronger than men. For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption. That as it is written, He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. And I, brethren, when I came to you, did not come with excellence of speech or of wisdom, declaring to you the testimony of God, for I determined not to know anything among you I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human wisdom. But in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. May His Spirit bless His Word to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, once again we recognize, we acknowledge that we are utterly dependent creatures, that we come to you hungry We come to you in need of food, in need of bread, in need of your Holy Spirit to take your word and accomplish things in us, things that will last. Things that will matter. Use your word, Father. Use it to draw souls to yourself today. Work in the hearts of unbelievers that they might come to know Christ And work in the hearts of those of us who know you, that we might be strengthened, built up, edified through the power of your word. We ask it in Christ's name. If you were with us last Sunday, you know that we continued our series on advancing God's kingdom. Kingdom, which is in itself a subset of our larger series on the PCA, Praising God, Connecting with His People, Advancing His kingdom. Last Sunday we considered the power of the personal testimony. The Samaritan woman that we meet in John chapter 4 had an encounter with Jesus Christ. I know that the Messiah is coming. When he comes with Mess She left her water pot, she ran to the city, she told the men there that to come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Is not this the Christ? Could this not be the Christ? She had an encounter with Jesus Christ. She ran to tell others about it, and God blessed her testimony. We read that many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because But then her testimony was confirmed by the word of the Lord, the living word, as Jesus stayed with them. For two days. And we read, and many more believed because of his own word. The personal testimony that was proclaimed with passion and compassion. Has an important place in God's plan of salvation. And an important place here. But a subjective witness to how Christ has impacted your life, as much as it may be you To open the door for the message of Christ is no clear substitute for the proclamation of God's powerful word. It's no substitute for the message of the cross. And that was the message that was proclaimed by the apostles. One of the criticisms that has been leveled against the Christian church. Against Christianity through the centuries is that it's a religion of the uneducated masses. One famous critic of the faith was a man named Celsus. Writing in 180, about 180 A. D. Celsus wrote that Christians were proclaiming in effect, quote, Let no cultured person draw near, none wise, none sensible For all that kind of thing we count as evil. But if any man is ignorant, if any is wanting in sense and culture, if any is a fool Fool, let him come boldly. Of the Christians, he wrote, We see them in their own houses, wool dressers, cobblers, and fullers, the most uneducated and vulgar persons He said the Christians were like a swarm of bats or ants creeping out of their nests, or frogs holding a symposium around a swamp, or worms in conventicle in a corner of mud. An early defender of the faith, Origen, responded in his work, Contracels, that the scriptural examples of Solomon or Daniel reveal the greatest wisdom. And that the church accepts sinners, though they may be uneducated, because they are the very ones who need to be saved. We can conclude from what Paul says here in 1 Corinthians that one of the reasons that the Church of Christ was open to the charge that it appealed primarily to ignorant masses rather than to the educated ignorant elite mass was that those whose ears had become accustomed to gifted Greek orators disdained both the message and the methods of the apostles of Christ. With poetic flourishes and numerous literary allusions, and passages that were intended to carry their audiences with them to dramatic heights of ecstasy or Solemn depths of pathos. The Greeks had exalted oratory to a fine art. They could easily be disappointed by the plainness of speech of the apostles, particularly Paul. Early in this letter to the Corinthians, Paul addresses both his message and the manner in which he delivers it. I want us to consider some of what Paul says here, focusing our thoughts on four declarations in this passage. First of all, the message that Paul proclaimed was the gospel Look at verse 17. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made The message Paul proclaimed clearly was the gospel. Literally, the U Angelion. Angelion means message. We think we know the word uh angelos, angel, messenger. The prefix u or eu it would be in the English, uh, means good. A eulogy, these are good words. that are spoken at uh usually at someone's death. Good words. So the Yuangaleon is the good message or the good News. That's what Paul was sent to preach. The good tidings. This was his overarching mission, not primarily to baptize, although he did baptize. Baptized, but not primarily that, but to preach the gospel, to go forth proclaiming the good news. So, what is this good news that the apostles were sent forth to proclaim? What was what is the good news? The apostles and Christians who have followed in their footsteps go There's no more important question that could be asked or answered in this life. What is the gospel? What is the good news? And it shouldn't surprise us that the enemy of souls says succeeded in having that question answered wrongly in the minds of millions of people. In this very hour, as you know, in thousands of churches, the right answer to that question, what is The good news is in fact being proclaimed. And we thank God for that. But at the same time, in thousands of churches, the wrong answer is going forth. Now, some of you who have been raised in evangelical churches, such as our own, that is, churches that declare the good news as revealed in Scripture. Scripture may have never heard firsthand the way many Protestant churches answer the question, what is the good news? The good news, as many churches declare it, is love God. Love your neighbor. Obey the commandments. Abide by the commandments golden rule. Be faithful to your church. Pray. Give. Serve. If there's a heaven. You'll quite probably go there. And if not, you can still have the satisfaction of knowing that you made this world a better place. Different religions are merely different. Different roads to God. It doesn't matter if you're a Hindu or a Buddhist or a Muslim as long as you're faithful. I speak from experience because that was the basic message that I heard in the mainline Protestant churches. I attended in my youth. Jesus was proclaimed, he was upheld as a godly example, among the best of examples I was encouraged to aspire to be like him. Easier said than done. His kindness, his compassion. is selflessness. The summary of the message, as I heard it, was live a good life, and you can have confidence that you'll go to heaven, if indeed heaven is a real place. But you'll note that if the gospel message can be reduced to live a good life and you can have confidence that you'll uh go to heaven, then the gospel be can be proclaimed without referring to Jesus at all. I've mentioned before that one of Our young couples here at Liberty visited here for the very first time in the spring of the year, about six years ago now. They had been worshiping at a very large Protestant church nearby. And the wife said to her husband in their car, after worshiping here at Liberty, something like this, that's the f First time that I've heard Jesus mentioned in church since Christmas. I spoke to the husband sometime later and he clarified, well, of course Jesus is mentioned in the hymns and the prayers of the church. What she meant was that's the first time since Christmas that she heard a sermon in which Jesus was the focal point. A sermon in which the gospel was made clear who Jesus is, why Jesus came. The obvious lesson you should draw from this, as we noted before, is that We have ways of knowing what you say to one another when you're in the car and you think you're alone. We have uh several people here who work for the agency that shall not be named. You remember saying in the car, Boy, I thought he'd never stop talking today? Well, we remembered it. Some suspect the letters PCA actually stand for privacy can't be assumed Yeah, that's the lesson we draw from that. But more importantly, the lesson is if the gospel message is simply live a good life and you'll go to heaven, if in fact there's a heaven, there's no compelling reason for any specific teaching about Jesus to necessarily intrude into our preaching. Because we can proclaim that message, live a good life and you'll go to heaven. Well, not talking about Jesus, who is maybe a a a a good example of living a good life. Or the best example. And again, if live a good life and you'll go to heaven is the gospel, one does not even need to be a Christian to embrace it. Can a Muslim or a Buddhist live a good life? Can't a Hindu or an atheist live what is commonly called a good life? Should it surprise us then, given the prevalence of such teachings? that pollster George Barna has determined that approximately two out of three Americans, 64%, agree with the statement, Christians, Jews, Muslims, Buddhists Buddhists and others all pray to the same God, even though they use different names for God. So the question: what is the gospel? What is the good news Paul was sent forth to preach? That's about the most important question anyone could ever ask. Is it all roads lead to God? No, because Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Acts 4:12. That's not the gospel. Is the gospel do your best, live a good life, and you'll attain salvation? Not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Titus 3. 5. By the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. Romans 3. 20 Paul makes it very clear, if you and I could have been saved by keeping the law, then why would God have sent his son to die upon the cross? Is the gospel keep the rites and ceremonies and sacraments of your church and you will be saved? You see, Protestants aren't the only ones who are confused. On this question of what is the gospel. I spoke to a young woman who asked her priest, How do I get to heaven? His answer was She said, by keeping the faith. Another woman told me she asked her priests, what 's the new birth? I I read about this new birth in John chapter 3. Jesus speaking to Nicodemus, except a man What does he mean about the new birth? What is that all about? What is being born again? He responded, with the teaching of the church. The new birth refers to baptism, he said. You're born again when you're baptized as a baby. Lady. What was the gospel that Paul was sent to preach? What was the good news that he proclaimed? Was it that if you're baptized as a as an infant and then you're catechized and you confess your Sins to a priest, you pray rote prayers to the Lord and to saints who've died, if you faithfully attend the Mass, if you're married in the church, if you receive the last rites, then you may not have to spend too many years. sins expunged in purgatory. Is that the gospel? Is that the good news that the apostles traversed sea and land to proclaim? Is that the message they proclaim facing death and persecution? So men and women and children might hear the message? Is that the message? The good news that Paul was sent forth to preach was that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 5. 8. Paul declared, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world. To save sinners. And then he added an autobiographical reference of whom I am chief. First Timothy one fifteen. So the message Paul proclaimed was the gospel. Christ sent me to preach the gospel. It says in verse 17. And he says in the very same verse, and this message was centered in In the cross. Christ sent me to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect. Verse 18 He speaks of the message of the cross. In verse 23, he declares, we preach Christ crucified. In chapter 2, verse 2, he says, I determined not to know anything among you, but Jesus Christ and him crucified. The heart of Paul's gospel message was not Jesus as an example, not Jesus as a guide, not Jesus as a friend, the heart of Paul's message was Jesus as a sacrifice. Jesus as the Lamb of God who came to take away the sins of the world. We preach Christ crucified. This message of a crucified Messiah, Paul says, was a stumbling block to the Jews. He said it here in verse 23. We preach Christ crucified to the Jews a stumbling block. Now what's a stumbling block? That's something you trip over. It's something you stumble over. We preach Christ. It's a stumbling block to the Jews. Christ crucified is a stumbling block. What does he mean by that? Literally, it's a scandalon, the word that was used in the Greek. That the word R word scandal is derived from it. Well think about it. You'll remember that the Jews had waited for centuries for their prince, for their king, for their deliverer, for their Messiah, for their anointed one to come He who would sit upon the throne of David, Psalm 2, the one to whom the Father would give the nations for his inheritance, the ends of the earth for his possession. The one who would break them with a rod of iron, who would dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. Now put yourself in the place of the Jews of Paul's day, as your land was being Defiled by Gentiles. Every time you laid your eyes upon one of those accursed Roman occupiers of your land , every time you saw evidence of their dominion, You would pray, Lord, deliver us from these Gentile tyrants. Deliver us from these pagans. And get them out of our land. Once and for all, Lord, send your deliverer. Send the promised Messiah, dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel, as you said in your word, you will do. What would be your natural reaction if you heard a Jew proclaiming that the promised Messiah had already come? What? What are you talking about? The Messiah has come The Messiah has come and gone, and we remain in this same pitiable condition? Nonsense. Suppose you heard that This Jewish man proclaiming that the Messiah had been put to death by the very same Romans that you had expected the Messiah to overthrow. Ludacrous, you would say. As one conversant with the scriptures, you would be aware that God's law pronounces a curse upon one who is hanged upon a tree. Deuteronomy 23 Now suppose this preacher who said the Messiah had come maintained that God's anointed one had been executed on a cross. In effect, hanging upon a tree. At least a wood of a tree. Surely that would be the final straw. That's impossible. What are you talking about? Are you mad? You see, it was a stumbling block to the Jews. Scotsman William Barclay, New Testament scholar, professor of divinity at the University of Glasgow. Wrote, To the Jews it was incredible that one who had ended life upon a cross could possibly be God's chosen one. They pointed to their own law, which said, He that is hanged is accursed by God. To the Jew, the fact of the crucifixion, so far from proving that Jesus was the Son of God, disproved it finally. The cross to the Jew was an insurmountable barrier to belief in Jesus Apart from, of course, the supernatural work of God in the grace in the heart of a of a Jew. Christ crucified to the Jews was a scandal. Scandaloff to the Greeks. It was foolishness verse 23 in Greek mythology the gods and goddesses described uh uh uh or described as being on Mount Olympus and they would describe But for the educated Greeks, for the philosophers, for the teachers, the idea that the supreme being who created the world would actually become a man and then die. That was ridiculous. Historian Plutarch declared it would be an insult to God to involve him in human affairs. Barclay said says that to the educated Greeks, quote, God must be incapable of all feelings so that none may ever affect him. A God who suffered was to the Greeks a contradiction in terms. The preaching of the cross to the Greeks was foolishness, and it didn't take long for the message of the cross to be mocked in the ancient world. A well-known bit of Graffiti found in ancient Rome depicts a man standing before a figure of a cross, or a figure uh on a cross, I meant to say, and the figure on the cross has the the body of a man. And the head of a donkey and the inscription reads Alexamenos worships his God. They mocked it. God on a cross. Is that what you're telling us? Almost 2,000 years later, the preaching of the cross remains to many a stumbling block and foolishness, even among those Who call themselves Christians, oddly enough. At the now infamous Re-Iimagining God conference, held in Minneapolis a number of years ago now. That was attended and supported by the leadership and members of major denominations, including the Presbyterian Church USA, the United Methodist Church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Roman Catholic Church, the United Church of Christ had over 2,000 participants from 27 countries, and they were on hand to hear Professor Dolores Williams of Union Theological Seminary in New York waxed eloquent on the subject of the cross. Here's what she said in part. I don't think we need a theory of atonement at all. I don't think we need folks hanging on crosses and blood dripping and other weird stuff. John Sheldon Bobby Spong, Bishop of the Episcopal Church Diocese of Newark, retired, wrote in his book, Why Christianity Must Change or Die Quote, a human father who would nail his son to a cross would be arrested for child abuse. He said, I would choose to loathe rather than to worship a deity who required the sacrifice of his son. Reverend Catherine Ragsdale is the Dean and President of the Episcopal Divinity School. That's a major Seminary near Harvard. She is perhaps best known in the Episcopal Church for declaring herself to be a lesbian, which is becoming more and more common, and for calling abortion a blessing. In an Easter message that she posted on her website, she referred to Christ's death this way. The suffering and death of Jesus, according to the theory of the atonement pays for our sins and buys our salvation. That's an interesting theory, but not one that I find compelling. For the Apostle Paul, the atonement of Christ was not merely some uh uncompelling if uh interesting theory. It was not a story that we can do without a story about blood dripping and other weird stuff. And it was certainly not child abuse. It was the heart of the message that he was sent forth to declare. This is the gospel that we've been sent forth to deliver. That Christ died upon the cross, that he rose again, that he lives today. That through faith in him we can be forgiven. We preach Christ crucified. To the Jews it's a stumbling block. To the Greeks it's foolishness. But to those who are saved, it's the power of God. The message Paul proclaimed was the gospel. This message was centered in the cross, and this message was preached simply And clearly. Paul says, Christ sent me to preach the gospel not with wisdom of words. Verse 17, not with excellence of speech or of wisdom. Chapter 2 verse 1. Not with persuasive words of human wisdom. Chapter 2 verse 4. As we noted, this presented a sharp contrast with a renowned Greek Greek orators. William Barclay writes, it's impossible to exaggerate the almost fantastic mastery that the silver-tongued rhetorician held in Greece. They thought not of what they were saying, but of how they were saying it. Plutarch said they made their voices sweet with musical cadences and modulations. of tone and echoed resonances. One orator, Adrian, had such a reputation in Rome, it said that when his messenger Messenger appeared with a notice that he was about to lecture, the Senate emptied, and even the people at the games abandoned them to flock to hear him. So along comes the Apostle Paul into these Greek cities such as Athens and others, where people were accustomed to listening listening to great orators, and he comes to Athens or to Corinth, not with excellency of speech or Of wisdom. His intention was not to dazzle the Corinthians with his eloquence, but rather to simply and clearly proclaim God's truth. Told of a poor woman leaving a service in a famous church in Edinburgh where a great and learned professor had just preached. Somebody asked her if she enjoyed the sermon. She said that she had. He probed a little deeper. Were you able to follow him? She responded, far be it from me to presume to understand such a great man as that. Far be it from me to presume to understand such a great man as that. How much better to preach like Luther Luther said, When I preach, I regard neither doctors nor magistrates, of whom I have above forty in the congregation. I have my eyes on the servant maids and the children. And if the learned men are not well pleased with what they hear, well the door is open. Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones was out of the pulpit for an extended time due to an illness. And he received a number of letters. He said the one he prized the most was from a twelve-year-old girl who was uh from his church who was writing uh on her behalf and on behalf of her brother. And she said they were praying for his quick recovery and his return to the pulpit, quote, because you are the only preacher we can understand. Paul's speech was notable for its plainness, for its simplicity. I'm sure he didn't have a special preaching voice that he adopted when he stood to speak. He would do nothing to draw attention to himself, especially to his great learning. He spoke at has to be understood by uneducated slaves as well as kings and philosophers. Perhaps the greatest preacher of the 18th century was George Whitfield, one biographer says of him, his preaching was singularly lucid and simple. His hearers, whatever they might think of his doctrine, could never fail to understand what he meant. His style of speaking was easy, plain, and conversational. He seemed to abhor long and involved sentences. He always saw his mark and he went directly at it. Whitfield, like Paul, preached a singularly pure gospel. One of his biographers, J. C. Ryle, wrote, Few men perhaps ever gave their hearers so much wheat and so little He didn't get up to talk about his party, his cause, his interest, or his office. He was perpetually telling you about your sins, about your heart, about Jesus Christ, the Holy Ghost, the absolute need of repentance, faith, holiness. In the way that the Bible presents these mighty subjects. Oh, the righteousness of Jesus Christ, he would often say, I must be excused if I mention it in almost all my sermons. Preaching of this kind is the preaching that God delights to honor. It must be preeminently a manifestation of truth. How did Paul preach? Not with the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be of no effect. A king once asked one of his courtiers, what drew so so many people to a certain French preacher. Your Majesty, said the nobleman, he preaches the gospel, and that is the scarcest thing in France. The message Paul proclaimed was the gospel. That message was centered in the cross of Christ. That message was declared simply and clearly. And fourth, that message carries with it its own power. Made all the more powerful when God's Spirit breathes upon the hearer. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. The message of the cross is the power of God to those who are being saved. Paul didn't need to embellish the gospel. There's a power in the gospel message itself. A power that God uses to draw his elect ones to himself. To bring his bride to him. To bring his church to him. bring his sheep into the fold. There's a power in the message that though we rebelled against our Creator, his love for mankind was such that he provided a way for For us to be redeemed. us. There's a power in the message that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. There's a power in that message because it's the truth of God. There's a power in the message that in spite of your sin, in spite of your guilt, in spite of your depraved heart and mind, God's love for lost sinners was such That he conceived a way for us to be forgiven. a Without violating his justice, without compromising his holiness. It was a plan that required his own beloved son to leave the glory of God. above, come to the sinful earth, keep the law that I broke, and then pay the debt that I owe. There's a power in this gospel message It's not the preaching of philosophy. It's not the preaching of psychiatry. It's not the preaching of morality that melts human hearts and makes new creations out of sinners. It's the preaching of the cross of Christ. The message of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but to us who are saved it's the power of God. A man who had been a reprobate and a druid And his friends at work tried to shake him out of his faith. Surely a sensible man like you can't believe in the miracles the Bible talks about. You can't, for instance, believe that this is Jesus Whether he turned water into wine or not, said the man, I do not know. But in my house I have seen him turn In my house I've seen him turn beer into furniture. There is a power in the message of the cross. And many of you have experienced that power. You've seen Christ turn hatred into love, pride into humility, fear into peace. Grief into joy, tears into gladness , yes, even beer into furniture. It was forty four years Ago this summer when I first experienced the power of the cross in my own life, through the gospel message I heard from my brother Doug and found in God's word and heard from a Bible Believing church. And it's the message of the cross that each believer must depend upon each day to be able to approach a holy God. We need this gospel message. Each and every day. We need to remember, I am a sinner who deserves the wrath of a holy God, but God in his mercy had compassion upon me. Brought this Good news to me, sent his own son to die for me, raised him from the dead, brought this gospel message to me, opened my eyes, gave me faith to believe it, drew me by the power of his Spirit into his church, breathed new life upon me , regenerated me, justified me, adopted me. He sanctified me Me. He's going to glorify me. If you've not experienced that power in your own life, I beseech you as a representative of Jesus Christ. I beseech you in Christ's stead to be reconciled to God. How do you do that? You come to God as a sinner, you get out on your knees and you say, God have mercy upon me. God forgive me. God save me. I'm a sinner, I see it. I know my pride and my selfishness and my anger and my hatred and my lack of forgiveness. I can see it. I don't like it. Please, God, deliver me. Who shall deliver me from the body, this body of Yes. Thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. You come to God as a little child, not proud and puffed up of all your accomplishments, not the fact that you've kept the golden rule and you've done so well. Keeping the Ten Commandments, etc. But you come to him empty-handed. Lord, forgive me. I'm a sinner. But you say in your word And Jesus Christ came to save sinners. Save me, Lord. Save me. You come to Him that way. It's like the thief on the cross. You put your Faith in him, all your sins will be forgiven. God says. And you'll be with him forever and ever. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a wonderful message we have to declare. That your love for sinners was so great that you sent your son to die. That we might have life. We're the ones who deserve death. But he took our place, died as our substitute, said, Father, punish me and let them go for free. Lord, I pray, especially if there be anyone here this day, man, woman, young person, child, still outside of Christ, draw that soul to true saving faith. The same mercy you had upon many of us, we pray you might extend it to that one. May this be the day of salvation. For those of us who know you, Lord, we thank you for the gospel message we have to declare. May we declare it to our friends, our loved ones, those we meet. That your kingdom might be advanced. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Our closing hymn is uh there is a fountain filled with blood, 188.