Turn there. We'll dismiss the little ones for Wonders of Worship Downstairs with Denise Madden. And I think uh Erica Watkins is with us as well. Erica, where are you? Where is Erica? Huh? Over here? Over in this direction? Over there. All right, good to have you with us. So that what's the island where you are? St. St. Kitts. St. Kitts in the Caribbean or is it the Caribbean? It's down there. One of those places. Pretty heavy with us. Uh came back to a surprise, I think. Uh some family members had a little family room. Matthew chapter twenty-five and uh let's begin in verse fourteen. The Lord Jesus said, For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling to a far country, who called his own servants and delivered his goods to them. And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, to each according to his own ability. And immediately he went on a journey. Then he who had received the five talents went and traded with them and made another five talents. And likewise he who had received two gained two more also. But he who had received one went and dug in the ground and hid his Lord's money. After a long time, the Lord of those servants came and settled accounts with them So he who had received five talents came and brought five other talents, saying, Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Look, I have gained five more talents besides them. His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You were faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord He also who had received two talents came and said, Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Look, I have gained two more talents besides them His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord Then he who had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew you to be a hard man. reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed, and I was afraid and went and hid your talents in in the ground. Look, there you have w what is yours But his Lord answered and said to him, You wicked and lazy servant, you knew that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed. So you ought to have deposited my money with the bankers and at my coming. I would have received back my own with interest. Therefore, take the talent from him and give it to him who has ten talents. For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have abundance. But from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. And cast the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. May God's blessing rest upon this for Let's pray. Father, now we come to you and ask for your help, for your presence, for your spirit To move in each of our hearts. This is your holy word. It's living. It's powerful. It's sharper than any two-edged sword, and we pray that you would use it in each heart and life here now. We ask in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. Here at Liberty, as many of you know, we encourage and exhort every member of the flock to do three simple things. To praise God, that is, worship Him in spirits and in truth, and public and private. To connect with God's people, that is, to form relationships with God's people for mutual edification. for accountability, for comfort, for uh uh exhortation, etc. And advance his kingdom. That is, invest your gifts in his service Engaging in the great task of bringing the message of Christ to this lost world. And we've devoted some messages to praising God, that is, our series on worship. We've talked about the importance of connecting with God's people for the last several weeks, but this morning I'd like us to begin to consider the A in our little PCA acrostic, which stands for advancing his kingdom. Advancing God's kingdom. Today we'll be laying the foundation for all Christian service. Laying the foundation for our service. If you've known the Lord for many years, you may find this message to be quite basic. It may be that you hold these truths to be self-evident. But it's beneficial to young believers to clearly set forth the basis for our service of the Lord. And even established followers of Christ can benefit from a reminder of foundational truth. As we begin this morning, I want to call your attention to a rather striking statement from the Apostle Paul. He made it to the crew of the Alexandrian ship that was taking him as a prisoner to Rome. It's recounted for us in the Acts of the Apostles. Having rejected Paul's advice that they should winter on the island of Crete, the sailors found themselves in a great tempest. Several days passed without a glimpse of the sun or the stars, and all hope that they would be saved was lost. Paul, after restraining himself for some time, stood up in the midst of the men and said, Men, you should have listened to me and not have sailed from Crete and incurred this disaster and loss. And now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you. For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am And whom I serve, saying, Do not be afraid, Paul. You must be brought before Caesar, and God has granted you all those who sail with you. Now, the striking statement I want to underscore there is when Paul says, there stood by me this night the angel of God, and now he's referring to God, whose I am and whom I serve. The God whose I am and whom I serve. I am God 's, I serve God. I'd like to spend a few moments this morning thinking about God's sovereign ownership of the believer. I am God 's. I serve God. It's established in Scripture by those passages which refer to the master-servant relationship. I have formed you, you are my servant, O Israel You will not be forgotten by me, Isaiah 44, 21. The Lord begins Isaiah's prophecy this way, Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knows his owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know. My people do not consider. What is it his people do not know? What is it that they do not consider? His sovereign ownership of them. The ox knows its master. After Jesus watched his disciples' feet in the upper room, he said to them, Do you know what I've done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. Most assuredly, a servant, that's us, is not greater than his master. That's him Nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. John 13. As you know, the terms master, servant, lord are used hundreds of times. in scripture, often referring to God's sovereign ownership of the believer. In the New Testament, the word kurios, a Lord who exercises power, is used of Christ in almost every book. And then there's despotess. It's even stronger. The English word despot is derived from it. It's a master with absolute ownership, absolute unrestrained power. It's used in Jews, the only Lord God, that is the only despotes. And of course, the believers call the Dulas, a servant, the hired servant, or a bondservant, a slave. The basis of the servant-master relationship is that we have , of the relationship that we have with God, is that first of all God is our maker. He created us. We all acknowledge the absolute authority of a creator over his creations. If you've been to Bob and Sandy Sunderland 's home, you've no doubt seen some of the beautiful wood carvings that Bob has done through the years. Uh Don Davidson, uh Mike Davidson's dad and uh Chris Davidson's grandfather, there he is, the suspenders over there. Uh uh Don is also a gifted wood carver. Uh Bill uh Caldwell and I were in his wood shop in the basement of the home a few weeks ago, as a matter of fact. If you visit Donna Mary Davidson, You're likely to leave with a little hand-carved wooden bird or a pin or a tie-tack. Sometimes they're little ravens, sometimes little Orioles. all sorts of little doodads. And my point is, because Don creates his carvings, he has the right to do with them as he pleases. A creator is sovereign over the disposition of that which he creates. Milton had authority over Paradise Lost. Bunyan had authority over Pilgrim's Progress. Handel had authority over his Oratorio Messiah. But the Messiah had and has authority over Handel and over every other creature that he has created. I don't know if you saw Time magazine printed a fascinating article a couple weeks ago about a robot competition. Millions of dollars in prize money. were offered by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, DARPA, to whoever could design a humanoid-looking robot which would accomplish certain tasks. The competitors included, to quote time, powerhouses from the public and private sectors, including MIT, Carnegie Mellon, NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab, and Lockheed Martin. Uh plus for the finals that were held, I think, just uh about five days ago, something like that, uh maybe a little longer, the finals that were held earlier this month, let me say uh included uh teams from Germany, South Korea, China, and Japan. Now uh Time was reporting on the semifinals That were held a year and a half ago in Miami and also on the preparations for the final competition. At the semifinals that were held in Miami, the robots had to perform eight simple tasks. Eight tasks, including holding up eight fingers, including driving a vehicle, climbing a ladder, crossing a debris field, and drilling a hole in a wall. They were allotted, the robots were allotted, 30 minutes per task or four hours to do those eight things. But what was so interesting is that the article highlighted the frustration of one of the very top design teams. They think they came in second in the original competition and they were first now because the the the the the one that won that the robot that won the semifinals uh dropped out. And he had something else to do, I guess, but but uh the point is uh the the the author of this article, the journalist, I think his name was uh Leb Grossman said that uh as he spent some time with this robot team he found out that they were intensely frustrated with the robot. He would freeze up, he would lose hydraulic fluid. They called him it, by the way, they called him He would fall over. He would fling its arms around wildly, like that robot in the old TV series Lost in Space. The one that was shouting, danger, danger, or that does not compute. Now, think about it. Hundreds of thousands of dollars Thousands of man hours and woman hours from some of the world's most brilliant engineers just to design a robot which could perform eight simple tasks in four hours. Tasks that you could easily accomplish in 15 minutes. Right? Walk through a debris field, climb a ladder, drill a hole. And yet, here is the my point, some of these fame scientists and engineers would have us believe That the marble marvel of the human being, a being which can perform what? Not eight tasks. 8,000 tasks? 800,000 tasks? 8 million tasks? Your guess is as good as mine An infinite number of tasks? A human being who does not require a 300-pound battery pack or hydraulics, a human being who very seldom freezes up. Or flails its arms wildly for no apparent reason, they would have us believe, this is what I was saying, that a human has no designer. Is anything more ludicrous? Is anything more foolish? The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. You have a designer, you have a creator, and as such, he has sovereign rights over your life. You are his by creation. All things were made by him. In him we live and move and have our being. We're his by creation. And secondly, Christian, we are his by redemption. You are doubly indebted to the Lord. You were twice bought. You're his by creation. You're his by redemption. To redeem, of course, is to buy out. In particular, it's to purchase a slave with a view to his freedom. Peter speaks of some who, quote, deny the Lord who bought them. And Paul tells the Christians living in the immoral port city of Corinth, flee sexual immorality. He who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Or do you not know? That your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own. For you were bought at a price. A great price, by the way. You were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. 1 Corinthians 6. A bit later he writes, let each one remain in the same calling in which he was called. Were you called while a slave? Do not be concerned about it, but if you can be made free, rather use it For he who was called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freed man. That is freed from bondage to sin. Likewise, he who is called while free is Christ's slave. Purchased by Christ to serve him. You were bought at a price. Do not become slaves of men. 1 Corinthians 7. You know, there's a very clear parallel between the deliverance of God's people from slavery in Egypt and the deliverance of every true believer from sin. Think about it. They were in bondage to Pharaoh, and he was a cruel taskmaster. As much as they longed for deliverance, their bonds seemed to be unbreakable. What could they do? They were too weak to resist Pharaoh. They had no weapons that could prevail against his forces, his very powerful forces. They couldn't hide from him. They couldn't flee from him into the desert. They were utterly powerless. They could only anticipate death for themselves and their posterity. There was, for them, humanly speaking, no hope. So what did they do? They humbly prayed for deliverance. They looked up. They looked up for one who would redeem them from their bondage and deliver them to a place of liberty And God heard their cry. He had compassion upon them. He sent a deliverer. Not an angel But a man, a man of flesh and blood, who with great signs and wonders revealed himself to be the messenger of God's covenant. He broke the bonds of slavery and saved his people from death through the blood of the innocent Passover lamb without blemish. This wonderful deliverer acted as the mediator between God and his sheep. He went before them to lead them to the promised land. Christian, you were in bondage to sin and to Satan. You had cruel taskmasters. As much as you longed for deliverance, your bonds seemed unbreakable. What could you do? You were too weak to resist Satan. You had no weapons that could prevail against him. You couldn't hide from him. You couldn't flee from him. You were utterly powerless. You could only anticipate death for yourself and your posterity. There was humanly speaking for you no hope in this world. So by God's grace, you looked up. You humbly prayed to God for deliverance, for one who would deliver you from bondage, deliver you to a place of liberty. And God heard your cry, he had compassion upon you, he sent a deliverer, not an angel, but a man of flesh and blood. Who with great signs and wonders revealed himself to be the messenger of God's covenant. He broke the bonds of your slavery to sin. He saved you from death through his own blood, the blood of the innocent Lamb without blemish. And he acted as the mediator between you and God, went before you to lead you to the promised land by his resurrection and his glorious ascension. Christian, you have been redeemed from bondage and death and hell just as surely as the people of Israel were redeemed from Egypt. You've been bought at a price. A great price. Because ours was a great debt. If uh if I put a stack of a million dollars in one thousand dollar bills On the pulpit here, it would extend about four inches high. If we were able to put a stack of uh Uh a billion dollars in thousand dollar bills, not four inches, it would extend three hundred and sixty-four feet high. That's how high is a stack of a billion dollars. You know what a stack of a trillion dollars is? It's a stack that would extend up into the sky 63 billion miles four inches for a million sixty-three miles for a trillion it took America 224 years to amass a national debt of close to six trillion dollars. So picture thousand dollar bills extending up three uh sixty-three miles. Picture six stacks of them. We reached that point around the year 2000. Since then, 2000, a year some of you can remember, since then our debt, our national debt has tripled. Whereas we had six stats, now we have 18 stats, $1,000 bills extending up the 63 miles, that's how much we as a nation owe. And that's with our historically low interest rates. As I wrote in a recent editorial, if we stopped adding to our debt today, and we're not going to, and we started to pay it off at $10 million a day, it's a lot of money, $10 million a day. It would take us 5,000 years to pay off our national debt. But we're not paying it off. In fact, it's increasing at the rate of about a million dollars a minute. A million dollars a minute. If you're a taxpayer, your share is now about $150,000. And since there may be some taxpayers who don't have $150,000 , You may be on the hook for substantially more than that. Our national debt is huge, humongous, but our debt of sin is even greater. Our debt of sin is even greater, both as a nation and as individuals. And as our national debt grows, a sinner's debt is also growing relentlessly. Higher and higher every day. And all the gold and silver and all the rubies and all the emeralds are insufficient to redeem the soul of one sinner. You were not redeemed with corruptible things such as silver and gold from your vain manner of life received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. What does that mean, Christian? Do you see it? It means you are not your own. You belong to another. You are God's by creation and you are God's by redemption. He purchased you with a great price. What more could he do? He brought you to himself. You are his. What is the practical consequence of that? I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God of God to present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Because you're his, because he's redeemed you, bought you back, bought you back from slavery to sin, it's only reasonable that your life should now be lived for him. You are not your own. You were bought at a price. Do you have a sharp mind? It's his. You were bought at a price. Do you have some mechanical prowess? It's his. You were bought at a price. Do you have artistic talent? It's his. Do you have facility with numbers? It's his Do you have some measure of beauty? It's his. He gave it to you. What do you have that you did not receive? Every good gift comes down from above. And what does God expect you to do with all those gifts and talents that He's given you? He expects you to invest them for Him. This is made clear in our scripture reading from Matthew 25, the parable of the talents. We're all familiar with it, I trust. I'm not going to fully develop it, but I want to draw some conclusions from it. For the Romans, a denarius was a day's weight. For the Greek, it was a drama. A talent It was a measure of money, a unit of measurement. A talent, I'm told, was equivalent to 6,000 denari, or drachmas. That is 6,000 days wages. It works out to about 16 years of wages for a working man, a minimum wage in our day. In our currency, it would be about $380,000, figuring minimum wage about eight bucks. It was the highest monetary unit in Christ's day So in this parable, Jesus told, the master called his servants and distributed to them money. That's what these talents were. There were amounts of money. Five of them to one servant. That'd be well well over a million dollars, right? uh five close to uh two billion dollars. Uh five of them to one servant, two of them to another, and one talent to the third Quite obviously, God does not distribute his gifts evenly across the board. These talents, by the way, so clearly represent gifts and abilities that that's what the word has come to mean in English. Gifts and abilities. Notice from this parable that what abilities we do have were given By the master for his use. They're his talents, not ours. He gave them to us for a time to use for his purposes, to invest for him. So, young person, why do you think God made you strong if not to use your strength for Him? Why do you think He gave you creativity if not to use your creativity for Him? Why did he give you a sense of humor to use it for him? Why did he give you imagination if not for him? You are not here to build up Satan's kingdom. You were not created to be a recruiter for the Prince of Darkness So you take stock of your gifts and invest them for God. He gave them to you for a time, just a brief time. He's going to call you to account very soon. If an employee takes the funds that his boss entrusts to him, or the owner of the company entrusts to him, to invest, and he squanders That on his own comfort and pleasure, he takes that money and he squanders it upon his own comfort and pleasure. What do we call that? We call it embezzling. You go to jail for that. Are you embezzling from God? Are you embezzling from God? He gave you your talents, he gave you your gifts, he gave you your abilities, he gave you this time, he put you on this planet, he gave you the freedom of living in America. Are you embezzling from him? There's a warning in this parable to those who reason, well, I have so few gifts and abilities, so little is committed to my charge, it doesn't really matter what becomes of it. Really? That's kind of what the the one servant said, right? Well I knew you were a hard master. You don't even need me. You reap where you haven't sown. You gather where you haven't scattered seed. So I just took your child I'd put it in the earth. It's still there. It's probably still there. I haven't checked on it in a while. You can have back what you gave me. You see, the man who had received one talon was expected to use it just as diligently as the man who was given five. Perhaps you cannot teach, but you can pray. Perhaps you cannot preach, but you can invite a friend to a worship service. Perhaps you can't lead a Bible study, but you can offer hospitality. You can open the door of your home. Perhaps you can't write Christian books that might edify others, but you can write out your testimony and send it to your niece. Perhaps you can't build a church building. You can help to maintain it. Maybe you can't give thousands, but you can give something There's a warning here to those who hide their gifts. The lazy servant buried his talent. Are there lazy servants here? You know you're gifted to teach, but you decline to use that gift. You know you have the gift of evangelism, but you're hiding it. Like hiding a light under a bushel basket. You know you could disciple a young Christian, but you hold back. You see opportunities to serve, you hear about them, you say to yourself, well, I could do that, but you don't Here's a rebuke to that false humility that refuses to work for Christ out of fear of being thought presumptuous or proud. Let men say what they will. You have a master to answer to. You're bought at a price. Do not become slaves of men. Stewards, stewards should strive to use their master's gifts where they're liable to yield the greatest return for their master. You would be wise to take some time to analyze what your gifts are and how and where they can best be used in God's kingdom. That may be here in the United States or maybe in Uganda or Kenya or Mexico or wherever. It's not wrong, for example, for evangelists to go where they have the opportunity to reach the most people where the fields are white unto harvest. If you're going to prepare a Sunday school lesson faithfully and put the time and energy into it that it requires, it's not wrong to want to teach 20 people rather than five. There's a great difference between improper personal ambition and a desire to reap a return for your master. And notice the servant's whole life was one of service to his master. Service defined him. He was a servant. I don't want to give the impression that I think your particular gifts were designed primarily for a few hours use on Sunday mornings. Your whole life is to be a life of service. Christian, your whole life is to be a life of service. Your vocational calling is an opportunity to use your gifts to benefit other people. Yeah, it benefits your family, it benefits you, but it's an opportunity to use your gifts to benefit others. Your vocational calling is an opportunity. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good work and glorify your Father who is in heaven, whether you're a teacher or a piano tuner, whether you're You work outside with your hands, you have an opportunity to glorify your master by the way you serve, by the way you work. by your work ethic. Dr. Dobson, as some of you know, uh taught junior high school for a time. Years later, he received a call from a student who traced him down. She asked him if she could go to church with him. She saw something in him. She came to faith in Christ. Through the testimony of Dr. Dobson teaching junior high school. Eddie was telling us today about a dear friend of his, Todd. He went to school with. And they parted ways. And Todd was a confirmed unbeliever. You might say a scoffer. But God's working in his heart 20 years later. And the things he heard in conversations with Eddie have been used in his heart and life. And God's bringing conviction of sin upon him. Many of you have heard me speak before about the young college student, Chris, who stood before his art class , which was discussing the motivation behind your particular art. And he unashamedly declared his love for Jesus Christ, and that Christ was his motivation in all that he did does and all the all the artistic work that he creates. He stood before that class and declared that he had been redeemed from sin and from Satan, and that Christ was indwelling him in the person of the Holy Spirit. Some of those fellow students mocked him. But at least one of them was attentive to what uh Chris said. His heart was touched, and he was in his last year of college. They met after class and talked about Together, began a Bible study together, and Chris was instrumental in leading that young man to faith in Christ. That new believer left Oakland, California, and the art school he was at attending and uh returned home to Orlando and began to share the gospel with his younger brother, me, and uh with my wife and with my mother And over time God brought uh me and my wife and my mother and my younger brother Ken and my older brother Eric. uh to Christ and that multiplication process, which we can trace back to Chris, and can't go any further beyond that. That multiplication process continues today. Now, my point is Chris was not an ordained preacher. He was just a believer who let his light shine before men. And you can do that in yoga class or at the library or the baseball field. Let your light so shine before men. That they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. This parable reminds us that the judgment of the believer service is in God's hands. Who are you who judges another man's servant? God will do that. And it reminds us that God's judgment will be based upon faithfulness, not our level of abilities or giftedness. You see, the same commendation was given to the one who had gained five talents, was given to the one who gained two talents as was given to the one who gained five. The same commendation. You have been faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. You may not have been given as many gifts as an Edith Schaeffer or a. Fanny Crosby or a Elizabeth Elliott or a Johnny Erickson Tata. But if you are as faithful with a few gifts If indeed your gifts are few, if you're faithful with those few gifts, as faithful as they have been with their many, you may well receive the same commendation. And notice something else. It's not just commendation that Christ's faithful will receive, but reward. I will make you ruler over many things. What does that mean? We don't really know. But he's going to reward his servants, and they're going to have service to do for him after they leave this earth. Enter into the joy of your Lord. Christian, do you understand the implications of this truth? Whose are you? You are God's. You were purchased at a great price. You are not your own. That's not your body to do with it as you please. That's not your mind to use it as you wish. You are not your own. You've been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your soul. Spirit. You've been liberated from sin and Satan. You are now Christ's bond slave. And if you are Christ, there are certain liberties that you no longer have that you may have had as you were Satan's servant. You don't have the liberty to engage in sex outside of marriage. You belong to God You don't have the liberty to drink to the point of intoxication. You belong to God. You are not your own. You don't have the liberty to blow up and rant and wait rave at your children. You belong to God. You've been bought at a price. You don't have the liberty to treat your spouse With harshness. You belong to God. You've been bought at a price. You don't have the liberty to hold the grudge against a brother or a sister. You don't have the liberty to indulge in pornography. You don't have the liberty to lie to your parents. You don't have the liberty to call in sick when you're not sick. You don't have the liberty to knowingly, presumptuously sin in any way. You belong to God. Now you're going to sin. You're going to mess up. You're going to fall. Well, you're gonna trip. But you don't have the liberty to walk into sin with your eyes wide open. I know that's not my wife, but I'm going to be with her anyway. You don't have the opportunity You don't have the liberty. You're not your own. You were bought at a price. Now, a word to any non-believers here. Does this sound like bondage to you? Well, it's not. Not as you imagine. The believer is in the loving service of a loving Savior. Obedience to Him brings righteousness, peace, and joy. Just the blessing of a clear conscience. What is that worth? The believer is in the loving service of a loving Savior. The unbeliever is in bondage to sin and Satan. Don't you know that when you offer yourselves to someone to obey him as slaves, you are slaves to the one you obey, whether you are slaves to sin, which leads to death? Or to obedience, which leads to righteousness, Romans 6, 16. The one who's in true bondage is the one who is enslaved by his passions The one who has no hope, who's without God in this world. Deliverance, however, comes when you cry out to him: God be merciful to me. God forgive me. God save me. God take away the sinful heart. Make me a new creation. Give me new life. Lord, I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life, died upon the cross, rose again from the dead. I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart. Forgive me. Save me. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer. You mean that in your heart. God promises He'll forgive all your sins. He'll adopt you into his family. He'll declare you to be righteous. Why? Because the righteousness of Jesus has been put upon your account, and your sins have been put upon his account. Then you'll have a servant. One who uh you'll you'll be a servant to one who loves you. You'll be servant to the king, to the Lord to the Creator. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we pray for your Spirit to work in hearts. First of all, Father, for believers. Lord, remind us again, we are not our own. We've been bought at a price. You've purchased us at great cost. Our huge sin debt has been taken away, has been paid for, paid for through the blood of Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you for that. But we lift up, Lord, those who may be here outside of Christ. Anyone here still dead in sins? Lord, have compassion upon that soul as you had compassion upon us. us. Draw him or her to true saving faith. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.