Our sermon passage today is from 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 3 through 9. I would invite your attention to it and kind of have it out in front of you as we go through the sermon. And as I read it, I would invite you to please stand. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. You who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice. Though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. that the genuineness of your faith having much more being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory. at the revelation of Jesus Christ, whom having seen not seen, you love, though now you do not see him. Yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible And full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And may the Lord bless the reading and understanding that comes from His Word. Please be seated. Well, ponder for a moment what the following circumstances may have in common. I would like you to think of a first-time mom and dad gazing down on their newborn baby Or 35,000 nearly frozen fans standing in a stadium at some football stadium as their team wins the Super Bowl. A graduating senior walking across the stage as uh in order to receive his or her high school diploma. Now, it's not rocket science to see what these things have in common. Each circumstance, as we recognize, is an instance of exceeding joy. Even exuberant joy if you've ever seen a team win the Super Bowl and what's the stand so I'm doing it. I don't understand why they paint themselves. I've I've never quite gotten it But anyway, those things that I just talked about illustrate something about biblical joy that Paul speaks of in this passage. And the hope, peace, and love that we have considered over the past three Sundays. Now each of those hope, peace, and love Are not something that the world knows. True hope is only present in a person whose hope is in Christ. Otherwise The hope that they may feel in this world is vain. True peace comes from recognizing that Christ is our peace, and having that settle our hearts and take away our strife. And true love, as we talked about last week, agape love, is in fact a gift of God that He first extends to us and which we then in response extend to others. And so when we think about those, we say, well, those things are kind of special to Christianity. The world can't really know them. But joy? In an absolute sense, the world does have a taste of joy now and experiences it now and then. The inexpressible joy of which Peter speaks here is not fundamentally different in its essence, if you will, from the experience that the world can have of joy. But the occasion for it , there's the rub. The occasion for joy in which a Christian delights is very different from that in the world. And that's what makes Christianity so special. That's why the joy of Christianity is inexpressible. As readily apparent by now you've got the word that today's theme is joy. And therefore this sermon is directed toward that topic, much along the lines of what James spoke today. Good job. And it teaches us that in the Bible that there's lots that God wants for us to do about joy and rejoicing. He teaches us that joy should be the natural response of the human heart to God 's calling us into covenant relationship with himself. In other words, it's good news. And as good news, it should be celebrated as good news with joy. What was it that the angels proclaimed to the shepherds that uh Steve alluded to earlier. He says, do not, they said, do not be afraid. All right, you're there, you got all of this going on around you. And the word is, don't be afraid. And then the angel says, for behold, I bring you good tidings of what? Great joy, absolutely, which will be to all people. Many other passages teach the same thing, some of which were have been alluded to already. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, rejoice, Paul tells the Philippians. Paul then speaks to the Thessalonians and says, rejoice always. To the Romans, he said, the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. In the Old Testament, we read in Zephaniah, God saying, Be glad and rejoice with all of your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. In Isaiah, God says similarly, be glad and rejoice forever in what I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem as a rejoicing. and her people for joy. You kind of get a sense that there's something here that God's kind of hitting over and over again that he might want us to get through our thick skulls So we could go on about this. The very least we can say about all of these teachings is that it is every Christian's right and privilege and Their great duty to live in joy. So perhaps we ought to ponder that just a little bit. Perhaps we ought to inquire into our own lives, perhaps, and see whether joy is present in them. Need to recognize it, right? Well, immediately we know as we start thinking about this thing called joy that it's easier to describe, as I have done already, than it is to define. It's something we experience, and it is not strictly confined to our mental processes, although the mental processes are involved, of course. But like good art We know it when we see it. But being able to define it, bah some something else So joy is something we can know even if we can't nail it down. We can, however, say what it is not, and we can illustrate what it is. I would like to do both of those things now. Let's say what it's not first. Christian joy is not identical to amusement. I find that there are many Christians who are more amused by their religion than they are joyful in it. Neil Postman once wrote a book called, back in 1985, called Amusing Ourselves to Death. If you haven't read it, you really should. It's very prophetic, and what he warned us about in that book is pretty much what we're living with today. But basically, amusement is closely related to entertainment. We can read the Bible, for example. And as our confession teaches us, we can find it to be very interesting. Really interesting. We can even get excited as we go and read in it and we see how all of it fits together what the confession calls the harmony of it in its teachings. It's beautiful literary form. It is gorgeous in its expressions. And we can spend time on it. But somehow, doing all of that But that's where it stays. It doesn't touch our lives. The same thing is possible in worship. We may regularly attend worship. Why? Because, well, that's what we do. We're Christians. We go to worship. But it's more a form of entertainment to some than we would like to admit. But I'm asking, is it more an entertainment to some than we would like to admit? The point is simple. God didn't give us this world for our amusement. He didn't send his son into the world so that we could be intellectually stimulated, though we are. And for us to see this eternal plan of his as a wonderful thing as we puzzle it out is indeed very worthwhile. But God created this world, and he sent his son into it, so that we may rejoice. As Peter says here, for us to greatly rejoice in what Christ did. In fact, to rejoice so greatly according to this that it is a joy inexpressible and full of glory. Well, what's that like? Let me illustrate that then as a way of communicating, since I can't identify it. Let's illustrate it. And let's use a great old hymn, one of those that is beloved by this congregation, how great thou art. Now I want you to put yourself in mind of the experience that these words describe. When I, in awesome wonder, consider all the worlds thy hand has made, I see the stars. I hear the rolling thunder, thy power throughout the universe displayed. Then sings my soul. My Savior, God to thee. How great thou art. How great thou art. Brothers and sisters, that's a song of joy. That's joy When we sing it, we are identifying with what that composer is expressing it. When we sing it as we ought to sing it, we're there. We're there with him. We know what it means to be lifted in our spirits and contemplating God. The joyous song and the words of praise just kind of burst forth from our lips. We don't have to think about it, it just happens. We can no more be silent in such cases than we can stop breathing. It's part of us. It's who we are. Our joy sometime somehow completes us. Our joy is completed in its expression, whether in song or otherwise. Now it's one thing to sing that song and enjoy it. It's another to live it. To know the experience of it ourselves. And should we solemnly consider this experience is not limited to special occasions. God clearly teaches us that it should characterize our lives. We don't have to go to a mountaintop to be joyous in our God. What else does he mean when he says, Rejoice always? Well It's always. And therefore, that's not just confined to special occasion like the birth of our first child. That's a joyous experience. And I guarantee you when it's the first grandchild, you're in you're in Hog Island, you really are. Okay. But the bottom line of it is that it's not the joy that comes only from those special occasions. There is intrinsic in the Christian spiritual life, in sanctification, there is a continuous growth in joy. Now we might ask ourselves, have I known that joy? Perhaps we might say, if we have known it, have I indulged it? We live hectic. Rushed, often irritated by us. That's me. And perhaps we remember some moments When Joy just kind of peeped out from under the blankets of busyness and said, I'm still here And we experience it for a brief time. But do we indulge it? Do we dig deeper into it? Do we actually seek it out? It's actually pretty easy to lose our sense of joy during Christmas. We all know how stressful the process, the press of activities can be upon us. It is the tyranny of the urgent in spades. But brothers and sisters, our God became incarnate of the Virgin Mary to make our joy complete. Not so that we would have an occasion to run around in a spending blitz going crazy at red lights and wishing everybody would get out of our way. He came in order for us to have joy. So perhaps we should seek to set some time aside. To make our joy complete. Perhaps we should ask, isn't that what Christ wants of us? Well, maybe we should consider how to go about doing that. Peter's words here are ideally suited to guide us in increasing our joy. Now notice this is critically important. So notice the basis he sees here as being present for the joy, or the reason for the joy that is present in his readers. He says, in this you greatly rejoice. Now, what is that this to which he is referring? Well obviously it's verse 5. That's the one that's right before it So, okay, nearest antecedent, standard rule of indefinite uh antecedents, take the nearest one. However, I believe that it's all the preceding and not just the last verse So, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy, has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation to be revealed in the last time. If that doesn't ring any chimes, you're The rope is broken. Just the process even saying that begins to get us moving. Obviously, Peter sees these things as that which causes his readers to rejoice greatly. And from that we should learn Joy naturally arises when we contemplate the finished work of Jesus Christ. Yeah? We must be careful here. I am not talking about just being intellectually aroused or amused. I am saying that thinking and contemplating and dwelling on and letting the finished work of Jesus Christ penetrate into our lives in a deep and personal manner. is what causes joy to spring forth. Peter says that rejoicing springs from being born again to hope. Now we talked previously about hope in an earlier sermon, and we talked about how it really changes our lives and how hope is a quality of our soul. It's a condition in which we live. We live in hope. And it is defined as a certainty of present and future blessing. Hope means we know we're going to be blessed. And that is something only Christians can truly possess. Now see how all this fits, though. For us to have this hope, which he has said there, this living hope, this vitalizing, energizing, confidence-building hope. It means we have been born again. That's what he says. We have been born again to a living hope. And God has done this. Brothers and sisters, if we have hope in Christ, faith in Christ, it is because God loves us. And we talked about love last week. And this love has caused him to give us this hope. How did he do it? He sent the Holy Spirit into our hearts, and he caused us to be born again. That's pretty neat. And so when we think about that, we realize that we're different from those who don't have this hope. There's a world in darkness out there that should cause us to have great pity on them. Think of what they're missing. No hope. What they see is what they get. All they have is what the bumper sticker says Life is hard, and then you die. Now, it's not great philosophy, but it's true. Apart from Jesus Christ, that's about all you've got to look forward to. There's no hope there. Think of the difference in quality of your own life as you see your life in contrast to that. We're different from those who do not have the Holy Spirit. And so His presence in us is a supreme blessing. The Holy Spirit takes the things of Christ and he applies them to us. That's his mission. That's his job. That's what Jesus sends him into our heart to do, is to take the things of Christ and make them relevant to us. individually. Talk about a Christmas present. This is way better. This is even better than finding the keys to a brand new pickup under the tree. It's far superior to some football team winning a Super Bowl. Should this gift of God given us only out of his abundant mercy, should it not fill us with joy? Not only at Christmas, but every blooming day. We have God dwelling in us And his presence ensures that we have a living hope in Christ. And that's an amazing how great thou art. kind of experience thing and one that we don't have to go to a mountaintop to think about Next, he says we should be rejoicing because Christ rose from the dead. Let the joy of this idea sink deep into your heart as you think about that baby lying in a manger. Brothers and sisters, God was born into a manger so that he could die. That kind of takes us back a little bit, you know God became flesh as a very famous and godly man wrote about 1,000 A. D. because only as a man could God die. He took on flesh so that as a man he could bear our sins and go to the cross and pay the full and complete price for those sins. But he's also born in the flesh, so that he could rise again from the dead. That resurrection is what seals us to this living hope. Christ died for our sins. He was raised from the dead, according to Paul, for our justification. You and I have a part in his death, yea and amen. And we also have a part in his resurrection. Hebrews teaches us that since Jesus has died once, he will therefore never die again. And so therefore he always lives to make intercession for his people. Brothers and sisters, rejoice in that. We have a living high priest in heaven He is there guarding our inheritance, as Peter says here. He himself inherited all power and authority on heaven and earth, as he told his disciples before he left. And since he has all authority in heaven and on earth, he is not going to allow a single hair on our head to be lost. Now some of our more challenged people in that regard might look forward to that day. But the idea is that he will replenish everything in our lives that is somehow lacking in them now, in the future. We will be whole and complete. If we are blind, brothers and sisters, one day we will see. If we are lame now, one day we will dance. I'll never forget uh give you just a couple minutes to go off topic here. I'll never forget a young woman, relatively young woman that I visited over many years, says she slowly diminished and Ultimately died from multiple sclerosis. And she was confined to her bed. And in conversing with her about her hope One of the things she said to me most often was, pretty soon I'll be dancing with Jesus. It's a beautiful thought It's true. If we're losing our marbles, one day we're gonna know all things. If we are tone-deaf, one day we will sing precisely on key Well brothers and sisters, let that hope sink into your soul. I'm trying to make it a little bit humorous, but those are profound truths, aren't they? Make it personal. What do you this day look forward to in heaven? For yourself. Now I know being reunited to all of those that we have lost is high on the list, and I'm not diminishing that. Well, brothers and sisters, think about yourself. What is lacking from your life that one day God is going to make complete Know it's going to happen. Know it. And to the degree that you miss that now. Rejoice in the fact that you will have it then. With Christ as our high priest, it is absolutely guaranteed to happen. Why should we say that? Because of what Peter says next. We should rejoice because we are getting kept by the power of God through faith for that day And nothing in heaven on earth can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. Now Christ was born a man again, so that as a man he could have victory. The victory over Satan, the victory over sin, the victory over death itself. And it is his good pleasure, brothers and sisters. It is his joy. To make you a participant in that victory. His victory is our victory This is what our faith assures us. This is what the gift of the Holy Spirit in us keeps telling us when he takes the things of Christ and applies it to us individually. It's very personal. It's something that we must dwell on and take deep inside ourselves. We must let it fill our minds. As the certainty of it begins to sink in, joy will be the result. Now true enough, as Peter says right here, life is hard. And sometimes we may be grieved by various trials. But brothers and sisters, trials test our faith and prove it to be genuine. As Peter here proclaims, even those trials will be used by God in order to bring glory to his son at the last revelation. When he comes again. Thus, by dwelling on that, even in our darkest moments, we can and we must find reason to rejoice. What is it, James says? Rejoice when? James says, rejoice when you encounter various trials. But yeah, Paul said that other thing. But you know rejoice when you encounter various trials. Now th those trials are not finding it difficult to complete a Scrabble game on the TV, on the uh computer. Trials There's stuff we go through, and they're hard. And yes, even in trials As James says, we have reason to rejoice, and we should. We can find reason because we know that nothing is wasted. God has all our tears in his bottle. And therefore, we can rejoice when we encounter these trials because we know those trials are not by chance. That is where the power of God unto salvation is most often Readily apparent. We have that promise made even more certain. No power in heaven or earth can separate us from the love of God And neither can any circumstance we encounter in this life strip us of the joy which is our inheritance. It's ours. No one can take it away from us unless we just give it up. Away with this idea that our enemies and sometimes our friends can actively make us miserable. They can't do it. When we remain focused on our incredible privilege that we have been born again to a living hope. As I bring this to a close, I ask you today, right now, to search your hearts. Even as did those disciples long ago on the road to Emmaus, when Jesus appeared to them. They spoke of how upon hearing Jesus' words, their hearts begin to burn within them. Do not these things I have just said perhaps cause your heart to burn just a little bit? Can we contemplate this glorious gospel and our assured part in it And not have that work on us in a similar fashion. Can we not see the beginnings of joy? This is not a mind game. Don't you leave here today thinking it is. This is not some rather sentimental reaction to the vision of a baby in a major. This is the joy that that baby in the major was born to give us. These are tidings of great joy. For on that day Christ was born in Bethlehem to bring peace and hope and love into our lives. And since those things are ours, they only serve to increase our joy. Therefore, we should rejoice greatly. Even with a joy inexpressible and full of glory I submit that if we truly believe joy in these tithings will become one of our most precious possessions. Amen. Please pray with me. Our Lord and God, as we contemplate this, we think what a incredible thing it is that you have done. In this dark world, you have brought not only light, you have brought joy. Where Satan wants to increase misery, you came to increase joy. Oh Lord God, help us to take that to heart I pray, Lord, that if there's a heart here today that is so burdened by the world or perhaps their life experiences, The joy just seems to be something foreign from their entire existence. I pray, Lord God, that even now your Holy Spirit will touch them. And we'll touch them at that deepest part of their soul and say, I'm here. You belong to me. And where I am, you will be also. And the joy that I have is your joy also. And it shall do nothing but increase. Oh, Lord, grant that that be the case for all of us today, whether we have known you for ten minutes or whether we have known you for a hundred years. I pray, Lord God, that you will serve to increase our joy in the sheer privilege and wonder of what you have done. And I ask this in the name of our Savior who came to do that very thing. Amen.