Would ask where you to stand, please, as we read our sermon passage, I'll actually be starting with verse five. Uh-huh. It's just occurred to me late in the week that that's where I need to start. So you'll pick up with verse six as it's printed out in your bulletin uh right after verse five, strangely enough. So God's word as given to us by his servant Paul in Romans five, verses five through eleven. Now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. For when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly, for scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet perhaps for a good man, someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son , much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only that, but we also rejoice in God, through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received. the reconciliation. And may God, as his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from this word, please be seated. Very few people ever asked the question, but if someone were to ask the question, how do you go about preparing a sermon? I I would say that much of sermon preparation is kind of like a good cook making her own stock, his own, his or her, his or her own stock uh in a uh uh in a pot sitting on the back of the uh stovetop, letting it just kind of simmer throughout the week and let its kind of that aroma permeate the house Same thing will happen if you're making good soup. You know, you just put it there and the longer it sits, it gets thicker. And oh man, by the time you get to the end of the week, you can't wait to eat it. Well, a sermon is like that too. You just kind of ponder it throughout the week. You're doing work, you're doing all the reading, and and the the essence of of God's Word uh distills in the topic that you're speaking about in the main service and and it it just kind of becomes clear as you're moving through it Well this week, as often is the case, as my mind wandered, as it is often prone to do, on the topic of love back to an old song. Love is a many splendored thing. Matt Munro sang that back in the 50s. Young people today would probably find it a bit gooey. outwardly anyway. But I think in their secret hearts, even the young people today, young girls, perhaps more than one young boy might have romantic fantasies about a love that is like a rose blooming in the early spring. Or someone touching our silent heart and teaching it how to sin. Yes, true love is a meaning-splendid thing. Now, throughout the ages, the idea of a noble love, a pure self-giving love. has filled medieval minstrels, songbooks, and perhaps their entire repertoire. It's inspired great poetry and has underlay many significant uh plays like Romeo and Juliet. And that all points to how something inside of us yearns for a kind of love that fills us like this is talked about. We want that love, and we want to get it, we want to receive it. And sometimes, especially in our youth, we may think we have found it. What they used to call a teenage crush. was often a fiery passion, and it might very well lead to marriage. I remember one of my uh uh classmates when we graduated from high school. Uh when we got back from our senior trip , I think they were married the next weekend. It was uh they were ready. And uh talking with her over Facebook here over the years we've kept in track and and her husband died a few years back and she described it back then as why they got married in a such a rush and she said, Well, we were in love, and we didn't care. The fact that they didn't have a job nor any idea of what they were getting into didn't faze them. Well, that's kind of the thing that's behind this. Behind that statement is a truth. That early, passionate, fiery love that sometimes undergirds us when we're very young kind of changes throughout the years. Love is still there, particularly in a well-founded marriage. It grows, it becomes deeper. But let's face it, you have to go through stuff. And sometimes Prince Charming is discovered to have a few warts. But love has to persist. So we may have some silly fantasies about love, and we may mistake love for just the presence of passion. But deep down, we know that love, true love, really is a mini-splendored thing. The problem is, though, that though all of us humans long for it, we really don't know what this kind of love really is. Because we, apart from Christ, never experience it. We think that the love that we find in this world, the love that we commonly associate throughout all the range of humanity That that love is all there is, the love we have for children, for our parents, our spouses, and our fiancés. That's all. That's it. You talk about love, that's what we have. That's something we can expect of life Now don't get me wrong. There's nothing wrong with that love, as a matter of fact. That's the love we're supposed to have. It's a good and necessary thing. And in the words of an old other soapy song, that's the kind of love that makes the world go round. But brothers and sisters, there's a higher And there is a more noble and a even more intense love than those things. There is a love that the world outside of Christ cannot know Let that sink in. It is a love that is made known to us by the Holy Spirit, as verse 5 says. That's the reason why I added it And it truly is a mini-splendid thing because it raises us up to an entirely different level of living, a lift that comes from the experience of love. Scriptures are very much concerned to teach us about this love. And in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, God takes pains to make it clear to us. He speaks in his word about a special kind of love. It is spoken of as the love of God. And that phrase, love of God, takes two senses. There is in it the love which God Himself loves, the love with which He loves. And then there's that love which loves God in response to his love. The love of God coming to us and the love of God which we have for him. Now you've heard the word before of which I'm speaking here. It's the one that is mentioned in verse 8. God demonstrated his own love, agape. for us. Now that word agape is a special word, and perhaps you've never realized just how much it is It is basically a Christian buzzword. It was seldom used by the Greeks outside of uh in their normal uh cultural development And it wasn't until the Christians came along that Agape took on this deeper and more intense sense that we have now. The wider culture used the word philosop or in its a uh uh feminine form, philia. And that is what we meant what expressed brotherly love, family love, and even in its feminine form. the passionate love between uh affectionate love between husbands and wives. So that was the general and most often use word, and it's exactly the same word that the world knows as far as knowing what love is. But there was another word, a word called a word that you heard before, eros, from which we get the word erotic, and it speaks of passionate intensity. Now, of course, it certainly preferred the word eros that applied to sexual passion, but it also carried over into any kind of activities in which there was intense passion being displayed, specifically in the worship of pagan gods. So Eros focused on passion, Philos on special human relationships. Now, brothers and sisters, these words still describe the love that is known in the world in a general sense. But that's special love. Agape love. That's not something that the world, apart from Christ, knows nor can it know. But it is something we can know. And not only that, it is something we must know. And that's what I want us to take from this passage today. Paul really emphasizes the nature of this love in verse 8. But God demonstrates his own love toward us. In that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Now notice how God had to do something to make his love known. The English word demonstrates here, demonstrates. Is a bit ambiguous. It is not ambiguous in the original language. What Paul says here is that God makes his very own agape. for us known. And he does that by revealing to us on the cross so that we can see it in its purity and in perfection. Jesus on the cross was not just a demonstration, but catch this. He was not just a demonstration of God's love, he was an instantiation of God's love. We need to try to get our heads around that a bit. To do that, let's start with another verse from 1 John 4. 16. We start with a basic truth. God is love. God is Agape. This word agape Love is in some very mysterious sense of the very essence of God. It is of his essence. It's not something he does. It is something he is. Specifically in this passage, Paul uses the highly charged phrase, his own love, which is again somewhat ambiguous in the English. The literal translation is, it is God, it is God's made known love, that love which is Himself. In a very special way on the cross, we see Jesus united to God the Father in love. Not so much in a mutual love in which they're expressing affection to one another or feeling love for one another. That is true. That is well certainly that is the relationship they have, no doubt about it But more directly, we see him on the cross, united to God in his essence. On the cross, we see love crucified. Now that kind of rocks our boat a bit, doesn't it? This makes Christmas so much deeper and more meaningful to us. You see, in that manger, the essence of God, love became a man In his life, this essence remained hidden under the burden of sin that he carried, our sin that he carried. He was a man of sorrow He was acquainted with grief. His appearance was such that if we saw him, we took no thought of him. But on that cross, that essential love which he had in common with his father, which they was their mutual essence, their shared essence. On that cross, that love broke through. It was made known And through the Holy Spirit giving us eyes to see, we can see it there. Jesus sent the Holy Spirit to us. In order to speak of himself to us and to open our understanding so that we may know him as he is. Jesus on the cross shows us the fullness of love, that love which is God's essence, and not only that, he makes it possible because of the cross. Incredibly, through the Spirit, to be united to Him As God the Son is united to God the Father in love, brothers and sisters, on that cross, he broke down the last remaining reason why you and I should not be united to God also through Him in love. Christ prayed about this in the garden. If you go back to chapter 17 and read those verses. It can't you can't help but be astonished at what he's praying for. He prays for God to make his disciples One with him, as he is one with God the Father, so that in some miraculous way we are all one with them. And how does that matter? What is it that we, how do we become united to God? It's through love. Now, union with Christ, of which I am speaking, is that which the Apostle John calls abiding in Christ. Now for all of you intense theologians out there, most of whom came to the officers training class and made my life miserable in the questions that you asked. I'm just kidding. I I love the questions that were asked. I really do. But for all of you budding theologians out there, you know that when we speak of union with Christ, we're normally speaking in a positional sense. It speaks of our status as abiding in Christ's love, as objects of his love, and that is certainly true. But brothers and sisters, it is not only positionally true. It is intrinsically and necessarily experientially true. We are united to God through Christ in mutual love. mutual agape, that special love which is of God Himself. I declare to you this day this good news. We are united to him by the way we love him in the same way he loves us. Not to the same perfection, of course. John says that love is made perfect in us when we love others as he loves us. So there is a perfectibility to the love that we have. Christ's love and God's love is perfect. It has no defects in it whatsoever. We love, if you will, partially. But we love truly through the Holy Spirit. And again, as John says , If we do not love, using that word of God, if that love is not in us, then we're not of Christ. This is the good news. On the cross, a life of love has been made possible for us God did this. And the Holy Spirit works in and through us to make that love known in the world today. And that brings us to the next point regarding love. The love of God of which we speak Is God's love is eternal and it is transformative. Let's start with God's love being eternal. It's a good place to start. Now please accept with me that this eternality of God's love is both backwards and forward. It is eternal going back to the creation of the world, and it is eternal stretching forward through our death if we die before the Lord returns. to the new heavens and earth that will one day come. It is eternally, is eternal both ways. Now notice please here how Paul says that in due time the Christ died, Christ died for the ungodly. Notice that phrase in due time. It shows us that Christ's death was not a happenstance. It didn't just happen. Christ's death was part of a plan. It happened at the time that was set for it. It was the due time of God 's eternal covenant of redemption. And brothers and sisters, that means there has never been a time. There's never been a second of historical time. There has never been a microsecond of historical time. When God did not love you Before Jacob or Esau were born, before either had done right or wrong, God said , Jacob, I have loved. So we see from this that God's love is eternal and it is particular in its object. Yes, God loves all of his creation. God does indeed love the world. But God's love is in agape love, is directed towards specific individuals. Now we may struggle with that idea. I know I did before I came to believe it. Yeah, I love it. So it took a little bit of working on my hard head. But the point of it is that you cannot read scripture without it being read there. It is one of the clearest teachings in Scripture. There was never a time, brothers and sisters, there was never a time When Christ was not going to die on the cross for you. If through the Holy Spirit you have been united to Him in love , That love, you know that that love, which you are united to him in, will never change. Paul teaches us that no power on earth or in heaven or even death itself can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. Nothing. Jesus loves you now. He will love you to the end. And John, as John reports about Jesus in the prayer in the garden, that he loved them to the end. So God's love being eternal means that it will not fail eternally. Here is how love relates to hope and peace. We spoke about that in the previous two Sundays God's eternal love is our hope. You know, sometimes parents think that if I didn't love you I wouldn't let you stay in the house, to speak you know, their children, you know? They could just get on our nerves. Now I know your children are not like that, but I raised four boys and let me tell you, there was there were some times when it was a challenge. I'm joking, of course. But the fact of the matter is that our hope is resting on the fact that God's love for us is eternal, regardless of how we might be acting at the moment. Now that's that's pretty nice to know. How can we be at war with ourselves and the world around us if we are united to Christ in love? So therefore we have peace. And so we have hope and we have peace because Jesus loves us, even us. Now secondly, let's think about this. God's eternal love for us transforms us. It is eternal and it is transformative Brothers and sisters, God's love is the greatest power on earth, in fact, in all of creation. It cannot fail to bring about results It breaks down our stony hearts and it makes them into warm flesh that is capable of loving. Now God's love overwhelms our consciousness. We cannot at first believe it. Then it convinces us it's true. He really does love me. God loves me. Even me. That's where we start. And because He loved us while we were yet sinners, we see this love coming to us as an outreach An outworking of his grace. And that works on us too. It causes us to love him back, to love him in return And not in some bare intellectual fashion, but as a mutual outworking of our new heart. Brothers and sisters, let that sink in. God's pure Agape love for you, made known in Jesus Christ, justified us, as he says here, reconciled us as he saves here. says here, and saves us. That's what this passage teaches. And if he has done all of that, how can we, if that sinks in, how can we not love him for it? Can we deny that he is lovable when he has shown us such grace and mercy? Well, cast away any excuses that might be popping up in your head right now. I can't love like he loved. I can't love him as he loves me. Really? What did Jesus say? You shall love the Lord your God. With all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. God 's love for us makes that possible. It's not our work. Of course not. Or we could claim merit for it. It is the Holy Spirit working in us. And in this life, it will not be perfectly consistent. But, brothers and sisters, it must be present in some degree, and it is something in which we can grow. God 's love is eternal and transformative, and it transforms us into loving subjects of our King. And we serve him because we love him. Period. God sent his son to the cross to bring about this transformation in you. Can we really deny him that purpose? Will we retreat into disbelief and saying, no, I can't do that? Let us love him because he first loved us when we were yet sinned. Lastly, God's eternal love in us is transformative through us When we abide in God's love, when we are united to Christ in love, then all the barriers to loving others break down or begin to be broken down. We can love others because God first loved us. That's not rocket science. But it is true And what we will see as we embark on the road of loving others with agape love is that it cannot be denied to be effective. When we love our enemies, as Jesus commanded us to do, it will be noticed. You don't find much of that going on out in the world, right? People loving their enemies. But when we do, with an actual pure love, as pure as we can have it, an agape love, it will have an effect It will be noticed. At first, as it was with us when we first received the knowledge of God's love, it will be hard for those people to Him as it's directed that have never experienced it before. It'll be hard for them to believe it. They will be thinking that something's going on. They're trying to manipulate me. I bet they're trying to sell me something. We're a skeptical bunch. And they've never had personal experience of this kind of love, and so therefore they doubt the motives behind it, but at some point when it is consistently expressed, consistently expressed over time, at some point it begins to break through. And they will know that this love that we are demonstrating to them, which they experience, is different than that which is found to them in the world. At the very least, what it will do is leave them without excuse. And as they face that truth, it may very well just drive them away, or in which they may retreat into worse treatment of us. I've seen that happen. They may avoid you because you make them feel guilty. Brothers and sisters, that's a good thing. That's a good thing. They are guilty. And they need to feel guilty. But what is true also, especially in long-term relationships like family ties, it will open up opportunities for witness I don't have time to go into detailed examples. I'll just tell you one. Some of you have already heard this because I tell the same stories over and over. In our previous church, or my previous church, we once ministered to a man addicted to painkillers. He had a violent past, he was twice convicted and sentenced for armed robbery. After a year or two of working with him along with other members of the church, there came a time when, under the influence of drugs, he stole something from the church in order to pawn it and by other drugs. I confronted him with it when it became known that of what he had done, and I gave him an option I would not, we would not, I had the session behind me, we would not turn him into the authorities and thus send him back to jail as a three-time loser. If he took me where he fenced the thing he stole, so I could redeem it and return it to the church, and He agreed to enter into a two-year program at Baltimore's Helping Up Mission to recover. Now, back to movie quotes. It was an offer he couldn't refuse. And as I and one of the elders were driving him up to the mission, we're driving him up to the mission. We just crossed over the bridge there, and we're heading towards the mission. He was seated in the back of the car. He hadn't bathed in weeks. You knew he was there. And he leaned forward with tears in his voice, if not in his eyes. And he said to me and the elder in the front seat. Why do you people love me so much? He went through the program, graduated, and was restored to the church. He did well for a few years, but in time he did die of an overdose. And brothers and sisters, the entire church mourned and grieved for him. All I want you to take from this example is this. No matter how far deep into sin a person is , If God gives us the opportunity to really love them with agape type love , It will not fail to go unnoticed. And God will use it in a manner that He sees fit. This has held true in my own experience across the entire span of human relationships. I have seen 30-year marriages. that were lived literally with them at each other's throats, trying to hurt each other, with lives filled with hurt and pain. And when one of those spouses undertook to love the other with a gate love, it completely revitalized that marriage And I had that man take his big old hand, it was a huge hand, and shake my hand, and say, Arch, I never knew it could be this good. I have seen this love restore wayward children to their parents. I have seen it break down barriers between the races and create true fellowship. I have seen it used by Christ to bring back people from excommunication and have them confess with tears before the church Of their sin and their desire to be restored. Christian love, agape love, is eternal and transformative. It is eternal and transformative in God's people as well as in us by God. And it is the greatest power on earth and indeed of all creation. Brothers and sisters, this love has been made known to us on the cross. It has been demonstrated It has been shown to us. On the cross we see God 's love. Can we refuse to have that love? directed or affected by us, believed in by us, can we truly stand against it? If we do not know this love, then perhaps we ought to be seeking for it and praying for it. We had the verse or the chapter, the love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13, read for us today. Go to your Bibles and look at the very next verse, chapter 14, verse 1. Therefore, pursue love. Let us undertake this day to do exactly that. Amen. Let's pray.