I read our sermon passage today, John fifteen, verses one through seventeen. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. You are already clean, because the word which I have spoken to you Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch and is withered. And they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment. That you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one's life for his friends You are my friends if you do whatever I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for a servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. And that your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give you. These things I command you. That you love one another. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The sermon title for today is Greater Love. Please be seated. Now, even as I was reading that, perhaps you were thinking, what in the world does this passage have to do with Advent? And I will confess that as I was going through choosing the passages for to uh for the uh services, the Advent season, um I had some questions whether to do this or not. But I came to the uh the uh understanding or came to believe that clearly it does not immediately speak to Jesus' divine birth But I think it is speaking to something that pertains to it. Everything about Jesus' birth was motivated by and revelational of God's love For God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son. And then in 1 John 4, 10, then this is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the proof the appitiation for our sins. So pure godly love lies at the heart of the Advent season. And I think importantly, then, that love is also the purpose of the season. Love is the purpose of the season This passage today points us towards God's purpose in sending his son. And what I hope for us to see is that the purpose of Christmas, as we move to celebrate it, is unto the end. that love may abound on the earth. Apart from that purpose, Jesus' own words would be meaningless. So the purpose of Christmas is unto the end that love may abound on the earth. That sounds so platitudinous, doesn't it? It sounds like something you get off a Hallmark card and just as sincere. But it's true. Let's consider these things God sent his son into the world to be the vine from which the fruit of love is produced. To call forth a people whose witness in the world is manifested in how they abide in love. So that as a result, God would be glorified by the fruit of love that transforms lives and indeed transforms the whole world. I believe that this passage teaches us Jesus deliberately chooses a common and ubiquitous illustration, the grapevine, for this passage that he is teaching Wine was a staple of life in a land where water could be dangerous. Uh I don't uh you probably didn't know that the reason why The pilgrims stopped off at uh Plymouth Rock and didn't go down to Virginia where they're headed is because they ran out of beer You may not know that. A lot of people don't, but they did. They ran out of beer and the water wasn't sufficient to drink. It was dangerous. So they stopped to get good water, but they also stopped to make more beer. And they stayed there. So you might just take that little tidbit and do whatever you want with it. But the same situation existed back in the early days The reason why people drank wine was because water on the whole was a bit untrustworthy unless you had running water, live water, which was tended to be more uh clean. So we see here that he is speaking about something that the people would readily be able to identify with. They would know about what he's speaking when he talks about a vine. And here he's speaking of a vineyard, a very special vineyard, a vineyard in which there is only one vibe. I want you to imagine a vineyard shaped like a single wheel. At the center is a single stalk growing up, and then there are many spokes that are emanating from that stalk. And each spoke is a is a part of the vine that is trained along a lattice going away from the center. And so the entire vineyard consists of a single vine with multiple branches on it, all of which are dressed and tended by the vine dresser And what is this? Well, it is unto the end of maximizing the grape harvest. So the whole purpose of this vineyard. is to make lots of grapes. That's why it's planted. That's why the vine dresser tends it so carefully. That's why it's he uh uh prunes and chastens and does the things he does By analogy here, Jesus is teaching that the entire earth is God's vineyard, and it consists of a single vine. The Lord Jesus Christ. And growing from this vine are branches, each along a spoke that God has has spread out over the whole world a spoke that emanates from that that single uh sock. And these spokes are the various churches, yes. And also individuals that are within those churches. So it applies both congregationally and individually. And these constitute the people of God. in every generation and in each generation. So when we look at this, we can look at it across the whole of history and see the spokes that have come down to us through history. But we can also see that we're there. We're in this picture. Each church and individual are then given in this illustr in this teaching that their purpose Is the purpose of the vine to bear fruit. That's it. The fruit of witness first and foremost, and the fruit of converts growing out of that witness, secondarily and importantly, because that's how the mind keeps going. It keeps growing. And the distinctive witness, which is the fruit each person in church is to bear, the fruit of that witness is a life of obedience and love. It's a life distinguished by a holy love and holy conduct Here then we see that this passage teaches us about trustmas. It was God's perfect plan to send his son into the world to be this line. That's why he came. Not just to plant it during his earthly life and then go away and wait for it to bear fruit. No , that is foreign to this whole passage. It's not like he came, planted a vine, and left. The whole point here is that he is to be the living vine. He is the vine. From which every true Christian and every true Christian church is to find its soul and its being, to be nourished by His living presence in our lives, and to be the wisdom. And refuge for us when we are pressed. Christmas means that God, our great vine dresser, has provided us with all that we need to live a productive and purposeful life in this chaotic world. He has provided us the means by which we can abide in himself through Christ. Now imagine that I'll get to it and explain it a little bit more. But right now I want you to just sit back and let this teaching, like it did as I was going this week as I was going through it, let it just kind of wash over you with the incredible nature of it. Our God planted Jesus into this world so that we can abide in him. We can be united to him through Christ. To be fed directly by him, as I will explain a little bit more, to live in a spiritual union with God through Christ. A real sense of being tied into the vine. And to the vine, to God Himself. Now imagine that. Living a life in spiritual union with God through Christ. God sent his son into the world. Not only to make that possible, but to make it real in every generation until he returns. That 's almost enough to sing hallelujah to. That's good stuff. Well, let's go into it a little more directly. First, let's look at this word. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. Now those are statements of fact. Jesus here is just saying this, I'm the vine. I'm not, you know, I'm not trying to keep this secret. I'm the vine in this story. Now this verse clearly teaches there that the things that I have just said are true. It's the bottom line for all that I've just said in the introduction. But now let's just look at these first five verses. We see immediately they speak of a triune relationship, a triune living relationship. The parties in view are God, the great vine dresser, Jesus the bind, and us. The branches. Jesus is intent on communicating to us an ongoing, continuous state of living. That's the entire point of couching this whole passage and this teaching using the word abiding. To abide, okay, this is not rocket science, to abide both in the ancient language and in the present, is to remain or to continue And the uh, as the lexicon puts it, Jesus is talking about a continuing state in the Christian religion. So we're not talking about something that's done and over with. We're talking about an existential reality in the lives of every one of God's people. This passage also teaches that if it's not an existential reality, you have to be careful that you're not a branch, a branch that's been lopped off. So what Jesus is proclaiming to us and exhorting us to invest ourselves in is an ongoing everyday fellowship with God through Christ This is what God sent his son into the world to make possible. And I think That there's a sense in which this fellowship is different even from what the Old Testament saints had. Now, it's not a person in this room on either side of this pulpit that ought to start running down David And Abraham and their spiritual relationship with God. Don't you dare think that I'm doing that. But though they loved God and followed his commandments, I think there was a sense a a a tone or quality to their life in the abiding that they had with God in their date and time that became different for God's people. after Jesus came. In another passage, Jesus here, Jesus taught that we are to be taught by God, that we are not to require any intermediaries, any earthly priests. In other words, we are to have a spiritual communion with God so that the aspect of our ongoing sanctification and discipleship is that which we learn from being in communion with God. There's a supernatural impartation of knowledge about how God wants us to deal with our lives and also to understand Him. Now that doesn't mean we don't need earthly teachers. We just talked about that in Ephesians, where he sent pastors and teachers. and all that. Of course we do. But I'm talking about that ongoing spiritual quality of life that all of us are supposed to have as Christians. And that in that there is real growth that must be brought about. Now this spiritual communion is to bear fruit as a vine is supposed to bear fruit. What is the purpose of a vineyard? Prove. No doubt about it. I mean, that's about as clear as you can get Cabernet or Pinot Noir, whatever it is, you know, you gotta have grapes in order to make wine. So the whole purpose of the vineyard is to produce fruit. And Jesus says here That fruit will come about from the vineyard only by abiding in God through him No one is able to bear fruit, verse four, unless you abide in me. Now that should get our attention. God planted this vineyard in order to have a harvest of fruit. Your life, my life, everyone's life was given to have this end product. Bearing fruit for God through Christ is the reason we're here. It's the reason we were born. It's the reason our mother and daddy were born. It's the reason why all of our ancestors were born. They were born to bring about the condition where you and I are here today in order to bear fruit in our time. So therefore, everyone should take it very seriously. God sent his son into the world to have a harvest of fruit. So, because we uh, as with any branch or vine, we have to be nourished in order to bear fruit. Then we have to be fed spiritually, immediately, and powerfully. Now what Jesus here tells us is that we are to be fed by a continuous feeding on Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God himself. And it's a feeling we find only in him. Now we can study the Bible, as many theologians have. And we can grow quite accomplished in what the Bible says. There are theologians out there who know the Bible front, back, and center But they know not the God of the Bible. And we see that in some of the applications they make of what the Bible teaches and the great harm they do to the church by bringing false teachings into the church. But the bottom line is they know God's word. They know it at one level. But that's not what happens here. There has to be an intimate communion with God as we read God's word in order to be taught by God, in God's Word, what his will is. There's an encounter there. And as a result of that, we are to see that feeding on Jesus is indeed accomplished by his word and the other means of grace. Word, there's grace, there's the scripture, there's prayer, there's fellowship, and there's worship, there are means of grace by which we are brought into a more in deep intimate knowledge of God, and He teaches us in all of those things. But we have to be directly hooked into him in order for that to happen. So let's sum up what we have so far. Christmas is about God sending his son into the world to create a people. A people who live in a continuous state of feeding of spiritual fellowship with himself. And who would through the nurturing they receive in that fellowship, bear fruit. Fruit that is pleasing to God Now we notice in passing that God will prune away any of those who profess to be united to Christ in this way, but are not. And they approve it by not bearing fruit. And they cannot bear fruit. So there's something essential here about the Christian life, brothers and sisters. We're not talking about something optional here. We're not talking about something that you go home and say, boy, you know, that was really interesting, that stuff a preacher said today. But you know, it's no big deal. That's just his opinion. Brothers and sisters, this is not my opinion. This is what this God's Word teaches. And therefore, anything that I'm saying is reflective of what His Word teaches. or I shouldn't be here. So we're not talking about a higher state of spirituality. We're not talking about how some people are united to God up here and others of us are, you know. just kind of down here. It's not the case. The condition of abiding in Christ is essential to being a Christian at all, at some level, for any person to have hope in Christ. And this condition of abiding is productive, and the fruits of it are what make us known. Let's proceed then to look at what these fruits are, which bring us to the second main point of this passage. God sent his son into the world to enable us to be in fellowship with him through Jesus Christ. Okay, that's what we had unto the end that he will be glorified in the fruit that we will bear. That's another point I just made. And then that this is the means, verse 8. That God is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so that you will be my disciples. Now here again we need to take it seriously. Bearing fruit in God's vineyard is not something that we add to our spiritual life. Bearing fruit in God's kingdom is to be our lives. That's what our lives are to consist in. Every aspect of our lives should be consciously directed to the end of bearing fruit. Now this calls for some degree of planning, of prayer, and of seeking for wisdom about how to do it. Now, we are now talking about what one famous theologian calls our Christian vocation He taught that whenever a person encounters Christ through faith, and faith is an encounter with Christ, something similar to the Damascus Road experience at some level, and I don't intend to go any deeper than that. in that regard. So when I speak of an encounter with Christ, it's that point in our lives where we know that Jesus is real and that we're related to him in the sense that we call him our Lord and he calls us. According to this passage, his friend. So he taught us that whenever a person encounters Christ in this way, in such a way that faith is produced , That person immediately understands that that faith is also a calling. It is a call on faith That person's life. Isaiah said, Here am I, Lord, send me. There's an out there's a there's an aspect of our Christian faith whenever we come to know ourselves as being God's servant. that that must be there. So it is a calling which is a lifelong vocation directed towards bearing fruit. We have a vocation. We have a job to do. Bear fruit. It's implicit in our calling. It is implicit in the whole point and nature of faith itself. Now, if I were to ask you today to review the various roles that you each play in your lives, in your personal walk. and your interaction with people as an individual in your family with your life and your interactions in your family In your professional life, if you are among those who are not yet retired, but looking forward to it. You know, in your professional life with its goals and interactions, and most immediately and importantly in your church If I were to ask you how to explicitly identify how in each one of those you see yourself moving in such a way as to bear fruit. You know, you're you're looking at each aspect of your life, what Kuiper called the spheres of life. If you were to look at those and say, in each one of these, it is my goal to bear fruit in this manner. Now, what would you say if I asked you to come up with it? Few of us, actually. Would be able to really answer this uh this question because most of the time we simply don't think that way. Christianity in this country tends to isolate and and to separate our life in the world from our life as a Christian. There's a real pluralism built into much of modern Christianity that separates the spiritual from the physical. We go out in the world and we live there, and then we come to church and we're over here. And so that that pluralism, that dichotomy is a dualism, not pluralism. That dualism is present in much of our society. And so when we think, if we have fallen into thinking this way, most of us see our lives as just that, our lives. But seldom do we see our lives in terms of having a purpose. And so we just do whatever happens to be going on that in front of us. without consciously seeking and having the orientation of looking in whatever it is that's coming our way and orienting ourselves toward our lives in such a way as to bear fruit. Now, brothers and sisters, this is not what God wants. He wants us to consciously seek to bear fruit Because it is in this heart orientation of desiring to bring fruit that we experience what it means to be connected to the vine. Look at verse 7. Jesus says, if you abide in me, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. Now what is he talking about there? Jesus is here saying that when we consciously undertake to bear fruit in our lives and when we address our families and our vocation and our individual walk and our church as we begin to look at those and say Okay, I I desire to bear fruit to the glory of God in each of those areas. We're going to find stuff that we need. Perhaps it's internal. I need to be equipped. Or perhaps it's going to be financial, or perhaps it's going to whatever it's going to be You're going to find challenges in every one of those aspects. And so what Jesus is saying here is that as we consciously seek To bear fruit for his kingdom, we're going to find out that there's stuff we need. And he says, ask me What you got to lose? I'm kidding there. He's saying, pray. It's not the last thing we do. All I could do now is pray. No, it's the first thing you do. And then, in the act of praying to, for the purpose of bearing fruit in our lives and to the glory of God, something happens. Something supernatural happens. We find ourselves in those intimate prayers connected to Jesus We find ourselves with a quality of spirituality that's growing in us, a sense of being part of something beyond ourselves. And in doing so, we find that Jesus furnishes us with what we need And that brings us to the last point I want to make is what is this fruit that God would have us bring in our lives? And God is glorified in the lives of Jesus' disciples when they produce fruit of love and obedience. Verse 14. You are my friends if you do whatever I command you. Verse 12, this is my commandment that you love one another as I've loved you. Well, brothers and sisters, I'll just say in passing as we go through this, it's been my experience with most Christians that when they come to those very explicit words of John and others, Paul also teaching the same thing. When they come to him they say, Oh yeah, I can't do that. He wants us to love other people, but you know, I just can't do that. It's a sense in this whole idea of loving our brothers and sisters with real, absolute, honest love and being obedient in that love. There's a sense in which we are daunted by the old idea of it and just give up and don't think we can do it. There's another famous writer who I don't refer to very much because another thing he said at one time was that Presbyterianism is a way by which people go to hell. So I don't agree with him in all those things. But but one of the things that he did say that I did agree with is that it's not like Saying that Christianity in the history of the world has failed. What the history of the world has proved is that Christianity has been tried, has been found difficult, and people gave up. And there's a sense in which the same person teaching is true. So that's where we're kind of facing. We're facing this obstacle when we come to these plain words by Jesus. And we just kind of accept it that we can't do that. But brothers and sisters, God's glorifying love. Consists of an inward passion that prompts us to do loving works. And Jesus says, you can't do these things unless you abide in me. And when we abide in Christ, We are experience and we we begin to appreciate God's love for us individually and powerfully, and perhaps in a new way. And then what we see is that a response grows in us of loving God in return. And as we begin to love Him in a true and passionate way , What we discover is that that same love prompts us to love others. It's a growth type thing God 's glorifying love is love for others that exceeds love for ourselves. It is a self-sacrificial love. Verse 13: greater love is this. to lay down your lives for your friends. As a love that is of the same essence, the same same fundamental essence, the same DNA, if you will, as God's love for us, but it is of course not the same magnitude. We never arrive at the magnitude of God of Jesus' love for us. But that doesn't mean that we can't love as he loved in return. And so that's what verse 12 teaches us. This is a supernatural thing. It is an ongoing quality of our lives. It is not just an occasional thing. We exist. In love. We exist as loving people. It is a descriptive quality. For Christ's disciples. And this quality that comes in us is not because we just take thought and make and say, okay, I'm going to start being loving. No, that quality comes about in us as we grow in our relationship to God through Jesus Christ by abiding in the vine. And the transforming results of that take hold in our lives. We love and become ornaments on God's Christmas tree. Not because the love is of ourselves, but because our love springs from abiding in Christ and being a branch on his vine. God's glorifying love coming into our lives becomes a fruit that the Holy Spirit uses to change hearts. This is one of the most beautiful aspects of the fruit of love in a believer. It cannot be ignored. It cannot be suppressed. Christians, Christian love is concerned with an object. There's no such thing as a just an abiding state of love. Ooh, I'm living in love. That sounds like something back in the 60s. that the hippies got in between smoking pot. No, it's not just this abiding sense of of being. I just love over man. No, it is a directed love. Love is me is meaningless unless it has an object. And so love in Christians, this uh love, is focused on God and others. Not in a general sense, but in a personal sense. And it is summed up by being a sincere, self-sacrificial desire for the other person's well-being. It's a one-way street. This is some of the hardest parts of it for modern Christians to understand Your love for the other person is not given with the idea of contingency. It's not given with the idea that they're going to respond in kind. I'm going to love you if you promise to love me back. No, I'm going to love you. I love you. I'm not loving you because you love me back. I love you. So it's self-sacrificial in the sense that it is other-directed and other focused And we could persist in this loving even when the other person perhaps doesn't respond to it very well or maybe even negatively. Jesus persisted in loving us when we tried to ignore him and in fact actively rejected him. So God glorifying Christian love continues in its persistent desire to bless the other person. Openly, directly, and non-contingently. And what I found in my ministry is that it's like water dripping on a rock. It wears away resistance and it will bring about change. Sometimes I have to say that the change that it brings about in the other person is that it makes them run for the hills. They haven't got a clue as to how to handle it when somebody really loves them. And you know There's that's the only way to understand 1 Corinthians 7, which is one of the reasons why Christians are given an opportunity of divorce, is that the the spouse, the other spouse who's an unbeliever simply can't live with this person A person's just too loving. I'm out of here. You know, uh, as well as others, and in such a case, a person has to let them go. But in the other sense of it, it can also be that if it that's uh very uncommon, but it sometimes happens. That a person simply can't stay with a person that's loving them. Most often, even when it does not produce the ultimate goal that we would like to see it does, What it changes is the degree to which the other person lives in sin. It dampens their anger and their frustration. Because how can you be angry and live with a person that just loves you It's very difficult for that to happen. Yes, there is abuse. I understand all that. I'm talking in general cases here, but that's a category. But this, but then there is that instance, and I have seen amazing examples of this. Another person's hard heart is transformed by the self-sacrificial love of a Christian in their life. And which they are brought to their knees, and they are brought to the church, and God brings them to stand before people. And say, I'm loving, I'm here. Because I have been taught that God loves me, and I have been taught that God loves me through the witness of such and such a person. in my life. Have you ever had that happen? I'm sure in the life of Liberty Church, you've been here forever, that something like that has happened But let me tell you, it'll reduce you to tears. And you you just can't help but stand before God and say, thank you, Jesus. Well we must understand that it is in these possibilities, whether it drives the person completely away or whether it just breaks the degree of their sinfulness so that they become more malleable, if you will, or if it does in fact produce a vibrant change in them With the possibility of even renewal of life, that all three are fruits of love. And in them God is glorified. God is glorified in this love that we show and also Christian obedience. And I'm just going to leave that one out there for you. But the idea of Christian obedience, as taught in this passage, is completely unable to be divorced from Christian obedience We love God as our Jesus says here, friend. But then he turns right around and tells us to keep his commandments. And they're not burdensome. His yoke is not heavy. Christian love in us enables us to be obedient. And to live by the righteousness that we find in God's teaching. And so all of this comes together in closing with this. If you put this idea of love, as I just talked about it, as a defining characteristic of the Christian community, and obedience, what you will find Is that God is glorified when these people live an entirely different life than the people in the world around them? We have different practices and different priorities because we are motivated by the desire to bring about fruit Then we use our lives and we use our money, we use our families, and we use our church differently than the world does. And then it has the inevitable effect of causing the world around us to say, these people sure are strange. They're different. And that's okay. Non-Christians have been saying that about Christians for centuries. But the bottom line is that our changed lives, in which we learn and live with the fruit of love and obedience, glorifies God. And therefore, we get that by being united and abiding in our Christ. God is glorified when his people bear fruit in love and obedience. And I call on us here today to take this teaching seriously during this Christmas season and perhaps put it to use. Let us pursue in our lives. A sincere desire to bring fruit to our God. Fruit of love and obedience. That's Our Lord and God, I thank you that our Lord is so clear in his teaching. Lord God, how can we deny the things that are so plainly stated and there for all of us to see? And Lord, as I think about these things, and I can even sense some of the daunting, uh, the sense of daunting aspects to them. And how this is unusual and how in the world do we do such things? I pray, Lord God, that you will show us the way. We pray for every soul that is in the sound of my voice today. That they will come to see that being united to Christ as an everyday living form of existence is the pathway of their greatest good And that in doing so, Lord God, you will feed us your people and feed us your church with the very Holy Spirit that flows through you into us Us. I grant, Lord God, that we may in turn bear fruit that brings glory to you. In the name of our blessed Savior, I pray. Amen.