If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. We're going to be looking at verses 18 to 23 today. If you're using the Pew Bible, that will be on page 1133. And I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, beginning in verse 18 through the end of that chapter. Pay careful attention to this. This is God's word for us today. Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, He catches the wise in their craftiness. And again, the Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile. So let no one boast in men, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas Or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future. All are yours. And you are Christ's. And Christ is God 's. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and we pray that you would give us careful heed of your word Lord God, sometimes these kind of passages can come across as very heavy because of how close to the heart they hit But Lord, we pray, and I I pray rather that everybody here that's here, you would be working in a very unique way in their lives, whether they know you already and are in the process of being sanctified. Lord, that you would continue that good work in them and in us as a church. Lord, if anyone is here and does not know you, Lord, we pray that you would take your word You would open their hearts, Lord, and that you would speak to them in a way that would lead them to saving faith in you. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well, we have been looking at this book of 1 Corinthians now for quite some time, starting I think early this fall, late summer. And we've seen over and over again that one of the problems that the Apostle Paul is dealing with in this church historically was the problem of division and schism and fracturing among believers in this local church. For one reason or another, they did not seem to have peace with one another. And so Paul has been building this long drawn-out sustained argument as to how to deal with the issue of division. And if you remember last week he looked and we looked at verses 10 through 17, which where Paul uses this analogy of of a building or or a temple, and he likened the church to that building or that temple And what he said essentially was, we as the apostles have laid the foundation. And we looked at how the foundation is Jesus Christ Himself. We've seen before that Paul said, I desire to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. In other words, the very foundation of the gospel , the gospel itself, is the very foundation of this building, and everybody else that comes after the apostles is building upon it. And he talked last week, we looked last week at him talking about how you can build with gold or silver or precious stones or wood, hay, and stubble. And how, on the one hand, those precious things were built to last. They weren't just made for beauty, although they were. They were built to last. And then the other things were really built or are you use them, but they are combustible. They don't last Times change. Fads come and fads go. And sometimes people build with the wood, the hay, and the stubble, and what happens to their church? It becomes obsolete. At the breakneck speed in which our culture is changing, it might be obsolete or out of date in five years. And then you've got to reinvent the wheel and do it all over again. And it's in the midst of this argument that Paul is getting to this morning, looking at again how to deal with these divisions. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning, you'll see on page 5 at the bottom the sermon ideas printed there. God's word counsels us against self-deception. and boasting in working to heal these divisions in the local church. That's the idea that we want to unpack today because that's the idea I believe that comes right out of the text of Scripture for us this morning. Let me just repeat that. God's word counsels us against self-deception and boasting in working to heal divisions in the local church. Now really quick, I just want to draw out the structure of this passage for you. As you can see, it's only a few verses, but what we find essentially is three commands or prohibitions. And then two of them are put together first in verse 18, and then verses 19 and 20 kind of elaborate on the reason why he's telling you to do what he does in verse 18. And then the third prohibition comes in verse 21 and the reasons that follow that in verses 22 through 23. So that's kind of like the two-tier structure of this passage, and that's what I want to unpack for you this morning. Our first point in verses 18 to 20 this morning is the deception of worldly wisdom. In his commentary on this particular passage, the 16th century French reformer, John Calvin, says that in this passage, Paul is really driving into the heart of what is is at the root of these divisions. And the first one here you see in verse 18. Let's take a look at verse 18 once again. He says, let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool, that he may become wise. And so we see here in verse 18 the deception, but also the remedy to that deception. And the deception has to do with thinking of oneself as wise. Why would he be saying that? Well again, remember where he's at in the argument. Last week we talked about people come after the apostles and they build. In other words, they minister in the church. They use their spiritual gifts. They serve hopefully for the edification of the body. And let's just face it, some people on the surface appear to be more successful than others. Which is really fascinating. You might see really fast growth in a church, but you know it's easier and quicker to build with wood, hay, and stubble than it is with the precious metals, right? And by looking at the surface of things, it's easy to look at someone who appears successful as they serve the Lord and think success in a worldly sense than for them to be deceived. Self-deceived. That's what he's getting at here. It hits on the problems of this division. So the next clause tells you why they might be tempted to think or be deceived. They think themselves wise. And the wisdom of this world, as Paul will argue here, is a deceptive wisdom. Let me illustrate that as best I can here. I remember when I was studying this passage, I was thinking about a professor that I had in community college. When I was in community college, I took a psychology class. And I'll be honest with you, I found the material quite fascinating for the most part. The idea of human behavior. Why do people do what they do? Anyone who knows and has studied psychology, though, knows that the worldview paradigms that they use are completely antithetical to the scriptures. Now at that time I was a fairly young uh believer. Um I hadn't been walking with the Lord too long in my faith, so I didn't put all that together. I was just fascinated with all this stuff that I was learning. But one thing really caught my attention That to me came across as really strange. My professor, we all have quarks, don't we? You all who've gotten to know me a little bit know I 've got my own quarks. No one's perfect. This particular professor, on the other hand, I noticed had some real social oddities. And I thought that that was quite strange. As I interacted with him, I just never felt like something something was just off Every single time. It's one of those things you just can't put your finger on, but you know that it's there. And I always thought this is really strange because he's teaching psychology on human behavior, but S you something seems off every time I I try to interact with him. And I wasn't alone in that. Some of my other fellow students felt the same way One of the things that I thought was really strange about him as he would lecture, he would just weave in and out of his lectures examples of the brokenness in his marriage, and he had just gone through a divorce And I remember he he kept using his ex-wife as the example of of this principle or that principle and and how messed up she was. And I remember thinking to myself, sitting there, you know, I'm not sure she was exactly the whole problem here. You guys laughed. That's what I thought supposed to be funny. I just remember sitting there thinking to myself, at a young age, you know, it's really strange. This is a guy by by the world standards. I mean, he had some pretty, you know, pretty prestigious degrees academically. I mean, he was he was considered one of the wise people in our Society and culture and world, and yet his life was completely broken. Isn't it interesting how worldly wisdom can be deceptive? Oftentimes deceiving us into thinking that we are wise. What makes it so deceptive? Because it requires that we be wise in our own eyes. The Apostle James gets at this. In James chapter 3, verses 3 through 15, he has this discussion about worldly wisdom versus heavenly wisdom. And let me just start with the worldly wisdom part first of that passage. He says this. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. Did you catch those three things he said? Those are pretty strong words, earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. Now given the Corinthian what's going on in the Corinthian church and them dividing over this this idea or that idea or that teacher or that teacher over there, this really makes sense Why Paul is saying, don't be deceived. Don't think that you are wise, and just be wise in your own eyes. Because it will affect the saints. This kind of bitter jealousy, this selfish ambition that comes out of the wisdom of the world will plague the church and it will divide the saints because one person is ambitious for one thing, another person is ambitious for another thing. And by the way, I'm not even commenting on their motives. They may think and may be able to make a legitimate logical case as to why their ambition makes sense. But if it's rooted in worldly wisdom and self-wisdom and self-righteousness, you run into problems. So how does Paul counsel the Corinthians to deal with this, to begin to work through this? Well, we see in verse 18, it continues on. If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, that's the problem, right? What do you do about it? Let him become a fool, that he may become wise. Now, I don't know about you, but when you think of the wisdom of the world, that does not sound like what you would hear in our society. If you go and interview for a job that you have no experience in that field or no education, the interviewer might sit there and ask you the question during the interview, well To help me understand why you think you you're a good fit for this job. Well I'm sorry, just sitting there telling them because I just know I'm all that and a bag of chips. I can do this job. That's not gonna fly. You're not gonna get that job. What do most people tell you if you lack wisdom in something in this world? Well you go out and find wisdom, and how do you do that? Well, you might go out and you might get the degree. You might go out and you might get the experience in that. The idea is you you go out and fill yourself with wisdom so that you can succeed in whatever it is you're trying to pursue. And yet That's not the counsel that Paul gives here when you deal with worldly wisdom. When you deal with self-deception, what does he say? Essentially, empty yourself of worldly wisdom. Become a fool. Nobody wants to be called a fool, by the way, but become a fool, why? For what purpose? Or what result? so that you might become wise. This is really interesting. Charles Hodge, the Princeton Theological Seminary theologian from the 19th century wrote this in his commentary on this passage. We must be empty in order to be filled. Listen carefully to this. This is really good. We must renounce our own righteousness in order to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ. That's the gospel, right? He goes on, we must renounce our own strength in order to be made strong. We must renounce our own wisdom in order to become wise. This is a universal law. We've seen this over and over again already in this letter of 1 Corinthians. The gospel is completely contrary to what the world would expect when we're talking about how to be saved. You don't walk in to God's throne room in your own self-righteousness and expect him to be impressed. Not when you're a sinner in need of repentance. What you need is the righteousness of Christ. That's the way the gospel works. You empty yourself of your unrighteousness so that you might receive the righteousness of Christ by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone as a free gift. The same principle applies here with wisdom. When we think that we are wise in our own eyes, That's a scary place to be. The task and the call really is to empty yourself of your own self-wisdom so that you might be filled with the mind and the wisdom of Christ. We quoted from James a minute ago. Let me finish that quote. This is now James 3, 16 to 18. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder in every vile practice. But, this is the contrast here, the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits. Impartial and sincere. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. That's what wisdom from above looks like. And it leads us to see how Paul builds this argument as to why we should empty ourselves of worldly wisdom. As we look at verses 19 through 20, we can see that worldly wisdom, we need to look at it actually from God's perspective. And that's what he does in verses 19. He tells us what the Lord thinks of worldly wisdom, and let me just give you a sneak preview. It's not great. Take a look at the beginning of verse 19. For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. That word folly could be translated legitimately. Foolish It is foolishness before the Lord. You know, as as I think about this And try to explain why we should become fools in order to become wise, I can't help but think of the example of Adam and Eve on this You remember the story? I preached through it, what, a year and some change ago? Almost two years ago. Man, time flies. Genesis chapter 2, God gives Adam a command, right? Verses 15 to 16 to 17. Do not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. It's certain. Death will come. What did they do? Genesis chapter 3. They ate the fruit. Why did they eat the fruit? You remember the serpent was essentially asking the question, did God really say Did God really say that you can't do this? And remember Eve tries reasoning with the serpent? That was a bad idea. I don't care if you're a man or a woman. That's a bad idea. Do not try to reason with the devil. He's smarter than you And he tricked her. He deceived her. How did he deceive her? Remember what the tree was called. They're not called to they're called to not eat from what? The tree of the knowledge of good. and evil. What's really fascinating here is that Adam and Eve demonstrate the wisdom of the world which is based on a selfish ambition. What was the selfish ambition? Remember, in the day that you eat of it, this is what Satan said, God knows that you will be like him. So what does she want to do? She wants to be like God. And in the desire to be like God, what does she do? She places herself in a position where she stands As the judge over God 's word. God has get revealed a little sliver of heavenly wisdom in that one commandment. Don't do this or that. And she decided in her earthly wisdom, I can stand and and be the arbiter of that and figure out if that's really true. And by her decision to disobey, she showed that she She really didn't believe that God's word was true. She actually believed the word of the serpent that she would not die. In other words, she claimed to be wise in her action. And what happened? It plunged the world, well, her and Adam, it plunged the world into sin. This is exactly what Paul says in Romans chapter 1, when he's talking about the world and how the world works. claiming to be wise, they became fools. Brothers and sisters, why do we have to become fools in order to become wise? Because in our first parents, Adam and Eve, we have already claimed to be wise, and we have already become fools. Again, the gospel flips what the world has done on its head, doesn't it? The world still claims to be wise with Adam and Eve. But God looks at that and says, no, no, no, no. You don't understand. That's foolishness. Do you really want to be wise? Like what you really wanted in the garden? Then you need to become fools in the world's eyes so that you might be made wise. That's what he's getting at here. And he begins building the case in verses 9, continuing in verse 19 and verse 20. We don't just see that the world's wisdom is foolish in God's eyes. We see that God demonstrates then the futility of worldly wisdom. He just continues pounding the point home. Look at the second part of verse 19. For it is written, he's building his case now, he's demonstrating and explaining why this is true. For it is written, he catches the wise in their craftiness. That's a quote, by the way, from Job chapter 5, verse 13. And if you take a look at that and bother to do that, you'll know that it's one of Job's three friends, Eliphaz. That's part of his first speech. And Eliphaz is talking about like talking to Job about, look, everybody knows that those who suffer are those who are wicked. Right? And those who are wicked are those who are wise in their own eyes, and God traps them in their wickedness so that they can't get out. Interesting. He catches the wise in their craftiness. The commentator Gordon Fee Really captures, I think, the picture well with this illustration. He says this, this the first text, this Job quote, is expressed in the imagery of hunting. in which the hunter uses the very craftiness or cunning or the prey as the means of the capture. The ultimate irony, he writes, is that people are cunningly avoiding the God with whom they have to do. But God has used that very cunning to ensnare them. Thinking themselves to be wise, they are in fact fools. That hunting analogy is really interesting, isn't it? Some of you like to go fishing. You can use the same fishing analogy. When you go fishing, you use bait, I would think. I mean, when I go fishing, I use bait. You put a worm or some bait you bought at the tackle shop, like you put it on the hook, and what do you do? You use the fish's appetite. You use the fish's instinct against it to catch it. That's the idea here And the reason the Lord catches the wise in their craftiness is because their wisdom comes from their own sinful heart, their own sinful understanding, and people make decisions and they pursue things based on what the heart wants. And because the heart of the world's wise people is not centered on God or his wisdom, they end up ensnared in their own devices as a result. You can see this in all manner of areas of life. But people know that it's true. Well, I'll just do this a little bit. There's no harm. And then next thing you know, they're cooked. Think of like somebody on drugs. I remember a friend of mine in high school started with weed. That 's just weed. It's not that bad. Just makes you feel a little good here and there. I'll just do it every now and then. That was the gateway to a whole lot of other things, right? His appetite ensnared him. It's the same dynamic here. Verse 20 goes on. It gives another Old Testament passage that illustrates the same exact pattern. This time it comes from Psalm 94, which I read earlier in our Old Testament reading. It says this, and again, the Lord knows the thoughts of the wise that they are futile I mean, I read this already. It highlights how the wicked and the wise of the world plot and scheme the destruction of the wicked. They have certain wicked ends in mind that they're trying to accomplish, and yet it says here the Lord knows their thoughts, that they're futile or vain, and the Lord's going to turn those devices on their own heads. So we want to ask this question right now to apply this. How does the very nature of the gospel shape the way we understand wisdom and foolishness today? Well, the very nature of the gospel puts the world's concepts of wisdom and foolishness on its head in a way that demands our response. Once you think about it, self-deception is really the first step to becoming a fool. Our whole passage highlights that those who think that they're wise in this world are in fact Fools. And by the way, that's not an insult. That's a descriptor. And the same thing that was true in Paul's day is true in our day. Why? Because the heart has not changed. You go out and you talk to the wives of the world, and they'll tell you about how mankind has evolved over millions of years and this and that. And it sounds so plausible, doesn't it? It's hard to argue. Sitting in a university classroom, it's hard to argue with that. But you know it's not hard to argue with? The fact that mankind's heart has not changed over time. The same wickedness you see described in the Bible or in classical literature or in history is the same wickedness that we see today. Where does that come from? The heart Brothers and sisters, we live in a day and age where individual human autonomy is rampant in the extreme. Now maybe you're sitting here thinking, well that's a big word. What does individual human autonomy mean? Well autonomy just simply means that each person is a law unto themselves and no one can tell him or her that they are wrong about something. That's the wisdom of this age. And it makes fools out of people claiming to be wise. And sadly, this affects those in the church today in such a way that can certainly lead to division within the body. It's really rampant today in our society when it comes to things like gender roles. Right? Oh, you can't say that. That's sexist. That's misogynistic. Oh, that's patriarchal. We've got to tear down the patriarchy Right? And these ideas can creep into the church so easily if we're not careful and lead to division. And so what's again the counsel here? Becoming a fool is the first step to becoming wise. Let me put this a different way. Jesus says in Mark chapter 8 verse 34, he says the same thing in Luke 9. 23. You know, anyone who desires to follow me, you remember this quote? Let him deny himself daily, pick up his cross, and follow me. That's another way of saying, you know, become a fool for the sake of becoming wise. It is totally contrary to what you would expect. But that's the nature of discipleship. We have to deny ourselves, pick up the cross. And follow Jesus. Or another way to say it, also in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 18, verses 3 through 4. When he's defining who the greatest in the kingdom of heaven is, remember the disciples kept arguing about that, which one is greatest. Jesus says, Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Now again that turns the world on its head. You start as a child and you grow up to become a mature adult and Jesus is saying, aha, you think you made it? No, no, no, no. Go back. Turn it on its head, start as an adult, and become a child. In terms of faith. In terms of being babes in wickedness and evil, right? And Paul is essentially telling us that if we repent of our pride and our own wisdom, our own cunning as Christians, the Lord will give us a wisdom and an insight which can only come from him. If you want an exhortation this morning, I'll give you one from this passage. Well, an extension of this passage, actually from Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5-7. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes. That's a familiar statement there. Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. That leads us to our second point this morning in verses 21 to 23, boasting in men. Take a look at verse 21. This is, by the way, the third of our um commands or prohibitions here. He's going to give this third one and then he'll explain it. Verse 21, he gives it. So let no one boast in men. Pause. Stop there. The question is, how are the Corinthians boasting in men? Because it's going to influence how we want to apply this. We can go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 12. You remember when it says, what I mean is that each one of you says, I follow Paul, or I follow Apollos, or I follow Cephas, another name for Peter, or I follow Christ. Interesting. In other words, these Corinthians are boasting in the men that they were trying to follow, and the men that they were trying to follow, that was causing them to divide over these men. Now I mentioned a few weeks ago when we looked at that passage, you could really translate that to say, I belong to Paul, I belong to Apollos, I belong to Cephas. So on and so forth. Despite the fact that Paul was one of the names that they were boasting over, he exhorts them not to boast in him as a man. Why? Well the reason behind the prohibition to boasting is that it's actually foolish to boast in the name of a purported leader, as he says in verses 21. Why? Because all things are yours. That's how you summarize those verses right there at the end. All things are yours. That's the argument. Take a look at look at that again. He says, all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future All are yours. Notice there. At the end of verse 21 and at the end of verse 22, he repeats that phrase telling you that it's really important. All are yours. All things are yours. All these things, Corinthians, that you're dividing over, that you're taking pride in, that you're boasting in, why are you doing that? They're all yours. Think about it. Previously they're boasting that they belong to the party of Paul. They belong to the party of Apollos or Cephas, etc. And if they belong to the party of these people, then they also belong to those people themselves, after whom those parties are named after. But notice Paul's argument here. Instead of them belonging to these leaders as they were claiming and saying, Paul's actually saying, no, again, it's the opposite. Flip it on his head. These leaders belong to all of you. You don't have to divide over and say, well, I like Paul, I like Apollos, I like Cephas, or any other person that they seem to want to follow. You don't have to divide over them because those leaders belong to all of you. Yes, you can like them, but they all belong to you. You don't belong to them. So why would you divide over people that belong to everyone? Why would you divide and have and nurture a party spirit? When the purported leaders of these parties, let me put it this way, are like the common property of the whole church. Would make no sense. And he goes on in verse 23, he ends this chapter by saying, and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. So all the apostles and all the leaders belong to the whole Corinthian church, and the church and her members belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God. That's really the language of possession, isn't it? The logic of that really reveals the absurdity of their divisions and how they're dividing over this leader, that leader, and so on and so forth And so we ask the question by way of application here at the end of this chapter, how does this command not to boast in men look like today in the church? Well, we're called to recognize today that we all belong to Jesus Christ, who belongs to God, and therefore we all belong to one another. Let me just say, as a side comment. I think American evangelicals today think far too low of the church Most evangelicals today walk around with a willy -nilly attitude that it's just about Jesus and me Hey, I was at a w I did a wedding about five years ago up in Pennsylvania for a friend. Actually the friend was from Illinois, but his wife was from Pennsylvania. And I I ran I ran into a family member of the bride at the wedding. We got talking. Nice guy. We got talking and he was asking about me about what being a pastor was like. So I was telling him about that a little bit. Don't worry, I didn't share all the dirt. Um But I remember asking them, well, what church do you go to? He's having the spirit trying to have the spiritual conversation with me. So what church do you go to? Oh, I don't go to a church. I have a personal faith in Jesus. So I didn't say it out loud, but I thought to myself, well, you just might not know Jesus at all if you have no care for his people. And think so little of his church. What is it about the church, brothers and sisters? That the norm in history seems to be division? Well Christ prayed so fervently in John 17 in the high priestly prayer for unity. I don't know. I can think of two short answers to this. They're not mutually exclusive, but I think the first one is the obvious problem of the sinful flesh that continues to be present in each one of us, even though Christ has broken sin's power. Sin is doesn't have power over us. It continues to be present though, this side of eternity. Let's face it, one person wants to exalt themselves over others. is not an uncommon thing in the local church anywhere you go. We saw already in James 3 he mentions people with selfish ambition. driven by jealousy leading to disorder and every vile practice? I mean It doesn't take a genius to illustrate what that looks like. We all know what sinful hearts look like because we all have them. And when division is caused because of our own sinful hearts, it's because someone along the line of any situation was self-righteous and unwilling to repent. in any kind of conflict. And it essentially boils down to a personal relational breakdown when it might have been avoided. But it's founded upon the boasting of men who are self-deceived. That's one reason I can come up with from looking at the whole panorama of scripture as to why Division happens in the local church. But the second issue, and I think is a legitimate issue, is doctrinal division I think it is legitimate when doctrine gets heretical or the gospel is being denied or not preached to then divide from that body. So interesting this morning. I could not have planned this. I didn't know I didn't mean to I wasn't gonna do this Peter, but I'm gonna do it. Um I didn't realize Peter was hitting the Reformation this morning in Sunday school And there were some things he was talking about in there that just went right into what I wanted to end on here with this message. Think about it. We've had there's been several doctrinal divisions and schisms. I can't pronounce that word. Is it schism? Schism? You know what I mean. Schism, thank you. Duly noted, I repent and we'll move forward. There have been many schisms throughout history, right? We we've seen the schism of the East and the West in 1054. Then there was the schism of the Reformation, which we were talking about today, and we just celebrated Reformation Day really recently, right? Like nine, ten days ago. And think about that. It commemorates Martin Luther nailing the 95 theses onto the door of Wittenberg Castle in Germany. And then sadly, as you read history, the reformers divided over some uh issues that were important, but I don't know if they were worth dividing over, but one reformer, you know, was set against the other and one thing led to another Now, what I'm going to say is true of all Christians, but I see it really beautifully expressed in the Reformed Church. Okay. What I want to say is one of the things about the Reformed Branch and the Church of Jesus Christ is that it is often much broader than we would think on a surface level. When you hear things like, well, we are a confessional church, that almost sounds very limiting. But anyone who understands Reformed theology and the history of the Reformation understands how broad it really is. If you were to talk to people from an Eastern Orthodox background, for example, you might find that, okay, they rely very heavily on some very key Eastern Church fathers like Athanasius or or John Chrysostom. If you talk to a Roman Catholic, you might find, okay, they're going to rely on some Western fathers that are really important to them, like Tertullian or Jerome or Augustine of Hippo. But here's the interesting thing. When you actually read John Calvin's Institutes of the Christian Religion, which is a big tome, by the way, if you ever read it, you have my congratulations. I had to read it a long time ago. What you find is Calvin is he's interacting with Scripture and pulling out the meaning of Scripture and explaining it in the institutes. Okay, this is what the Scriptures teach. What he does is he pulls from all kinds of sources, both Eastern and Western, to show that look, this whole thing that we as the Protestant reformers are sh saying is the gospel, and what we're saying the scriptures teach Is this nothing new? That was a big deal in the days as the Protestant reformers were were interacting with Roman Catholic scholars in the Reformation and Counter-Reformation period. What we are teaching is nothing new. There are people in the East, there are people in the West that have believed that. We talked about Luther this morning in Sunday school. We're not Lutherans in this church, but think about how this passage applies. Are we of Luther? Are we of Calvin? We shouldn't be. Not according to this passage. We don't belong to them. They belong to us. Isn't that interesting? Brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you this morning at the end of this message. I realize this has been kind of a heavy message, like don't be self-deceived, don't boast. You know, crucify your own wisdom and flesh. I get it. But there's encouragement here that all things are ours. Notice how he ends that in verse 22. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas, boy, you can just throw in any of the names of the reformers there. You can say, whether Luther You know, as the one who planted, whether whether uh Calvin is the one who watered or whether it's you know someone else who did something else Whether the world or life or death or the present or the future, all things are yours And as I end, I want to remind you what Paul wrote to the Ephesian church in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who in him, in Christ, Has blessed us with what? Every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. If you know Jesus And you're putting your trust and your faith in him to save you this morning, then you, brother and sister, are the richest person I know. Because all things are yours in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today. We are thankful that even though there are some heavy words here, Lord, we are called to not be deceived and not be wise in our own eyes. We are called to not boast in men, but to boast in Christ. We thank you, O Lord Jesus, that in you all of the blessings that are from heaven belong to us. Every one of them. We've been given new life, O Lord Jesus, when we were once dead. We were once condemned in sin. We are now justified and declared righteous. We were once aliens and strangers, cut off from the household of God, and now we've been brought near and adopted into the family of God, all through faith. In you, Lord Jesus. Father, I pray for each person here. I pray, O Lord, that if someone here doesn't know you, that you would open their heart Draw them into covenant relationship with you, that all things might be theirs. And Lord, as we celebrate today that all things are ours, Lord, help us to go in the strength of that, to continue to serve you, and to continue to be a blessing to one another as we build this church up. For the glory of Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen.