Thank you, choir. Thank you, Praise Team. Thank you, Pastor Barry. Thank you, everybody leading us in worship. Have you ever read somebody else's mail? Maybe their email? True Confessions, I look at my wife's Facebook. Or sometimes read her text as they pop up on her phone, you know. Um but if I was to do that and think that it was to me all those hearts and emojis From so-and-so, I would be misinterpreting. I'd be misinterpreting. And so too, sometimes with the scripture, it feels like they're talking, it's talking to me. It's talking to me. But really, we're reading somebody else's mail. And so we've got to try to understand in our interpretation our hermeneutical approach is to first try to understand what this meant for the original audience and then apply it to us. So that's going to be Our task and what we're trying to do this morning as we turn in our Bibles and read from Jeremiah 31, 27 through 40. Let me pray. O Father, give light, give understanding, send your Holy Spirit, fill us with your Spirit so that we can hear and be blessed by your word. I pray that the gospel would wash over us. In Jesus' name Amen. Jeremiah 31, starting with verse 27. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and the seed of beast. And it shall come to pass that as I have watched over them to pluck up and break down, to overthrow, destroy, and bring harm , So I will watch over them to build and to plant, declares the Lord. In those days they shall no longer say, Ah, the fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. But everyone shall die for his own sin. Each man who eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them. I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord! For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, I will remember their sin no more. Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before Thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth below can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they've done, declares the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when the cities shall be rebuilt for the Lord. From the tower of Hanael to the corner gate, and the measuring line shall go out farther straight to the hill of Garob, and then turn to Goa. The whole valley of dead bodies and the ashes and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron to the corner of the horse-gate toward the east shall be sacred to the Lord. It shall not be uprooted or overthrown any more forever. Have you ever given something away that you thought you didn't need anymore or didn't want anymore? Only to realize later that you did want that. My wife hassles me about giving away board games or giving away a car or other things like that. that uh that sometimes I want later. Um Annie has finally convinced me to get rid of my uh St. Mary's fleece. I'm sure that I'm gonna realize down the road that I really need that, but at this point I was letting ready to let it go for her sake. In the movie Iron Man, Tony Stark crafts a miniature power source called an arc reactor. that he wears on his chest and he uses it to power his battlesuit to escape his captors. Spoiler alert if you haven't seen the movie. movie. Once free and at home, uh with his vast array of gadgets and all the technology that he has at his disposal, he crafts a new arc reactor, mini arc reactor. And takes the old one out and tells his assistant, just trash it. I don't need it anymore. But instead, she creates a keepsake trophy for him and gives it to him, proof that Tony Stark has a heart Reads the inscription. Isn't that quaint? Well, Tony's new and improved arc reactor gets stolen right off of his chest. And he finds himself very much in need of that reactor that he'd thrown away. Or that he thought he'd thrown away But he realizes he needed it, he breaks open the trophy case and inserts that keepsake into a life-saving spot over his heart Sometimes we treat the Old Testament like Tony Stark treated his old reactor. Like an outmoded tool that's meant for the trash heap. Worse, we can think it's evil. If you read 2 Corinthians 3, you might think that the Old Testament was a ministry of death and condemnation and offered no real glory at all. But it only does so if it's used in opposition to Christ. If you subject the Old Testament to Christ, the law to Christ, It's incredibly useful, marvelous, insightful. But if you set the law against Christ as the Jews do to this day And indeed, then indeed all of the law becomes only so much fuel for the fires of judgment and condemnation. , I'm in the midst of a series on covenant theology. You can listen to it on Sermon Audio. We're looking at how God deals with his people. How does God deal with his people? Well, first of all, we have to understand not everyone is God's people. Everyone was made by him, but not everyone is his people. He condescended to enter into a special relationship with one family, which became a group of people. As we've been looking at the scriptures together, we've seen that God does this over and over again. First, he entered into a covenant with Adam and his family. Then he entered into a covenant with Noah and his family. Then he entered into a covenant with Abraham and his family And when we say family, we're reminded that it's something slightly broader than an American nuclear family. Mom, dad, 2. 5 kids. Abraham's family, his household included slaves and servants. And when God entered into a relationship with Abraham, they were included. And then we saw God enter into a covenant with Moses as a representative for Jacob's family, otherwise known as Israel. And next we saw God covenant with David's family, that they would be the ones to rule over God's people as God's representatives As God's sons. And as we get to this point in the story, as we get up to Jeremiah, things are not going so well with David's family, with Israel's family. with Abraham's family. David's son Solomon had his heart led astray after other gods. Solomon's son had the kingdom ripped apart from him. Because he did not listen to God. And then there were a series of kings of the Davidic dynasty that mostly turned after other gods and didn't regard the Lord as their God. Exclusively from the heart. There were some that followed after their father David, who was a man after God's own heart, but mostly they were leading the people away from God. Until we get to Jeremiah. Jeremiah had been locked up by the Davidic king for preaching what God had told him to: that Nebuchadnezzar was going to lead God's people away into exile because they'd been disobeying the Lord. Think of how awful this would be. You're in the one nation in the entire world that follows the God who made the universe. And the rulers who God specifically appointed have shut you up in prison for preaching what God told you to say. And and honestly you'd rather not say it because it's horrible news. A king is coming to destroy your country, your city, and lead your people away captive. And you would look to the priests as allies to convince the king to listen to the Lord, but no, they're corrupt and give offerings to any God, even in the temple. And the people love to have it so Yet there's this faithful few, these faithful uh remnant Jeremiah had Baruch, who helps him rewrite his whole book, Jeremiah, after the king had uh most of it burned. And there's a few whose hearts are steadfast to the Lord, but you can see why the Lord would want to punish his people, and that's where our passage begins in verse twenty-seven when the Lord says, Behold, the days are coming when I will sow the house of Israel and the household of Jew with man and beast. That sounds like a good thing, right? So means plant, plant seeds, right? That's good. So the Lord's going to be planting nice crops and domestic animals, right? Perhaps, but in the context of Jeremiah, who frequently speaks of Israel becoming the haunt of jackals, I think it's a bad thing. Israel's going to become a wasteland, a wilderness as a judgment for all her sin. Wild animals are going to roam across that land That once garden of milk and honey is going to become a wildness because Israel had disobeyed God, gone after other gods, abused the land, taken advantage of the poor. And he's going to cede the land with Assyrians and Babylonians. Look at how God says that he has watched over them. as he plucks them up, breaks them down, overthrows them, destroys them, and brings them harm. God is the one who destroyed his people for their wickedness. He raised up Assyria and Babylon to besiege and destroy his own people because they had forsaken him. God is the one who's behind this judgment. And don't like this off as mere Old Testament God behavior. Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Hebrews 13, 8. James 1. 17, the Father of lights, with whom there is no shadow of turning. It's the same God, the God of the Bible is the God of wrath against sin. The New Testament doesn't change this. It reveals it all the more. In Jeremiah's time, God was pouring out his wrath on the nation of Israel by taking them away captive. Now, in the age of the new covenant, God poured out his wrath on Jesus on the cross. And not yet has that final judgment come, spoken of in Revelation, and by Jesus himself, wherein those who oppose Jesus will be separated from those who confess Jesus as Lord, and the former will be thrown into the lake of fire. By Jesus. Okay, you think, oh, I don't like the Old Testament, but Jesus, he's a nice guy. Jesus was the most hellfire and brimstone preacher there ever was. Well, I don't know if he was the most, but he was the best. The God we serve, the God we preach, the God we fear is a God of righteousness against wrath and ungodliness. Tremble and yet delight. For you would want it no other way if you'd lived under ungodly rulers for centuries. Imagine you had ungodly rulers for centuries. In fact, you might ask why the Lord tarried so long in his judgment. Part of us cheers rightly at wicked rulers getting what they deserve finally. Come on, haven't you guys watched a movie where you you just can't wait till the bad guy gets it? I was watching a movie with my kids and and they just went ahead and shouted out, that's what you deserve, bad guy! When he falls into the arc reactor. We want the villain to get his judgment. This is right and true, and God does do that. But if it were just that God was going to bring punishment, we would melt with fear because we know that our own sinfulness and our country's sinfulness deserves judgment too. If it were destroyed, what would that leave us with? And Jeremiah answers those very same concerns in the same verse in verse 28. So I will watch over them to build and to plant, declares the Lord. Jeremiah is looking forward to that time, 70 years in the future, from when he's writing, when God will raise up a Messiah, an anointed one, Cyrus the Persian, prophesied by Isaiah, to set his people free. To proclaim release to the captives, to give them their land again. That's a huge deal. That's what the pre-exilic prophets are looking forward to. It's grace unlooked for. Listen, because of all their sin, Israel deserves to be wiped off of the face of the map and never heard from again, except in archaeological records. But God God is gracious and then he personally builds them back up. He suddenly ordains pagan decisions. He empirically finances the move back to Jerusalem and Israel. Literal building, literal planting is what's being looked forward to here. And literal building and literal planting is what happens in Ezra and Nehemiah in your scripture when God's people return. This is the event that the that was so big and loomed so huge in the prophets' minds. Don't underestimate how enormously important and gracious this is for God's people, and how it's the fulfillment of this prophecy. Then there's this cryptic saying, the fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set an edge. What does that mean? What does it mean it's not set anymore? Just imagine, kids, for a moment, how awful it would be. Whenever Dad ate something spicy, your mouth got hot. Or if whenever mom ate something that was sour and not ripe yet, you puckered up. How bad would that be? What if every time your father made a mistake, you got the consequences for it? That would be awful. And that's what they're saying in Israel. They're saying our fathers made mistakes, now we have to pay for it. AKA there's no hope because we're not in control of our own destiny. That's what the Israelites felt like had happened to them after all these centuries of bad rulers. They felt doomed because of their father's mistakes And God is saying, after the exile, after a full judgment, you're not going to have that excuse anymore. All of your father's misdeeds in the land will be wiped clean, as it were, and then you'll only have yourself to blame for all your failures. Listen, it's never a good excuse to blame your father for all your trouble. Sure. We're affected by our father's mistakes, but we're not doomed by them. It was never a good excuse. It was never a good excuse for continuing disobedience toward God. And it certainly won't be an excuse after the exile. Much less so do we have that excuse in the new covenant. It doesn't matter how pagan, how rebellious, how against God your parents were, you're accountable for your sin. In the Old Testament and in the New. This isn't a feature just of the new covenant about which Jeremiah was speaking. This has always been the case. Some might see a strong emphasis on personal responsibility as something new, as if in the Old Testament you were part of the people of God by virtue of your birth. This couldn't be further from the truth. The covenant of Abraham was a covenant of faith. Yes, the covenant sign was given to his household, but this doesn't necessitate that it wasn't about faith. It was Furthermore, we've already been over in previous sermons how it wasn't about a physical offspring of Abraham that were part of the covenant. It was those who laid hold of the covenant promises by faith. I reiterate this for the sake of those who might extrapolate from the idea of personal responsibility found here that only those who actually confess with their mouth should be given the sign of the covenant. Applying the sign of the covenant to children of the covenant does no damage to personal responsibility. For those of you covenant children. whose parents have applied the sign of the covenant to you, who have been baptized as an appeal to heaven, make this covenant your own. You are not relieved of personal responsibility. Show personal responsibility. Ratify this covenant. Renew this covenant. And beware of lazy coasting wherein you never take personal responsibility for your faith. High schoolers, the time is is now. Take personal responsibility. So point number one, the new covenant looks forward to judgment on sin. This already happened in the exile. It happened on the cross, and it will happen again at the final judgment. So be broken that he might restore you. Else he will break you. Point number two, the new covenant looks forward to faith and forgiveness. Let's look at Jeremiah 31, 31. And look at the preamble that happens in each of these sections. That's why I've broken it out this way, that for a time signature on this Behold, the days are coming. In the previous section, that time referred to the time of return from exile for God's people. And as we look at this section of Scripture, because we know it applies in the New Testament, it's tempting to jump right over the application for Jeremiah's time. This was firstly looking forward to a new covenant, covenant renewal when God's people returned from exile. And this is what happened when God's people returned from exile. They renewed the covenant. Look at Nehemiah 9, 32 through 38. I'm going to read it for you. Now therefore, O our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love, let not all the hardship seem little to you that has come upon us, upon our kings, our princes, our priests, our prophets, our fathers, and all your people. since the time of the kings of Assyria until this day. Yet you've been righteous in all that's come upon us, for you've dealt faithfully and we've acted wicked wickedly. Our kings, our princes, our priests, our fathers have not kept your law or paid attention to your commandments And your warnings that you gave them. Even in their own kingdom, enjoying your great goodness that you gave them, and in the large and rich land that you set before them, they did not serve you or turn from their wicked works. Behold, we're slaves this day in the land that you gave to our fathers to enjoy its fruit and its good fruit, gifts. Behold, we're slaves. And it's rich yield goose to kings whom you've set over us because of our sins. They rule over our bodies and over our livestock as they please, and we're in great distress. And here here's the covenant renewal. Because of this, we make a firm covenant and writing on the sealed document are the names of our princes, our Levites, and our priests. And they go on. to be very specific about the covenant. And do you think they're making a covenant that says our hearts aren't going to be involved? This is just going to be about whether you're a kid. uh uh born into Abraham's household. No, this is about actually obeying the Lord from the heart, knowing the Lord And so when they returned, they renewed their covenant with the Lord. It was not precisely the way that it had been done in Exodus. It was new, it was different. But some might question whether the Lord at this time put his law into the people's hearts. Did he put his law into the people's hearts? And when I look at verse 31 33, I see a parallelism. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them. I'll put my law within them, I'll write on their hearts, I will be their God, they shall be my people. Okay, a parallelism is two things happening right after each other that interpret one another. I'll put my law within them, I'll write it on their hearts, I will be their God, they will be my people. When God is our God and we are his people, he writes his law under our hearts. Old covenant, new covenant. Being a true Israelite, being God's people was never merely about outward obedience. Cain himself offered a sacrifice of outward obedience to God, but God didn't regard his sacrifice. God looks on the heart. How do we know that? From the Old Testament. In a real sense, after the return from the exile, the Jews did not struggle with idol worship like they had before the exile. Ask any secular historian and they'll say the same thing. Because come on, after their entire nation had been destroyed, when they come back because they've gone after other gods, when they come back, they're going to be different. They're going to come back changed. Now you'd say to me, well, what about verse 34? Surely that can't have happened after the return from the exile. Yeah. In the Old Testament, they had to teach one another. to know the Lord from the least to the greatest. They had to do what Deuteronomy 6, 4-7 commends. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, and when you lie down and when you rise. But in the new covenant, we don't have to do that anymore. We just pop out of mommy's tummy, knowing everything about the Lord. Nobody has to teach us anything, right? Wrong. My Reformed Baptist brothers would want to argue that in the New Covenant everyone knows the Lord from the least to the greatest because only those who confess Christ are allowed into the covenant. And this seems to solve an interpretive problem. In the New Covenant, everyone knows the Lord because we've done away with this silly business of applying the sign of faith to children. According to our Baptist friends, everyone will know the Lord if we only apply the sign of the covenant to people who confess Christ. Yet this doesn't really solve the problem. There are people who have confessed Christ as an older child, as young people, as older people , in that age, in our age. And though they've confessed Christ at one point, turn away from him. I would say that those people are in need of teaching and do not know the Lord. Jesus says in Matthew 7, 21-23, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, do we not prophesy in your name, cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. In the book of Hebrews 6, 4 through 6, it says, it is impossible to restore again to repentance those who have been once enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared the Holy Spirit. and have tasted the goodness in the word of God and the powers of the age to come. If they then fall away, since they're crucifying again the Son of God to their own home and holding him up to contempt. So in Hebrews, you have someone who knew and confessed and then fell away. John MacArthur says there's no idea of a remnant in the New Testament. But I think Scripture reveals that even in the New Testament there are those who receive the covenant sign and yet are unbelievers. God allows some to receive the sign of covenant and fall away in the old as well as in the new. And if that's the case, we don't have to be so fearful about applying the sign of the covenant to children. They might fall away. We could have baptized an unregenerate person. But Cratobaptists also occasionally baptize an unregenerate person. We know Jeremiah's prophecy applies to our situation in the New Covenant, but it doesn't apply in the way that our Reformed Baptist brothers like John MacArthur would argue. Only applying the sign of the covenant to those who confess still doesn't get us to the point of everyone knowing the Lord from the least to the greatest. Not totally. And this new covenant isn't so new as to totally do away with the practice of applying the sign of the covenant of faith to households, to little children. So I think that the fulfillment of this prophecy has not come yet. I think that we must still look forward to a day in the new heavens and new earth when all will know the Lord. At this point, though, we're in the new covenant. We still must teach one another to know the Lord, even those who have confessed and been baptized, even little children. In fact, I see a recommendation of the faith of little ones. The least among us, the littlest child, can know the Lord in a powerful way. Have you heard little children confess their faith in the Lord? Have you heard them sing to the Lord? Have you heard them request prayers? Pray with articulate faith. Before we would even have them come for first communion or have them baptized as a Cratobaptist. This is why Jesus makes a point of saying, let the little children come to me. Ask little children about their faith. Volunteer for summer Sunday school, men and women, and hear their faith firsthand. It might seem a little childish as they say it, but but has not our adult faith been childish before too? We can't miss something here. It's in verse 34. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. Here's the gospel that we live in today because Jesus has bought salvation for us through the new covenant, through the cross with his blood. We can have forgiveness for our sin. Maybe you're here today and you haven't experienced this yet. Maybe your sin is weighing heavily upon you. Come to Christ for forgiveness of all your sin. Or maybe you're not quite there yet. Maybe you haven't even been totally honest about your sins. Because you're not sure if it can be forgiven. They say that people won't repent until they're assured that their sins can be forgiven. Well, here is assurance of your forgiveness in Christ. Christ has paid the price for All of the Old Testament sacrifices pointed forward to the salvation that came from the sacrifice of Christ. the We are all saved the same way. The Jews weren't saved a totally different way and we're saved another way. They weren't saved by the blood of goats and we're saved by the blood of the Lamb. No, we're all saved by the blood of the Lamb. Lastly, the new covenant looks forward to an eternal city of God. Look at verse 38. When the city shall be rebuilt for the Lord from the tower of Hananel to the corner gate. And this is precisely what happened when Godspiel returned from exile and rebuilt the city, thus The time signature that I'd like to put on this. They rebuilt a northern wall. We don't know exactly where Garib and Goa are. It's been hypothesized that they're the northern and northwestern hills, respectively. But in Nehemiah 3. 1 and Nehemiah 12. 39, we hear that when God's people return, they rebuild the wall. They physically rebuild the wall, connecting with the Tower of Hananel So we should look to see this prophecy first fulfilled at the return from exile. It has already happened. And in the next chapter in Jeremiah, Jeremiah buys a field to let everyone know that they are coming back after exile. That's predominantly what's in Jeremiah's mind when he speaks of the new covenant. But then we get to the part in verse 40 where it says, it shall not be uprooted or overthrown anymore forever. This cannot have come to pass if we're talking about the literal city. It's been overthrown many times since the return from the exile. The Greeks, the Seleucids, the Romans, the Muslims, the Crusaders, to name a few. So, how can this prophecy be true? How can it be fulfilled? How is it fulfilled in Christ in the New Covenant? Well, what does the New Covenant, the New Testament, teach us about Jerusalem? The answer is much more than I can say to you in a final point in a sermon. But I'll sum it up in this way: there is a new heavenly Jerusalem that is as broad as Jeremiah recounts, and it will never be uprooted, for it's in heaven. Here's the author of Galatians on the matter, Galatians 4, 25 and 26. Now Hagar is the Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem. For she's in slavery with her children, but the Jerusalem above is free. She is our mother. So there's two Jerusalems. The Jerusalem below is against Christ. They rejected Christ, they continue to reject Christ, and they'll be judged. But there's a heavenly Jerusalem, which is what we care about, where our home is, the Jerusalem that loves us and that we love. It's not to be confused with the Jerusalem below, the present Jerusalem. Listen, you can have whatever sort of politics you want to have with regard to Jerusalem. But do not be confused about what the Bible says The Bible says that we have a new Jerusalem above, which comes down out of heaven. That's the important place where you owe your allegiance to the heavenly Jerusalem. Don't be confused. Listen to the Apostle John speak of the New Jerusalem in Revelation 3. 12, the one who conquers. I'll make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it. And I'll write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name. We are the temple. Our residence is the new Jerusalem in heaven. Hallelujah. To be so concerned with the earthly Jerusalem is too small-minded for us. Oh listen, we long for all the Jews to come to Christ. We long that the land that God first promised to his people would be would wholly bow the knee to their true King. Jesus. Jesus. But if that's our main concern, we need to widen our gaze. Eagerly desire and pray that the Jews and all men, the whole earth, would bow the knee to the King of Kings. Eagerly desire and pray that not just Israel, but every country near and far would bow before their Maker. And this will happen It is not merely a question, it's just merely a question of whether people will do it willingly or unwillingly So Jerusalem was restored as God said it would be in Christ. Jerusalem is Zion, the church, the city of God where God dwells with his people through the Holy Spirit, and we have a sure hope and anchor for our soul that the new Jerusalem will come down out of heaven to be not to be uprooted or overthrown anymore forever. Listen, God's plans don't always happen at the same at the time when we might like them to, or in the way that we might expect. Sometimes we have to wait. The question is, do we wait in hope or in dread? And if anyone had a right to wait in dread, it was Jeremiah. He was either locked up with a palace guard or put in a pit. Or watching his life's work be burned in the fire with one convert for all his ministry. But he waited in hope, in great hope, in sure hope that the Lord would do a great and marvelous thing in restoration, gracious restoration. And we get to see it fulfilled in such a more brilliant, glorious way than perhaps Jeremiah ever knew. Because we have seen Christ. Christ has inaugurated the new covenant of the Old Testament, and we wait and hope for the final fulfillment. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, you are so gracious to your people that after hundreds of years of systematically rejecting you and going after other God Gods, you think to restore them. Your heart is set on rebuilding them. And Lord, we're thankful that you covenant With us and with our little children, that you have always had a mind for families, for households, that you desire godly opportunities. Offspring. Thank you, Lord, the godly offspring are a possibility. That it's not because of my sins, my children will be inevitably rooted and fixed and bent on sin. Without Christ they are, but with the power of the Holy Spirit they can be turned to you. We pray that for our little children in this church, we pray that for our teens, Lord, that they would take personal responsibility. For their faith this day. And we pray for those outside of Christ who are floundering in their sin, wondering how it can be forgiven, how life can be rebuilt and restored, and that they would see that if the nation of Israel Can be taken away into captivity and then come back and be rebuilt, that certainly their life can be rebuilt. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.