Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning. having tried to serve you this week and no doubt for many of us having the best of intentions and yet falling short in needing your grace. Lord, we pray that you would comfort us this morning and encourage us, O Lord, with your word and the promises found therein. Lord, we ask that you give us eyes to see, ears to hear, hearts to receive and take joy and delight in you and in your promises. As we examine ourselves this morning in preparation to come to the table of the Lord's Supper, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, life is filled with the best of intentions, and yet, as we all know, we oftentimes have good intentions. to do or accomplish certain things and then we fall flat on our face or things don't work out. Even if we don't fall flat on our face, things don't always work out the way that we thought that they would We make uh oaths and promises that are meant to match these intentions, only to, again, fall short. As I was thinking about that dynamic and an example of of something that's happened in real life, uh I couldn't help but think of uh the experience that happened to Martin Luther on July 2, 1505. Maybe you've heard the story. Uh he was heading back to university. He was visiting his friends and family at home, and he was going back to school. And if you know anything about the life of Martin Luther, he had a promising career as a lawyer, actually. That was his father's chosen profession for him. And as he rode to the German countryside back to the city of Erfurt, where he was studying, a violent thunderstorm arose. And he it was in the middle of that storm that he's riding on his horse and lightning struck the ground just feet from the horse. And you can imagine that frightened the horse. Martin Luther was thrown off of his horse onto the ground And as he lay there on the ground in the middle of this thunderstorm frightened, he shouted, Help me, Saint Anne, I will become a monk. Now that sounds like something that somebody who's terrified in the moment might just shout out and then forget that they said uh as soon as they were safe. But not Martin Luther. Uh in fact, much to the chagrin of his father, who was paying for school Uh he made good on his promise two weeks later, dropping out of school and showing up at the Augustinian monastery to um submit himself as a candidate to become a monastic uh a monk in a monastic cloister. What's interesting is Martin Luther making that vow had every intention of following through on that vow and spending his days in celibacy in a monastic cloister. That was his intention. Matched with his oast that he would become a monk. And yet it's interesting that even with his best of intentions We know from history that God had other intentions and other plans for him that far outweighed anything that Luther could have imagined I think that really illustrates well the main idea of this psalm, and it is this. God's promises are superior to our best intentions. Because our best intentions are beyond our capabilities to perform, while God has already begun fulfilling his promises. In fact, if you are visiting with us this morning, you will see on page 6 of your bulletin right after the liturgy. We have that sermon idea printed, so you can come back to it throughout the sermon. But that is really what we want to unpack this morning as we work our way through this psalm. We want to unpack the idea that God's promises are superior to our best intentions, because our best intentions are beyond our capabilities to perform, while God, on the other hand, has already begun fulfilling his promises. Now there's two questions that we'll see come right out of the text here as we seek to apply this later to ourselves. And the first question is this, how do our best intentions come up short? And secondly, how has God begun to fulfill his promises? And so as we work to unpack that main idea and answer those questions, let's begin with our first point. From verses 1 through 10, the best of intentions from God's people. Now, the first five verses of this really kind of lay out David's oath And verses one and two say, Remember, O Lord, in David's favor, all the hardship that he endured, how he swore to the Lord and vowed to the mighty one of Jacob. Now, if you look at the superscription right above verse 1 in our English Bible, that is actually part of the Hebrew text, and therefore it is part of the inspired Word of God, it says a song of ascent. Now, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to determine exactly with certitude what the context is or who wrote these psalms. But thankfully for us, the details in the Psalm itself give us a little bit of the history that it was pointing back to, if not what was going on at the time. The psalmist does shed some light on what he is concerned about. And in verses 1 through 5, he's concerned about David's oath to the Lord. You see in verses 1 and 2, the context behind his oath, we find a request, as I just read, asking the Lord to remember David. And remember, particularly you'll notice all the hardship he endured. By the way, you could translate that Hebrew phrase legitimately, to remember all of his humiliation. Or all of his humbling experiences. None of us like humbling experiences, but when we read the lives of the saints throughout the Old and New Testaments, we find that they are filled with humbling experiences. We can see several of these from the narratives of 1 Samuel. And I'm going to mention just a few, just to lay out for you. What's some of the humbling experiences David endured, because I think some of these will shed light on the plea for God to remember. We can remember from 1 Samuel 18 to the end of that book, David is on the run from Saul. Saul is trying to kill him. You will remember that after he slays the giant Goliath , And he goes out and brings the armies in. Victory after victory after victory, the women would parade out of the cities. Uh Saul has killed his thousands and David his ten thousands. You know, giving the underling more glory than the king did not bode well for David in the presence of Saul. The first example I would highlight is 1 Samuel 21, verses 10-15. David is fleeing from Saul, and he has to flee to the city, one of the cities of the Philistines, named Gath. And it's so interesting if you read Psalm 34, it's a psalm that is associated with that experience. In order to avoid suspicion among his enemies, you'll remember David has to pretend to be insane because he was afraid of Akhish, king of Gath. And while pretending to be insane, if that wasn't humiliating enough, David marks the doors of the city. uh of the the gate of the city. You can almost kind of think of an ancient form of vandalism or spray painting graffiti, right? And he allows spit to run down his beard as he's acting insane. That's kind of gross. As someone who has a beard, I wouldn't want to do that, but That's pretty humiliating for someone who was anointed king over Israel just a few chapters earlier in 1 Samuel 16. The second example, as the story of David's life marches on in 1 Samuel 23, David saves the city of Kalah, which was a little city in Judea or Judah in the south. Saved it from the Philistines who were gonna come and attack it. God tells David that the city He tells David this before it happens. He said Though you save them, the city will turn against you, and they will hand you over to Saul. And that 's exactly what they do. They report to Saul, who's pursuing David. Isn't David in our midst? Come, take possession of him. And it requires David to hide in the caves of Mingeti. Again, how humiliating that even those who you save are not loyal enough to you. They are loyal to someone else. They won't protect you. They will hand you over. Despite the good that they received from your hand. The third example, in the very next chapter, David has to go so far as, I said, hide in the caves of Engedi near the western shore. of the Sea of Galile of the of the Dead Sea, rather. And if you remember, Saul came awfully close to finding him when he goes into the cave to relieve himself, and David had the opportunity to kill him right there and didn't take it. We can go on and on with examples. The point is, David spent fifteen years of his life running and enduring hardship. despite what I'm sure his expectations were when he was anointed as king. And despite that hardship, we find the psalmist highlighting the fact that did David wallow in this kind of, oh woe is me kind of attitude? Was he suffering from a pity party? Did he seem to lack trust in the Lord despite all that? Did he get bitter and hardened of heart? No. In fact, we're told to re- the psalmist is reminding God to remember that despite all this, O Lord, David was a man after your own heart, and he even swore an oath and made a vow to you. So what were the contents of that vow? That's the context of the vow. But what what about the vow itself, the substance of the oath? We see in verses 3 through 5. And you can see it summarized by David's desire to build a temple or a dwelling place for the Lord so that there will be a place for God's presence to dwell. Look at verses three through five. This is the substance of his vow. I will not enter my house or go into my bed. I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids. Notice Again, in true Hebrew poetic fashion, the parallelism that's there. He's paralleling these things to state the same truth. over and over again to drive the point home that he is resolved. What is he resolved to do? Well, you see what his intention is in verse 5. until I find a place for the Lord, a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. Again, another parallelism. A place for the Lord, a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. What is he talking about? Well, by the way, I I think the parallelism on a side comment really indicates this is not just a rash statement or vow that that David makes in a fit of emotional ecstasy and excitement. This is well intentioned, it's well thought out, it's well crafted. And again, it clues us a little bit to the historical background of David's life. In 1 Samuel 7, verses 1 through 2, if you remember the story. After the the arks uh is captured by the Philistines, God smites many of their cities with plagues and they Send it back to Israel. And what does Israel do with it? They bring it to the house of Abinadab in a town called Kiriath Jirim. And this was before the reign of Saul, and it stayed there for 20 years until 2 Samuel chapter 6, when David decides he wants to bring it to Jerusalem where he set up a tent for the ark. And then in 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 2, after he brings the ark up, David says to Nathan. See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent. You can see the disconnect in David's mind. How is it that God's presence is only dwelling in a tent when I have this massive palace made of cedar, which was a tremendous luxury in the ancient Near East? And so this is kind of the intention behind his oath. He wants to give God more glory than even he has received as the new king. And so we see in verses 6-10 the report and the call to worship in response. We see the psalmist hearing of David's vow. Look at verse 6. It says, Behold, we have heard of it in Ephroth. We have found it in the fields of Ja'ar. By the way, what is the it referring to there? We have heard of it. Well, the it that they're referring to is the Ark of the Covenant, which sat in the house of Abinadab for twenty years. And Ephratha is another name for Bethlehem. And it was also a district around the city of Kiri of Kiriath Jirim. In other words, for 20 years the ark had been there, everybody would have known that it was there. And verse six is simply telling us that everyone had heard that David swore an oath to build a temple or to build a house for it. For the Ark of the Covenant or the Ark of God's presence. And verses 7 through 11 highlight the people's response to David bringing up the Ark of the Covenant. to Jerusalem. And by the way, you can see all of this in narrative form summarized in 2 Samuel chapter 6 when they bring the ark from that house of Abinadab to Jerusalem. In fact, if you read the 1 Chronicles 6 account, you find that they really botched it pretty bad the first time they tried it. One man actually um tr touched the ark and was struck down dead because of the holiness of God. And David kept it where it was for another few months before he finally worked up the courage to bring it back up to Jerusalem. But 2 Samuel chapter 6 verses 12 through 15 And then 17 through 18, give us the details of what the psalmist here is summarizing. This is what it writes. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed -Edom to the city of David with rejoicing. Boy, that's a nice call to worship, isn't it? With rejoicing. And when those who bore the ark of the Lord had gone six steps, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal. And David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was wearing a linen ephod, something worn by the priests. And so David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the horn. And they brought the ark of the Lord and set it in its place inside the tent that David had pitched for it. And David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people, the whole multitude of men and women, with a cake of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins to each one. And then we find that he sends them home. after public worship. You can imagine as they brought the ark to Jerusalem What they say in verse 7 would certainly apply, arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place, you in the ark of your might. Again, you can imagine as they're dancing before the Lord with David in his in the with David dressed in that priestly linen ephod, they may have sang verse 8. of our psalm. Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy. And notice the progression in verse 9. Verse 9 makes that statement um talking about the clothing of righteousness. The entire body of the saints rejoice. And why are they doing this? All on account of David. And David's redemptive action of bringing up the presence of God, so to speak, out of hiding, if you want to say it that way, into full public view where God can dwell. Among his people. So far it sounds so good. But what are we to make of David's best intentions? Were they good enough? I mean, after all, what was his intention? His intention was to build a house for the Lord. We find God's response to David's best intention in 1 Chronicles 28, 2 and 3. David is speaking to the people. Then King David rose to his feet and said, Hear me, my brothers and my people. I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord and for the footstool of our God, and I made preparations for the building. But God said to me, You may not build a house for my name, for you are a man of war and have shed blood. Isn't that interesting? Now by the way, let's just be very clear Everything David had done, fighting the battles of the Lord and waging those wars and shedding that blood, God does not call sin. He just says, since this characterizes your life, you will not be the one to build the house of rest for me. This is David, a man after God's own heart. This is David, whom God denied the privilege. By the way, let me just say this. God did not deny this privilege to David. After he fell with his sin with Bathsheba. He actually denied David this privilege before his fall into sin. So just in case you stop and think, yeah, well, God didn't allow him to do that as punishment because of a sin, that's not true. It's not true. And this leads us to have to apply the passage to ourselves, and we ask the question again, how do our best intentions, maybe like David's, come up short? Well, I think as we unpack the application, our best intentions still come up short because we are offset by two things which we see in this passage, hardship and our own presumption. Doesn't that seem to be what plagues David in those two points? Hardship and his own presumption. Think about it. Our best intentions are often beset by hardship that we endure. Like David, when things are going well , And and everything is going our way, it is so easy to just believe that, okay, I I'm going to do this or that and accomplish this or that for God And we might even make God certain promises. Have you ever done that before? Don't raise your hand or shake your head, yes or no, but I'm sure some of you have made promises to God. I know I have at points in my life. Somewhat presumptuously, but the passage when it points to David's hardship reminds us that life is full of circumstances and hardships that we simply don't have control over. You remember last week when we finished the book of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 50, highlighting the sovereignty of God, what you Joseph's brothers. Meant for evil. God meant for good, highlighting the sovereignty of God over all people and circumstances. There are circumstances, brothers and sisters, you and I just simply can't control. That includes things as well as people around us. Think about some of the hardships that David faced. I mean he faced a strained relationship. and a broken relationship with his wife Mikal. I mean after he brought the ark up he was dancing and then he went home and his his wife Mikal, who was Saul's daughter, chastised him. Oh, didn't you? Weren't you quite the spectacle today? In the presence of all of God's people. Oh, how you adorned yourself with honor, mocking him, tension in their marriage? If there's one thing that I found by observing married people, it's that marriage certainly comes with a host of challenges and difficulties. Paul certainly warns people of that in 1 Corinthians 7. Talks about marriage has the potential to bring difficulties and divided attention. 1 Peter 3, 7. How about this? Husbands, you might propose to do something before the Lord or want to accomplish something good, and you might be offset by difficulties. that you might have in your marriage. Think about it. What does 1 Peter 3. 7 say? Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. Showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life. Why do you do that? Well Peter tells you. So that your prayers may not be hindered. Make no mistake about it. When there is friction in a marriage, sometimes out of one's spouse's control, especially for the husband, it has the power to hinder his prayers in relationship with the Lord. Likewise the wife, the same thing, when she's not properly submissive, like Peter tells in 1 Peter 3, 1 and 2. When she's not properly submissive to her husband in the way that the Bible lays out, it has the potential to bring hardship for her in her marriage that makes life difficult and then can thwart certain desires. or intentions that she has. Notice that the way we live with our significant others can greatly affect our relationship with God. But that's just kind of like an in-house example, isn't it? What about things that happen at work, things that happen at school, things that happen in your neighborhood, or things that happen in the larger body of the church that you simply cannot control? We have hardship after hardship after hardship in real life when rubber meets the road and the hardship that David experienced in his life is meant to show us that we are still called to cling to the Lord. Through the things that we can't control. Yes, we may have the best of intentions, but at the end of the day, are you able to lay those things in the Lord's hand and say, Lord, not my will, but your will be done. But that's just hardship. Sometimes our intentions are beset by our own presumption. David, the man after God's own heart, who was still righteous when he made the vow, still was a little presumptuous in what he wanted to do. And if that's true of David, what about you and I? I I don't know if you're like me or maybe this is just me. I'm there are things that I want to do to bring glory to God in my life and I know that if I could do it, it would bring glory to God. And yet, sometimes I am my worst enemy. How about that? The Apostle Paul understood this in Romans chapter 7, verses 15 through 19. Tell me if this sounds familiar to your experience. He writes, for I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing that I hate. Now, if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. You could almost hear him say, ha ha. For I know that nothing good dwells in me that is in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good that I want, but the evil that I do not want is what I keep on doing. See, the problem we often have is that we presume on what we are going to do for God when the doing of that is not within our power. So the question then is what do we do? Well, that leads us to our second point in this Psalm in verses eleven through eighteen, the superior quality of God's promises. Yeah, we make pro promises based on good intentions. But the second part of the psalm highlights the superior quality of God's promises, the superior quality of his intentions. Look at verses eleven and twelve. You see the Lord's sure oath to David. Look what it says. The Lord swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back. One of the sons of your body I will sat on the throne. If your sons keep my commandment and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne. By the way, that is what we call the Davidic covenant or the covenant that God made with David. Notice the contrast here. You see first and foremost, earlier in the Psalm in verse 2, how he, David, swore to the Lord. Now you contrast that with verse 11. The Lord swore to David a sure oath. You could translate that. An oath Of certainty, an oath of truth, an oath of faithfulness. You could translate that Hebrew word a variety of ways. And it draw all drives the point home. Again, going back to the historical context of 2 Samuel 7, it is ironic that David wanted to build a house for the Lord, and in a twist of dramatic irony, God turns around and makes an oath to David. No, you're not going to build me a house. I will build a house for you. You see the play on theme there? It is important for us to see the difference between the oath that David swore in verses 2 through 5 and the oath that God swears here. But there is a condition that the son of David had with these promises. Verse 12, if your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne. Well, what is God promising here? What is the result of all of this? Well look at verses 13 through 18. You see the Lord's abundant blessing is based on his oath. You see the surety of it in verses 13 through 14. Why? For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. What's the key word there? Desire. Do you think God desires things? Yes, he does. Does God get what he desires? Yes, he does. And here, God desires to build his home in Zion. Notice there's nothing in David himself that caused God to choose his line to rule in Jerusalem. This is a choice that is simply based on God's good desire. In other words, the choice God made to make a sure oath to David is nothing more than the outworking of his grace. on his people. Because through David, those promises, those blessings that are abundant will flow through him to all of God's people. And we don't just see the surety of the oath, we see the blessing that results on Zion in verses 15-18. Verses fifteen and sixteen, I will bless abundantly her provisions, I will satisfy her poor with bread, her priests, I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shout for joy Now if you look carefully there, there is a connection from verses 16 to verse 9. Look at verse 9 again from our first point. There was this request, so to speak, to God, let your priests be clothed with righteousness and let your saints Shout for joy. How does God answer that in his promise to David when it's fulfilled? Look at verse 16. That's the follow-up. Her priests I will clothe with salvation. Prayer answered. Right there. And her saints will shout for joy. Request, answer, and fulfillment. is what you see there. And what's interesting is this tells us that the righteousness of the priests that are clothed in that results in their salvation. There is a need to be clothed with righteousness if we are to be saved. And then lastly, in verses 17 through 18, God promises, I will make a horn to sprout for David. By the way, a horn is simply a symbol of power in the ancient Near East, royal power. I will make a horn to sprout for David. I prepared my lamp for my anointed, for my Messiah. That is the Hebrew word, Messiah. His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine. I love how that just contrasts, verse 16. with the end there. The priests and God's people will be clothed with salvation and righteousness, but God's enemies will be clothed with shame. In other words, they are going to be judged guilty. And don't miss the fact that when he says in verse 17 that this is for his Messiah, What this tells you is that this is a royal messianic psalm. It is a psalm that is meant to point not just back to David historically, but forward through him to his coming son. And so again, as we think about how has God begun to fulfill his promises in the face of our best intentions, God has begun to fulfill These promises in the person and the work of Jesus Christ, the Son of David in the gospel. Think about it. Jesus Christ, the Son of David, sits on the throne. And this is good news for us today because that very condition in verse 12 that we saw If your sons will keep the commandments and statutes that I teach them, Christ fulfilled that. He's the son of David who kept God's covenant. and his testimonies by fulfilling the law on our behalf with his perfect life. David didn't live a perfect life, but Christ did. He lived a perfect life, although like David's life being filled with hardship and persecution, Jesus's was filled with the same, ultimately leading to the cross. That is where he fulfilled all righteousness by taking God's covenant curses and all of God's punishments on himself. And because he laid down his life, God raised him from the dead, and Jesus ascended into heaven and sits at the Father's right hand on the throne. Understand, brothers and sisters, that Jesus Christ is the Son of David par excellence. He sits on David's throne forever. Amen. That is worthy of an amen. And this is why when we look at our own hardships, when we like we just looked at above and considered above, We have victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. Because what is the foundation and the basis of all hardship in this world? Doesn't it all boil down to sin somewhere in some way, shape, or form? And yet that sin was conquered at the cross, death was conquered at the cross, life begins in the resurrection, so that when we are born again, our salvation and eternal life begins today, not just the day we die. Jesus said in John 16, 33, right before going to the cross, if you remember the beginning of that discussion in the beginning of John 14, do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid. Why? Because they were about to go through some hardship. What does he say at the end of that discussion in John 16, 33? I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart. I've overcome the world. What kind of tribulations did you face this week? What kind of hardship did you face this week? Jesus promises his peace. And he promises that he has overcome the world. And it's a victory, brothers and sisters, we get to participate in because he also says In 1 John 5, 4 through 5, for everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. You might ask, okay, well then what does that victory look like? Well, he goes on to say, this is the victory that has overcome the world. Our Faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? And that leads to the final application this morning that Jesus clothes us with salvation, which brings joy. God promised to close Zion's priests with righteousness and salvation in this psalm, and that is fulfilled again in the gospel of Jesus Christ. That when we come to faith in Jesus, When we put our trust in him and we repent of our sin, the promises that we receive his righteousness credited to us as a free gift, not because we earned it. But really, because we didn't earn it. That's what grace is all about. It is true that our best intentions are fraught with an inability to make ourselves righteous before the Lord. You cannot earn your way to heaven But this is where the oath and the promise of God here far exceeds our best intentions, not to mention our best efforts God is the one who clothes us with righteousness and salvation. We do not clothe ourselves. The Apostle Paul takes up the same exact point in Galatians 3, 27, after arguing that we are saved by grace through faith in Christ, and add alone after all those. Not by our good works. He crescendos the point by saying this in Galatians 3. 27. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. That phrase put on Christ can be translated clothed with the righteousness of Christ. When we put our trust in the promises, the sure oath of God fulfilled in Jesus' death and resurrection, we receive his righteousness. as a garment that is wrapped all around us. What more do you need as a foundation for joy? To know that in the midst of tribulation, you have peace with God, who is in it with you to the end. If you've never read C. S. Lewis' autobiography, it doesn't cover his whole life covers up to the point where he came to believe that there was a God, going from atheism to theism. It's titled Surprise by Joy. Surprised by joy. If you read enough of C. S. Lewis's work, you know how important the concept and the reality of joy was. To Lewis. A man who lost his mother at a very young age. A man who was sent off to the trenches of World War II. saw many of his friends killed in those trenches um in that bitter warfare. A man who would almost be hardened by intellectual rigor At Oxford University , finally gave way and relented when he put his trust and his faith in the Lord who saves. And he describes that as a recapturing of the joy that he once lost through his many trials. Brothers and sisters, what are you clinging to this morning? Where are you looking for joy in the midst of hardship? The Psalm calls us that despite our best intentions, trust in the intentions and the promises and oaths of God fulfilled in Christ for you today. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we thank you, O Lord, for your many promises that we have. in Scripture, but promises that have been fulfilled. Promises, Lord, that have been sealed upon our hearts by the Holy Spirit, who is the down payment of our salvation. that will one day be revealed when your son Jesus returns. Father, we pray that you would sustain us today. as we go from here in a few minutes to live our lives this week in the battlefield of this world. Lord, we pray that you would strengthen our resolve to rest in these promises. Jesus, as you Have rested now from your toil in saving us. We ask this in Jesus' name