If you have your Bible with you this morning, would you turn please to the the book of James toward the end of your uh New Testament? And as we uh prepare to read our scripture reading, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs with uh Jackie Fjord. And uh Rachel Johnson, I think, is helping as well. James chapter one, let's read the first twenty verses. James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. Greetings. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. But let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach. And it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting. For he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. For let not that man suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He's a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. Let the lowly brother glory in his exaltation, but the rich in his humiliation. Because as a flower of the field he will pass away For no sooner has the sun risen with a burning heat, than it withers the grass, its flower falls, and its beautiful appearance perishes. So the rich man also will fade away in his pursuits. Blessed is the man who endures temptation. For when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is full grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there's no variation or shadow of turning. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creatures So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of His Word. Let's pray. Father, speak to us now through your word. Quiet our hearts, focus our minds. Use your word to accomplish things that will last forever within each one here. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I wonder how many of you would agree with the following three statements. Number one, God hates all sin. Number two, all sin is evil in God's sight. And number three, no sin is more wicked than another in the sight of our holy God. As a child, you may have heard your parents say, it's just as wrong to steal a dollar as to steal a thousand dollars. It's always wrong to steal. Or they might say, it's just as wrong to tell a little lie as to tell a big lie. It's always wrong to lie. And you may have concluded when you heard such things that no sin is more wicked than another in the sight of our holy God. All sins are equal. But think about that. Imagine the following scenario. Suppose that in another five years or so, a future president Goes before the country on national television with a special address. Good evening. It's with great grief that I address you tonight. As many of you have already heard through recent news accounts, I have engaged in behavior that is unbefitting the high office that has been entrusted to me. I have succumbed to desires of the flesh, and in so doing, I have dishonored my family and disgraced our nation. As you know, when they first arose, I vehemently deny the allegations, but the White House video surveillance recordings that have recently surfaced have made it impossible for me to avoid the truth. What you have heard is basically true. On approximately ten occasions, both in 2018 and extending into the year 2019 While on a strict low-fat diet mandated by my family physician, I slipped into the White House kitchen sometimes late at night. Sometimes in the wee hours of the morning, and I took a generous helping of the dessert that had been served to the rest of the family after supper. Once I recall it was strawberry shortcake. I recall a delicious peach cobbler. And on at least two occasions it was pineapple upside down cake. And I particularly want to apologize to Governor Ikononai and the fine citizens of Hawaii. For any pain this revelation causes them. Let me say candidly to the American people that I know I have failed you and I am deeply sorry. In light of my betrayal of my office and of your trust, the only honorable thing that remains is to tender my resignation, and I have this day notified the Speaker of the House, the Vice President, the Chief Justice of my intention to do so Effective 1159 p. m. Eastern Standard Time tomorrow. My earnest plea is that the American people can find it in their hearts to forgive me, as I believe my family, my God. Have already done. My family and my God have already done. May God bless the United States of America. If indeed all sin is the same, if it is all equal in the eyes of God, why is this not a likely scenario? If no one sin is worse than another, why should not the consequence be the same, no matter what the sin? What does the Bible teach about this question? Is it true that all sin is the same in the eyes of God? Is it true that no sin is worse than another? Is this a logical conclusion from the biblical evidence? How does God view sin? And why does it matter? Well, first of all, we can affirm that all sin is wicked in the eyes of a holy God. God is the pure eyes than to behold evil, he cannot look upon iniquity. Whoever keeps the whole law yet offends in one point is guilty of all. He's a lawbreaker. As God looks upon sinful men, he sees that none of us is pure None of us is holy in and of himself. There is none righteous, no, not one. This is why no one was ever saved by keeping the law, and no one ever will be saved by keeping the law To be saved by keeping the law, you would have to keep it perfectly every single day of your life, every single hour of the day. Cursed is everyone who continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Galatians 3:10 So it's true that God hates all sin. He recognizes all sin as emanating from our corrupt nature. All sin deserves separation from God. But does that necessarily mean that God cannot, or that God does not, make distinctions between sins? Does that necessarily mean that God does not view some sins as more wicked, more vile than others? Does God indeed view all sin the same Does he view the actions of a child who lights a firecracker on the 4th of July in a county that has restrictions against lighting firecrackers on the 4th of July or any other day? Does God view the actions of that child in the same way that he views the actions of a man who blows up a public building, killing scores of people? Is all sin the same in God's eyes? Is it just as bad to steal a crib from a baby as it is to steal a baby from a crib? Are there any reasons to believe that God makes distinctions? That He views some sins as more heinous, more wicked, causing more damage, doing more harm, deserving of more severe punishment? Yes, there are reasons to believe that. First of all, when God established laws for his people, when Israel was a theocracy, when the laws came directly from God , He clearly distinguished between offenses by requiring the punishment to fit the crime. For example, Exodus 21, verse 1, if a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it. He shall restore five oxen for a dox, four sheep for a sheep. Exodus twenty-one, sixteen He who kidnaps a man and sells him, or if he's found in his hand, shall surely be put to death. So, which does God view as a more serious offense? If the punishment is any indication, stealing the baby is a much more serious offense than stealing the baby's crit. Some offenses were to be punished by execution, and some by simply making restitution But it may be objected, well maybe the more serious consequence was simply because the Lord recognized that it was more harmful to society to steal a child than it was harmful to society to steal a child's a crib or to steal property. But note, God also declares certain things to be particularly odious in his sight. These six things the Lord hates. Yes, seven are an abomination to him. A proud look a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift in running to evil, a false witness who speaks lies, and one who sows discord among brethren. Proverbs 6. In Ezekiel 8, the prophet sees a vision of the idolatries that were taking place in Jerusalem. And the Lord said, Do you see what they are doing? The great abominations that the house of Israel commits here to make me go far away from my sanctuary? Now turn again, and you will see greater abominations. Ezekiel eight six And having shown Ezekiel those greater abominations, he then said to him in verse 13: Turn again, and you will see greater abominations that they are doing. Thirdly, God refers to some individuals as doing more evil than others. Manasseh, king of Judah, seduced the people, quote, to do more evil than the nations whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel. Manasseh, the king of Judah, seduced the people, encouraged them towards idolatry, and they actually committed more heinous sins in the eyes of God than even the nations. Who were before them, the nations that were destroyed. That was 2 Kings 21:9. And then we have examples of God dealing with men directly. Where it seems that he views some sins as more heinous than others. For example, David was, of course, not a perfect man. No doubt he was on occasion lazy, harsh with his servants, perhaps, neglectful of his children, we have reason to believe. Perhaps neglectful of prayer. We know that he followed the practice of taking multiple wives, as many in the ancient world did. But it was when he sinned with Bathsheba, taking to himself the wife of another, that God sent Nathan the prophet to confront him. King Saul was not a perfect man. We know he was moody. We know he was temperamental. We know he was inappropriately angry. But such things did not result in his losing the kingdom. However, when God commanded him to utterly destroy the Amalekites, and he decided to spare the king and the best of the sheep, oxen, fatlings, and lambs, and all that was good. In other words, when he clearly disobeyed God's explicit command, the Lord said to Samuel the prophet, I greatly regret that I have set up Saul as king, for he turned his back on following me and has not performed my commandments. And Samuel said to Saul, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken is better than the sound of the rams. Or then the sacrifice of rams. Stubbornness, he said, rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. And then, fifthly, we have the evidence of degrees of punishment. Jesus said in Matthew 11, It will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you, Capernaum. The consequences of their unbelief would be more severe, Jesus said. He also said that servant who knew his master's will and did not prepare himself to do according to his will will be beaten with many stripes. But he who did not know yet committed things deserving of strife shall be beaten with few. Luke 12, 47 to 48. Now You may object, but if this is indeed the case, if God does make distinctions among sins, if some sins are in fact more heinous in the sight of God than others Then why does Jesus say it's just as bad to lust after a woman as to commit adultery with her? Why does he say it's just as bad to be angry with a brother as it is to murder him? Well, let's see if that is in fact what Jesus says. Turn to Matthew chapter five. If you have your Bible, Matthew chapter 5, verse 17. If not, I'll read it for you. Jesus says Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law. till all is fulfilled. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. You've heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder. And whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Rekah shall be in danger of the council. But whoever says, You fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. And then look at verse 27. You've heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish. than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. The people of Israel in Jesus' day were taught by the Pharisees, and the Pharisees were legalists. They were externalists. They were very careful to keep the external requirements of the law. But they were not pure within. That's why Jesus called them whitewashed sepulchres. You're nice and clean on the outside. Inside, you're full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness, like a mausoleum, we would say. They went through the motions of holiness, but within they were violating God's law. Because they kept the outward standards, they did not see themselves as violating the law, and so they didn't find it necessary to put a check on their inward lust. They gave free reign to their passions. Stopping just short of the act. By saying they were committing adultery in their hearts, Jesus was making it clear that even inward lust or inward hatred is wrong in God's sight. And that such sinful thoughts are in fact seen and known by him. They were not blameless as they thought Jesus' intention seemed to be to awaken in his disciples the truth that man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks upon the heart. Nowhere does the Lord say that lusting is as bad as committing adultery, or having hateful thoughts is as bad as committing murder, so you might as well go ahead and kill him if you're angry with him. His point was not that these things are equivalent. His point was that God sees our thoughts, and thoughts can be sinful as well as actions. In fact, sinful, lustful thought patterns can lead to sinful, lustful actions. That's why Jesus said to take drastic action. The nips it in the bud. If your eye is lusting, he said to put it graphically, pluck it out and cast it from you. If your computer is enticing you towards pornography, get rid of it. In our scripture reading, we read, Each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it's full grown, brings forth death. You see the progression. Or the regression. We see with our eyes, we desire, we covet, we think about it, our thoughts dwell upon it, and then we commit some action. Our Westminster larger catechism put it this way: Are all transgressions of the law equally heinous in themselves and in the sight of God? Here's the answer. All transgressions of the law of God are not equally heinous, but some sins in themselves, and by reason of several aggravations, are more heinous in the sight of God than others. Let's think about that. Some sins in themselves are more heinous in the sight of God than others. Theft is bad. Murder is worse. Fornication is bad. It's sinful in the eyes of God. Rape is worse. It's more heinous This is why you are more troubled when there are murderers and rapists preying in your community, praying on the community, you would say. Than you are when thieves are stealing tools or jewelry from opid garages. Some sins are in themselves more heinous in the sight of God than others. And other sins are more heinous by reason of several aggravations. Several aggravations. What are we talking about? Well, it's always wrong to steal But that sin is aggravated. It is worse if you steal from a widow or you steal from an orphan. It's always wrong to embezzle from your company. It's worse to embezzle from a nonprofit that's raising funds to help sick children. You see? That aggravates the sin. When Nathan the prophet told David the story of the wealthy man who had plenty of sheep, but when visitors came and he had to s slay a lamb for dinner, you know, for mutton. What did he do? He went to his neighbors , his poor neighbor who had just one little lamb that they kept sort of as a family pet. And he took that lamb and he slew that lamb and he offered that meat. To the family, to the visitors. David was harsh in his judgment. Why? Because of the aggravating factors. Scripture says, woe to those who rob the needy of justice, and take what is right from the poor of my people That widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless. What will you do in the day of punishment and in the desolation that will come from afar? Isaiah 10, 1-3. Aggravating factors include not only those from whom you steal or those that you sin against, aggravating factors include the blessings which the offender has received from God. Nathan said to King David, Thus saith the Lord, I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you from the hand of Saul. Why have you despised the commandment of the Lord? Solomon's sin was aggravated because of the special revelations that had been granted to him. The scripture says, so the Lord became angry with Solomon because his heart had turned from the Lord God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice. Who had appeared to him twice. He had two special revelations from the Lord. And he still hardened his heart toward him and turned away from him. 1 Kings 11:9. You see, this is why James says, My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. James 3. 1. In other words, the greater light that has been granted the teacher aggravates his sins when he falls. The sin is more heinous if the position of the offender is such that it encourages others to sin, or it brings great dishonor to God. That's why Eli said to his sons who were living in open sin, You make the Lord's people to transgress. Because of your position as priests, you are encouraging those who look at you as role models to sin. Even prominent athletes and other public figures sometimes speak of the responsibility that they feel, the responsibility they bear, to be good examples to those who look up to them, to the little kids who Carry around their baseball cards and try to get their autographs. This is why it can be more damaging to the kingdom of God when a prominent Christian leader falls, and it's why Satan is more active in attacking them. Nathan said to David, You have given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. You've given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. Now that happens every single time a believer falls. We give great occasion to the enemy of the Lord, the blasphemy. Because all those people that you've been witnessing to at work and all your family members and everybody you've sent these Christmas cards to with all these little verses on, and then they see that you Violate God's clear law, you walk away from your family , you steal from your office, or whatever the crime may be, and you bring great dishonor to God Our sins can be aggravated by the time and place in which they occur Ezekiel 23, 36, and following. They have committed adultery with their idols, and even sacrificed their sons whom they bore me. Passing them through the fire, offering their sons as burnt offerings to idols Moreover, God says, they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day For after they have slain their children for their idols, on the same day they came into my sanctuary to profane it. Again, Ezekiel 23, 36, and following. Their sin was aggravated by the fact that after they committed this horrendous crime of murdering their firstborn to some false god. They then come into the sanctuary of the Lord like they want to cover all the bases. Now many more conditions aggravate our sins and make them more heinous, but hopefully we've seen enough to be convinced that all sins are not equal. In God's sight. Just as human judges recognize some crimes worse than others, there is such a thing as assault, and there is such a thing as aggravated assault. Even so the Lord, the perfect judge, recognizes such things. Now, what does all this mean to us? Well, first of all, it means we should be very careful when speaking to our children or to unbelievers that we don't give the impression that God views all sins as equivalent. It's all the same. In other words, we should not discount a serious sin by simply lumping it together with minor transgressions. Such fuzzy thinking results in excusing the most damaging, outrageous behavior. As evidence, this is over fifteen years ago now, when according to Time magazine, one of the grand jurors who was charged with looking into what took place in the White House between President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, gave Monica Lewinsky these words of comfort He was presumably a believer, seeking to be of some encouragement. He said to her, We've all fallen short. We all sin every day. Well, of course we do. But it's one thing to break the speed limit inadvertently, or vertently. Or lose your temper with your child because he's so frustrating. It's one thing to do that. It's quite another thing to have an illicit relationship with a married man. The very President of the United States in the White House, the People's House provided for the President. One of the sophomore girls that I taught at Westminster Academy in Fort Lauderdale told me that some of her friends were, as she put it, doing inappropriate things with older guys. And when she confronted them and urged them to reconsider, as a good friend should do, right? Rebuking those who need rebuke and reproving those who need reproof. Here's what they said. Who are you to judge? Everybody sins, and no sin is worse than any other You see that fuzzy thinking? You see how Satan can use it to convince us that it doesn't matter how we live, because we're all sinners, you see? Secondly, how do we know what sins are most heinous in God's sight? Well, one clue is to look at the offenses for which he instituted the death penalty in Israel These included murder, rape, kidnapping, adultery, idolatry, striking or cursing a parent, treason And then we also have stern warnings, such as Galatians 6. Listen to this. Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions. Jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like. And he goes on to say, those who practice such things Those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Thirdly, although it's clear that some sins are more serious in the sight of God than others, If you take this truth, and I believe it is truth , and you turn it into a license to sin, then you are misusing and abusing God's word. Just as those who say, Well, all sin is equal, so it doesn't matter what I do, I'll just do as I please. The remnants of the old man within me and within you may say, Look, if some sins are more heinous than others, Then at least enjoy the minor ones, right? You can get by with the minor ones. You're not committing any heinous sin. See, such thinking will simply turn you into a Pharisee. That's exactly how the Pharisees thought. We can lust, we can covet. We just have to keep all these outward rules. What is the proper use of this truth? Do what Jesus said. Nip sin in the bud. If your right hand offends you, cut it off. Take drastic measures. Repent of your anger before it leads to blasphemy or murder. You probably heard about this man in uh near Houston or in Houston who allegedly killed uh six family members, including four children, this past week. Because he thought they knew where his ex-wife was and they wouldn't tell him. Horrendous. That man should have nipped that sin in the bud. Not allow it to grow and grow and grow, not allowed his anger to grow. So, young people, repent of your rebellious spirit before it leads you to curse a parent. Or strike a parent. Repent of your sinful thought patterns before they lead you into sexual sin. It doesn't happen automatically. You don't allow those sinful thought patterns to grow in your mind, in your heart. You take comfort in them, you find pleasure in them, they grow. My younger brother Kenny, as some of you may have heard, was a U. S. attorney in in uh North Florida for a number of years and and he had to investigate a lot of pretty vile crimes. He said that almost uh invariably uh men who commit uh murder, uh particularly the men who who are serial killers. Uh uh and where there was some sexual deviancy involved, uh, got started on pornography almost invariably. Now that's not to say that pornography always leads there. The point is you gotta nip sin in the bud. Fifth, if you've been preserved from the vilest of sins, don't boast. Remember that the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked who can know it. My heart and your heart, the heart, our original heart, by nature, it's it's sinful. It's desperately wicked. Who can know it? Jeremiah 17, 9. It's only the grace of God that has kept you and me from the deepest depths of depravity. Should he withdraw his grace, we would plunge into those depths in a moment. And finally, never forget that the blood of Jesus Christ has the power to cleanse us from all sin. Amen? However dark your heart can be, Jesus can make it pure. Whatever vile crimes you may have committed, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall he say What he asks you to do is to come to him. Come to him as a little child. Come to him, not all proud and puffed up about your excellent record. And all the commandments you kept and how you've faithfully kept the golden rule. You don't come to him that way. You don't come to him proud and puffed up. You come to him as a little child. You come to him humbly. You come to him on your knees. You say, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Yeah, maybe I haven't actually murdered anybody, but I've been angry in my heart. If I had a gun in my hand, and if I under the right circumstances, I could have done it. And maybe I haven't actually committed adultery, but God, you know, I've coveted and lusted. God, there's no sin that I could not commit. I'm selfish, I'm proud, I need a savior. I need someone to cover my sin. You come to God that way, humbly, as a child, as a little child. And you say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Lord, forgive me and save me. You come to Him that way. You pray that prayer. You mean that in your heart. And on the authority of God's word I declare to you, Jesus said, He who believes in me has everlasting life. Now that's not just believing these facts in your head, it's trusting in this person, Jesus Christ. It's resting in him. It's relying upon him. Friend, have you come to him? The good news of the Bible is: it doesn't matter what you've done, it doesn't matter what the sin may be. If you repent of it, you see it as vile, and you turn away from it and you lay hold upon Jesus Christ, you say, God, forgive me and save me. It doesn't matter whether you're on death row, it doesn't matter whether you're a serial killer God can forgive sin. Jesus said to the thief on the cross, this day thou shalt be with me in paradise. Jesus saves us. That's the good news. That's why we're here. That's why we have a church. That's the gospel. Let's pray. Father, we know that sins, all sins are vile, and some are especially heinous, especially grievous, and they cause great heartache. Lord, there are aggravations that make our sin worse than others. So Lord, please have mercy upon us. Lord, if it weren't for Christ, if it weren't for your grace and your mercy, there's no telling what this world would be like. What a cesspool of violence and destruction. We thank you for your Holy Spirit who's here calling men and women, boys and girls to himself, drawing souls as brands from the burning. Lord, I pray for those who are here. Father, there may be some here outside of Christ, still dead in their sins, some here without hope. Let this be the day of salvation for them. Draw those souls to Jesus. And strengthen us as your children, Lord. Jesus said, Be ye holy as I am holy. Lord, may we not tolerate the least of sins. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.