If you have your uh Bibles with you this morning, would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 14? As we continue our study through the Gospel of Mark Mark chapter fourteen, let's begin at verse thirty two. Then they came to a place which was named Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he took Peter, James, and John with him, and he began to be troubled and deeply distressed. Then he said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here and watch. He went a little farther and fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Take this cup away from me. Nevertheless, not what I will, but what you will. Then he came and found them sleeping and said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again he went away and prayed and spoke the same words, and when he returned, he found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. Then he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come Behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, with a great multitude with swords and clubs, came from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders Now his betrayer had given them a signal, saying, Whomever I kiss, he is the one. Seize him and lead him away safely. As soon as he had come, immediately he went up to him and said to him, Rabbi, Rabbi, and kissed him. Then they laid their hands on him and took him And one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. Then Jesus answered and said to them, Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to take to take me? I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But the scriptures must be fulfilled. Then they all forsook him and fled. Now a certain young man followed him, having a linen cloth thrown around his naked body. And the young man and the young men laid hold of him, and he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked. And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. But Peter followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he sat with the servants and warmed himself at the fire. May God add his blessing to this portion of his word. Uh John Kitchen, if you're uh you still back there, John? Where did John go? Uh all right, uh Tommy, would you kick up that thermostat for me back there, somebody Please, so I don't have to interrupt the message to ask you to do it later. I think it's plenty chilly in here right now. Thank you. Now let's ask God's blessing upon his word. Let's pray. Father, we do ask that your Holy Spirit will help us now as we approach this Sacred portion of your inspired word. We are reminded that as we enter that Garden of Gethsemane with the Lord Jesus, we are in truth upon holy ground. And we pray for your Spirit now to guide us, to teach us, to fill us. We pray for those who are believers here that we'll be strengthened and nourished by your word. And we pray especially for those who might be here outside of Christ. We humbly beseech you, Father, that you would do a mighty work of grace in their hearts, that this might be the day of salvation for them. We ask this in Jesus' glorious name. Amen. Well, the scribes had waited a long time for this. They resented the crowds who followed Jesus, hanging on his every word. They resented the fact that he didn't cite them or their predecessors as his authorities for his teaching. With the Lord Jesus, it was not as the ancient fathers taught us, nor Rabbi Simeon of Bethany says Nor, as my esteemed friend, the scribe Joseph, son of Levi, teaches us, rather, he spoke on his own authority. He violated their expanded Sabbath restrictions. His disciples didn't keep their ceremonial washing traditions. He didn't show deference to them. In fact, he exposed them as deceivers and hypocrites And to make matters worse, when he entered Jerusalem with his band of followers, and a great multitude hailed him as their promised Messiah. Instead of rebuking them, as the scribes urged him to do, he accepted their accolades. He even seemed to encourage the idea that he was indeed the promised son of David. Who was to come. Something had to be done. This popular belief that the Nazarene was the Messiah was surely going to bring a response from the Roman occupiers And the response would not be pretty. The seventy elders of Israel, the Sanhedrin, had to step in and take action. It was all up to them, as they viewed it. If they couldn't get Jesus to say something to incriminate himself in the eyes of Rome, something like it's not lawful for the children of God to play to pay tribute to This pagan Roman emperor, Caesar, then the Sanhedrin were forced to take matters into their own hands. And so the scripture says they sought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death. Mark 14, verse 1. But of course, they didn't want to do this when Jerusalem was thronged with pilgrims, many of them having come down from Galilee, many of them disciples of Jesus, followers of the Messiah as they viewed him. So they wanted to wait until the Passover was over and people had returned to their homes. However, in the providence of God Christ's betrayal, arrest, and crucifixion would in fact take place when Jerusalem was most crowded, when there were the most witnesses. When the Passover lamb was to be slain, the picture of atonement for each household. The Sanhedrin had a timetable, but God's timetable took precedence The religious leaders were approached by one of Jesus' disciples, Judas Iscariot, he's called. Scholars believe that name, Iscariot, may indicate he was from Karios. A town south of Hebron. Hebron itself is south of Bethlehem and south of Jerusalem, near the Dead Sea. Now the scripture reveals a few important details about Judas. He was what we would call the treasurer of the disciples, and he was a thief. We also know that he was miffed when Mary of Bethany broke that flask of precious Spike nerd and poured it upon Christ's head and feet. He complained, and the other disciples joined in, why wasn't this precious ointment sold and the proceeds given to the poor? Surely that would appear to have been a better use of something of such value, worth about a year's wages for a working man. And that was the sentiment that Judas expressed and that the others chimed in on. But Judas, of course, did not complain because he cared for the poor. He complained because he had just missed the opportunity to get his sticky hands on those 300 silver coins. the value of this precious spike guard. Mark 14, 1 to 9. And immediately after, Mark recounts this that incident, he tells us that Judas went to the chief priests to betray Jesus to them. And the scripture says when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. So he sought how he might conveniently betray him. Mark 14, 11. How can I do this when there are no crowds around, when there won't be a commotion, that's what they're paying me for, to find a way to arrest Jesus without causing a big hubbub? When Jerusalem was filled with his disciples, multitude of his disciples welcomed him when he entered the city. His first opportunity was after what took place in the upper room. Judas was evidently aware that Jesus and the eleven would be going to the Mount of Olives, and specifically to the Garden of Gethsemane, which was apparently their regular practice while at Jerusalem. Luke says Coming out, that is of the upper room, he went to the Mount of Olives as he was accustomed. That's Luke 22, verse 39. But as we saw in our last message from Mark, this night would be unlike any other. Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John. And he began to be greatly amazed. It says in the old King James Version, sorely amazed and very heavy. He told them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. It was a simple request. He asked his disciples, stay here and pray for me. I'm going to go a bit yonder and pray. But you stay and pray. Watch with me. Intercede for me. This is my hour of need. He went apart from them, fell to the ground, and prayed that if it were possible, the hour would pass from him. Abba, Father, all things are possible with you. Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. Jesus was evidently beginning to feel the great weight of man 's sin. We can't possibly grasp what that must have been like. He's beginning to feel the weight of all my sins, every sin I committed all my life, every sin I will yet commit. And if you're a believer, all of your sins. That you've ever committed. All the sins of every single sheep throughout all eternity being laid upon the Lord Jesus Christ. It was a humongous weight that he cried out to his father, Lord, is there any other way? If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. He was beginning to drink from the cup of the father's wrath. The beloved son, in whom his father was well pleased, was beginning to taste His father's displeasure, the thing he'd never tasted all his life, never tasted from all eternity. He was ever with the Father. If there's any other way to redeem my bride, any other way. Let it be so. This burden is great. Nevertheless, he prayed, not what I will, but what you In other words, if this is the only way, if sinners can be restored to you by no other means, if the sheep cannot be spared except through the sacrifice of the good shepherd. Then I am willing. But the prospect of enduring your holy wrath is terrifying, Lord. Terrifying. Horrifying. These are some of the uh words that are used to translate some of the words that are used in the Greek here. The burden you ask me to carry is a heavy, heavy burden. He was in agony of spirit, Luke tells us. And agonia, it is in the Greek. He was in agony of spirit. In fact, as he as he prayed on that cold night, we know it was cold, remember they were warming themselves by the fire a little later. He sweat. He prayed so fervently that he was perspiring, and he he sweat so profusely that it fell to the ground as if it were drops of blood. There's not a little shine on his skin. He was sweating profusely, and he went back to his disciples, expecting, no doubt, to find them interceding for him, and he finds them asleep. Not praying for him, not even talking together of all the wondrous things they had just heard in the upper room, but sleeping. Twice more he withdrew and prayed. Twice more he returned to find them asleep. But the third time he said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise. Let us be going. Behold, he is at hand. Who has come to betray me? Calvin notes that Jesus appeared strengthened by that season of prayer, and he went forth with some boldness. Now, when the trembling is allayed and the fear is subdued, he may again present a voluntary sacrifice to the Father He not only does not retire or conceal himself, but he cheerfully advances to death. Look at verse 43 of Mark 14. And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, with a great multitude with swords and clubs, came from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. Now, Mark refers to this band of men as a great multitude coming with swords and clubs. John describes them in chapter 18 as a spera. That's a term that, according to scholar William Barclay, referred to a detachment of Roman soldiers containing 200 men. Now, perhaps they anticipated the disciples would offer a resistance, or perhaps they anticipated that the common people would somehow catch In any event, the scribes and Pharisees appeared to be taking no chances. Whether they went to the the Roman soldiers and asked for a Roman guard to join them, Or this is simply describing a large band of soldiers that were gathered together by the Pharisees themselves. This was a great multitude with swords and with clubs. Look at verse 44. Now his betrayer had given them a signal, saying, Whomever I kiss, he is the one. Seize him and lead him away safely. As soon as he had come, immediately he went up to him and said to him, Rabbi, Rabbi, and kissed him. And then they laid their hands on him and took him. Now, it was not unusual for a learner, a student, or a disciple in that day to show deference to and appreciation for his master, his teacher, his rabbi by kissing him on the cheek. Uh still done, of course, in Eastern uh cultures, right? When you greet someone, you might give them a kiss on each cheek. It was a sign of uh, as I said, a sign of deference, uh, a sign of uh submission to one's teacher. But inasmuch as Judas had just left Jesus a few hours before, such a greeting would probably not be expected or offered under normal circumstances. But Judas had given the soldiers a signal so they could know immediately which of the twelve men in the garden was the one they should take. By having Judas, a friend, approach Jesus at first, rather than the soldiers with the spears and the clubs , this would be presumably the best means to avoid some sort of confrontation. And Jesus could be led away safely. That is, without commotion, without a struggle, without any hand-to-hand combat. It appears that Judas had no designs upon the other disciples. He wanted the soldiers to take Jesus and let the others go, evidently. Otherwise they could have simply arrested the whole band. It's a large group of soldiers, it wouldn't be that difficult to arrest twelve men. And they could have sorted it out later. But Rather, he designed a sign and he approached Jesus and kissed him. The disciples, however, were not inclined to let their master be taken without a fight. They were not quick to help him in his spiritual struggle The assistance that he had passionately requested, but they are quick to resort to violence when the opportunity arises. Luke reveals that they asked Jesus, Lord, shall we strike with the sword? And Peter, without waiting for a reply, took matters into his own hands. He unsheathed his sword and took a swing, cutting off the ear of the servants of the high priest. John tells us that the servant's name was Malchus. Luke, the very careful physician and historian, records for us that Jesus immediately reached forth and touched that severed ear. when we picked up the severed ear, put it back where it was, and healed Malchus there and then in the garden. And then he said, put your sword in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Matthew 26, 52. He also said to Peter, Do you think that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he will provide me with more than twelve legions of angels? Really, Peter, do you think you're gonna are we gonna defend ourselves with a sword? You twelve guys, you might have a couple swords And you're going to defend me against this band of two. Don't you realize if I wanted to be defended against them, all I need to do is pray to my father, and he would send more than twelve legions of angels Now, a Roman legion consisted of 2,000 men. Or sorry, 6,000 men. So 12 legions of angels would be Right? 72,000. Don't you see I could even now I could pray to my father and he would send twelve legions of angels. That's a that's uh 6,000 for each of us, right? Twelve of us here. Six thousand angels surrounding me, six thousand surrounding you. More than. He's saying, look, there's no limit to what the Father would send if I wanted to fight. Don't you see, Peter, if I wanted to resist arrest, I could do it with overwhelming power. But how then could the scriptures be fulfilled that it must happen thus? Jesus then addressed the elders who had come with the soldiers. Have you come out as against a robber? The word could be translated an insurrectionist. Right? Uh are you arresting Barabbas? Have you come out against a robber or an insurrectionist with swords and with clubs to take me? I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and you didn't uh seize me then. Jesus peacefully taught God's word daily in the temple. He was clearly no robber, no insurrectionist. So he confronted them about their secretive tactics. But the scriptures must be fulfilled, he said. This is happening as foretold. He would be betrayed by his own familiar friend, who has lifted up his heel against him. And he would be taken from prison and from judgment. And then we read, at that point the disciples stood boldly beside him. Saying, if you seize our Lord and our master, you must seize us. We stand together. We took an oath that we would go to prison or death with him. I just said that by memory. Is that what they said? Let me see. Verse no. Is that wrong? Verse 50. Then they all forsook him and fled. There's one of the saddest verses of scripture. Then they all forsook him and fled. Look at verse 51. Now a certain young man followed him, having a linen cloth thrown around his naked body, and the young men laid hold of him. And he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked. Now, this is a curious aside that none of the other evangelists note. It tells us that although the disciples fled, This band of soldiers that had arrested Jesus and was presumably uh proceeding now to the uh high priest's house. This band of soldiers was being followed by a young man, evidently a follower of Christ, who suspected that something was afoot. Now uh we don't know uh perhaps he heard the soldiers, some 200 soldiers marching and uh in the middle of the night and he he thought, uh-oh, they're headed to Gethsemane. That's where Jesus and his disciples often go to to rest in the evening and to pray. And uh and so he hurriedly grabs just as you would do if you were awakened in the middle of the night and you weren't uh fully uh you weren't He weren't dressed. He grabbed a just as you would grab a robe, he grabbed a linen cloth, put it around his body, and ran out to see what was happening. Uh the soldiers spotted him, evidently perceived him to be a spy or a threat, and they went to arrest him. This who's that? Who's that there? He's watching everything we're doing. Is he gonna report what we're doing to someone else? Is he going to to stir up trouble for us? And so they grabbed him, perceiving perhaps that he was another disciple, and wanting to uh to stop him from whatever he was up to. They're thinking him a spy. They grabbed him, but he uh ran off, left that linen garment in their hands, and fled from them naked. Now it's been suggested that this young man was Mark. the author of this gospel who recounted the incident, and he's the only evangelist to do so, who recounted the incident because it happened to him But he had that same reticence that the other uh gospel writers had. The reticence uh uh they're uh reluctant to name themselves, that is, in their own uh gospels. Uh John calls himself the disciple whom Jesus loved. And here, Mark, rather than uh referring to himself as Mark, his friends suggested that he simply called it described the incident without naming who it was. We don't know, of course. The soldiers led Jesus away to the high priest where the elders of Israel had been summoned for a special meeting in the middle of the night. Peter, having fled with the others, followed those, presumably the torches in the night and stayed at a distance and watched where they went. And then when he saw them enter into the high priest's courtyard, he went in and warmed himself there by the fire. Now, let me suggest some things for us to contemplate from these uh events. First of all, you'll note that the disciples were more ready to wield the sword than to bear the cross. They didn't do what Jesus asked them to do, tarry with him and watch, uh pray for him, support him through their prayers, during this uh mortal combat in which he was engaged on his knees. They slept rather than engage in spiritual warfare. But they were all too ready to resort to fleshly means to do what Jesus had not asked them to do, prevent him from being led away to the Sanhedrin. Now, perhaps, Christian, you can identify with this , as certainly I can. Sometimes perhaps you can detect in your own heart. what I can detect in mine, a desire to do some great thing for God, to take matters into my own hands. If the Lord called us today to show our love for him , And our obedience to him as Christians, by taking up arms and attacking, let's say, a communist nation to free the citizens. or uh attacking an Arab capital to uh to uh bring the gospel message there after overthrowing the uh Muslim authorities I have no doubt that millions of Christians would be armed and ready tomorrow morning. But when he calls us instead, to humble service, when he calls us instead to wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. When he calls us instead, do as much as is possible, insofar as it depends upon you, live at peace with all men. When he calls us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts and to live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age. When he calls us to let our light so shine before men that they might see our good works and glorify our Father who is in heaven. When he calls us to offer supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks for all men, for kings, and all who are in authority. That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence. Well, that doesn't seem to be any great thing And we're not inclined to do it. He tells us it's not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. He tells us that the simple gospel message that we've sinned against the holy God, that God is just, that he must punish us, but his love for us was so great that he provided a way for us to be redeemed. He sent his own son to die upon the cross, to first live that perfect life that we failed to live, then to die upon the cross. He rose again from the dead. By faith in him, all our sins can be forgiven. We can have everlasting life. We can be adopted as God's children. We can live with him forever. A simple gospel message has more power than all the armies that Earth has ever provided. How did the early church turn the world upside down? Not with a sword, with a gospel. They went everywhere preaching the word. Acts 8:4. Some of you know last Lord's Day we were up in uh Buffalo, uh the site of the first church that we pastored out of seminary in. My brother, uh, who'd been there for some 33 years, uh, in fact I met a lady, it was weird, I met a lady, I I didn't know her. She said, you know, the first Sunday I came to church, you preached. to me and the second Sunday I came to church your brother preached and he preached 33 years. So uh I said, Yeah, he never measured measured up, did he, to that first No, I didn't. I didn't say that. But it was striking that uh that she s she was there for that transition, which was as you can tell, a smooth one, uh relatively speaking. And uh w where I'm going with this is that at that uh we had a uh a worship service my brother preached. He preached uh from the very same passage that he had preached when he candidated there. Uh from From Ephesians 1, uh uh one of the first passages that really uh caught his uh grabbed his heart when he was converted as a uh art student in the Berkeley area. Um uh uh f fifty years ago or so. And uh uh anyway, uh dub dub the priest from that St. Passage, but later there was a a fellowship time And where I was I'm going with this is that there were people there who were who had come to faith through Doug's ministry. There were people there who had come to faith through the ministry of those who had come to faith. faith through God's ministry. So they were children, uh spiritual children, they were spiritual grandchildren, they were spiritual great grandchildren. It was pretty neat. And uh But all all the all the while the great-grandfather, you might say, this student in an art class in an art school in California nineteen seventy one. Uh this student has no idea of all this. They lost contact with one another, never been able to uh he has a name It's not easy to find him. Uh and uh so he has no idea unless he's already in glory that this young man uh that came to faith in Christ through his testimony in a classroom in a secular university University in nineteen seventy-one that that young man uh has been a minister of the gospel for all these years, and that through his uh t testimony, uh several in his family came to faith in Christ. and then several others, it's really quite amazing what God does. You want to do something great for this world. You want to do something that will impact the world. You share the gospel message with somebody. You bring them this good news. And if God pleases to open their hearts and bring them to faith, you have no idea what may happen over the years. through the testimony of that individual. God's thoughts are not our thoughts. His ways are not our ways. Put up your sword. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Forget about it. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Put your sword back in its sheath. And don't seek great things for yourself. What God said to Jeremiah, he could well say to us, seekest thou great things for thyself? Seek them not. Jeremiah 45, 5. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. James 1. 20 Don't even seek appreciation or recognition. You may remember the words of author Ruth Harris Colkin. She wrote, You know, Lord, how I serve you with great emotional fervor in the limelight. You know how how eagerly I speak for you at women's club. You know how I efferves when I promote a fellowship group. You know my genuine enthusiasm at Bible study But how would I react, I wonder, if you pointed to a basin of water and asked asked me to wash the calloused feet of a bent and wrinkled old woman? Day after day, month after month, in a room where nobody saw and nobody knew Put your sword in this place. All who take the sword will perish with the sword. Jesus told Pilate, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight. Secondly, consider Judas' betrayal for a moment. We know he was a thief. We know he was offered money to betray Jesus. We don't know how Satan, who entered into him, Luke 22, verse 3, might have played tricks upon his mind. After all, Satan's a deceiver, a slanderer, a liar. How long has Jesus kept everyone wondering? You've seen what he can do, Judas, but for some reason he's reluctant to take that last step. He won't reveal himself to the nation. He just needs a little nudge. The scribes and Pharisees may have their own motivations, but they don't know Jesus as you do, Judas. If they're willing to pay you to deliver him safely, sure that's better than taking him in the midst of a crowd where bystanders might intervene and be harmed This is a win-win, Judas. The Sanhedrin get what they want. No one is harmed in the arrest. Jesus gets to reveal himself to the nation. You grow a little more wealthy. What could be wrong with that? We don't know what Satan said to Judas, but we know Satan's a liar and a slanderer, and he's been deceiving men and women since the Garden of Eden, right? So I wonder, Christian, is he deceiving you right now? Is he deceiving you? Has he told you that cherishing one little sin is okay? Has he told you that it's okay for you to knowingly choose to sin? Because after all, nobody's perfect, and God is a loving, forgiving Father. Has Satan convinced you that it's permissible to continue in sin so that God's grace may abound? The Apostle Paul responds, God forbid. Certainly not. May it never be. How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? Or did you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death? Therefore, we were buried with him through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. Your old man died with Jesus. He died upon the cross. How shall we who are dead to sin live any longer in it You're a new creation. You've been baptized into new life. The Holy Spirit has come upon you. You've been cleansed. You've been regenerated. You are in the process of being sanctified. Christian, don't be deceived by Satan. You see, there's all the difference in the world between A, endeavoring with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength to avoid a particular sin that has troubled you in the past, a sin that easily besets you. And yet, finding that despite your best efforts, you sometimes fall into it, to your great sorrow, there's all the difference in the world between that, A, and B. Consciously choosing with your eyes wide open to engage in some behavior that you know is contrary to God's holy word. Do you see that? There's all the difference in the world between messing up and falling into sin and going into it with your eyes wide open, dishonoring Christ. That's tantamount to saying, Lord, I know that sin is such a horrible thing that it caused you, Jesus, to die upon the cross to atone for it, but I love it so much that I choose it over you. I choose my sin and your death. Is the devil deceiving you into betraying Jesus Christ? And thirdly, we see here the hard-hearted resistance of sinners to the evidence of their own senses. What do we mean by that? Some, if not all, of the elders and the soldiers who had come, no doubt witnessed Peter lop off the ear of that servant. Right? He was uh no doubt trying to lop off his head, but uh something happened and uh only the ear was lopped off. They saw that, they saw Jesus reach forth and touch that ear and heal him Not only that, John tells us that they also experienced the power of Christ when they entered the garden. And they said, and Jesus said, Whom are you seeking? And they said, We seek Jesus of Nazareth. And Jesus said, I am. And immediately they all fell backwards, it says, fell to the ground. They experienced the power of Jesus Christ. They witnessed a miracle of Christ in the garden that night. They ought to have gone back and said, clearly this is no mere man. We couldn't very well arrest him. How can we arrest such a man? How can we deny the evidence of our own senses? And yet, and here's my point, people are denying the evidence of their own senses every day, still 2,000 years later. What do I mean? The evidence of God's existence. For one thing. Everything we see in the natural world gives evidence of design, and most of it far more intricate than anything that man can do. We study the design of nature and we try to replicate it. But we can't do it as well as nature does. We can't design a bird that flies like a real bird. Uh I don't know if you saw this week uh very quickly uh uh it was somebody posted it uh uh a uh an image of a spider that they uh I think they just found this spider. It's called a uh peacock spider. And uh it's an amazing thing. It it I I saw a little video of the spider and uh and it's he's dancing around and then at a certain point he lifts up his uh this this peacock like thing. It's like a about the size of a leaf, you know, it's a spike and and suddenly it it shows up and it's like It 's got all these colors like the a peacock and he's dancing around presumably to he's called the peacock spider. He's doing this to impress the peacock uh the the pea hen spider, I guess. And uh and he's dancing around. But he looks like a mummer. You know, they ever seen the mummers in the Philadelphia Parade? They got this what is that? And The they hadn't seen this before apparently, or this particular uh uh type of peacock spider. And it's incredible. And and everything we see it like that. It's all incredible. You know how does it how does You know, it's so it's self-evident to us, but it wasn't before, was it? We were deceived. We thought, oh, there's some other explanation for it. We nobody knows what it is, but there's got to be an explanation for everything. You know, something can come out of nothing. And then finally, uh If, as Jesus said, he could have asked his father for twelve legions of angels to defend him, the obvious question is, why did he not do so? Why did he not do so? And the obvious answer is, out of love for you and love for me. That's why he didn't do so. He came to give his life a ransom for us. And that's what we're about to celebrate in the Lord's Supper. His great love for us manifested at the cross. Let's pray. Oh Lord.