Uh John chapter uh eighteen. As you turn there, let me welcome back uh Jim and Nancy Helm. You might have noticed Nancy in the choir. Welcome back. Back from uh They were uh where the deer and the antelope play and uh the snow never falls, I reckon. Uh they're out in uh new Arizona or something and they they're back now and it's great to have you here. And also, uh, in case you didn't catch it, when uh Earl prayed for uh Sean, that's Sean Huey, who's uh been uh been to the hospital several times this week. So please remember to pray for Sean uh at this time. with his uh kidney stones. John chapter eighteen and verse twenty-eight. Then the oh I'm sorry. Uh let me also dismiss the children for wonders of worship. Uh they may already know that, but I should have mentioned it. John chapter 18, verse 28. Yay. Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the praetorium, and it was early morning. But they themselves did not go into the praetorium lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover. Pilate then went out to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered and said to him, If he were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered him up to you. Then Pilate said to them, You take him and judge him according to your law. Therefore the Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying by what death he would die. Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, called Jesus, and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Are you speaking for yourself about this, or did others tell you this concerning me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not from here. Pilate therefore said to him, Are you a king, then? Jesus answered, You say rightly that I am a king. For this cause I was born, and for this cause I have come into the world That I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them, I find no fault in him at all. But you have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Do you therefore want me to release to you the king of the Jews? Then they all cried again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber So then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers twisted a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe, and then they said, Hail, king of the Jews! And they struck him with their hands. Pilate then went out again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing him out to you, that you may know that I find no fault in him. Then Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate said to them, Behold the man! Therefore, when the chief priests and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him! Crucify him! Pilate said to them, You take him and crucify him. I find no fault in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. Therefore, when Pilate heard that saying, he was the more afraid. And went again into the praetorium and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. Then Pilate said to him, Are you not speaking to me? Do you not know that I have power to crucify you and power to release you? Jesus answered, You could have no power at all against me Unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, the one who delivered me to you has the greater sin From then on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If you let this man go, you are not Caesar's friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar. When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus out and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the pavement. But in Hebrews Hebrew Gabbatha. Now it was the preparation day of the Passover and about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold your king! But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. Then he delivered him to them to be crucified. crucified. So they took Jesus and led him away. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, please. We plead with you now to send your Holy Spirit to fill us with your Spirit To open eyes, to open hearts, to accomplish things that will last forever. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As we begin the week during which the Christian Church commemorates the momentous events leading up to the glorious resurrection of Christ. I'd like us to focus this morning on something that the Roman governor Pontius Pilate did in the midst of Jesus' trial. Something that has life or death implications for each and every one of us. It's recorded for us not in the Gospel of John we just read, but in Matthew. Let me read it to you. Matthew chapter 27 and verse 22. Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said to him, Let him be crucified. And then the governor said, Why, what evil has he done? But they cried out all the more, saying, Let him be crucified. When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all , But rather that a tumult was rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. You see to it. And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us and on our children. There are many people today, including perhaps some here, who are attempting to do what Pontius Pilate attempted to do. That is to assume a position of neutrality concerning Christ. To, in effect, wash their hands of him Pilate seemed to be saying, I have examined him, I see no reason why he should be executed. He has, as far as I can tell, committed no capital offense Therefore, I am not going to condemn him, nor do I maintain that he is the Son of God, as the Jews told him Jesus claimed, John 19, verse 7. I will take a reasonable middle-of-the-road position. In short, I wash my hands of the whole matter. If you are bent on killing him, I will not stand in your way, but I do not wish to be seen as being a party to his death. Pilate is in some ways a sympathetic character as he's presented to us in the Gospels. He was, of course, not a Jew. And his dealings with the Jewish religious leaders would not lead him to conclude that there was much genuine spirituality in their traditions and in their worship Pilate was a man who was hardened and cynical. He probably recognized the stories of the Roman pantheon of gods and goddesses to be merely mythology, although he Was uh a Roman. And what he saw of Judaism didn't seem to impress him much more. We know that the religious leaders, the scribes, the Pharisees, the members of the 70, that is the Sanhedrin , the the uh Jewish leaders of Israel were basically corrupt. The Pharisees, for example, love to be called rabbi, rabbi, Jesus said. All their works they do to be seen of men. They loved and coveted adulation to be thought of as holy. They were careful to appear clean on the outside, but they were filthy on the inside, Jesus said. Said. He said they devoured widows' houses. What does that mean? It means they were covetous. They devoured widows' houses, the very ones they ought to have protected They were hypocrites. Jesus called them serpents, a brood of vipers. It seems to us as we read it, quite likely, that such hypocrisy was recognized by Pilate. Uh he concluded rightly that it was envy that caused them to seek the death of this prophet from Galilee. When Jesus said in answer to questioning from Pilate, For this cause I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the the truth, everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. It's no wonder that Pilate responded, What is truth? Because he had evidently seen precious little evidence of it from those who claimed to know it. He is in that respect not unlike many modern Americans. If you're an unbeliever in America today, and let's say you don't attend any church, let alone one that preaches God's Word, and you have no relationship with a genuine Christian at work or at school, whatever What you know about believers in Christ is basically what you know from television, newspapers, radio, magazines, films, the internet, etc. And you have probably developed these impressions of those who claim to be born-again Christians. They are generally opposed to things like abortion and homosexuality. They seem to be big supporters of the Republican Party and conservative politicians in general. It appears that they're in their back pocket, you might say. They seem to think that America was once a Christian nation and that it ought to be so again. They tend to be judgmental and intolerant. They would like to uh impose their beliefs on the rest of society. And if they got the political clout they seem to be grasping, They would put back prayer in school and replace the teaching of evolution with creationism and try to clean up television and movies and ban certain books, etc. And you would probably conclude that they seem to think that those who don't agree with them are headed for hell, some place of fire and torture. And some of them act like they're okay with that. And to be more specific, as an unbeliever, not attending a Bible-believing church or any church at all. What you know about religious leaders, that is those who claim to know and preach the truth, would lead you to conclude that they are, for the most part, hypocrites, who love money and comfort and pleasure as much as anybody else. Not unlike the Pharisees. I heard a radio broadcast just a couple weeks ago about the excesses of television evangelists. The broadcast referred to the Rolls-Royces and lavish lifestyles of prosperity preachers such as Creflow Dollar, Kenneth Copeland, Joyce Meyer, etc. The reporter described flying over Kenneth Copeland's private airport in Texas, an airport worth reportedly $8 million Which includes a hangar, uh, in which are two jets, one of them valued ten million dollars, one of them valued a million dollars, and then flying over his 18,000 square foot parsonage Valued at $6 million, which includes, I think the reporter said, both an indoor pool and indoor tennis courts. Do an internet search for TV evangelists, and the results will see. Sicken you. I suspect there are millions of Americans, having lost any confidence in religious leaders, who have concluded them all to be hypocrites, who would say with Pilate, what is truth? The religious leaders had delivered Jesus to Pilate in the hope that he would execute him. And Pilate could smell a rat. He knew they envied Jesus because the masses were embracing him. He couldn't have been ignorant, that is, Pilate couldn't have been ignorant of the thousands of disciples who welcomed Jesus into the city just a few days before. A city had probably never seen anything quite like that. They were crying out, save us, save us now. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Pharisees had never received such a welcome, nor had the august members of the Sanhedrin. The Jewish leaders didn't have the authority under the Roman Empire, which had conquered their nation, to execute those they determined to have violated their laws. And even if they did , The popularity of Jesus among the masses, many of whom had witnessed his miracles, or had experienced his miracles, or had family members who had been healed by him. The Jewish leaders didn't have the authority under the Roman Empire to put Jesus to death, and even if they had that authority, the popularity of Jesus among the masses would have made it very uncomfortable for them To have been widely seen as directly causing his death. And so what did they do? They could have arrested Jesus at any time, but what did they do? They made arrangements with one of his apostles, Judas. To find out where he would be at night, so they could arrest him at night while all the masses were in bed. And then they tried him that very night. And by early in the next morning, before most people were awake, Jesus was being tried before Pontius Pilate. If the Sanhedrin had their way, and they did, Jesus would be executed before most of the citizens of Jerusalem, as well as the masses of people who had come to celebrate the Passover, even knew that he had been arrested. Pilate was perceptive enough to recognize that the Jewish leaders wanted him to do their dirty work for them. So they could go to the people who complained and say, Well, yes, it was a horrible thing that they killed that prophet from Nazareth, but well, what can you do? Uh those accursed Romans, you know, they felt threatened by him Roman governor Pilate was evidently unwilling to be manipulated this way. If you read all four gospel accounts, you realize he tried what you might call Plan A. Which was avoidance. He said to them, to the religious leaders, Well, you take him and you judge him according to your law. And they responded, Well, it's not lawful for us to put anyone to death. In other words, Pilate was aware right away that's what they wanted. They didn't want him beaten. They didn't want him scourged. They didn't want him put in a prison. They wanted him dead So then, when Pilate heard that Jesus was from Galilee, he sent him to Herod, who had jurisdiction over Galilee. Herod, the king who happened to be in Jerusalem before the Passover. But Herod, after questioning Jesus and treating him with contempt and mocking him, sent him back to Pontius Pilate. Plan A didn't work. Pilate tried plan B. Be for Barabbas. There was a custom among the Roman occupiers that as a way of throwing a bone to the populace, the governor would release a prisoner at the Passover. Pilate, when he uh when he realized that he had Barabbas in hand with a stroke of genius Decided to make an offer. An offer that must have seemed to him to be a no-brainer for these people. He chose this scoundrel who had committed murder in a botched insurrection attempt, a notorious prisoner. Who made a quite a striking contrast to Jesus of Nazareth? Here was the choice, in effect. Shall I release this rebellious murderer, Barabbas? Or shall I release the one known as the healer or the blind, the lame, the deaf, the one who was so far from taking innocent life that he's actually said to have raised people from the dead. Shall I give you the murderer, or shall I give you the healer? I have no doubt that Pilate expected the people in the courtyard to ask for the one known as the King of the Jews, the one in whom Pilate had found no fault. I I'm very sorry, religious leaders, it was the people's choice, you see. But in this life and death chess match with the Sanhedrin, the Sanhedrin anticipated this move and had one of their own. Who were the people in the courtyard early that morning? The only ones who knew that Jesus would be tried that morning were the Sanhedrin, the seventy. And the twelve disciples of Christ, and some in the inner circle, and the disciples were evidently too terrified to show their faces. They were cowering somewhere, probably in the upper room, afraid that they would be next. So it's quite likely that the chief priests and scribes filled the thyok courtyard themselves. There were 70 of them that morning Together with their servants, their family, those under their authority, to help influence Pilate's decision. Notice these were not men who left things to chance. So when Pilate suggested the release of Jesus, which I imagine they f they f foresaw, because it was the Passover and he would release a prisoner every year. The chief priests and scribes were ready for that, and they got their crowd to cry out for Barabbas. Now, as you may know, the prefix bar in the English means son of, Simon Bar Jonah, Simon son of Jonah. Jonah. And of course, Abbas is a form of Abba Father. So Barabbas' name literally means son of the Father. So, this insurrectionist who had committed murder in his efforts to overthrow the Romans was named Son. of the Father. Rejecting Christ, the true son of the Father, the chief priest cried out for Barabbas, another son of another father. John tells us that Pilate was not done. He went to plan C for chastising Christ or cruelty. You might say. Plan C. He attempted, in other words, to appease the people and the elders and the crowd by having Jesus beaten and mocked. And then he brought him out wearing a purple robe and a crown of thorns. Maybe this will pacify him. Maybe when they see him uh humiliated like this, that'll be sufficient to assuage their wrath. He said, I'm bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no fault in him. Behold the man. But the chief priests and officers cried out again, Crucify him! Pilate insisted that he found no fault with Jesus. He didn't intend to crucify an innocent man. So he went to what you might call Plan D. He tried to dialogue with the Jews. Do you really want me to crucify your king? A man in whom I find no fault? And then they cried out, If you let this man go, you are not Caesar's friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaks Against Caesar. Away with him, crucify him. We had no king but Caesar, they cried. And this, for Pilate, was checkmate. He knew, of course, the chief priests had no love nor allegiance for Caesar. After all, they just cried out for the release of a man. Who was an insurrectionist who was trying to overthrow the Roman government and committed murder in the process? But the specter of a delegation from the seventy Jewish leaders journeying to Rome Protesting to the emperor that Governor Pilate was forbidding a man to travel around Palestine, declaring himself to be some sort of king of the Jews, well, that was just too much. For this procurator or governor. Pilate caved, and he went to plan E, you might say, execution. But he made it clear that he was by no means convinced personally of Jesus' guilt. And he certainly didn't want Jesus' blood on his hands So Pilate, by ceremonially washing his hands of Jesus' blood, was attempting to maintain some position of neutrality concerning Christ. I wish to remain neutral on the Jesus question. I do not condemn him, nor do I affirm he is, as some people say, the Son of God. Even so, there are millions today who attempt to take a position of neutrality concerning Christ. I don't condemn him as the Pharisees, nor do I embrace him as his disciples did. I take the reasonable, middle-of-the-road view of Pontius Pilate I don't think anyone can really know for sure who Jesus was, what was the truth about him, or for that matter, what truth is. Is there really one objective source of truth? Or is truth like beauty in the eye of the beholder? Jesus may indeed be the Savior. But I'm simply not competent to decide that question. If some want to believe him to be the Savior, that's their right. I respect their decision. I will not seek to subvert their faith. I will not try to talk them out of their position And I would like them to extend the same courtesy to me. I'm neutral concerning the Jesus question. And if there is a God and he condemns me for being undecided. then I'm ready to accept his judgment. But I cannot conceive of a God who would condemn a man for following the dictates of his own conscience. Now, if that's a fair description of your position, I would like to reason with you for a few moments. I would propose that it's no more possible for you to maintain a position of neutrality concerning Christ than it was possible for Pilate. First of all, because we're dealing with a life or death issue here. Now, we all know there are many issues about which it's possible to remain neutral. Who was the better uh artist, uh Monet or uh Van Gogh? Uh which state is more beautiful, New Hampshire or Vermont? Who's more likely to make the playoffs this year, the Yankees or the Orioles? But in this case, we're dealing with a matter of life or death. The people in Noah's day couldn't remain neutral on the question of whether to enter the ark, whether to repent of their sins, those who did not perish. The family of Lot, who lived in Sodom, could not remain neutral on whether to flee the city. Those who did not flee were destroyed. On the terrifying night of the first Passover, the children of Israel could not remain neutral on whether to apply the blood of the Passover lamb to their doorposts and lintels In those households that applied the blood, all survived. In those households that did not, the firstborn died. Your decision about Christ is a life or death decision. You cannot remain neutral on it. Not to decide is to decide. Imagine you're experiencing chest pains Well let's make it a man. A man you're experiencing chest pains. First two days you don't say anything to your wife. Uh day three you mention it. Uh uh day four sh uh y you start getting serious about it. So Friday you go to a you go to a You go to your cardiologist. Uh he does a lot of tests and stuff. He says, Why didn't you come in on Monday? He said, uh And then he determines you have severe blockages in your major arteries. You need bypass surgery as soon as possible. I'm sending you by ambulance. uh to the nearest hospital that can perform this procedure. I don't even want you to drive there. You call your wife or call your family, have them meet you there And you say after some reflection, Doctor, I'm not going to second guess you, I'm not a doctor. And what you say may or may not be true. I'm no expert on such matters. So I want to remain objective on the surgery question. I'll definitely give it some thought. I'm not saying I'm not going to think about it. But you know, I've got a busy weekend plan. I I I don't know if I mentioned I'm in the soccer league and we've got Indoor soccer uh tonight. It's a big game. And then tomorrow morning, of course, is the jogathon for children's hospital. I signed up for that, you know, months ago. But I should be able to give this whole matter some thought maybe Sunday after church. I'm not saying you're wrong about these blockages. I'm just saying I intend to remain neutral on the matter. And he says to you, are you mad? Listen to what I'm saying. You have severe blockages. You could peel over any moment. You probably you may not even be able to make it to your car. You have to have the surgery. Have the surgery and live, or don't have the surgery and die. You can't be neutral on this. Not to decide is to decide. Jesus said, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He who believes in him is not condemned. But he who does not believe is condemned already, he said. John 3 says Or picture it this way. You've been bitten by a venomous snake. Let's make it a lethal rattlesnake. His venomous coursing Cursing, I guess is the word. Coursing. Coursing. It's going through your veins. It's coursing, I'm pretty sure. It's coursing through your veins. And you you simply cannot remain neutral on the antidote question. There's an antidote, and it's available, but you've got you've got to get Get yourself to the hospital and take it. Jesus said, He who does not believe is condemned already. Now, why is that? Well, he goes on, because he has not believed in the name of the only Begotten Son of God. And you see, believing in the Son of God is the antidote. It's the only antidote for the deadly venom of sin that's coursing through your veins. Because he's the only sinless substitute. He's the precious Lamb of God, the pastor. Passover lamb, whose blood must be applied to your door. You remember that parable Jesus told of the man who gave a great supper? And he invited many. He notified them, I'm preparing a great supper. I want you to come, probably gave him some idea when the date was. And what time? And then when everything was ready, he sent his servants to tell the guests that all things were now ready and it was time to come. And what did they do? They began to make excuses. Well, I just want a piece of ground. I I must go and see it. Another one said, I've bought five yoke of oxen, I must go test them. Someone else said, Well, I've married a wife since uh we Get the invitation, therefore I cannot come. In other words, the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, the desire for other things Choked the word. The servant reports those responses to the master, and he sends the servant out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, bringing in the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind. Those who would not have other excuses. And yet there was room. Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in that my house may be filled, the master said. For I say to you that none of those men who were invited shall taste of my supper. Luke 14 God has graciously prepared a great feast at an incalculable cost, requiring the sacrifice of his own dear son. You cannot remain neutral on his invitation. You may come or you may refuse to come. Neutrality on the Jesus question is untenable. It's indefensible. First of all, because it's a life or death. Issue. And secondly, it's indefensible because Jesus was so clear about his claims. He said things like: Before Abraham was I am. Even though Abraham lived thousands of years before Jesus of Nazareth. Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Well, you're not yet 50 years old. Have you seen Abraham? Before Abraham was I am, he said. I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me, Jesus said. I'm the light of the world, he said. He who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. He said, I am the door into the sheepfold. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. I am the door. He who believes in me, he said, has everlasting life I'm the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die, he says. I'm the bread of life. He who eats of this bread shall never hunger. I and my father are one, he said. I and the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. He claimed to have the power to forgive sins. He said that through faith in him we could receive eternal life. He claimed to be the very incarnation of God, God in the flesh, in Manuel. Josh McDowell put it this way. If when Jesus made his claims he knew that he was not God, then he was lying. But if he was a liar, then he was also a hypocrite because he told others to be honest, whatever the cost. While he was himself teaching and living a colossal lie. And more than that, he was a demon because he told others to trust him for their eternal destiny. If he could not back up his claims and he knew it Then he was unspeakably evil. If you've been attempting to maintain a position of neutrality concerning Christ, as you've been saying, you know, I admire Jesus as a great teacher And moral authority, just as you admire Moses or I admire Confucius or Gandhi, Mother Teresa, I would challenge you to invest a few hours in reading what Jesus actually Said and what he actually did. Sit down with the New Testament and read the Gospel of Mark, for example, sixteen little chapters. You can probably read the whole Gospel of Mark in an hour or so. Pray before you read it, God, if this is really your word, and if Jesus is truly your son, please make it clear to me. Open up Open my eyes as I read. Let me emphasize two things. You may already, some here may already be ready You've been drawn by His Holy Spirit. You've been convicted by His Word. And you don't need to spend hours and hours reading God's word. word for that faith seed to develop. It's already there in your heart. You may be ready to come to Christ. Well, two things. You must come to Him only. You must come to Jesus only. By which I mean if you have more than one Savior, then in fact you have no Savior. Now, this is true even if your secondary Savior is yourself. If you think you will stand before the Lord God one day with one hand clutching Jesus and the other hand clutching your good deeds. With one hand clutching Jesus and the other hand clutching your church membership or your education or your zeal for Christ or your heredity or your morality, then you have been sadly deceived. Jesus said the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden the field for which a man sells all that he has and buys that field. You'll never be saved by Jesus plus your goodness. No one has ever been saved by Jesus plus his kindness, or Jesus plus your baptism, or Jesus plus your service to him, or Jesus plus your diligent obedience to him You'll never be saved by Jesus plus anything. Or Jesus plus anyone. And that's what Paul called another gospel in Galatians. Jesus plus anything else is another gospel. Jesus plus circumcision. Jesus plus living pure. Jesus plus anything is a false gospel. Your trust must be in Jesus only. Not the labors of my hands can fulfill thy law's demands. All for sin could not atone. Thou must save and thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring simply to thy cross You must come to Jesus alone, and you must come to Jesus completely. Just as you cannot come to Jesus clutching your good works, even so you cannot come to Jesus clutching your precious sins. That is, you cannot come to Jesus intent on keeping your sexual sin or your drunkenness or your covetousness, etc. Do you not know, Paul said, that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Apparently, it's possible to be deceived of this. Do not be deceived, he said. Neither fornicators, those who commit sex before marriage. Those who are involved in a sexual relationship outside of marriage, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards. Nor revilers nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. First Corinthians 6, 9 and 10. You see, for every person who claims to come to Jesus clutching his good works, in his right hand, there is someone who professes to come clutching his precious sin in his left hand. But genuine biblical salvation is a supernatural work of grace Which causes the recipient to detest and abhor his sin, to genuinely repent of his sins from the heart, and to believe that Jesus is the sinless Son of God who lived and died. And rose again for his justification. The new believer may not have an instantaneous victory over the sins that so easily beset him But he does see them as vile and grievous to God, and he has no desire to hold on to them, to remain in them. He's had a change of mind concerning sin. His prayer to God is, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus told the woman taken in the act of adultery, go And sin no more. Zacchaeus said, Lord, the half my goods I give to the poor. And if I've taken anything from anybody, I restore them fourfold. And so Paul, after describing the lifestyles of those who will not inherit the kingdom of God, says to the believers, and so Such were some of you. But you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified by the Lord Jesus, in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Satan will try to convince you that you can simply add Jesus to a sinful lifestyle as a form of hell insurance. Get the pastor, get an elder to sign the card, you put it in your wallet, you're done. You have your hell insurance. Took less than 15 minutes. Could save you uh fifteen years in purgatory, forever in hell. That's not what the scripture says That's not the gospel. The the Bible says the works of the flesh are evident. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, so Sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envies, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like, those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Paul said Galatians 5. Pontius Pilate, the cynic, said, what is truth regarding your eternal soul? A soul is worth more than all that the world offers, Jesus said. All the wealth of this world, what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world lose his own soul? The simple truth concerning your soul is this. You have sinned against the holy God. You have violated his laws in your thoughts, in your speech, and in your actions. His holiness demands that your sin be punished He 's a holy God. He cannot allow sin to go unpunished. But his love for lost sinners was so great, he provided a way for us to be redeemed, bought back. Purchased out of slavery, you might say. Slavery is sin. That involved sending his eternal son into the sinful world to take upon himself human nature. Jesus kept the law that sinners broke, and then he paid the debt that sinners owe. And after his glorious resurrection, he told his astounded apostles to go into all the world and proclaim this good news to everybody. If a man or woman or child will repent of his sins, place his faith in Jesus, trust in him, that is, rely upon him. As Lord and Savior, then all his sins will be forgiven, and that person, man, woman, boy, or girl, will have everlasting We'll be restored to a relationship with God. We'll have God as his heavenly father. We'll be adopted into God's family. Not because he joined a church, not because he did any good thing. But because Jesus lived the perfect life, died upon the cross, and rose again. My prayer for you is that you will not attempt to wash your hands of the Jesus question. Remember, he who believes not is condemned already. You've already got that sin nature. You got that poison in your system. It's already there. You can see it in a in a two-year-old child. It's already there. My prayer for you is that you won't attempt to wash your hands You won't attempt to maintain some position of neutrality concerning him, but instead you'll come to him and you'll be washed yourself in the precious fountain. The healing stream that freely flows from his cross. Satan has a plan for those who begin to think seriously about their souls It's plan D. Delay. Delay. Delay. Yeah. A lot of what the Bible says makes sense. Maybe sometime you need to give it some thought The Bible says, no one knows what a day may bring forth. Today is the day. Now is the time. You're not guaranteed tomorrow. Now, a final word to Christians. One thought I want to leave with you. It's quite likely that there's a Pontius Pilate watching you right now. Somebody at work? Somebody at school? Somebody at home. Someone wondering if there is anything that's really true. Wondering if there's anything real to this faith you keep talking about. Or if it's all just words, as it evidently was For the chief priests, scribes, and elders. Someone wondering when he watches, when he hears all these media reports of hypocrisy and are not Another pastor falls into immorality and someone else confesses this and someone else confesses that and someone else uh is living in a in a lifestyle fit for a king on the on the $5, $10 gifts of little old ladies. Wondering, is there anything authentic about Christianity at all? Is there anything authentic about Christianity at all? And so the next time you're tempted to compromise Your convictions, the next time Satan leaves some beautiful fruit dangling within reach, and you're tempted to just reach out and take it. Think about this. You may not be the primary target here. You may only be a means to an end. His target may be your sister His target may be your friend at work. His target may be your skeptical boss. Satan's target may be your own son. If you're a believer, you see, you're already lost to Satan. But your sin could confirm a cynic in his cynicism. Your fall, as the fall of King David, can give great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. 2 Samuel 12, 14. And so every single believer here needs to pray, Jesus keep me near the cross. Near the cross, O Lamb of God, bring its scenes before me. Help me walk from day to day with its shadow o'er me. Let's pray. Father, we pray, first of all, for the unbelievers who may be present. Lord, I do pray for your Holy Spirit to trouble the waters, to trouble the soul, to give them no rest. To cause them to look at their life and to recognize their sin and to look at Jesus and see him in his purity, in his beauty, in his holiness, and to cry out, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Please, Father. We pray, those of us who are believers, fervently pray right now that all those Who are hearing this message, all those who will hear it in the future, that your Holy Spirit will work in their hearts and draw them to yourself, even as you mercifully drew us. Please, Father, let no one in this place now suffer the wrath of a holy God. May they be clothed in the righteousness. Garments of Christ. In the cross be our glory ever, till our raptured soul shall find rest beyond the river. Lord, may those of us who know you remember there are punctious pilots watching us, wondering if there's any real truth. Lord, may we not cause anyone such as that to stumble. Give us strength. Give us victory. I pray in Christ's name. Amen.