Amen. Thank you, choir, for that. The Gospel of Mark, chapter one If you have your Bible, would you turn there please? And as you do, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs. Gospel of Mark, chapter one The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in the prophets. Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before Prepare your way before you. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. Then all the land of Judea and those from Jerusalem. went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and with a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey And he preached, saying, There comes one after me who is mightier than I, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to stoop down and loose. I indeed baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. It came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the spirit descending upon him like a dove. And then a voice came from heaven You are my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray together. Oh Father. You know our hearts are prone to wonder. And even as we sit under the proclamation of the word, sometimes thoughts enter in and And we're distracted. And so I ask now that you'll focus our attention upon your truth. Speak to us, Father, this day. And open our eyes, open our minds to receive what you have for us. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. At the time described in Mark's Gospel God's chosen people had gone hundreds of years without hearing from a true prophet of God. The religious leaders to whom they looked for spiritual direction were themselves immersed in legalism, hypocrisy, and corruption. Yet they were proud and self-confident, assuming that their descent from Abraham was sufficient to ensure God's pleasure. With them and their ultimate salvation. So the common people, following their lead, were as the blind following the blind. They were steeped in religious ritualism. And true godliness, sincere love for the Lord, trust in his mercy through the means of his promised Messiah were all at a very low ebb. The Word of God had in effect been eclipsed by tradition. In other words, the situation in first century Palestine was much like that in 16th century Europe before Martin Luther burst upon the scene, and the entrance of God's word brought light. But John was, of course, something more than a prophet, more than a preacher, more than a reformer. He was the one who had been prophesied who would prepare the way of the Lord. He was the one who was sent before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Luke chapter 1, verse 17 John was, the Lord Jesus said, a burning and a shining light. And he burst upon the scene. And he burst upon the pages of Mark's gospel. John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. This morning I'd like us to take a closer look at, first of all, John's baptism. What exactly he was doing out there in the wilderness. And second, at John's baptism of Jesus, why was it done? What did it indicate? Why would Jesus submit to a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins? He who needed no repentance, he who had no sins for which to confess and to repent. John came baptizing in the wilderness, verse 4. Now, I'd like us to slow down and think about John's baptism for a few minutes. And this is going to require a bit of patience and effort on your part. And you might even have to put on your thinking cap. Some of you brought it this morning. We're going to get a bit technical, and you might imagine that we're simply arguing for our denominational view of baptism for no apparent reason. And for no spiritual benefit, but I ask you to trust that I have a reason for taking you down this long winding road. As often as we speak of baptism, I'm not sure we ever give much thought to exactly what John was doing In the wilderness. I think we may have some pictures in our minds that may not be accurate. Have you ever wondered why, if John was doing something previously unknown to the Jews? The people would submit to it, and the religious leaders would permit it. It may surprise some of you to learn that the concept of baptism was not new to the Jews John was not instituting some ceremonial rite out of the blue. The scripture describes various Old Testament baptisms. I want to ask you to do something that sometimes causes fear in the hearts of Christians. I want to ask you to turn to Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 9. As you turn there, let me introduce this In Hebrews 9, the scripture is comparing the Old Covenant, think about the Old Testament, with the new covenant instituted by Christ. Hebrews 9 is describing ceremonies performed by the ancient priests in the tabernacle, and in particular the ceremony performed by the high priest on the annual Day of Atonement. When the high priest went alone into the most holy part of the tabernacle, he entered it, the scripture says, Hebrews 9:7, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the people's sins. Committed in ignorance. The Holy Spirit, indicating this, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest. Verse 9, it was symbolic for the present time. The gifts and sacrifices offered were, verse 10, concerned only with foods and drinks, various washings and fleshly ordinances Imposed until the time of Reformation. That is, until the time of Christ. But Christ came, verse 11, as high priest of the good things to come, with the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is not of this creation Now I ask, what were these various washings in the old covenant of which the scriptures speak? Well, if we read on in Hebrews 9. We come to verse 12. Christ came not with the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood he entered the most holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ? Cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God, verse thirteen. The chapter goes on to talk about Moses sprinkling the people of God, verse 19, with the blood of calves and goats, with water and with hyssop. And then the scripture says, He sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry. And according to the law, almost all things are purified with blood. And without shedding of blood there is no remission or forgiveness. So, what were these various washings of which Hebrews 9 speaks? Clearly, they were ceremonies of cleansing, picturing remission or forgiveness of sin. Now some of you may be thinking, okay, you lost me, Pastor. I thought you were talking about John baptizing in the wilderness. Yes, that is what I'm talking about. I was simply making the point that John did not pull out of thin air the concept of baptism. He didn't institute some new symbol of spiritual cleansing. The Jews were familiar with the concept, as we've seen. Hebrews says there were various washings. described in the Old Testament, and these washings consisted of ceremonial sprinklings which pictured cleansing. Now you say Yeah, but those were what those washings were ceremonial sprinklings. Why in the world would you associate them with baptism? Pastor, you must have a bad case of presbyopia Well, yes, I do, as a matter of fact. Technically. But the reason I believe those Old Testament sprinklings were baptisms is because that's what the Bible says. The Greek words translated into English as various washings in Hebrews 9. 10, the words that were clearly intended to describe the Old Testament ceremonial sprinklings or pourings are in the original Greek of the New Testament, the Aphroi baptismoi. Deophroi baptismoi, diverse baptisms. That's what the words are. Those Old Testament anointings with blood or ashes or water were called here in Hebrews baptisms. Led by the example of the scribes and Pharisees, the typical Hebrew of Jesus' day had even begun to baptize himself upon entering his home. Remember Jesus' miracle at the wedding in Cana. The Bible says there were set there six water pots of stone after the manner of the purifying of the Jews. As you would have entered a house in those days, you might find big water pots. Now, exactly what the Jews did with those water pots is made clear in Mark chapter 7. If you'll turn away from Hebrews now, go back to Mark and look at chapter seven for a moment. Let's begin at verse 1. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to him, to Jesus, having come from Jerusalem. Now, when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders. When they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they have received and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. And then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders But eat bread with unwashed hands. Now, the concern of the Pharisees and the religious leaders was not sanitation. They weren't concerned that the disciples might pick up some germs by eating with unwashed hands. They were complaining that the disciples were not following the tradition of the elders. Those big water pots of stone were there for a reason. As you entered a house, you were to take some. and sprinkle it on yourself and upon your table and your couches. It was a ceremony. It would probably take thirty seconds. And it and the scripture says not only would they they wash their their own hands, but they would wash their uh w where does it say that in verse uh uh four, I guess it was. They do not eat it unless they wash, and many other things which they have received and hold, like the washing of cups and pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. Now The word translated wash in this passage is the word baptize. Baptizzo. The Pharisees and all the Jews did not eat without first baptizing their hands in a certain way. And not only that, they also baptized their cups, their pitchers, their copper vessels, and their couches. Cline, it's akin to clinot to lean or recline, and it can be translated a bed or a couch for reclining at meals. It seems clear to me that this ceremonial cleansing would have followed the example of Old Testament cleansings Which were done not by immersing in water, but by the sprinkling of water, or in the Old Testament, blood or the ashes of a heifer, etc. Now let me direct you to one more passage. It's the portion of John chapter 3 that you will seldom or ever hear in a scripture reading on Sunday morning. John chapter 3 and verse 22. Normally, when we read from John 3, we read the story of Nicodemus. But look at John chapter 3 and look at verse 22. After these things, Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and there he remained with them and baptized. Now John also was baptizing in Enon, near Salem, because there was much water there. And they came and were baptized. For John had not yet been thrown into prison. Now get this. Then there arose a dispute between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purification And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who is with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you would testify, behold, he is baptizing, and all are coming to him. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from above. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. He who is uh who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is fulfilled. He must increase, I must decrease. Now, what I want you to notice here is that Jesus and John were both baptizing. And there arose a dispute about purification. But when the issue is addressed, the question is phrased concerning baptism They had a question about purification, they came and they asked Jesus about how come uh uh you baptize and he baptizes It was phrased in the form of a question about baptism. It seems clear to me that the Jews viewed the baptisms that Jesus and John were conducting as purification rites, purification ceremonies. And as we've seen, Old Testament purifications were performed by sprinkling or pouring of water or blood or whatever the instrument was. If John had instituted some new ceremony not authorized by the Lord or instituted in the Old Testament I suspect the question from the religious leaders would have been quite different. What is this new business of uh immersing men and women in water? It's unseemly, it's immodest. We have no uh Old Testament basis for such a ceremony. It's not altered by God. Now you might object, wait a minute, we just read that John baptized in Enon because there was a lot of water there. You don't need a lot of water if you're just going to sprinkle or pour water on someone Well, Enon literally means springs. And the passage literally says there were many waters there. Hudata Pola. Huda Tapola, so that's like Java the Hutt. Huda Tapola. Solo. It is a there are many waters there, and the name means springs. There were many waters. apparently bubbling fresh water. It's reasonable to think that John baptized there because there were many springs of water and fresh water would be needed by the masses of people coming out to hear him. Now some would object, but what about Jesus' baptism? Doesn't the Bible say he went under the water and he came up out of the water? No, it doesn't say that. It says he came up from the water. Mark 1:10. If you've ever been into a stream or a river or a lake, you know that to get out of it, you have to come up from it. The land is always at a higher level than the water. When after Christ's resurrection, Philip proclaimed the gospel to the Ethiopian steward, a man of authority under Queen Candace, they passed a body of water, and the steward asked to be baptized. The Bible says they went into the water, Philip and the steward, and Philip baptized him. And then the scripture says, when they came up from the water, The Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away so that the eunuch saw him no more, and he went on his way rejoicing. Acts 8. 39. Clearly coming up out of the water, The same phrase used of Jesus at his baptism did not mean in Acts 8 coming up from underneath the water, or else we must believe that both Philip and the steward were underneath the water. Which not even our most ardent immersionist friends would maintain. Now you may say, but wait a minute, doesn't the scripture talk about being buried with Christ through baptism into death? Well, I don't believe those passages are referring to water baptism at all. The Apostle Paul is saying that when we were baptized into Christ, that is, when we were saved, when we were regenerated, when the Holy Spirit came upon us We became associated with Christ in his death and resurrection. Therefore, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. In other words, I should reckon that I died with Christ When he died. I rose with Christ when he rose. The apostle is speaking not about water baptism, but about the baptism of the Holy Spirit, which the water simply pictures. If New Testament baptism was in fact a ceremonial cleansing, already familiar to the Jews, performed by sprinkling or pouring the water, picturing the Holy Spirit. Then we understand better how John could baptize the great mass of humanity that came to him, how Peter could baptize 5,000 in one day, the day of Pentecost. How the Philippian jailer and his whole household could be baptized in the middle of the night in a prison. And we understand Paul's baptism: arise and be baptized. And the baptism of Cornelius and his household, who can forbid water that these should be baptized? We understand them a lot more clearly If they were not being brought to a body of water, but water was being brought to them. Now, okay, all right, Pastor, even if I accept your contention that John's baptism was a ceremonial cleansing, already familiar to the Jews, and I'm not saying I do, why in the world does it matter? Well, first of all, I think we should always try to understand the scripture to the best of our ability to rightly divide the word of truth. And secondly, if John's baptism, like Old Testament baptisms, involved the sprinkling or pouring of water, then presumably the command of Christ to his apostles To go into all the world and to baptize would have been understood by them to also involve the sprinkling or pouring of water. And here's why that's important. If that is the case, then New Testament baptism was intended to symbolize not the death of Christ. which is pictured in the Lord's Supper, nor the resurrection of Christ, which would be better pictured by coming out from underwater than by having water poured on you, but rather it was intended to symbolize the baptism of the Holy Spirit, the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the believer. The Spirit who's described as being poured out, coming down from above, descending upon us, falling upon us. In the book of Acts. John said, I indeed baptize you with water. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Mark 1:8. And then thirdly, if we're to understand why Jesus submitted to baptism, it may help us to know what in fact the practice was. Why would the sinless, spotless Lamb of God need to submit to a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins? No doubt John was raising that same question when he was reluctant to baptize Jesus. Matthew says, John tried to prevent him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and are you coming to me? In other words, I am the only one of the two of us whose sins demand repentance. I'm the only one of the two of us who has sins demand Which demand repentance. I, the sinner, should be baptized by you, the sinless one. Well, listen, the answer may be this If John's baptism was in fact an application of water, as I believe, a sprinkling or a pouring, it may be that in the eyes of God the Father, this was the anointing of his Son. for the great task that was set before him. You'll remember that John was born of the priestly line. His father, Zacharias, was a priest. And A son of a priest was expected to begin his priestly service at the age of 30. Jesus, six months younger than John, is about 30 years old at this point. the age at which one was to be anointed a priest. And he was a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Psalm 110, verse 4. And not only were priests to be anointed, but so were prophets, 1 Kings 19, 16 And Kings, 1 Samuel 16, 13. Perhaps the righteousness that was being fulfilled here is that before Jesus began his prophetic, priestly, royal ministry at the age of 30, It was fitting in the eyes of his father that he should be anointed, set apart by a priest for his holy calling. If that was the case, then we can better understand this incident recorded for us in Mark 11. Would you look there for a moment? Mark chapter eleven, look at verse twenty seven. Then they came to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and scribes and elders came to him. Verse 28. And they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things? But Jesus answered and said to them, I will also ask you one question. Then answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or was it from men? Answer me. They reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say, Well, why didn't you believe him? If we say from men, well, they feared the people, for all counted John to have been a prophet indeed. So they answered and said to him, We don't know. And Jesus answered and said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. You see? Now It seems at first glance that Jesus is simply trying to avoid the question by raising some utterly unrelated matter. Answer this question. Who gave you the authority to do these things? Well, let me ask you a question. How many olive trees do you think there are in Israel? Was he just throwing them off by asking some totally unrelated question? I don't think so. You tell me first, if you acknowledge the baptism of John to be an authentic God anointed baptism. You tell me. If John, God's messenger was perhaps even not understood by him, anointing God's son for his ministry as prophet, priest, and king, then we understand why Jesus would turn their attention to God. John's baptism. It makes perfect sense that when Jesus was asked upon whose authority he ministered, he should point back to John, the prophet of God. Of course, the problem with understanding Jesus' baptism to have been, in fact, as the Lord viewed it, an anointing to set him apart for his public ministry. Is that none of the gospel writers says this? That is, we don't read, then Jesus was anointed by John for his service as prophet, priest, and king. So it may just be that Jesus, by submitting to a baptism for the remission of sins, although he had no sins that needed remission that that day or any other day Was simply humbling himself, as he did when he condescended to come to earth, to be born as a man, live in poor conditions, endure the hardships of life, etc. It may be that he was simply by submitting to baptism, identifying with us in our sinful condition. Pastor Sinclair Ferguson puts it this way. Way. The baptism of Jesus marked his public inauguration as the Messiah. He came into the world to be the savior of sinners, and now for the first time he engages in an activity which shows this. He's not come in pomp and circumstance to lord it over men, but in lowliness and humility to save them. Here already he indicates how he will become our Savior. by standing in the river in whose waters penitent Jews had symbolically washed away their sins. And to allow that water polluted by those sins to be poured over his perfect being. His baptism inaugurates him publicly into his role as the priest who bears away the sins of men in order to bring forgiveness and salvation. It was not necessary for him to submit to a baptism of repentance because he had no sins for which to repent. But it was fitting that the Son of Man should fulfill all righteousness and go To God's prophet, John, for the remission of sins is what God was calling the people of Israel to do. God was calling the people of Israel to go to John, and Jesus, seeking to be obedient to the Father, went to John. Even though he himself needed no such baptism. Similarly, it was not necessary that he, the Son of God, should have to pay the temple tax. Remember? And as he explained to Peter, kings do not take taxes from their own son. But he did so nonetheless, although in a miraculous manner, you remember, and you can read about it at the end of Matthew seventeen After having been baptized, as he came up from the water, the scripture says Jesus saw the heavens parting and the Spirit descending upon him like a dove. And then a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Here is the Father's seal upon his son. Having been baptized with water, he's now baptized afresh with the Spirit of God, and the Father expresses approval. of his beloved son. The descent of the Spirit in the form of a dove ought to remind us of when God's judgment upon his people uh came to an end in the days of Noah. The dove sent from the ark returned with a freshly plucked olive leaf. Genesis 811. In the ministry of a son, the Father was extending to his people and all people an offer of peace and forgiveness. The dove symbolizes the beginning of God's new creation. As Ferguson wrote, it was as though he were saying, Jesus is the one in whom I will begin again. Now, let's conclude our thoughts on Jesus' baptism. First of all, we've seen that there's a reason to believe that biblical baptism was conducted by sprinkling or pouring water, that it might descend upon the recipient from above, even as the Holy Spirit, which the water pictures , is poured out upon us by the Lord. Of course, as you know, not all churches follow what I believe to be the biblical pattern. In fact, some of them required that those who were baptized by sprinkling or pouring be re-baptized. Or they would say, truly baptized for the very first time by immersion, before they're permitted to join the church. That was the experience of an old friend of mine who wrote to me recently. She had come to the faith in Christ over thirty years ago. First church that we pastored in the Buffalo area. And she had been baptized there. Years later, she began to worship in an independent Bible church where she was persuaded to be baptized again. This time by what they told her was the only true baptism, immersion. Now I don't know if that sort of uh misguided dogmatism was a factor, but she has now turned her back on all uh organized churches, although She still professes faith in Christ. My point is, although we should do our best to understand what the Scripture says and to interpret it rightly, we should not be so dogmatic in areas that are not clear. And we should certainly not require that other believers embrace our particular understanding of every obscure passage. All Christians are never going to agree about such things as baptism or predestination or the millennium Until we are all in glory and worshiping in that great Presbyterian church above. I wonder if we'll have the eternity in the roll up there. We've tried to answer the question, why did the Lord Jesus submit to Baptist? Was it simply To identify with sinners, fulfilling all righteousness by willingly doing what all Israelites were being urged by God's Spirit to do, thereby setting an example of righteousness Or was it in some sense his anointing to his public ministry as prophet, priest, and king? I would propose that his baptism may have been both of those things For the people of Israel, it was just Jesus identifying with sinners, humbling himself, submitting to the call of God's prophet John. But I wouldn't be surprised if the Father intended this baptism to be something more. In fact, nothing less than the anointing of his anointed. God the Father chooses John, one of the priestly line extending back to Aaron and Levi. To anoint his son for his great life's work. John wasn't authorized by the high priest. He wasn't authorized by the Pharisees or scribes. But he was authorized by God the Father. And after this, interestingly, Jesus' public ministry began. After this anointing by the son of Zacharias, the anointed one went immediately into the wilderness to commune with his father. There, as you know, he was tempted by Satan to take a road that bypassed Jerusalem and Golgotha. But of course, he refused. He had come to fulfill his father's will and to drink the cup his father had given. Thirdly, I want you to notice that the word Trinity as you may know, does not appear in Scripture. But the fact of the Trinity does. It's simply a word that we use to describe what the Scripture Scripture says. Here we see the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit in the same incident. And so our shorter catechism declares there are three persons in the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. And these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory. The fact that we can't fully understand it does not mean it is Is untrue. Now, a closing word to believers. Think about this. The sinless, spotless Lamb of God humbled himself before those crowds that went out to see John. He submitted to a baptism of repentance. And he, the sinless Son of God, was baptized as if he had sins for which he needed to repent. This humbling was only a continuation. Of the indignities that the Lord Jesus had already embraced up to this point. Your Savior, who completed his ministry by washing the disciples' feet. began it by submitting to this ceremonial washing, when both he and John knew that he was the only man who needed no such washing He needed no filling with the Holy Spirit of God because he was in fact God in the flesh. Does not the humility of the Lord Jesus forever rebuke in us all manifestations? Of personal pride. Is there anything then, Christian, that is beneath you? Any service that is too minor? Any role that is unbefitting your dignity As an educated man, uh a self-made man, an educated woman. Let me just say What a personal blessing it is to me to see some of you with earned doctorate degrees humbling yourselves to teach little jokes. And some of you who long ago raised your own children, serving young mothers by tending their children in the nursery so they can can sit and hear the word of God. And to see some of you who've never been in the back of a police cruiser ministering in a jail To see some of you who are six or seven decades removed from ever having to need a nursing home visiting a nursing home out of love for Christ. Christ. And there's comfort in this passage for believers. In yourself, no doubt, you're conscious of frequent failures, certainly I am. Numerous inadequacies, a consistent missing of the mark, but you are in God's eyes accepted in the beloved. You are robed in the perfect spotless garment of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, in God's blessed Son. The Father sees no spot or wrinkle or any such thing because he sees you through his Son. And he says of Jesus, and by extension, to all of us who know him, You are my beloved, in whom I'm well pleased. We are accepted. In the beloved. Now let me give a closing word to those who are here who may not yet have placed their faith in Christ. Jesus left the waters of baptism and began a ministry of teaching. And preaching and healing, casting out demons, performing signs and wonders. But listen, the greatest wonder would come three years after this baptism. It was the other baptism with which he would be baptized, the baptism of death. Mark 10, 39. Jesus came to work to fulfill the Father's law in the place of lawless sinners, and then to endure the Father's wrath as their substitute. But it was all in vain for you, if in your stubborn, rebellious heart you refused to bow the knee before him If you maintain that you're righteous enough, righteous already, and you insist on your own merit, remember the Lord Jesus said, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners. to repentance. Sinner, will you heed that call? Let's pray. Lord, what a glorious Savior we have! How he was willing to humble himself and submit to a baptism of Repentance or the remission of sins. What a glorious Savior we have, who is willing to humble himself and even to go to the cross. Not even the the death of the cross would keep him from fulfilling your will. Thank you, Father, for such a savior. And we do lift up those who might be here outside of Christ Lord have mercy upon them, as you had mercy upon so many of us. As you took away my blind eyes and gave me sight, I pray you'll do that for others, even this day. Breathe upon the dry bones that they might live. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.