Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to First Corinthians chapter six. We're going to be looking at verses nine through eleven. And I would invite you, if you're physically able, to stand in honor of the reading of God's holy word. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 9 through 11 this morning. This is the careful reading of God's Word. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers. Will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you were washed You were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God indeed. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today. We are thankful, O Lord, for again just to be here in your presence, O Lord. to have the opportunity to hear from your word. Lord, we pray that by your Spirit you would take your word, that you would Convict us of our sin if we need to be convicted. But for some of us here, Lord, we need comfort. We need encouragement And so we pray, O Lord, that you would do both, that you would convict us, but also comfort and encourage us this morning with the hope of the gospel. Lord, that so that when we leave here today. After our congregational meeting, we would leave here strengthened by grace. We ask this in Jesus' precious, holy, righteous, and tender You know, history is full of rags to riches stories, isn't it? Let me give two. One of them is probably less common. The other one is probably a name you're more common more familiar with. The first is Genghis Khan. Not a name that we talk about very often in church history or in the church at all. Genghis Khan was born into homelessness, and then he, as he grew up, he was a slave. But history knows him as one of the uniters and then rulers of one of the greatest empires that ever was on the face of the earth. After being homeless and after being a slave, he ascended to power. He united the Mongol tribes in the early Middle Ages, and then took over much of what was then the known world from the Pacific Ocean in the east, all the way to the Ural Mountains in the west or in Eastern Europe, and there are even tales and and history of him and his armies making it into places like Ukraine. In Eastern Europe. What an incredible span of an empire, the Pacific to close to the Mediterranean. Another name that might be a little more familiar with you and is a lot closer to us in time and history is Andrew Carnegie. Many of you know the name of Andrew Carnegie. He was born into poverty in Scotland, but today we don't know him for his poverty in Scotland. We know him as one of the greatest steel magnates from the early 20th century A man that was next to John D. Rockefeller, one of the most richest men in history that the United States has ever seen. Now what makes these stories so compelling? What makes them so interesting? Why do people today continue to write biographies of such men? Well, what makes these stories so compelling is that there is a before and there is an after. And the difference between the before and the after is so stark. That people want to know how that person got from one extreme to the other. There's a carryover into the Christian life today that I think is very comparable when we talk about conversion or people coming to faith in Christ. There is a before And there is an after. And that's what Paul is addressing here. He talks about what the Corinthians were like before they came to know Christ and what they should be like now. And notice I said should be like now. In fact, that leads us to our main idea of our passage this morning, and it's this. We should turn from our sin because the unrighteous, because the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. And because of the transformative power of the gospel. Let me restate that idea. There's two reasons why we should turn from sin. We should turn from our sin, one, because the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. And two, we should turn for our from our sin because of the transformative power of the gospel. In case you're visiting with us or are unfamiliar with this, you can see that idea printed. in the middle of page five to follow along with. That's the idea we want to unpack this morning. And it's really two main points to this sermon this morning. Our first point in verses 9 through 10 is the warning about inheriting the kingdom. The warning about inheriting the kingdom. Look at verses 9 and 10. We see this warning about this kingdom very clearly. It says this, let's take those two verses together. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality. Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Period. Now, when we read our Bibles, we know that the Old Testament is chockful of all kinds of warnings to God's people to repent from this sin or that sin or or anything else in the middle, because if they don't, they knew that God's judgment and discipline was going to come upon them. In fact, most of us, when we read the Old Testament, we tend to think it's it's harsh and judgmental. And then we have this idea that the New Testament just reveals a loving God. No wrath at all. And yet we see a warning right here in our passage in the New Testament. Now I want to look at, draw your attention, just a few details about this warning. And one is the repetition of not inheriting the kingdom of God. Notice the repetition of that phrase. That will not inherit the kingdom of God phrase. It comes at the beginning of verse 9 and it comes at the end of verse 10. And oftentimes in Scripture, When you see a phrase like that comes at the beginning of a section and at the end of a section or a word, oftentimes that is the focus there that the author is trying to communicate. That's the end cap, so to speak, of the idea. And so Paul is really highlighting the idea of being careful because you don't want to find yourself in a situation where you thought you were going to inherit. the kingdom of God, only to end up on the day of judgment not inheriting the kingdom of God. And because Paul is trying to communicate that to the Corinthians, he is concerned that though they profess the name of Christ, their lives on the outside look inconvenient. With their profession, which means that they need to be warned. The judgment may be right around the corner for them if they do not repent. See, they may be in danger of thinking that they are going to inherit the kingdom of God when Christ returns, and they may not actually get in. Now keep in mind, Paul is writing to a church, and in the midst of that church, there are many individuals. There may be individuals in this church that are under that warning. And that leads to the question here that we need to unpack to understand more deeply what this warning is about. And I want to connect this warning. to the previous context. And the question is this, why would Paul advance his argument, which we saw last week, by talking about inheriting the kingdom of God? Remember, last week we talked about lawsuits, we talked about litigation against fellow believers, as well as what the gospel says about this, that we should not be litigious to one another. We should not be seeking judgments at a secular law court against one another. And that's the case. Lawsuits always have to do with some kind of judgment. And so here it makes sense that Paul would go from the topic of temporal judgment to that of eternal judgment, because it is at the time when Christ returns, when the eternal judgment happens. that we will either receive or not receive the kingdom of God. And so Paul is going to begin to address the obstacles that comprise this warning. In other words, why do the Corinthians need to receive this warning? What is going on in their midst? Well, we see again in verses nine and ten, the deception of unrighteousness. And that is crucial that we see this in verses 9 and 10. You'll see Paul mentions being deceived in verse 9. He literally says, do not be deceived. What's the point? The unrighteous that he talks about at the beginning of verse 9 have this tendency to fall into deception. Don't miss that connection there. And it's a very important one. Unrighteousness and deception. Do not be deceived, he tells the Corinthians. And notice that this is a command. I think that's really important for us to take note of because oftentimes as believers we can fall into the trap of thinking that because we're believers, we cannot be deceived spiritually. And think about how deception often works. It uses a kernel of truth. It just misses another part of the truth. And what it misses is often really important. We could, for instance, reason from chapter 2 of this book of 1 Corinthians, particularly verse 16, that we have the mind of Christ. We have the Holy Spirit who has enlightened our mind and our eyes so that we can see and understand God's spiritual truth and the gospel. And we can fool ourselves into thinking because those things are true and they are, we cannot be deceived. And yet he gives this warning about deception. What is it that these Corinthians are deceived about? Well again I just want to highlight the fact that he calls them un the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. This is going to sound like a very fine-tuned observation, but the ESV translates that as the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. In the original Greek that Paul's writing in, he leaves out the word za. It's just unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. Now I think you can make an argument, he's clearly talking about unrighteous people, but the accent mark, the emphasis there is on the characteristic of unrighteousness. It's not as much the people as it is the characteristic. Unrighteousness cannot enter the kingdom of God. And he's telling them, don't be deceived. You might think that you're going to inherit it, but because you live and walk in unrighteousness, because that is the characteristic that chiefly describes you, perhaps individually, you will not enter the kingdom of God. And the question is, why not? Why cannot the unrighteous enter the kingdom of God? Well, the short answer is that only those who are made righteous by the righteousness of Christ being given to them by grace alone, through faith alone, only those who are made righteous can inherit a kingdom that is characterized by righteousness. To use an analogy or an illustration from modern day life, and this this May not be a popular analogy, but I think that it's true. If you are going to become a citizen of a certain country, there are certain things you need to acclimate to. About that culture. Otherwise it's gonna be very difficult for you to survive in because you are not gonna match the country and the culture and the people you're living in. Well, it's the same thing with the kingdom of God. It's made for those who are righteous. Not righteous in and of themselves, you see, but those who've been made righteous by Christ. And so if you Say that you are made righteous by Christ, but you are not living out that righteousness practically in your life, pursuing holiness, there's a disconnect You are not going to be very comfortable in the kingdom of God. And that's what Paul is getting at here. Jesus makes a similar statement in Matthew 6. 633, but seek first the kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you The unrighteous are those who cannot possibly inherit a righteous kingdom, and yet too often they find themselves deceived into thinking that they will make it. Let me read something else to you from the Gospel of Matthew. And I've said this before from the pulpit, and I probably will end up saying it again at some point. Sounding like a broken record, but if you were to look at Matthew 7, 21 through 23, in my opinion, which doesn't always count for much, but in my opinion, these are some of the most frightening verses in all of Scripture. Why? Listen to what Jesus says. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them. I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Notice the theme there. It's at the judgment, the end of time. These are people who they weren't like pagans. These were people who thought they were Christians. They were deceived. And so Paul goes on to elaborate what this unrighteous living looks like in verses nine and ten. We see the elaboration of that where there's a list of ten sins or vices that characterize what being unrighteous looks like. Now I'm inclined to think, and I'm not alone in this. Many commentators said this as I read through them that this list of ten vices seems to characterize some of the issues that were prevalent in the Corinthian church. In other words, they were they were really tailor-made for that audience. But we'll find if we examine our hearts today, they really characterize our audience today too, in the country, in the society, in the culture. that we live in. You can really break these down into two main categories, I think. First, you can lump idolaters, thieves, the greedy, and the swindlers into one category Remember, Paul's already mentioned in verses seven and eight, which we saw last week here in chapter six, that the Corinthians wronged one another, they defrauded one another in secular courts through lawsuits. In order to likely gain something from someone else? That characterizes idolaters, thieves, greedy swindlers And so he's listing things that apply to them in their church context. And in case you're wondering, well, how does idolatry fit in with the rest of those? In Colossians 3. 5, Paul links it by saying that he mentions covetousness in another list of sins, and then he says, which is idolatry? If you're going to be greedy, if you're going to be a swindler, if you're going to be a thief, where's the root of that? Covetousness, which is idolatry. These were things that they were dealing with in their everyday lives and living in seemingly unrepentantly. The second category you can put here is four out of ten of these things in this list have to do with some kind of sexual sin. Now that's really interesting. Chapter 5, we already saw a man carrying on an affair with his stepmother. We can see the sexual immorality was a problem for this church. That's certainly consistent with what we know from extra-biblical sources about Corinth as a city. But we can even fine-tune this a little further. You can see that the sexually immoral and adulterers are kind of uh twin terms. Sexually immoral in Greek is where we get our word pornography from. It's a general catch-all word for any kind of sexual sin, regardless of specific type. But then the word adulterer is a lot more specific, narrows it down. When the Bible talks about adultery, it's talking about uh someone who's married, who's carrying on a a sexual relationship with someone who's not their spouse outside of their marriage covenant. Again, these things seem to characterize the Corinthian believers. We saw this in chapter 5. We're going to see it again at the end of this chapter in chapter 6, and it will come up And passing in chapter 7. Clearly, this is a big problem for the Corinthian church if Paul's going to spend that much time trying to deal with it. But there's another type of sexual sin that Paul addresses among the Corinthians, which speaks to the cultural and historical moment that we also find ourselves in today in 21st century America. Notice what he says here, what he says in the ESV, men who practice homosexuality. Boy, if that doesn't culturally hit on the nose, I don't know what does. Given our own day and age. That's an interpretive translation, by the way. It actually lumps two different phrases that Paul mentions in Greek here into kind of one statement. And I want to break those two clauses down to understand how we are to answer for our convictions. Because we're living in a day and age, brothers and sisters. sisters where the cultural conversation at at w at where it's presently at right now is almost like things like homosexuality are are already just accepted in our society. And to call it into question, you're gonna be taken to task. You 're gonna be looked down upon. You're gonna be ridiculed and reviled. You might even be asked, how could you be so bigoted? And as Peter says, we might have an opportunity to give a reason for the hope that is in us. So let's unpack this really quick Because I think it might help give us some tools to answering where we're coming from with this issue that's so prevalent today. The first clause in this Men who practice homosexuality, phrase that really is in the original Greek, is translated by the Old King James Version, which I tend to like, as effeminate. The Greek word that Paul's using here literally means soft, and it only comes up in other two other places in the New Testament. It's usually talking about soft clothing. In the other two places. But here, talking about a person , and given the context of sexual morality, the term is used It is a masculine term in the original Greek. It refers to a man who is soft or effeminate. And so what's Paul talking about? What is he getting at? He's talking about the passive partner in a male homosexual relationship. I'm not going to say any more than that. I think that that speaks for itself. The second clause that's often translated as homosexuals is a compound word that means in Greek that means male and say the word for sexual intercourse. Now you know what a compound word is. To give a very different kind of compound word, you could say something like, in the context of martial arts, you might see someone do a roundhouse kick. Well, if you're seeing that in writing, roundhouse is one word, but it's a compound word. Right? Round and house. Put them together and it has a meaning. Interestingly enough, this word that Paul's using for homosexuals, it's a compound word. This is the first time In literary history, that we have where we find that word used the way Paul writes it. He's writing as a Jew, remember this. He's writing as a Jew who understands the Old Testament. Understand that. He's writing as a Jew who understands the Old Testament that speaks against homosexuality. So he puts these words together, male and sexual intercourse, and it refers to the active partner in a male homosexual relationship. This is why the ESV just puts these two phrases together. Men who practice homosexuality. Whatever side of the equation, it's covering both sides in the original language. Now there's been a lot of attempts in our contemporary context and culture to undermine any valuable meaning of this word to our current cultural debate about homosexuality. And there's all kinds of arguments that they use to do that that maybe you should be aware of. One, well Paul just made that word up. We don't really know what he means. That's one argument I've Another argument that Gordon Fee uh brings out in his commentary, which by the way was written before our cultural controversy that we we're in the middle of. He he talks about it like this. Some people look at this compound word, they separate the words out, and then they don't re trying to realize, okay Is the male the one who's doing the sexual intercourse or receiving it? And because we don't know, they rationalize that because we can't be certain of that, we can't be certain what it means. And if we can't be certain what it means, Paul doesn't mean anything. And if Paul doesn't mean anything, then this does not apply. Well, that doesn't make any sense because how can Paul mean nothing if he wrote something? Sisters, God's word is abundantly clear. When it's talking about this particular sexual sin. And Paul speaks speaks unequivocally against it when it knowing that it is rampant in Corinth as well as the rest of the Roman world of the first century, as he talks about in Romans chapter 1, verses 26 and 27 And so I just want to put this forward to you that if Paul is writing to a church where that particular sin was rampant and accepted Not just tolerated, but accepted. And Paul writes unequivocally and clearly about that issue. How are we to be about that issue? In our own society, we need to be clear of what is sin and what is not sin. And the question that comes up at this point as we look at this large list of sins, as we look at the warning that Paul has given about not inheriting the kingdom of God, how are we to respond to the warning implicit in this passage? Brothers and sisters, this warning should lead us to examine if we are deceived by any unrepentant sins in our own lives. That's really what we should be doing with this. It 's not that we're looking at somebody else saying, man, you got the problem. What about me? Right? We need to take the warnings of Scripture seriously. And I want us to consider why that is important this morning, especially in our reformed context. It's important because many of us who believe that the Bible teaches that those whom God elected for salvation are eternally secure in the hands of the Lord. We do not believe that the Bible teaches that a man or a woman can lose their salvation. once it's it's there. I mean Jesus makes it very clear. You know, you know, I and the Father are one. No one takes my people out of my hand. No one takes them out of my Father's hand. Those who come to me, I will in no wise cast out what God has d d begun in you, Paul says. Um I am confident that he will complete it or perfect it in the day of Christ Jesus We don't believe that people can lose their salvation. That's the first premise. But we believe that they will indeed persevere to the end by the grace of God. So why do we take the warning seriously? Because when we start with that assumption, it can easily lead us to not taking these warnings seriously. that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God because we think that these warnings apply to everyone but ourselves Well, those warnings aren't for me. They're for everybody else. Really? Do uh I want to challenge that assumption this morning because Scripture also calls us in 2 Peter 1 verse 10 to make our calling and our election sure. And if we're called to make our calling and election sure, that presupposes that we need to examine ourselves. Do you know what Paul says at the end of 2 Corinthians? In 2 Corinthians chapter 13? Somebody could fact-check me. I think it's somewhere around the vicinity. of verses 5 and 6, he says, examine yourselves to make sure that you are actually in the faith. He's saying this to people who profess faith in Jesus Christ, that they still must take the warnings seriously. And so as we examine ourselves this morning, let me just pose a few questions. That I think every one of us need to ask. Do we, let's personalize this. Ask yourself this: Do I have any unrepentant sin in my life? Do I have an attitude towards my sin that I'm okay with my sin? Have I made peace with my sins, rationalizing that it is okay, because these are just my besetting sins, and this is just the way I am? If so, we must turn from our sin to the Lord Jesus Christ. We must take these warnings seriously. Assurance of salvation and eternal security are no excuses for not taking the legitimate warnings of God in Scripture Seriously. Because there is a deception that comes with unrepentant sin. And I want to use the analogy here. You've heard this before, probably not from me, but you've heard it somewhere along the line. The analogy of the frog. You put a frog in a pot of water. And maybe that pot of water is either cold or lukewarm, but it's comfortable for the frog. And then you put the pot on the stove, and then you turn on the stove. And the pot starts heating up little by little by little and the frog is there. He's comfortable. It's heating up a little bit. So next point it's boiling. And next thing you know, you're boiling the frog alive. And the frog is not jumping out of the pan because the temperature has just gone up by incremental degrees, and the frog has not perceived the danger that it's in. Brothers and sisters, this is what unrepentant sin does to our hearts. Unrepentant sin in the heart in the life of a Christian works the same way. It hardens us. It has a tendency to blind us that we are in danger. It tends to fool us that our sin is not as that really that bad, that God will turn a blind eye because Christ has already died For our sin, and he's risen again from the dead. And while that is certainly true, that he did do that for sinners, that is presumption. When we presume upon God's grace, the practical outcome is a license to sin, at least in our own minds. And presuming upon grace, brothers and sisters, is not the same as resting in grace. Presuming on grace falsely assumes that God will ignore our sin because He's gracious. Resting in grace correctly knows and understands that God has sent his son to die for our sins, offering the greatest cost he could possibly give. And therefore it leads to a repentance of sin because we know that God is gracious to forgive. Presumption leads to continued sin. Resting in grace leads to repenting from sin. Sin. Now, this is really the heavy part of the message. This is the warning, the comfort. Is in the second point. Verse 11 leads our second point, the power of the gospel to transform. Okay, we have sin issues. We know this. We need to repent. We know that. Where do we find the strength and the power to do so? Verse 11. There's a description. Well, let me just read the whole verse and then we'll break it down. Paul says, as he's actually listing these problems and sins, and such are some of you. But you were washed. You were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Notice the description of life before the gospel for the Corinthians in the beginning of verse 11. It begins, and such were some of you. All those things that he's listed, you know, revilers, swindlers, homosexuals, adulterers, idolaters, the whole list of ten things, such were some of you, O Corinthians. Lest you think you're holier than thou. Notice that little English word were. Such were some of you The tense in Greek that Paul uses with that word communicates something that is ongoing in the past tense. Again, it's the difference between like you walked somewhere, which is it's done, it's finished, versus you are walking somewhere, you're looking at something that was ongoing. This is something that's ongoing in the past. Paul says that the Corinthians were such people. He's pointing to this list of sins. and vices and saying that these things consistently in an ongoing progressive way used to characterize you, O Corinthians. These were your sins. These characterize your past. This is how you identified. But they should not now. That's where the past tense comes in, right? These should not characterize you now. And it begs the question as to why we would continue to live in sin that characterized our lives before Christ. And this leads to the heart of the solution, which is the gospel itself that fuels the turning away from sin, and it fuels the renewal that we are called to live in. This is the good news part of it. Look at the end of verse 11. We see the power of gospel benefits. I'm calling them gospel benefits. The power of these benefits in transformation. While this is what they were, what are they now? But telling you, this is contrary to what you used to be, but you were what Washed, you were sanctified, and you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Spirit of our God. Three, I'm calling them gospel benefits. Many commentators think that these three things are actually kind of the same thing, looking at it from a different angle, like looking at a diamond. from different viewpoints, you see different luster and different sparkle from the diamond of redemption. That's what these things are. Let's break them down and just look at them very briefly. Very briefly for the sake of time. We have to understand that God is the one who accomplishes these things in our lives through the gospel. You are washed That's the first one. Now, when you were washed, we could translate that as saying you were washed thoroughly. In fact, some translations do translate it that way. The way that that word is worded in the original language has the idea of there's a separation going on. The washing brings separation between you and what was currently staining you, which was your You were washed thoroughly. Your sin has been taken away. Think of Psalm 103, verse 12 It illustrates this kind of sense of that verb when it says, As far as the east is from the west, so far does he what? Remove our transgressions from us. And the emphasis here is on the washing, being the removal of the guilt and the stain of those former sins, the ten of them that he mentioned. That should fuel our turning away from it. It's gone. Why would we go back? Some of you who are parents know from firsthand experience, um this happened in my household. When I was growing up, you know, your parents would get you ready for church in the morning. You got your nice church clothes on, you're clean, you've been washed, and what do you do while you're waiting for your parents to get your siblings ready? You go out and play and then you get dirty and this It's just like, come on, I just cleaned you. You went back out into it. That's the idea. You've been washed. Why would you go back? You were sanctified, second. This is a little harder to understand because when we use the term sanctification today in modern churches, most of us are thinking of the process that we go through throughout our whole lives of becoming more and more and more holy, where we're we're dying more and more and more and more to sin and living more and more and more and more to righteousness Paul's not using the term that way in this passage. He's using it in a very different way. And it's the idea of something that is being set apart for a holy purpose. Most commentators I read, and I happen to agree with them, actually associate the meaning of this word of being sanctified to meaning God's work of regeneration. or causing us to be born again from spiritual death, and then set apart and set aside as his holy people We've been made holy positionally, and the Lord no longer classifies us with the rest of the world. So then the question becomes. If we receive this benefit, why would we continue to live like the worlds that we've been called out from? That's the idea. Then the third one is you were justified. This one's a little easier to understand. That's what most of us think. Paul talks about this in Galatians 2, 3, and 4, in Romans 2, 3, and 4 as well there. It's the idea that God declares us righteous through faith in Jesus Christ. Now again, notice how that connects back to verse 9, when Paul says the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. We, on the other hand, as God's people, are righteous, not because our own self-righteousness. But we are righteous by faith. So why would we continue to live unrighteously then if we have been made righteous by faith? So again, why would we live as those who are not righteous? This leads to the next thing: the completeness of these benefits. I'm not going to say a lot about that. Except to say that when we talk about being washed, sanctified, and justified in this passage of verse 11, Paul's using a Greek tense verb that implies that this work is already completed. But note that very clearly. You've been washed, that's completed. You've been sanctified or set apart as holy. That's completed Completed. You've been justified. That's been completed. The work of God in redemption with those things is done. It's a done deal from God's point of view. There's a clear before, and there's a clear after. Spiritual rags to spiritual riches. That leads lastly to the means by which these benefits are received. He says two things very clearly. First, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And secondly, we know this is not our own doing. God accomplishes these things for us by the work of His Holy Spirit. So again, by way of application, how do these benefits of the gospel lead to things like repentance and truth Transformation, how do they lead to the before and the after? Well, the idea is that the benefits of washing, sanctification, and justification are the means that God uses in salvation to break the power of sin in your life, in my life, allowing us to live in freedom from sin. Notice that the gospel produces a before and an after effect. There is a change that happens. In those who are truly born again, those who are justified, those who are washed. First Peter 4:3 says this: For the time that has passed suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. And listen to this list living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. What is Peter saying? There's a before, there's an after. And one of the implications of the gospel is that you do not have to be defined By the sins that you once lived in. And that's true for me too. That's good news this morning. Some of you have lived in some of the sins that Paul mentions in this passage. Some of you in your past, you've been fornicators or sexually immoral. Some of you have been adulterers. Some of you have maybe practiced Homosexuality. Some of you have been greedy. Some of you have wrestled with alcohol addiction in your past. Some of you have loose tongues and are revilers towards your spouse and have been that way. But the good news of the gospel, brothers and sisters, is that you do not have to be identified With like a scarlet A on your chest, if you know that story. You don't have to wear the scarlet letter of your sin identifying you for everyone to know and then well that person did this or that person did that. The gospel. washes all that away. Praise God. Because some of us have done sin. Most of us, let's just not say some of us. Let's just be real. All of us have done sins that none of us we'd be completely ashamed of if other people in this room knew what we did. And we don't have to live in that shame. That's the beauty of the gospel that when we come to Jesus Christ, we are washed, it's done away with, we're justified, we are made righteous so that we can inherit a kingdom that really We shouldn't have a right to, but we do by grace. Now I want to say a word to those who are raised in the church specifically because I've been talking all this time about a before and an after. Some of you have the kind of testimony where it's like, man, I was really, really bad and deep in my sin, and and there was God got a hold of me through Christ, and all of a sudden I was a way different person in Christ. Totally redeemed. And we can see the before and the after. And the contrast. Some of you have a very different testimony sitting here Some of you may have the testimony. Well, I was raised going to church. My parents were faithful to instill the gospel and God's word into me. To me, and you know, Pastor, if you're asking me my testimony, I guess I don't know a day in my life where I didn't know and trust and love Jesus. As my Lord and Savior. Pastor, I don't know if I could really point out a sharp contrasting before and after. What about me? Does this passage not speak of me? Well, first of all, let me encourage you, if you have that kind of testimony Now I'm speaking for myself here. I my opinion, that's one of the greatest testimonies anyone can have. That you've always Known Christ in his faithfulness. But does this passage speak to you? Yes, it does. Because even if you've always known Christ, you've always struggled with sin then And what that means is, like the rest of us, you you still needed to be washed, you still needed to be sanctified and born again, you still needed to be justified. You still have the calling to pursue holiness and righteous living and not live according to this long list of sins. You still need to examine your heart You still need to see, oh, is am I living in unrepentant sin? You have the same call as the rest of us. Because the gospel itself, brothers and sisters, is the means by which we Find strength to fight sin. Take comfort in this this morning. Every one of those words, you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified. To use technical grammatical jargon. What's the subject of those verbs? Who's the one that accomplishes those actions? It's God in Christ Through his Holy Spirit. What's required of you? Look to Christ. Cling to Jesus. Continue to ask him for strength daily. To walk with him. I was raised going to church, but I was also one of those people that when it came to college, man, I went off the deep end, sin-wise. And I remember when the Lord got a hold of me in my second year of college, it was very much for me a before and after, and it freaked a lot of my friends out. I remember waking up the morning after the Lord really, I mean, just rocked my world and got a hold of my heart. I remember waking up and the first Thought I had in my mind, all right, Lord Jesus, where are we going today and what are we doing? Ask yourself that every day, brother And sisters clinging to Christ. Why? Because his name is the only name given among men under heaven by which we must be Saved. Come to Jesus. Cling to Jesus today. We should turn from our sins. Why? Because the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God God, and because of the transformative power of the gospel. This is not self-help, this is grace. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful for this day. We pray, O Lord, that you would take the benefits of the gospel, Lord, the transformative power of it. And in the name of Jesus. Jesus and by his spirit, Lord, work in us today. Save us from our sins. Separate us from our sins. Wash us. Sanctify us. Justify us, O Lord, that we may continue to walk in confidence before you as we come to the throne of grace. Be with us today, Lord. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen