Today we're looking at one of the passages that uh speaks to what we call Palm Sunday or the royal procession into Jerusalem. Uh I've chosen the Matthew passage because the Matthew version or Matthew's gospel is aimed directly at the Jewish people and greater emphasis, particularly with how the continuity of Jesus' ministry uh continues that of the Old Testament people of God. He writes in terms of basically understanding Matthew as a new Genesis. That's why it starts out with the uh lineage of Jesus is to show, as it did in Genesis, that this is a continuing story. That doesn't stand on its own at all. It's part of our God revealing to us what he has always said about how he was going to create a people unto himself. And so that's why the Matthew passage was on my list of ones to speak to today. So it'll be Matthew 21, verses 1 through 17. If you're able, I would invite you to send as I read it. You can follow along with me in your bulletin or in your Bible, or just listen and let it soak in. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethage on the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples saying to them Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone should say anything to you, you shall say the Lord has need to them of them. And immediately he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming to you lowly and sitting on a donkey. A colt, the foal of a donkey. So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. They brought the donkey, and the colt laid their clothes on them and set him on them And a great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitudes who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he had come into Jerusalem, all of the city was moved, saying, Who is this? So the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. Then Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all of those who bought and sold in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers. And the seats of those who sold us. And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves. Then the blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple and saying, Hosanna to the son of David, they were indignant. And said to him, Do you hear what those are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read, Out of the mouths of babes and nursing infants, you have perfected praise. Then he left them and went out of the city to Bethany, and he lodged there. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The title of today's sermon is Behold Your King. Please be seated. Well, this past Friday I was at the Great Lakes Naval Training Center, about uh 30-35 miles north of uh of Chicago. I and my son, who b who also has my same name, went there to watch my grandson, who also has the same name Graduate from Navy's boot camp. Three generation of men who graduated from that center. And it was kind of special to us. My gr my uh third son who is uh stationed on a ship out at uh in Washington State was able to get off and be with us too and it was very, very special having all of us and we're all Navy. guys there. Afterwards spending time with uh my grandson, I saw just how changed he was It's nothing surprising. He went off to boot camp as a really nice young kid. Now he walks differently. He stands much taller, his shoulders are back. You know, he stands up, he looks you in the eye when he talks to you He 's lost 30 pounds. He speaks much more directly. As my son, his father said, I didn't hear him say oom once. Which was kind of a big change. You see, that's what happens when Joe Civilian becomes Joe Sailor , or Joe Soldier, or Joe Marine. The first thing your kindly drill sergeant tells you is, son, you need to get your mind right. You learn very quickly that heretofore you never did anything really, right? You didn't know how to tie your shoes, you didn't know how to shine them, you certainly didn't know how to walk. And talking. And most importantly, you discover that your mind is full of mush and you need to get it right. That sergeant is dedicating his life for as long as he's got you there to helping you with that and to give you encouragement along the way. Now if any one of you has ever gone through this, anyone would tell you. That boot camp or offer training, however it comes across you, becoming a member of the forces, special forces. It's first and foremost a matter of the mind. Yeah, it's hard physically. Absolutely. It's got to be hard physically. And there's a lot you've got to learn, technical stuff that you gotta do. and how to fight fires without becoming part of it. Those kind of things are very important. But the most important thing is to change the way you think. And whatever, and when you discover, when you give in to that, and when you realize that that's what it's there for mostly Things get a lot easier. You get on board with a program. And when you do that, all manner of possibilities begin to open to you And for those who are suited to it, it becomes a great adventure. And why am I going through that? Well, basically, brothers and sisters, it's because if there's anything the scripture makes absolutely clear, is that being a Christian is first and foremost Getting our mind right about what we're about. Really knowing Jesus Christ. starts with changing our minds not only about him, but everything about for which he stands. It begins with putting away our old sloppy way of thinking, just going with the flow, whatever, man, you know, and realizing That what we need to do is get on board with thinking the way he thinks. Getting on with the program Even more than with that old drill, Sergeant. It means submitting our will to his will And when we do, just like it is in a lesser extent with the military, a whole new world of possibilities opened to us. A new world that we never even really knew existed. Filled with power, filled with opportunity, filled with hope. where you're able, once and for all, to put away fear and to actually live as if life was worth living. All of that comes from getting our minds right and having putting away that old creaturely way we thought before. My point is simply this. God sent his son into this world for us to get our minds right. Every aspect of Jesus' life, every event that happened to him, every word that he spoke was carefully crafted by God to reveal something about him to us. And it was all for a purpose, to reveal how we should change the way we think. There was a reason why Jesus came into this world and bid to be born in a manger in Bethlehem. You know, his earthly parents were from Nazareth. Instead of Galilee, you know, he was born in Bethlehem, but there was a reason for it. That whole excursion down to Egypt The slaughter of the innocent children, the arrival of the three kings, if we go with the Christmas format. That all just didn't happen. There was a reason for it. It teaches us something. Think about his temptation in the desert. I mean, where he goes, and the first thing he does is he gets hauled away. Scripture is very clear. He was dragged, if you will, by the Holy Spirit into the desert to be tempted by Satan. Why? Because he was teaching us that life as a Christian is a battle against a real foe, Satan, who can be overcome. Through the power of the Holy Spirit. It was part of his trial. It was part of his probation. He had to stand up to Satan in a sense face to face. Before he then could be qualified to go to the cross and bear our sins, so that we may face Satan in following him and have dominion over him. The point is that everything that he did said or went through didn't just happen. Everything he did was imbued with deep meaning God directed his steps. Nothing was left a chance. The script of his life was written before the dawn of the world. The outlines were revealed in the Old Testament of prophets. They were written down in Scripture. And we read them right here, particularly in Matthew. We are told this was done that it might be fulfilled what was spoken through the prophets. We've got to see that. It's the continuity. There is nothing here. In the sense of being new, like it's never uh been thought of before. Jesus' life on earth was meant to be understood as a revelation. What he said, what he did, perhaps what he did even more than what he said. And that comes down to us in your individual Bible studies, when you're out there pondering the Word of God, you really need to spend time in the narratives You need to examine our Lord. You need to look at him and see him as a real person and kind of enter into the life and and And try to experience what he experienced in some way, rather than reading it like you'd read a novel about some guy doing stuff. And it's really interesting stories, but it's not like it's real. Our Lord was very definitely real. And we need to see that what he went through, what he said, what he did was instructive for us. Now all of our instruction was there for us to ponder so that we may learn from it. And therefore, we, like that kindly old sergeant used to tell us, we need to get our mind right about what he's doing and think rightly about it. And then let's look at it a little more carefully right here in these verses. Three times in these verses that are here before us We are told that the things that are happening in them are to be understood through the lens of Scripture as part of a drama. Five of these 17 verses are either a quote or a paraphrase of an Old Testament verse. What is that supposed to teach us? What is that supposed to teach us? It says that our Lord is doing something intentionally so that we will, the people who are there, would see this is a fulfillment of Scripture. Intentionally pointing back. To the Old Testament. It's almost as if Jesus is getting out close to us and saying, look at me. Look at what I'm doing. Start thinking the way I want you to think. This is who I am, my child. And this is how you must think of me. So let's try to enter into that now as we look at the passage a little closer. Let's start with where he starts. The entry into Jerusalem. I simply don't have time to go through everything in here. All right. I heard somebody say, thank goodness. But So let me just focus on the high points. Notice how carefully staged it was He sends his disciples ahead. He tells them exactly what they're going to do. It's all been arranged. There's a donkey and a crow waiting for him. Jesus had to enter into Jerusalem riding on a donkey's colt because that was what was planned. Now notice what is not there. In the other gospels we read about some interaction that goes on. In the other gospels, there's some expansion of what they did when they went in to get the donkey and the colt. Matthew says, That's not what we're getting at. What we're getting at is our Lord is intentional in what he's doing. He wants the donkey and the colt. How the donkey and the colt get there is not the big deal. It's the fact that the donkey and the colt are waiting for him. So go get them and bring them here. He's a man in charge. He knows what he's doing. Now he entered Jerusalem in this special way to make a statement. The Gospel of John tells us that Jesus had been to Jerusalem at other times. I'm not going to get into that. It's just what it says. Therefore, it's true. But this time is different. This time is special. This time the people of God say, the king is coming. And he's coming to you. That's why the donkey was chosen. Now here's where I want you to enter into this picture. How many of you have ever ridden a donkey? Ah At least one. Okay. Donkeys are not real big creatures. If you're as tall as I am Tall as Jesus was, your feet are gonna drag the ground. It's not like riding a mule. The mule was actually the weap the weapon of The mule was actually the ride of choice for grand uh Old Testament potentates who wanted to show off. And you get a really big mule. And you're high up. You're well off the ground. And the old tiny uh kings and all, that's exactly what they wanted to be. They're above the crowds. The crowds looking up to them. They're filled with majesty and glory. We usually have soldiers that are wandering around on next to them, so that if anybody got close to them, the soldiers had some very strong words and pointed spears to keep them away. But that's not how our Lord came in. Our Lord had a donkey. And he had some, his disciples put some clothes on. He crawled up on that donkey. I imagine his feet were just about that far off the ground. And you're standing there in that crowd. Suppose you're somewhere about ten deep in that crowd. And you are craning around trying to see him, and all you can see is just his head, maybe. moving in front of you. Now what is our Lord teaching us here? Yeah, okay. Zechariah said, come on a donkey, so we've got to come on a donkey. But why did God set it up back in the Old Testament that he was coming on a donkey? What is that teaching us? Well, first of all, he's coming in a way that very clearly communicates this is the fulfillment of Scripture, so therefore They know that he's making a statement that he is the Messiah. He is the Son of David. He's coming in the way the Son of David was said to be coming. That's why they say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord or the Son. Of David, thus is the son of David. But the big point is: the son of David came to be with his people. To be right there in the midst of them. They could reach out and they could touch him. He came not as a As a king lifted up on a mule saying, I'm better than you. He certainly was better than us. He was perfect. We're not. But he came as one who is among his people, who is not lording it over his people. He came to serve That's pretty neat. He came as one of his people And identified with them as such. And he came to Jerusalem. He chose this entry, coming into this specific city, and he did so in a manner that could not be mistaken. He came as the rightful king of his covenant people, the king of his church And that's what I want to focus on next. Jesus came to Jerusalem Instead of making this statement out in, you know, at the Jordan River or something, he came to Jerusalem in order to say that he's coming into his church. Jerusalem, as the scriptures teach us, has significance far beyond its earthly reality. It was the physical representation of the heavenly city of God. Mount Zion, as we know, was where God was to gather all of the nations to himself. The Old Testament clearly maintains it. The nations were going to come to Jerusalem, and there they were going to be taught to obey his commands. Here we are, right back to that, getting their mind right again. You're not going to live the way you used to live. You're not going to think the way you used to think about as a as uh members of the secular nations out there You've got to come to Jerusalem to get your mind right. To think about how God wants you to live and how God wants you to serve, and how God will equip you. to do those things. In the Psalms, David said it was from Zion that the people were to declare his deeds. Zion was to be that foghorn, if you want, that broadcasts out into the fog and into the darkness and says, this is the gospel. Micah tells us that it was from Zion that the Lord would rule over the weak remnants of the earth Isaiah tells us that Zion was to send out messengers to all the nations. So Zion then was to be To give birth, if you will, to the children of God and to evangelize the world. And that sounds really New Testament, right? Sounds like really New Testament teachings It's nothing new. It's exactly what our Lord came to do. Zosion symbolized more than just the capital city of Israel's true king. It was more than just a throne room. Jerusalem existed as an earthly metaphor for the living church of God. Think about Jerusalem and then think about Liberty Church. Think about the crowd and think about yourself. That's who we are. That's the metaphor. We're not gazing at some distant event 2,000 years ago and just saying, boy, that's really neat. We're gazing at a present reality, the truth about who we are and who we are as a church Jerusalem stood for all that God was going to do to bring about his good ends. It was the earthly incarnation of the heavenly Jerusalem where God dwells. Jesus was not going into Jerusalem just to sit around the throne room and be pampered. Jesus was going to Jerusalem to bring about the great day of the Lord. He knew what was going on there. He knew what was going to happen there. He came in as the Lord, the true Messiah, the son of David. so that as he entered into Jerusalem, Jerusalem would ever know, always know, that their king had come, and then everything that happened to him there would be seen as what they did about it. But he came about in order to accomplish the great day of the Lord. He came there so as to turn Zion into a nation of priests, a holy nation, a people who have been set aside for God's glory. Now that's what he did. That was the purpose of it. Now all of those things were signified by him coming as he did. As a king, a true king. But lowly sitting on a donkey. And what he is saying is, this is how you need to think about me. A whole new world will open up to you full of possibilities. When you accept me as I am and what I stand for, I have come To make you more than you ever imagined you could be. Do you believe that? I hope you do Because it's true. That's why Jesus goes immediately to the temple. This also is different in Matthew Matthew treats it other differently than Mark and But he goes immediately to the temple He's driving home a point. He comes in as a lowly king, rather than on a donkey. I'm just one of you guys. No, that's wrong. I'm not just one of you guys. I'm one of you guys. I'm part of you. We're together. You are mine and I am yours. He comes in. Well, when he comes in through those gates, he goes to the temple, and it's not your lowly submissive Jesus. It's the Royal King saying, this has got to change. He came in and he goes directly to the temple and he drives home a point Jesus came to Jerusalem. He came to his church in order to make her great. But first, she must be purified. She must have all of those in her who defile her sacred precincts Kicked out. Jerusalem is the city of God, as I've already said. It's where God is in his holy temple. It's a picture of heaven itself in a metaphor with God at the center of it In the Revelation, as we have seen thus far, Jesus makes sure that we understand that. Now, like we read in chapter eleven a few weeks back, when John was uh given a message and told to go to uh Jerusalem and to measure the heavenly temple that he found there. But he was specifically told not to measure the court of the Gentiles. Which is interesting. The very place where Jesus is here casting out all of these merchants. No, that's not by chance. The temple symbolizes the place where God meets with his people, his church. It is the temple where now God is dwelling with his believers. And those who truly love him in their hearts have a place there. Those who love the Lord Jesus Christ. Who confess Him before men, who have committed their lives to Him and submitted their wills to Him, to His will, then they have a place in this temple. And what he's saying here in the score of the Gentiles by cleansing it is that that's where the number of Gentiles are going to be welcomed who think this way. He's breaking down the barriers between the Jews and the Gentiles, cleansing the Gentiles and saying, this is part of my temple. The Gentiles are here. This is a house of prayer for them. And therefore there shall be no division among them. The Gentiles must not be trampled on by those who are still stuck in their idolatries. Those who are, as represented by those who are buying and selling there. Those who are trying to serve God and serve mammon. And he says, that ain't gonna happen. You got two gods. You got one who's a real God and one who's not. Who are you going to serve? There is no place in the court of the Gentiles for those who are Christian in name only. They are an abomination to our Christ. They must be purged from the church. And when judgment comes. Jesus' actions here point to what he would do. Judgment begins with the household of God. And when the Lord Jesus Christ comes, this next time, he's not going to be riding a donkey. He's coming with legions of angels and with a sounding trumpet. And he will cleanse his temple once and for all. When Jesus entered into Jerusalem, the first time 2,000 years ago, He was revealing that he came to make her great. But first, he had to make her holy. And therefore, when he entered the temple, the first thing he did was cleanse it Brothers and sisters, what I'm going to ask you here to do is to take this teaching and apply it to how do you think about your church, our church. Do you see it as holy? Do you see it as holy to our God? Do you see it as a place where you come to be in the presence of Christ And therefore purifying it and making it holy before the nations in the eyes of the nations. Is that something that burns in your heart? Like it burned in our Lord's heart. Are you willing in your own lives to cast out the merchants and the sellers of stuff? so that our Christ will have free reign with what he wants in your life. He doesn't share his throne. And he certainly doesn't share his throne with the merchants of Babylon, those who Worship the beast. So the last thing that we see Jesus doing in this passage is healing the blind and the lame and the people shouting for joy. He comes into his city. He's purified his temple. He's purified the temple. And he immediately sets about going to work. He sets about revealing what God intends to do for the world through his church and in his church He took people who were defective in their whole being, people who could not see, people who could not walk. He took defective human beings and he made them whole in his temple. Yeah, does that kind of ring like something that's supposed to happen in the church? Doesn't it? We love coming to worship services. I hope you do. I do. I love singing the Lord's praise. I love hearing from his word. I love all that stuff. And that is a primary activity of the church, but it is not the only one. The purpose of Christ's church is a place where people can be healed If we only open the doors of this church to those who are perfect, we're gonna have an empty church. Yeah, everybody agree. If we think of ourselves as being, well, I'm okay, I'd just like to have people come in that are just as okay as I am. Well, again, what are we effectively saying? That there's no healing left to be done in us. No. Our Christ created his church. He created his temple, his mount or his Zion, so that people who are broken People who have seen the world perhaps pass them by and they're and they don't they don't have that sense of accomplishment, they don't have that sense of purpose, they don't have that sense of meaning in their life. He sees who see themselves in some way as crippled, who see themselves as blind, who know there's something out there, they just don't know what it tastes like And who yearn for it more than anything else in the world. Jesus came into this world not to condemn the world, but to save it. And that means setting the prisoners free. Enabling the lame to walk, so that the blind may see He came to take away the misery that sin has brought upon mankind. Until he returns again, he's not going to take out the physical misery that is in this world. He can heal individuals, and I've seen what I have to call as miraculous healing in my life, but it's not the most common way. People have to suffer. There's a reason for it. But that suffering that is external to them does not have to translate to internal suffering There are people in this very room who can tell you that they are very intimately acquainted with physical suffering, but their mind is at peace because they know the healing grace that comes to the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus is m in this church, and he is healing and bringing people out of despair. He came to heal the nations, to tear down all of the things that separate people. There is to be no hatred or enmity between those That he expressed in terms of nations and races. He came to take away the sting of death To enable the people to live a flourishing life until he returns and eternal life with him forever. You see, the church, the ministry of the true Jerusalem is to be a place where people find purification from the sains that are in this world, so that they may apply themselves to the task of bringing further healing. to the world. The Church of Jesus Christ must understand its ultimate mission in terms of what Jesus did within it after he had cleansed it. We like our Lord have not come to an earthly Jerusalem, our heavenly Jerusalem, in order to sit on our chairs. And watch TV all day. We are to be a force of healing, a force of reconciliation And in this, as in all things, we must get our minds right. We have been called to a mighty army, and we must think that way. Because that's what Jesus taught when he came into Jerusalem riding on a donkey. All that brings me to the last point I want to make today. The drama which we see here in chapter 21 does not enter in these few verses. Matthew goes on to chapter 28. When Jesus, before he ascends into heaven and leases people, he gives them a great commission. So we must understand That he entered into Jerusalem to do all of the things he did there so that he could leave them with the teachings of Matthew 28. Entry into Jerusalem on the first Palm Sunday was not and is not his true Jerusalem. Zion was always a heavenly John, the church In fact, the entire city, the entire race that was represented with the earthly Jerusalem, had become a den of thieves, and he came to cleanse it. The city was like the temple. It was given over to things of men, not things of God. They wound up killing their king. So like Adam and Eve in the garden, it had fallen for the lies of Satan. And therefore, when his true king came, they did not discover or did not see him. They did not receive him with true faith. In a few days they delivered him up to be crucified, all of which was part of God's plan. Jesus had to die in order to be our high priest. So we need to get our minds right about that too. But when Jesus came in and cleansed that temple, He made a statement about earthly Jerusalem that they ignored. And therefore, in 70 A. D. because it had not received its king, It was turned into rubble. And this temple was torn down and was never built again. So, after that Jerusalem went away, what Jesus left in this world was his true Jerusalem, his visible church And he constituted his church that way. And disclosing words are a command to that church. You know them as well as I do. Go, make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them, teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always. Liberty Church, do you believe that? Do you believe he has given you a calling? Do you believe that he has done all things to fit you for that calling? Do you understand that he came into Jerusalem and died on a cross so that you can do that calling? And do you also realize that what he did there was a metaphor for one day when he comes again And our earthly ministry will be done. And he will claim us for his own in fulfillment of the scriptures. Let's pray. Fernando God, I thank you for this day. I thank you for the teaching of Palm Sunday. Such a beautiful ceremony, but such a beautiful metaphor that you established. Oh my God , if nothing else, the sheer majesty of what you've done, the perfection of it, the literary genius of it. It should should infrill us. That alone should testify to the fact that this this is no common man-derived document These are the words of God, and you are the Son of God, and you came and did things, everything that has to be done, so that we then, by getting our mind right, can enter into your glory. And can rejoice with you. Lord and God, teach us what it means that you came lowly riding on a donkey. Teach us that we were there. In that crowd looking at you, having our eyes and our hearts lifted as we shouted, Hosanna. And then remind us that it was our sin that you came to deal with. The sin of the people who shot at Hosanna. It was you who sat on that cross and said, forgive them. It was you who poured out your very own blood. Had your body broken, so that people who at first rejoiced, but then turned in anger to put you on the cross might be saved. That's who we are. We have despised you. We've turned away from you many times in our lives. And yet your patience is always to bring us back and to bring us to your cross and to show us that you loved us before we ever thought about loving you. Grant us, oh glory God, that we may know it and then Lord equip us to do the good works that you have set before all creation for us to walk in Lord, equip us to be vehicles through which the blind are given sight, and the lame are taught to walk, the deaf to hear. Help us, Lord God, to do your will and to love it, and to see all kinds of possibilities open up for where you would have us go. Give us the excitement that comes from serving a living King. Open our eyes to behold our King. For I pray this in the name of the living Christ, who rules forever and ever, the Alpha and the Omega, Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God. Amen.