Amen. Thank you, Dave. Becky. This morning we uh returned to the Gospel of Mark. We've been away for a bit. So turn in your Bibles, please, to Mark chapter four, as we continue our series of messages through this book. Mark chapter four. We'll begin at verse one and we'll dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. As we do. Mark, chapter four Verse 1. And again he began to teach by the sea. And a great multitude was gathered to him. So that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea. And the whole multitude was on the land facing the sea Then he taught them many things by parables, and said to them in his teaching, listen, behold, a sower went out to sow. And it happened, as he sowed, that some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds of the air came and devoured it. Some fell on stony ground, where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up, it was scorched, and because it had no root, it withered away. And some seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no crop. But other seed fell on good ground, and yielded a crop that sprang up, increased, and produced some thirty-fold, some sixty, and some a hundred. And he said to them, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. But when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parable. And he said to them, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. But to those who are outside, all things come in parables. So that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they should turn and their sins be forgiven them. And he said to them, Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? The sower sows the word. And these are the ones by the wayside where the word is sown. When they hear, Satan comes immediately and takes away the word that was sown in their hearts. These likewise are the ones sown on stony ground, who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with gladness. And they have no root in themselves. And so endure only for a time. Afterward, when tribulation or persecution arises for the word 's sake, immediately they stumble. Now, these are the ones sown among thorns. They're the ones who hear the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the desire for other things entering in, choke the word. and it becomes unfruitful. But these are the ones sown on good ground. Those who hear the word accept it and bear fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some a hundred. This is God's word. May He add His blessing to it. Let's pray. Father, that is our heart's desire that you would take the word and bless it to our souls. We are in various conditions here this day, some strong in the Lord, some weak. Some outside of Christ, some longing to understand these things, some without any interest, perhaps. So Father, we pray for your Holy Spirit to do his glorious work. And uh we pray that your word uh would uh take root within our hearts this day. Open our eyes, open our understanding. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we come in our journey through the Gospel of Mark to a passage which could be called simple. And yet it could be called profound. Among the easiest of Christ's sayings to understand, but containing a truth that is almost impossible to comprehend. Among the easiest of all Christ's teachings to understand, but containing a proof, a truth, which is almost impossible to comprehend. Look at uh chapter 4 and verse 1. And again he began to teach by the sea, and a great multitude was gathered to him, so that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea, and the whole multitude was on the land. facing the sea. Several times now in the Gospel of Mark we've seen great multitudes come to Jesus. On one occasion he told the disciples to keep a boat ready in case the crush was so great that that he would have to get into the boat in order to continue to teach. In this case, he began in a boat with the people on the shore listening to his teaching. And he told them a parable that has become quite familiar to us, a parable that's recounted in Matthew and Luke as well, the parable of the sower. I'd like to think that even if Jesus had not interpreted this parable for us, we would still have been able to understand it to some degree. It's true the disciples and others asked Jesus to explain it to them, and he did, but he might just as easily have said, why don't you think about it for a while and discuss it among yourselves? I think this the truth of what I've said will uh will be revealed to you. Meditate on it, and it might become clear. But since we have his infallible interpretation, we have no excuse for misunderstanding this Even so, it might help us to understand a little bit about first century farming methods in Palestine. At that time and place, wrote R. C. Stroll, the land was not cleared of stones and plowed before the seed was planted The common way of planting was to just go out and scatter the seed and then plow. In fact, the term plow, he writes, has little relation to what we think of as plowing today. In ancient Israel, a plow was little more than a pointed stick with which one broke up the soil a little bit so that some seed could sink in. So it wouldn't be unusual in that culture for some of the seed that a farmer planted, or profusely scattered, you might say To first of all fall by the wayside, as it does in verse 4, perhaps on a walkway where the soil was firm, where the seed had no opportunity to work its way into the soil because the ground was hard Jesus interprets this for us in verse 15. In this case, he says there's no reception of the seed. It falls where the heart is hardened to it. The hearer doesn't understand or believe what is said. He said to them , verse 15, These are the ones by the wayside where the word is sown. When they hear, Satan immediately comes, Satan comes immediately and takes away the word that was sown in their hearts Just as birds would carry away seed that lands on a hard, worn path or on your driveway, for example, on a sidewalk. There's been no preparatory work. The seed does not germinate. The message amounts to just noise to the hearer. He doesn't see how it applies to him. And it's just swiftly carried away by Satan. Then verses 5 and 6 gives us another effect of the another way the seed responds. As it's cast out, some fell on stony ground where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth, but when the sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root it withered away. Now when you think about this stony ground, uh don't picture it so much as as ground that has a lot of gravel in it, little stones, little rocks. Rather I think it it's helpful to picture it uh like a boulder with a thin layer of soil upon it, maybe an inch, maybe an inch and a half. Picture it that in your mind because that'll give you a better idea of what he's saying. So the seed does in fact germinate The plant begins to spring up, but the roots are hindered. It's like if you if you put a little soil here and water on the pulpit. What's a the light coming in here? You might have uh sea germinate, but it's not gonna it's not gonna thrive. Eventually it's gonna wither away So the plant springs up, but the roots are hindered by the boulder, by the rock, and when the sun is hot and the weather dry, the plant withers away. It has no depth of root. Jesus interprets that for us in verses 16 and 17. These likewise are the ones sown on stony ground who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with gladness. And they have no root in themselves, and so endure only for a time. Afterward, when tribulation or persecution arises for the word's sake, immediately they stumble. Here's the case of one who hears the word with gladness. But there's no depth to his commitment. There is evidence of life, evidence of growth, but it does not last He doesn't persevere. And it is he who endures to the end, Jesus said, who will be saved. As soon as this man or woman experiences any tribulation or persecution for the sake of the word, As soon as this mother or father says, that's foolishness, I forbid you from that sort of fanaticism. Or as soon as one of his friends mocks him for his newfound faith, whatever joy he first felt when he heard the word tends to evaporate He stumbles, and as Jesus puts it, the plant withers away. Verse 7, here's a different case. The seed falls not on stony ground where there's a thin layer of soil, but the seed falls where other plants have already taken root. The seed falls among thorns. Think of thorny weeds, difficult to uproot. The thorns grow up and they choke the new seed. So it yields no crop. Jesus interprets it for us in verses 18 to 19. He says, Now these are the ones sown among thorns. They're the ones who hear the word. And the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the desire for other things , the desires for other things entering in, choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful. So here the seed falls amongst thorns, amongst thorny plants, and they've already taken root there, and the seed is fighting to find a way in there, and the thorns choke it out And Jesus describes it, the cares of this world. First thing he mentions, the cares of this world. You know, I I I heard about Jesus, I heard the I heard the word, I read the word, somebody gave me a tract, somebody witnessed to me at work, and that's all very interesting. But Uh uh maybe I'll think of this uh sometime later. My top priorities now, I gotta get my degree, I gotta land a good job, I gotta buy uh buy my home, I gotta find a wife, I gotta uh uh build a family, whatever The cares of this world. You're going through this world. There are plenty of cares, plenty of things to worry about, plenty of uh things you have to do. Just the normal cares of this world, they choke out the word. And the deceitfulness of riches, Jesus says. They can choke the word. Why would they call riches deceitful? How are they deceitful? Well, they promise comfort, they promise pleasure, they promise happiness, they promise joy, but they don't deliver. If I'm going to be out of debt at the age of 30, if I'm going to be comfortable at the age of 40, if I'm going to be retired at the age of 50, I've got to keep my nose to the grindstone. I don't have time to think about uh who created me or why I'm here or uh pie in the sky by and by The cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the desire for other things chokes the word. The desire for other things might be fame. Might be pleasure. Might be power. Chokes the word and it becomes unfruitful. And so we read that the Apostle John, who probably heard Jesus tell this parable several times, wrote in his first epistle, Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that's in the world, the lust of the flesh, you might think of pleasure there , the lust of the eyes, perhaps wealth, the pride of life, power, fame. Authority is not of the Father, but it's of the world, and the world is passing away and the lust thereof. But he who does the will of God abides forever. First John 1, 15 to 17 So some seed fell by the wayside. It was immediately taken up. It didn't find any soil that was ready to receive it. And it was eaten by the birds. Some fell where there was no depth of earth. It sprang up, but the roots couldn't get down, and it withered away. Some fell among thorns, which grew up and choked it, and the seed yielded no crop But some seed fell on good ground and it yielded a crop thirtyfold, sixty-fold, a hundredfold, Jesus said. That fourth group represents those who hear the word, accept it. And bear fruit to different degrees, Jesus said, verse 20. In this case, the seed has found ground that was prepared to receive it, soil that was ready for the seed. It was not uh caked and hardened like a well worn path. It was not merely a thin layer of soil over a rock or a boulder with no depth of earth. It was not in a place of thorns where the thorns could could grow up and choke it out. The soil was loose enough, moist enough to receive the seed, deep enough to allow room for the roots to expand, a place clear of thorns and noxious weeds that would, if present, choke it out. Now, as familiar as this parable may be to many of us, there are some things from this passage that I think should be reinforced. First of all, this parable should be an encouragement to every one of us, every believer here , as we give others the good news of the gospel. As we scatter the seed of God's word, we are not responsible for how that word is received. We're not responsible for how the word is received. I'm not saying we shouldn't care how it is received. Of course we should. Paul said, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel was that they might be saved. I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Of course we should care. We should beseech God that He would take the Word and anoint it and bless it and use it and bring these souls who heard it. Whether it's a friend at work or at school or or or someone in your neighborhood or a a family member who heard the word of God from you, you're praying, you should be praying that God would take it and bless it and anoint it and that fruit would come of it We should water the seed with prayer. We should ask God to be merciful to the hearers as it was merciful to us. But we are not to imagine that we have somehow failed if we do not see seed bearing fruit. Missionaries can labor faithfully for decades and not see converts. This parable reminds us that it's possible for people to respond with joy to the gospel message and yet fall away. If there was any doubt about that in your mind, this parable should take it away. People can respond with joy to the gospel message and yet fall away. And never have been truly converted. As Luke records the parable, Jesus explained that the seed sown on rocky soil, which quickly springs up, describes those who, quote, believe for a while. And in time of temptation, fall away. They believe for a while. They have some faith, some measure of faith, but it's evidently not saving faith, because they're not ultimately saved. It's a spurious faith. It's a temporary faith. Salvation doesn't come from a mere head knowledge or intellectual assent to the message of the gospel, that which even the demons experience Nor does salvation result from raising your hand or walking forward at an evangelistic meeting. That may or may not indicate that salvation has in fact taken place in your soul. R. C. Sprohl says that on the night he was converted, his best friend also made a profession of faith. They both wrote a letter to their girlfriends that night telling them about their newfound faith, telling them about their conversion. However, he writes, when we woke up in the morning, my friend had completely repudiated what he had embraced with joy the night before. Whereas my life, he says, was changed forever Forever. Immediately there was some evidence of life. The plant sprang up, the word was received with joy, but it had no depth of root. And it immediately withered away. It's possible for the plant to immediately spring, for the word to be received with joy, but Profession of saving faith is not the same as possession of saving faith. True saving faith is a result of a genuine working in the heart of man A man, woman, or child, by the Holy Spirit of God. True saving faith in Christ is a gift of God Our shorter catechism says faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive and rest upon Him alone for salvation as He's offered to us in the gospel. No one can exercise true saving faith Unless he sees his sin as real and deserving of God's judgment. No one can see that Without having been born from above, born again, renewed by God's Holy Spirit. It's a supernatural work. That's why Jesus said to Nicodemus, unless a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now we dealt with this at greater length in our sermon, What is True Saving Faith? You can find that on our church website if you're interested in more information on this. But you might say this. As the soil must be prepared to receive the seed for there to be an abundant return, even so the soul must be prepared by our Heavenly Father to receive the word. It's only after the preparatory work of the Holy Spirit that the soul becomes receptive to the Word of God. Thirdly, This parable is in many ways, as I said, among the easiest of all Jesus parables to interpret, and it makes it a whole lot easier when Jesus interprets it for us. So much so that Jesus wondered that his disciples would a had to ask him to explain it. You don't understand this parable? How then will you understand any parable? In other words, uh And yet, and yet, there are in this passage a few verses that are for some, I suspect, exceedingly difficult to comprehend. And it's very tempting to just skip over them. Look at them again, verses ten to twelve. But when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parable. Apparently not just the twelve, but some others who were there. And he said to them, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, all things come in parables. So that, and then he quotes from Isaiah, seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they should turn and their sins be forgiven them. Jesus is clearly saying here, parables have two purposes, two main purposes. The purpose of a parable is twofold. First, it reveals truth to those who have been granted the grace, the unmerited favor to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. These people are called in Scripture God's children, or his own, or his bride, or his sheep, or his church, or his elect. or his chosen ones. They have his Holy Spirit within them. And that Holy Spirit, within them, he helps them to understand and interpret his word. So that's one reason Jesus told parables. They're very memorable. Once you hear the story of the prodigal son, you'll remember it. Once you hear this story of the sower, you'll remember it. So we can meditate upon it, we can think about it at other times. It helps to put the word in our hearts, you see. So the the purpose of parables was first of all then to help believers to understand Understand the things of the kingdom of God. But then he says the second purpose of a parable is to hide the truth from those who are outside. These are not sheep, these are goats. These are not of the elect, these are lost, and will not come to Christ. By way of explanation, Jesus refers back to something that he said to Isaiah in the passage from chapter 6. of Isaiah, which of all Isaiah's chapters is one of the most familiar to us because it describes Isaiah's vision of the throne room of God. After Isaiah acknowledges his sin, remember, woe is me, for I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell amongst the people of unclean lips. After the seraph touches his lips with a live coal from off the altar, declaring that Isaiah's iniquity is taken away, his sin is purged. The Lord asks, Whom shall I send? Who will go for us? And Isaiah says, Well here am I, send me. And what was the mission Isaiah was sent upon? Go and tell this people, keep on hearing but do not understand, keep on seeing, but do not perceive. And then the Lord proclaims something that it makes that it seems clear, is something that only His Spirit can fulfill It's almost as if he's addressing the Holy Spirit here. The Lord says, Make the heart of this people dull and their ears heavy and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and return and be healed. What? Isaiah said probably thinking, you want me to go to this people, but you don't want them to really hear what what I'm saying This can be accomplished simply by withdrawing God's grace and leaving only his justice Permitting hardened hearts to continue to be hard. You might say, permitting the birds of the air to devour the seed. Evidently, and here's the key, evidently, because of their sin God had already determined and declared his judgment upon Judah. His anger had been aroused, as it says in Isaiah 5. Verse 25. He was sending Isaiah to pronounce judgment, even as he sent Jonah to Nineveh to pronounce judgment. But there's a big difference. In this case, his intention was not ultimately the repentance of Judah, because he had already determined that Judah would be exiled as was her sister Israel. Isaiah's ministry was prophetic, but it was not intended by God to bring his people to true repentance. Isaiah's ministry was prophetic. He was declaring God's word, he was pronouncing judgment, but it was not intended by God to bring his people to repentance. Why not? Because God had already determined to judge them for their sin. And he determined how he was going to judge them. And so make the heart of this people dull, make their ears dull of hearing. I don't want them to repent. Now that's that's for some mind-boggling. In a similar way, God was saving some out of Palestine in Jesus' day, many in fact. But he had already determined that some would not be redeemed. Many were to be left in their sin. So Jesus was saying the same parables that reveal the truth to those of you that God the Father has determined to save. They also veil the truth from those he has determined to leave in their sins. He says, to those who are outside, all things come in parables, so that seeing they may see and not perceive. And hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they should turn and their sins be forgiven. Good example of this is the Pharisees. They walk away and they scratch their head and they say, Well, what do you think that meant? Was he talking about us, you think? And they didn't get it. And and he he bailed his truth in such a way that they wouldn't get it. Now, this is a hard saying. It is hard to understand. It is hard to get our heads around. It would be easier for us to imagine that God is doing all He can possibly do. to reach everyone with the good news. And the only reason that he's unsuccessful in so many cases is that their hearts are hard. And God's not going to force himself on them. We don't want to think that God chooses to save some and chooses to leave others in their sin. We are in fact tempted to walk away from any church or anyone who says such a thing, such a crazy thing We're tempted to try to find someone who makes more sense. We're not, as Americans or as modern believers, unique in this, by the way. Listen to this. Jesus said, It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit. They are life. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe and who would betray him. And he said this, listen. Therefore, I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my father. And what happened? From that time on, many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. What do you say? That we can't get our minds around that. And they just walked away. That was John 6, 63 to 66. Now let's try to think rationally about this. It is evident, or should be evident, that God is sovereign We call him King. We call Jesus the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. He reigns, in other words. He is in control. He is above all. Some of the verses we read in yesterday's New Members seminar. Daniel 435. He does according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand nor say unto him, What doest thou? Psalm 135, 6. Whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deep places. Ephesians 1 11, in whom in Christ also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him, who works all things according to the counsel of his will. God doesn't seek counsel from angels, from Satan, from anybody else. He does all things according to the counsel of his will. But our God is in heaven. He does whatever he pleases. Psalm 115, verse 3 God is sovereign. I trust we would all acknowledge that. It pleased God to save Moses and to leave Pharaoh in his sin. To allow him to harden his heart is one way we could put it, or as some passages put it, to harden Pharaoh's heart. Exodus 1020. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart and he did not let the children of Israel go. The Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart and he did not let the children of Israel go. Now, let me ask you, could God have saved Pharaoh, do you think, if he determined to do so? Of course. How about King Herod I, the one who killed all the babies? Could God have saved Herod? Yes. How about Herod Agrippa? Could God have saved him, the one who slew John the Baptist? Could he have opened his heart? How about Pilate? Could God have opened his heart? Could God have convicted him of sin and brought him to saving faith? What about a man on death row? Do you think God could save a man on death row? What about one of those two people that were with Jesus, that were dying alongside of Jesus, those two thieves who were being executed for their crimes? What about them? Do you think God could have saved one of them? Do you? Of course he did. What about the other one? You think God could have saved him? Could a sovereign God have saved him too? What about that zealous Jew who was throwing believers into prison after the resurrection? Remember he was standing by while Christians die? The one who was breathing out threats and murders against the disciples of the Lord, making havoc in the church? What was his name? Gaul? Gaul of Sardis? Could God have saved him? He did. Amen. Acts 16, 14 says, the Lord opened Lydia's heart so that she attended the things She heeded the things that were spoken of Paul. Acts 16, 14. He opened Lydia's heart, and she listened and heeded what Paul said. Could God have opened other hearts? Could he have opened the heart of the, say, the keeper of the prison in Philippi, who locked up Paul and Silas, remember? Could he have opened his heart? He did. Thank you, Linda. He did. Uh couldn't he have saved his family? He did. In Acts 13 we read this. Listen closely. When the Gentiles heard the preaching of Paul and Barnabas , And here's the quote, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. Acts 13, 48. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. Now we don't know how many that was at that time. Let's say there were a hundred people that heard that preaching. And eighty of them who had been appointed to eternal life believed. If God appointed eighty to eternal life, do you think he's powerful enough that he could have appointed 81? 85? How about 100? Could he not have appointed all of them to eternal life? All who heard the word that day. Would that have been too hard for God? Now let's follow this line of thinking to its logical conclusion. Does anyone here know the exact number who will be ultimately saved out of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation? Anybody know? Anyone here? I didn't didn't think so That's all I'd ask. All those that God calls. All those God calls. A wise guy, eh? But we don't know the exact number. Uh but but let's suppose for argument that the number is five billion souls. Five billion ultimately appointed to eternal life over the history of mankind. Five billion who were born again, born from above by the power of God's Spirit. Five billion whose hearts were opened by the Lord. Five billion who were made alive. Who had been dead, but were made alive by the Spirit of the Lord. Ephesians 2. 1. They were dead in their trespasses and sins, but by grace God made them alive. Five billion who were, quote, granted to come to Jesus by the Father. John 6, 65. Now, does anyone here imagine that God could not save 5 billion and 1? Do you think five billion will be in heaven because five billion is the ultimate extent of God's saving power? Of course not. Here are the facts as the Bible presents them. We rebelled against God. Mankind rebelled against God. We violated his law. We shook our fists in his face. In the person of our representative Adam. By that one man's disobedience, many were made sinners We're sinners by nature. We're sinners by practice. We're fallen creatures. And just a few minutes watching the evening news, or a few minutes communing with your own heart, should convince you of that. If God dealt with us only in justice, we would all be condemned. Because He's a holy God who must punish sin, and there is none righteous, no, not one. In other words, God would be perfectly just to treat rebellious sinners as the rebels they are. But as you know, God's love for Those who were created in his image, those who were just a little lower than the angels, the apex of his creatures on earth, God's love for us was so great that he sent his own dear son to become one of us. To take upon himself our humanity without taking upon himself our sin. Jesus kept the holy law that we broke. He paid the debt that sinners owe. And he suffered the death and death before his father, the wrath of his father, paying the price that we owe, publicly humiliated and crucified. His lifeless body was entombed. But on the third day he gloriously rose from the dead and told his astounded apostles to go into all the world, proclaim this good news. That if men and women will repent of their sins and trust in him, they will have life. But here's the problem. Because we're dead in our trespasses and sins, because we love darkness rather than light, John 3. 14. Because the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, 1 Corinthians 2. 14, none of us would ever understand and repent and believe Unless we were first born from above, unless we were first regenerated, made new creatures. By a sovereign act of this gracious God. In other words, the soul would remain hard or rocky or full of thought, the soil I meant to say, would remain hard, rocky, full of thorough thorns unless God intervened and prepared that soil to make it receptive to the word, unless he drew souls to himself. That's why Jesus said, No one comes to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up at the last day. John 6. 44 And so, follow this thinking now, so the Lord determined not just to send his gospel into all the world, which would accomplish nothing Toward the salvation of souls because we love darkness rather than light, and we're blind to spiritual things He determined to open the hearts of multitudes out of every kindred, tongue, people, nation, plucking them as brands from the burning. Zechariah 3. 2 He determines to separate them as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. Other sheep I have, Jesus said, who were not of this fold, not Jews. Them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. John ten sixteen. Those are called in Scripture not only his sheep, but his bride, his church, his chosen ones. First Corinthians one. His adopted sons, Ephesians 1. 5. His elect , Colossians 3. 12. Now, how do you know if you're one of God's sheep? Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. And they follow me. I know them, and they follow me. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. John 10, 27. Pastor, are you saying that I came to Christ in great part simply because God determined to save me? No. I'm saying that you came to Christ solely because God determined to save you. He's the author and the finisher of your faith. Hebrews 12, 2. Now you say, well wait a minute. I determined to come to Jesus. I wanted to come. I was willing to come. I saw my sins as vile and I I turned to Jesus and I and I saw him in his holiness and and that's what I wanted. I ran to him. I fled to him for salvation. It is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. Romans 9, 15-16. According to God's word, Christian, you are a believer today because you were predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. And those whom he predestined, these he also called. And those he called, these he also justified. And whom he justified, these he also glorified. Romans 9, 29 to 30. Now, you're sitting there, some of you might be saying, what does all this mean to me? Give me something practical. I've got to go out and live a whole other week in this world. Maybe. Give me something practical. You want practical? If you're a believer, this is practical. It's because God graciously saved you. He plucked you as a brand from the burning, breathed upon your dry bones that they might live. He took away your stony heart, he gave you a heart of flesh. You deserve hell. But by the grace of God and the grace of God alone, you are not only spared God's wrath, you are adopted into his family. You're an heir of God. You're a joint heir of Jesus Christ. You have now, right now, the joy of sins forgiven. You have awaiting you everlasting life and everlasting joy in heaven. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Your every breath ought to be a prayer of thanksgiving Your every heartbeat should beat to God's praise. You should overflow in your love to others because God has overflowed in his love for you. You should willingly forgive others as God has forgiven you. You are God's workmanship. You are his creation. You were created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand for you to do. You can't get much more practical than that. But what if I'm not elect? Is there no hope for me? Just as no one knows the number of the elect, even so no one knows who is elect, except by the fruits. We know Christ's sheep by how they respond to his voice. Feast upon God's word. You say, I don't get this, I don't understand it. I'm not sure I believe. I don't I'm not sure I can believe. I don't know. I don't know if If I'm a believer or not, I don't know if I'm elect or not. Feast upon God's word. Faith comes by hearing the word. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. That's where real hearing comes by the word of God. That's how your eyes are opened. Cry out to him, Lord, if this is true, reveal it to me. Open my heart, give me faith, prepare the soil to receive the seed. Lord, don't let the birds steal it away. Don't let the sun scorch the plant. Don't let it be choked by thorns. May it bear fruit thirty-fold, fifty-fold, a hundredfold. Bear fruit in my heart. Here's the invitation. Whosoever will let him come. No one ever truly desired to come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness and everlasting life. No one has ever done that and been turned away. Because that desire, if it is the genuine article, has been placed in your heart by the Holy Spirit of God. And so we can say to the sinner, as someone once said to us, come to Jesus, knowing that, as Jesus said, no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him Let's pray Oh Father, there are things in your word that are hard for us to comprehend, hard for us to get our minds around. We would like to just skip over them. We'd like to ignore them. But we can't, Lord. This is your word. Heaven and earth shall pass away, Jesus said, but my words shall not pass away. But Lord, uh, remind us that your thoughts are not our thoughts, your ways are not our ways. And there are some things we'll never fully understand, but give us faith to believe them. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.