Preach on Reformation Day. Love to preach on Resurrection Day. Psalm 32 A tremendous passage that speaks of imputation of sin. As we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. with uh Sarah Smith and uh I think uh Sarah assisted By uh someone else Todd Psalm thirty-two. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. When I kept silent, my bones grew old through my groaning all the day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My vitality was turned into the drought of summer. I acknowledged my sin to you, and my iniquity I have not hidden. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. And you forgave the iniquity of my sin. For this cause, everyone who is godly shall pray to you in a time when you may be found. Surely in a flood of great waters they shall not come near him. You are my hiding place. You shall preserve me from trouble. You shall surround me with songs of deliverance. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will guide you with my eye. Do not be like the horse or like the mule, which have no understanding. Which must be harnessed with bit and bridle, else they will not come near you. Many sorrow shall be to the wicked, but he who trusts in the Lord, mercy shall surround him. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Let's pray. Oh Father, take this word and apply it to our hearts this day. Speak to believers, encourage us, build us up, and draw unbelievers to your For your own glory we ask. Amen. Next year one year from tomorrow, to be exact, will mark the 500th anniversary of a date that should be revered by every believer. Historians tell us that on October 31, 1517, on the eve of what was called All Saints Day, An Augustinian monk, Martin Luther, nailed to the door of the Castle Church in Wittenberg, Germany, that would be then the town's bulletin board, you might say, his now famous ninety-five theses. 95 statements, each of which took issue with the church's teachings about indulgences. Now, the Church of Luther's Day was teaching, despite the clear biblical teaching of justification, they were teaching that after death the souls of believers went to a place they called purgatory. Neither heaven nor hell, but something like a holding cell, or penitentiary, you might say, where sins committed in this life were to be purged. And thus the believer was to be purified. The thinking was, we're not ready for heaven, are we? And so we have to be purged, be purified in this place, purgatory. The more numerous and the more serious the sins we've committed in this life, the longer would be our stay in purgatory. Indulgences, the church taught, were meritorious deeds which could be done, oftentimes certain prayers that could be said, or pilgrimages that could be made. or gifts to the church, which could be given, which would reduce for oneself or for a loved one the number of years that he or she must spend in purgatory The idea was you were drawing from the treasury of merit which was built up by Christ and the saints. Pope Leo X was in the process of rebuilding St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, originally built in the fourth century. It was a very expensive undertaking, right? Michelangelo doesn't come cheap. And uh he proclaimed what he called a plenary indulgence A complete, a full indulgence, not just 10 years off purgatory or 20 years or 100 years, but a complete indulgence. And in Luther's area, the Pope's representative was a man named Johann Tetzel who seemed to go even beyond what the Pope recommended in his boldly proclaiming, as soon as the coin and the copper rings, the soul from purgatory springs. In fact, Luther mentions that little ditty in his theses number 28. Luther, who had come to understand from studying the scriptures, primarily Galatians, Romans, and some of the Psalms, that salvation was by grace through faith in Jesus Christ alone. And not by anything that we can do. Luther uh realized that what Tetzel was teaching his people was a falsehood, blasphemous A false teaching which could only confuse and harm uh people, including those under Luther's personal spiritual care. Luther's objections to indulgences were were originally written in Latin, right? the language of the scholars meant to be debated amongst the uh scholars of the church, but they were quickly translated into the the German of his area and into French and English, etc. And before very long, in just a matter of a few weeks, they were being circulated throughout Europe. And they became, his theses became the talk of Europe. So scholars point to October 31, 1517, as a beginning point of what became the Great Reformation. That is a reforming, a returning to the teaching of Scripture, as opposed to the teaching of the Church. And of course, Gutenberg's invention of movable printing type which took place a few years before, was now putting the scriptures into the hands of the common people. So countless men and women who did not have God's word before but were dependent upon the teaching of the priests in uh or the pastors on Sunday mornings or in the church now suddenly had God's word themselves. And of course what happens with the when the word of God enters? The entrance of God's word brings light. And so people were coming to faith in Christ. That's why if the Reformation had a motto, it was ex tenebrous looks. or luck. Out of darkness light. Out of darkness, light. And one of the most important truths of scripture that the Reformation brought to light out of darkness was the truth of imputation. Let's see if we can say that together. Imputation. Not so difficult. And one of the passages of scripture that makes imputation clear is Psalm 32. Luther, by the way, was once asked which of the Psalms were the greatest in his mind. Wh wh which of the Psalms, I think as the way they put it, which of the Psalms were the best? And he said the Pauline Psalms. When he was pressed, he explained he meant those psalms that clearly teach what Paul taught that forgiveness comes to us apart from our works. Rather through faith. And in that list he included David's great Psalm of Repentance, Psalm 51. Remember in that Psalm, written after his sin with Bathsheba, and after his repentance for that sin. He wrote, according to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. According to the multitude of your tender mercies tender mercies, not according to my works, right? , Not according to the good things I'm going to try to do now to make up for the evil that I did, but according to your mercies. And then uh so that was one of the Psalms Luther mentioned as a Pauline Psalm, and then he he he cited Psalm 130, where we read, If you Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who should stand? Right? Lord, if if you kept track of all my iniquities and held them against me, right, if you should mark iniquities, who could stand? And then Psalm 143, in which the psalmist says, Do not enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no one living is righteous. Pauline Psalms. And the other Psalm he mentioned was the Psalm we read just a moment ago, Psalm 32. I'd like us to consider that this morning. It's a psalm that speaks to us of this blessing of sin covered. Of all the joys experienced by men and women in this life, the joy of love, the joy of children, the joy of friendship. The joy of healing, the joy of victory, the joy of accomplishment, the joy of prosperity, the joy of honor. There's no joy comparable to this joy, the joy of sin. Forgiven. The joy of sin covered. Well, there is, as you know, a covering of sin that brings no joy. It's the covering that we try to uh uh bring upon ourselves to keep our sin from being discovered. Uh you probably have a similar story, but if as a child while rough housing with my brothers and my parents' absence we happened to break something in our home uh lamp or whatever. Our method of covering was to glue it or tape it or hide it or discard it. Well they'll never miss that lamp But of course that was not a covering that brought any joy, right? It was a covering that brought guilt and anxiety and fear of discovery. There is no joy for the fugitive, no joy for the man who wonders every time he hears a knock at the door, if opening that door will be his last act as a free man. For the believer, or for the unbeliever with a healthy conscience, not only is there no joy in trying to cover his sin, but there is great grief As long as that sin goes unconfessed. Now let's take a closer look at the psalm. And uh Psalm that's been called one of the penitential Psalms and see what uh David experienced when he kept silent about his sin. Let's start in verse 3. We'll come back to verse 1. When I kept silent David said, My bones grew old through my groaning all the day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My vitality was turned into the drought of summer. As long as David refused to confess his sin, as long as he tried to hide it, as long as he refused to repent of it, And turn away from his iniquity, his grief was so intense, it began to sap his strength. Spurgeon put it this way, unconfessed transgression like a fierce poison. dried up the fountain of the man's strength. It made him like a tree blasted by the lightning, or a plant withered by the scorching heat of a tropical sun. David was silent as to confession, but not as to sorrow. God's hand was heavy upon him. God's hand, said Spurgeon, is very helpful when it uplifts. But it is awful when it presses down. My vitality was turned into the drought of summer. Counselor Jay Adams put it this way, the hand of God pressed hard upon him. He literally felt de-pressed, pressed down. It was as if God's hand was crushing him. He believed depression was from God and considered it the merciful punishment of God, warning him and leading him to repentance. The sense of guilt crushed him. Shakespeare's Macbeth, guilty of the murder of Duncan, King of Scotland, cried out in his anguish, Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hands? And Lady Macbeth, who enticed and encouraged the crime, is seen rubbing her hands as she sleepwalks, saying, What? Will these hands ne'er be clean? Here's the smell of blood still. All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand. Contemplate the horror of unconfessed Pastor Ray Steadman in his book Psalms of Faith noted that a London psychologist once told Billy Graham that in his estimation 70% of those in English mental hospitals could be released if they could only find forgiveness. I suspect that one of the things that makes hell such a horrible place is the great weight of sin that will forever be unconfessed, that can never be repented of. The worm dies not. The fire is not quenched. Friend, if there's unconfessed sin in your life If you have stolen from your employer, if you have stolen from some individual, if you've stolen from a company. If you've stolen from the government, if you've been unfaithful to your spouse, if you've borne false witness against someone or slandered him or her If you bear hatred or animosity in your heart towards someone, if by rebellion or disobedience you have dishonored your father or your mother, If you've been impure in your speech or your actions, if you've sought sexual gratification outside of marriage, if you've plagiarized or cheated on an exam, If there's someone somewhere whom you have wronged and you've never confessed it, and you've never made restitution, you've never sought to make it right. Or if you've committed sins against God alone, sins of which no one else is aware, sins for which you have not repented. You can expect God's hand to be heavy upon you. Whom the Lord loves, he chastens. Hebrews 12, 6. Despise not the chastening of the Almighty, Job 5. 17. O Lord, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Psalm 38. 1. The Lord has chastened me sore, but has not given me over to death. Psalm 118, verse 18. The Lord says to the people of Judah, I struck you with blight and milled you and hail in all the labors of your hands, yet you did not turn to me, says the Lord. Haggai 2. 7. If you sinned and not confessed it, you may expect guilt and depression and the smiting of your conscience. God gave you a conscience God gives Christians the Holy Spirit. One reason he does so is to convict us of sin. And so it was for David. Now, two cautions. First of all, remember, it is possible for your conscience to be defiled. We talked about this a few months ago. I think it was. Remember that it's possible for your conscience to be defiled or seared as the Bible uh refers to it You hold an iron against your shirt long enough, and your shirt will be seared. They hold that iron against your arm, I don't know why you do that, but hold the iron against your arm, and your arm will be seared, and there may be nerve damage. You may lose feeling there. The fact that your conscience seldom smites you over some sin you committed long ago may not mean that all is well. It may just mean you have hardened your heart. That's one thing to keep in mind when we talk about God 's chastening us. Another is it's challenging enough for you to search your own heart. It's quite impossible for you to search someone else's. If a brother or sister falls into great troubles, it is not for you to presume that he or she is being chastened by God for sin. That was the error of Job's friends, right? David's not speaking here of the conscience of another. He's talking about his own conscience. As long as he was silent, as long as he tried to cover his sin. He was in great distress of soul. But look at verse 5. I acknowledge my sin to you, and my iniquity I have not hidden. I said I will confess my transgressions. to the Lord and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah. Or think about. What relief. What relief David came clean with God, and his tears of repentance flowed freely. He knew he was forgiven. He knew all was right between him and his God. Now we don't know what the particular sin was here that David was confessing to God. We immediately think of the major transgression that comes to mind when we think of David's sin. R this sin regarding Bathsheba that is uh dealt with in Psalm fifty one, and his uh you know wicked attempt to cover his sin. even to the point of murder. We know that several months went by before David was confronted by the prophet Nathan and brought by God's Spirit to repentance. If the sin referred to in Psalm 32 was David's numbering of the people, recorded in 2 Samuel 24, we know that almost 10 months elapsed before David repented of that. And of course, David may be writing of a sin he committed that is not recorded for us in Scripture. Whatever the sin was, there was a sufficient period of time between the offense and David's repentance. For him to feel God's hand heavy upon him. For David to feel in his body uh uh the strain of God's judgment. But when he finally confessed, David had the assurance that God God forgave him. You forgave the iniquity of my sin. Now look at verse 6. For this cause everyone who is godly shall pray to you. In a time when you may be found, surely in a flood of great waters, they shall not come near him. For this cause, because God is a God who forgives when we humbly cry to him. Everyone who is godly shall pray to you in a time when you may be found. I want you to notice something. There is a time when God may be found. In a time when you may be found. And there's a time when God may not be found. There's a time of judgment when God may not be found. There's a time of mercy. This is the time of judgment. The day is fast approaching for the unrepentant unbeliever when it will be too late to call out to God. Too late to call upon him. He who being often reproved hardens his neck shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. The time will come when the harvest is past and the summer is ended. But everyone who is godly shall pray to you in a time when you may be found. It's appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment Hebrews 9 27. The time approaches when the master of the house will rise up and shut the door. Matthew 25 So friend, the scripture urges us and I urge you to seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. When and if you're clothed in Christ's righteousness, when and if you're declared to be righteous by the judge, then you may be certain no evil will befall you. Look at verse 7. You are my hiding place. You shall preserve me from trouble. You shall surround me with songs of deliverance. When David sin was unconfessed, God's hand was heavy upon him. But now it's well with his soul, for now God is his hiding place. Spurgeon notes the three tenses in this psalm. We've seen the sorrowful past when David's vitality was turned into the drought of summer. The joyful present is you are my hiding place. And the cheerful future is, you shall preserve me from trouble and surround me with songs. of deliverance. As Virgin put it, David envisions himself encircled in song, surrounded by dancing mercies, all of them proclaiming the triumphs of grace. There's no breach in the circle. It completely rings him round. On all sides he hears music. Before him hope sounds the cymbals. Behind him, gratitude beats the timbrel, right and left, above and beneath, the air resounds with joy, and all this for the very man who a few weeks ago was roaring all the day long How great a change! What wonders grace has done and still can do. Look at verse 8. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will guide you with my eye. Do not be like the horse or like the mule, which have no understanding, which must be harnessed with bit and bridle, else it will not come near you. Here it seems the Lord is the speaker. He's urging the psalmist and all of us to learn from David's experience. There's no temptation overtaking you, but such as is common demand, right? But God will with the temptation, God is faithful, and he will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it. 1 Corinthians 10. 13. I will guide you with my eye, God says. He's urging us, in other words, to be sensitive to his direction. as revealed in his word, to not be dense as the beasts, which must be kept in check by bid and bridle, but to be perceptive, to heed his spirit. When his spirit brings conviction for sin. To be quick to confess, quick to repent, understanding what the will of the Lord is. To avoid those weeks or months of deceit and scheming and hiding and grief that David endured. It was only after David confessed that he could say in the words with which he began this psalm, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. Here the wonderful process of atonement is described. The transgressor is forgiven. His sins are covered. They're covered just as Adam and Eve were covered in the skins of animals. Just as Noah covered the ark with pitch to preserve it from the flood of judgment, and just as the ark itself covered Noah and his household and the animals that God brought to Just as the mercy seat covered that other ark, the Ark of the Covenant, in which were the tablets of the law, the law that had been broken by man The words atonement, to make atonement, to pacify, to appease, are derived from the Hebrew root kafar, to cover. This is the covering that brings joy. When the transgressions of a sinner are covered, and God no longer holds that sinner accountable for them. Now, of course, the great question that comes to mind and the question that the Reformation sought to answer was how can a just holy God who declares in his word, the soul who sins must die, the wages of sin is death. How can a just Holy God ceased to hold the sinner accountable for his sins. How can the one who has declared that the wages of sin is death possibly cover over our sins? sins. Well the answer is found in verse 2. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity. God does not cover our sins in the sense that he simply ignores them. He's far too holy for that. He's of pure eyes, and to behold evil, he cannot look upon iniquity. He covers our sins by placing them on someone else's account. Your sins are paid for. Literally paid for, but not by you. Righteousness is imputed to us, applied to us, applied to our account. But only because our sin was imputed to one who was righteous. This was that which was pictured through the sacrificial system, right? What was the purpose of slaying a lamb or a goat or a bull or a dove for the sins of men? What crime had that animal committed? None, of course. There was not, and there could not be any moral culpability in an animal. The purpose of the sacrificial system was to teach God's people this great lesson of covering, atonement. That they could only be forgiven through the shedding of innocent blood. But why did the sacrifice have to be offered over and over and over again, day after day, year after year? Because It is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats or lambs or doves could actually take away sin. These were merely pictures, foreshadows of the divine sacrifice that was yet to come. But when Jesus came to the prophet John preparing to begin his public ministry, John declared, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. In this Psalm, David speaks of the glorious truth of the imputation of sin. Let's say it again. Imputation. There you go. In this psalm, he speaks of the imputation of sin. Your sins, Christian, were imputed to Jesus, placed upon his account And Jesus' righteousness was imputed to you, placed on your account. He was not really a sinner, although God treated him as if he were a sinner. And you were not really righteous, although God treats you as if if you are. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. The Apostle Paul quotes Psalm 32 in his great exposition of this doctrine of justification in Romans. Chapter 4. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit There is no guile. There was guile in David's spirit during the time he kept silent, but when he confessed, he knew afresh the joy of covered sin. God restored to him the joy that he had lost. Now, I have pastored long enough to know that in a congregation of this size, there's no doubt at least one, and more likely several. Who are harboring secret sins. Your wife doesn't know about it , your husband doesn't know about it, your parents don't know about it It is your secret. You haven't told anyone, and you may be continuing in it even until now. You don't want to think about it. You don't like to think about it. You certainly don't want the light of God's word to shine on that dark corner of your heart or of your mind. But friend, if you will confess your sin, if you will just confess your sin to God, He is faithful to forgive your sin and to cleanse you From all unrighteousness. Amen? But if you persist in trying to hide it, you may be sure that your sin will find you out. A brother or sister. can walk alongside to help you. You need to seek out someone who will. To encourage you to resist that temptation. If you've stolen, you need to repay it. Maybe it's only $5 a month. Maybe that's all you can afford. If you've lied, you need to tell the truth. If your eye offends you, Jesus said, pluck it out and cast it from you. Take drastic action. Don't walk around as David did, feeling that drought in your soul. Better to deal with it now that your sin might be separated from you as far as the east is from the west than to have it revealed in that final day when that which is spoken in secret shall be proclaimed from the housetops, Jesus said. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that each one may receive the things done in the body, whether good or bad. Second Corinthians 5. 10 Now, before we leave this psalm on Reformation Sunday, I was compelled to say a bit more about this great Reformation doctrine of imputation. I hope you never tire of hearing about it. I hope you understand that this is the gospel. This is the good news. Jesus didn't die as an example. He didn't die because the wicked men had their way with him. He certainly didn't die because his heavenly father was unable to intervene and to save him. That's blasphemy. He died as a substitute. He bore our sins in his own body upon that most hideous of trees. My sins were imputed to him, placed upon his account. By what means? By my works. No one was ever saved that way. I was saved the same way Abraham was saved. Abraham believed in the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. That's Genesis 15. That's how early in the Bible we have it. In fact, go back to Genesis 3, where God slew these innocent animals and clothed Adam and Eve in their skins. Why should the innocent have to die for the guilty? Someone has to die for the guilty. Imputation, our sins imputed to Christ His righteousness imputed to us. That's the heart of the gospel. It's the heart of the message of the Reformation. It's how we got the Protestant church. When I preached on imputation from Romans 4, and I've done that a couple of times. times. I cited the results of an informal survey done in a meeting of evangelical pastors. I want to share with you again. The results were so striking. If you wonder why the term evangelical, at least in America, doesn't seem to mean much anymore, listen closely. The producer of The White Horse Inn, a weekly radio program hosted by Westminster Seminary, California, Professor Michael Horton, also an author. you may know, went to a national convention of evangelical pastors. The producer took his microphone and he went to this convention of evangelical pastors and he asked this body of evangelical pastors to answer this simple question. How important to your ministry is the doctrine of imputation? Well, you would hope that these evangelical uh pastors , pastors of churches we call evangelical, Would say, how important to my ministry is the doctor of imputation. It is my ministry. It's the gospel. It's what I proclaim. It's the focus of my ministry. It's the heart of a message of the Bible. Our sins, sins of the of sinners are imputed to the righteous one, the Lord Jesus Christ. s His righteousness is then imputed to us. That's called justification. It's the evangel. I have no doubt that Luther or Calvin or Knox or Spurgeon or Jonathan Edwards or Whitfield would have answered in words such as that. What do you mean how important is it? It's all important. It's the gospel. Now listen to how some of these evangelical pastors responded Here are some of the responses. How important to your ministry is the doctrine of imputation? Number one. What is imputation? Number two, you're gonna have to define that for me. Number three, laughter. Number four, not very. Number five, first explain that to me. Number six, tell me exactly what you mean when you say that. Number seven. I don't know what that is. Number eight. Amputation? The producer. No, no. Imputation Can you tell me what you mean? Number nine. I have to admit I've been out of seminary too long. Number ten, I've never heard that word before. for. Number 11. I have no idea what that means. How important to your ministry is the doctrine of imputation? Here's one answer. It's not really important. Here's another one. Probably not important enough for me to make a logical comment. I I've heard of it, but I can't remember, man. Laughter. You're gonna have to help me. You're gonna have to explain that Now, as I said before, of course it's possible to know and proclaim a theological truth without knowing the theological term that describes it, right? It's certainly true that not everyone who was saved has ever even heard the term imputation. And certainly if you had asked the thief on the cross to define imputation, he wouldn't know what you were talking about. Same thing with the demoniac of Ghidara , woman at the well. But these men are theologically trained evangelical pastors in 21st century century America. Now some of them did know what imputation means, but even some of their answers were troubling. You remember one of them said, yeah, I think imputation is a semantical theological gymnastic, more than anything else. And another one said, Nick, you'll remember this, hey I'm a youth pastor. I I talk about it, but I don't use the term imputation, right? Because of course uh uh our modern youth can't understand the word They understand photosynthesis. They take tests on it By the way, it's a blessing to have a youth pastor that doesn't talk down to these kids. He he helps to lift them up. Uh one of them said , I don't think it's important necessarily to articulate it. This is the youth pastor. Hey, I'm a youth pastor. I talk about it, but I don't use the term imputation. Uh I don't think it's important necessarily to articulate it. What? Then what in the world is important to articulate? Another one said uh uh If you talk to the congregations I work with, they're not going to remember anything about doctrine. That's it, dumb sheep. You all dumb sheep. You can't remember doctrine. That's why I may have to talk down to you and make you say imputation. He says, uh, so this is a pastor, pastor of an evangelical church, the church probably five times the size of ours. At least. He said, uh, when I look at a person and I'm concerned about their state, what I'm looking for is life. And I'm not going to go and talk about justification and you know all the stuff that Paul goes through and struggles with in Romans. Well yeah, it's the bi it's the Bible, Romans. Right? What I'm looking for is life Uh so I'm not going to talk about that. What I want to know is what is Jesus doing with you now? Neighbors. Clearly it's time for a twenty-first century Reformation. David concludes his psalm with an appeal to others who are trusting the Lord to rejoice. And shout for joy. Look at verses 10 and 11. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked, but he who trusts in the Lord mercy shall surround him. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous. Shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Christian, you got something to shout about. Amen? No, that wasn't a shout. You got something to shout about. That was a shout. Do you ever do what God's Word exhorts you to do here? Uh shout to the Lord. You ever just so joyful that you just break out in a song Break out into praise. You ever rejoice in the Lord shout for joy? Is there any exuberance in your worship, public or private? Oh, magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous. Shout for joy, all you upright in heart. David knew the joy of sins forgiven, and he wanted other people to know it as well. If there is to be a 21st century reformation, you and I need to get the Word of God out. Amen? You know, we have some excellent gospel tracks on our track rack. As you leave the main doors of the sanctuary, go down those steps. On the right, we have what we call a track rack. And on that track, uh on that rack are tracks from uh people like John Piper. And uh and uh I think uh there's a Max Locato track there. We have some excellent gospel tracts. They're not just intended for an unbeliever who might stumble in here. They're intended for you and me to take and to give to those we meet. To cashiers, to waitresses, to friends at school, to friends at work, to your dentist, to your doctor, to your niece, to your nephew. We have CDs of gospel messages It may be one Sunday you hear a message that you really like. Stranger things have happened. You can go back and say, Can I have a C D of that? You go back to people in the South Blue They'll give you a CD. You can give that CD to somebody. You can go on Sermon Audio. You can go on our church website and I'll link you to sermon audio. You can You can like a sermon there. You can share it with your social media friends. Just with one click. That's all it takes, one click You can help get the Word of God out. Redeem the time for the days are evil. The final words to those who have not yet experienced this joy of sin. Sins forgiven, David talks about. Make no delay. No man knows what a day may bring forth. Let today be the day of salvation. Get down on your knees. If God's working on in your heart, if he's bringing conviction of sin, just get down on your on your knees and say, God be merciful to me a sinner. knees. God forgive me. God save me. I believe that Jesus lived that perfect life, died upon the cross and rose again from the dead. Apply his righteousness to me. Apply my sins to him. Save me for Jesus' sake. Boys and girls, you cry out to God that way, you pray that prayer and mean that in your heart. He'll forgive all your sins. He'll give you this precious gift of everlasting life. Let's pray. Oh Father, how