Provide a wonders of worship class for children age four through second grade downstairs if you'd like to partake of that. You may turn in your Bibles to Luke 11. We're actually going to be starting with verse 14. Would you like to hear from God? If God spoke to you, would you listen to what he had to say? God has spoken through the prophets, and those prophets have spoken on behalf of God and verified what they say is true by miracles. Not pagan miracles like a faked healing service or a magic show or a psychic reading. Real public miracles. And not everyday miracles like a child being born or a class passed or a car crashed survived. Real public miracles. Jesus was a prophet and he spoke God's word. But there was one curious difference between Jesus and all the other true prophets who had gone before. True prophets would say, Thus says the Lord. But Jesus would say, truly, truly, I say to you. Jesus was claiming to be God. And those who have ears to hear would understand. So what were some of the miracles that Jesus did? Well, just before in the passage that we're going to read, Jesus healed a mute man. The man had been unable to speak. When Jesus exercised the demon, the man was able to speak again. And the response to this miracle is very interesting. No one claims that Jesus is doing a magic trick. No one puts forward the hypothesis that this mute man was only pretending to be mute for the sake of Jesus' magic show. Jesus' opponents didn't claim that. Neither do they claim that the mutinous was just a small psych issue that would have been resolved with just some emergency triage counseling. No. Jesus, most militant opponents, tacitly verified that Jesus did miracles. What the Pharisees said in response was: Jesus is casting out demons. By the power of the Prince of Dons. All of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, have the story of Jesus being accused of using demonic power. In Mark and Matthew, that story is followed by the story of Jesus' mother and brothers coming to see him. That story is in the beginning of your bulletin. It's in the meditation. Luke, however, inexplicably places the story of Jesus' mother and brothers earlier on in chapter 8, verse 19. and waits till 11 to tell the story of Jesus being accused of using demon power. And then Luke follows the demon power story with the story of the woman shouting out, which is our sermon text today. And I don't think that the conversation about Jesus' mother and brothers happened twice. Therefore, we should understand The conversation about Jesus' mother and brothers to have happened chronologically after the Pharisees accused Jesus of casting out demons by Beazbol. And I believe the story of the woman shouting out also happened chronologically right after the Pharisees' Bealzebol accusation. Therefore, we should understand these two passages as in terms of Interpreting one another. Jesus said, My mother and my brothers are the ones who hear the word of God and do it. And Jesus said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. The common theme is this, that Jesus is teaching that the spiritual relation to him is more important than physical relation to him. Before we read God's word, let's pray. Oh Lord, open our eyes, open our hearts to be blessed by your word, to be protected, to be comforted. To be nourished by your word. I lift up to you, Lord, especially the women, and I pray that you would bless them and nourish them. We as men want to bless them and nourish them. And protect them. But no one does that like you. I pray that you would do that this morning from your word. It bless all of us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 11. Now he, Jesus, was casting out a demon that was mute. And when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled. But some of them said he cast out demons by Beelzebub, the Prince of Demons, while others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste. And if a and a divided household falls, and if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Bealzebel. And if I cast out demons by Bealzebel, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, and the kingdom of God has come upon you When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe. But when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusts and divides the spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me. And whoever does not gather with me scatters. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and finds none. Finding none, it says, I'll return. to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house slept, and put in order. Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first Amen. Mother's Day is complicated. As a guy, growing up, I used to dismiss Mother's Day. as just another one of those holidays wherein I did not get any presents. It was described this way in our in our in the morning morning conversation with the guys. Clip was saying, it's like when you're older and have kids, it's like you have two birthdays. And Martin said, Oh, I only have one birthday Once I got a little older, I realized that this was a great day to appreciate my mom for all the wonderful things that she. She did for me and my siblings, for my siblings and I, that we didn't thank her for on a regular basis. And once I became a Christian, I took the day to thank several women who had been my spiritual mothers. In addition to my mom. And after I got married, I came to realize that this would be a day wherein I would also be appreciating my mother-in-law, which is a joy to do. And once Annie and I started trying to have children, we experienced uh a Mother's Day without children and feared that we might never be able to have children And then came a joyous mother's day wherein I needed to honor my mother, my spiritual mothers, my mother-in-law, and now the mother of my children. And then came a day, a Mother's Day, tinged with sadness, because we were intimately aware of friends who had had children that died that year. And friends who were not able to get pregnant year after year. And we grieved with them and put our hope in a covenant-keeping, merciful God to carry us through that sadness. And each year we, while we celebrate Annie's mom, we also grieve with her that one of her children is no longer with us here on the earth to celebrate her with us. And if you came in the front doors of the church today, perhaps you noticed an elegant crepe myrtle tree there. That tree was planted in memory of a covenant child who died in the womb. And Mother's Day is a good day to remember covenant children who have died and to put our trust in a gracious God who saves even sinners like us. We've prayed through several Mother's Days which were acutely sad because mothers we knew had children that had walked away from the Lord. And we have rejoiced and do rejoice again at those prodigals who have come back. And that the Lord has brought back. And we look in faith to that day when God will bring still others back to Himself. There are mothers who have given children up for adoption, and there are mothers who have adopted Each Mother's Day, they acutely remember the joy and the sadness of that adoption. And they know that no matter where their child is, Jesus is the Good Shepherd. We have in our midst stepmoms and pregnant moms and empty nester moms and grandmoms who are filling in as moms and those who are hoping to become moms and have not yet been able to conceive. In all these situations, we really want to appreciate moms and congratulate moms, but but also come with a word of caution Because of all the joys, because of all the pain and suffering and trial of being a mom, of childbearing and child rearing. It can tempt one to think that parenting and parenting rightly is where our joy comes from Because it's so great, because it's so hard, we can think that if I can do this, that's where I get my value from. That's where I get my happiness from. We can be tempted to think that blessedness comes from our earthly relations. We can think that happiness comes from being married. Being a mom. Having our parents with us. None of these is the true source of joy, is a lasting source of joy. And we can subconsciously think that if our spouse is great, popular, powerful, if we have children who are great, popular, powerful, then we'll be happy. But that's not where true blessedness is to be found. Our passage today tells us where true blessedness is to be found. How can a mother be truly blessed? Blessedness comes through listening to and obeying God's word. A truly blessed mother is the one who listens to and obeys the word of God. Let me say that again. That's my main point. Blessedness comes through listening to and obeying God's word. A truly blessed mother is one who listens to and obeys the word of God. Let's look at our text to see how Luke proves this point. Verse 27. As he said these things, Jesus had been teaching that he was able to cast out demons because he had overcome Bealzebol. Now, if that word sounds a little funny to you, the Greek reads Biawzolbol, Lord of the House, but it was changed in the Vulgate, either intentionally or unintentionally to Bealzal Bulb, Lord of Dung. So that's the origin of that. The Pharisees, Matthew 12, had outrageously claimed that That Jesus was casting out demons by the power and authority of Beazel Bal. The Pharisees were saying that Jesus was synonymous with Satan. And instead of incinerating them on the spot, he reasons with them. Why would Beazelbol fight himself and his own minions? That doesn't make sense. And if you're saying that, Pharisees, that anybody who casts out a demon does so on demonic authority, you have Pharisees in your midst that say that they're casting out demons. On whose authority are they casting them out? This doesn't make sense. Jesus asserts that he cast out demons because he's overcome the Prince of Democrat. And Jesus had overcome the Prince of Demons' temptation in the wilderness. And thereafter, demons in the scriptures don't find Jesus. They unquestionably submit to him. If you're trying to find out what's a demon like, and you read the gospels, you think, oh, they're really kind of they're very subscribed. And they just do whatever you ask them to. Well, that's because they're talking to Jesus and Jesus has conquered them. And they just ask him questions. Can I do this? It's because he has conquered the Prince of Dons. Jesus had demonstrated his power over demons by casting out a demon that was afflicting someone with muteness. And after Jesus cast out the demon, the man was able to speak. And because the Pharisees don't dispute the veracity of the miracle, they dispute the motivations of the miracle, Jesus rebukes them. And then Jesus warns of the danger of exercising one demon only to have seven take its place. And what he said saying there is if you just say, oh, I'm not gonna have the idolatry of getting my value from money, how much money I have, but you Don't replace it with Jesus and don't get your your your value and identity in Jesus, then seven more idolatries will come in. It's not just about letting go of one idolatry. It's about having Jesus as King and Lord over your heart. So and then this woman shouts out from the crowd: Who is this woman? Well, she's a follower of Jesus. Whether she came with the Pharisees' party and was awed by Jesus' teaching, or whether she came with the disciples, we don't know. And perhaps it was her husband or son who had the demon, we don't know. But we do know that she shouts out to Jesus. What kind of person shouts out to a celebrity, healer, teacher in the middle of a crowd. Just want you to get a picture of her in your mind. She speaks kindly, but she seems to be kind of loud, impetuous. She's not asking for teaching from the teacher, and she's not asking for healing, and she's not repeating some teaching that he has given her. She's complimenting Jesus. Jesus, and in her defense, it's public because it would have been pretty hard to take Jesus aside and give him this compliment. But she's a little explicit, right? She's unfiltered. She it we might be uncomfortable with what she says and think, oh, maybe in that culture that was okay. I I think they would have been slightly uncomfortable in that culture too. And she reveals what she values as she shouts to Jesus. She says, Blessed is the womb that bore you. She reveals that she values childbearing and child rearing. And that's good. But if one values that more than Jesus himself, that's bad. Blessed is the womb that bore you. In order to figure out what she's saying, we need to know what blessed means and how she's using it. it there. What does blessed mean? In the Greek, the word is makaria, and when it's in reference to a person, it means happy, joyful, favored, great. And this isn't the first woman in the Gospels to call Mary blessed. Mary, upon hearing that she will bear Jesus, says that all generations will call her blessed. Luke 1:4 48. And Elizabeth, upon encountering her Messiah's mother, Mary, says, Blessed are you, Mary, among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. The woman who is shouting in our passes is using metonymy, using a part to refer to the whole, the womb to refer to the woman. To say that Mary is blessed. And rightly does this unnamed woman say that Mary is blessed, favored of the Lord, because that idea is echoed in other places in Scripture. Scripture. Mary was blessed to bear the Son of the Most High. Was Mary happy about this? Mary says herself: My heart rejoices in God, my Savior. She's joyous that she has a Savior and that she gets to bear him. Mary is blessed, but she's most blessed by believing that Jesus, by believing in Jesus, not by Giving birth to Jesus. Mary is most blessed by believing in Jesus, not by giving birth to Jesus. Who is this woman complimenting? Jesus or his mother? Uh Jesus' mother probably would be in attendance, especially if these two stories are happening about the same time, or or maybe just outside. So maybe the woman was shouting out to Jesus, but intending for the compliment to go to Mary. But here's where it gets muddled, right? When when someone says to you, boy, you've got really great kids, who are they complimenting? Or if you say to someone, boy, you must have had really great parents, what are you saying? In each of these instances, someone's complimenting you. This woman was complimenting Jesus. But she's also revealing something about how we think and And she offers a clue into what some of our idolatries might be. We sometimes think in this way: if there's a problem with the child, there's a problem with the parent. How many of us, when we were young and naive, used to think that the parent of that screaming child in Grocery Aisle 9 had no idea how to parent, and surely had no control over their child? And then we had our own children and had our own mortifying experience in the grocery aisle and promised never to judge again. And yet still, if we see a well-behaved child, we're tempted to think, I bet that child has an invested parent or two behind her. They must be really great parents. But this view of parenting is an oversimplification and a dangerous one. Let's do away with it right now. As a parent, one can hear God's word and obey it. But your child might disown you and the faith. As a child of a disappointing parent, you are not doomed to repeat your parents' sins. Salvation is all of grace. The terrifying and comforting truth is this: if you are blessed with a child who hears God's word and obeys it, that came about by grace. And if you have a child who has rejected Jesus at this time, this too is part of God's sovereign plan. Let's take a look at Mary and Jesus, for example. Was it because Mary was so great that her child turned out to be perfect? No. Mary was a sinner in need of salvation. This is what She cries at the Magnificat. My soul rejoices in God, my Savior. She wasn't without sin. Mary's identity and salvation don't come from her giving birth to God Her salvation and identity don't come from her giving birth to God. Mary's identity and salvation come through her God giving birth to her. New birth as a new regenerated believer and her son as her savior. And that's where every believing woman's salvation and worth come from. It's not from having good kids. It's not from having kids. Our identity, worth, and salvation all comes from our spiritual relationship to Jesus. The spiritual relationship to Jesus is more important than the physical relationship to Jesus In our meditation this morning at the beginning of your bulletin, we were reminded that Jesus says, his mothers and his brothers are those who do the will of God. And at this point in the gospels, Jesus' physical family thought he was out of his mind. Mark 3, 21. They were going. When his family heard of it, they went out to seize him. For they were saying he is out of his mind. This is mind-boggling. This is Jesus' own family, his own flesh and blood. His brothers were coming to arrest him. The Greek word is kretasi. It's the same thing the guards did to Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus' own family. And on top of that, you've got John the Baptist, the son of Elizabeth. Jesus' cousin, who sends his disciples to Jesus to ask him if he's the Messiah or should they wait for another. Really? Blood relation is not the strongest tie in the universe. The blood of Christ is the strongest tie in the universe. universe. From Canada to Chile, from the Pacific to the Atlantic, from Nepal to Baltimore, believers are united in prayer for one another. Not because they're related by blood, but because they're united in Christ. Christians have voluntarily covenanted themselves to one another so that when one part suffers, we all suffer. When one part is weak, the rest give. This is the covenant family. And it is far stronger, better, faster, broader than any blood relation. You see, some people think that this is the gospel. If you work hard, love your spouse, Discipline your children, God will bless you. That's not the gospel. Others say the good news is this. You don't need to work hard. You don't need to Be married. You don't need to have kids to be happy. That's not the good news either. The good news is that Jesus did the will of the Father in heaven perfectly. He heard the word of God and he kept it Perfectly. And then he was killed like a notorious criminal in our place so that we, the sinners, could receive the righteousness of God by faith. And if we listen to the Word of God, we find that we can be united with Christ by believing that He is the way and trusting Him for our salvation. In so doing, we do the will of God in heaven, according to 2 Peter 3. 9. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. Back to the text at hand. This well-meaning woman compliments Jesus and compliments Jesus' mother while she's doing it. And so why doesn't Jesus just say, Amen? Thank you, sister. Appreciate it. it but no jesus used it as a teachable moment jesus had this lady's attention and and she has just revealed that she highly esteems his mother because she's she gave birth to Jesus, nursed Jesus and reared Jesus. So Jesus takes the moment to teach this woman what she should really be focusing her attentions on. Where she should really be exerting her energies, focusing her meditations, not on mothering per se. But on listening and obeying Jesus. Jesus said, Blessed is the one who listens to the word of God and keeps it. What does it mean to listen? It means to pause for a second and he And stop talking for a second and listen. Pressing pause on our own thoughts, values, ideas of happiness, and listening to somebody else's ideas. Now these it Jesus doesn't just leave it at we just need to listen. We just need to stop and listen to the birds or just listen at 10 Anything really. No, he says specifically what to listen to. Not the wisdom of the ancestors, not TED Talks, not mommy blogs, not celebrity Christians. He says, listen to the word of God. Those other things may be helpful, but the main thing you need to listen to is the Word of God. Do we have any room for the Word of God in our schedules? Do we make room to sit and listen? Stop and think, walk and listen, stand and listen to the Word of God. Of course, one can read the Word of God, but there's something especially blessed about hearing the Word of God. Read it aloud in your homes. Stop aloud What you're doing, rise from your sleeping to listen to God's word. Heads of households, you can lead your family in this way by reading God's word aloud in your home. On the way as you rise up, as you lay down at breakfast, at dinner, perhaps in the car And you have made it a priority today by bringing your family to listen to God's word preached. Thank you. That is the context wherein Christ was speaking. He'd been preaching. And he says to the one who'd rather shout out, listen, the word of God, listen to the word of God. What is the word of Word of God. God? Jesus would have been referring to the Old Testament. And for us, the Word of God is the Old and the New Testaments. The Bible. Listen to the Bible. That's where true blessedness, true happiness comes from. A heart that is intent on listening to the Lord and responding in faith. is bless. But as we listen to God's word, what do we hear? You know. The Lord has placed his Holy Spirit in your in your heart. Hearts and you have heard already from God's Word. You know what you need to do. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Ephesians 5. Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. Proverbs 22, 15. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him. Know what you need to do. Ephesians 6:4. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the fear and admonition of the Lord. Ephesians 6. 61, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. You know what you need to do One of our children, two of our children go to Liberty Christian School, and one of them brought home a poster that he had made, and he was carrying it around and talking about it. It said, God 's word, read it, do it. And so Annie heard him walking around saying this. And uh she said, Martin, do you believe that you should do everything in God's Word? Yes. Martin, do you know that God's Word says in Philippians 2:14 to do everything without grumbling or complaining? Do you think you should obey that too? And Martin said, Can we just pretend it doesn't say that and says and says other things instead? Isn't that just being so honest and where so many of us are? Can't we just pretend it doesn't say submit? Can't we just pretend it doesn't say love? God's word. Read it, do it. Which attitude do we have? Do we have a read-it-do-it attitude, or can do we have a, can't we just pretend it says other things attitude? Keeping God's word. Keep it. How do we keep God's word? We treat the meaning of God's word as precious. We memorize God's word. We struggle to adhere to what God's word says. That's what keeping means. To keep God's word means to strive to obey to what God says in His Word for us to do. In conclusion, the problem is we don't keep God's word. Who then is blessed if no one truly keeps God's word Who could possibly, honestly, keep God's word? So is no one truly blessed? Who is Jesus even talking about? He's talking about himself. He is God's word But he also listened to God's word and he kept it. Remember how the teachers of the law were amazed when Jesus came down as a boy to the temple, amazed at his knowledge of God's word. He keeps God 's word. God's Word. He makes the rules, but He chose to submit Himself to them perfectly. Hebrews 4:15 says, For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. He kept God's word. Word. Jesus is the one. He's the only one who has kept God's word. Even when that word was, suffer. Jesus kept God's word. Even when that word was die, Jesus kept God's word. Even when that word was, drink the cup of God's wrath to the dregs. Jesus kept that word. So he is truly blessed. Blessed Jesus. Blessed Jesus. Thou hast loved us, love us still. True blessing comes from being united to that most blessed one, Jesus. So a blessed mother, a blessed father, a blessed son, a blessed daughter is blessed by his or her union with Christ. Not by our earthly relations. Not by how well our children are doing. Not by their relationship with us. Not by our works of righteousness. We are blessed as we are joined with that blessed one Jesus How are we joined with him? By joining his body, the local church. You join yourself to the Lord. Therefore, let us walk in blessing, joy, and happiness. As we walk in union with the body of Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, we don't keep your word. We don't listen to your word. Word, but you did. You are the word. And you became flesh. And we love you. And we want to be joined with you. And we know how crazy that is How ludicrous that sounds, unless our sins be dealt with. Thank you, Jesus, for dealing with our sins, for nailing them to the cross, for washing us in righteousness and for giving us robes of righteousness. That we might have union with you, that we might Might be with you now and in glory. I pray, Lord, that you would press it upon people's hearts that they would find weak, find wise All the idolatries of this world, especially conservative idolatries of mothering, of fathering, of getting married, of having children, of having great children That's all empty. Pray, Lord, that we would find our identity, our value, our joy in you, Jesus. And then it would be secure. And it is Secure as it is with you in heaven. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen