Amen. Hold on to that music. That's gonna be a command performance in heaven. Want you to do do that one at my funeral as a matter of fact. Somebody write that down. I'll try to pencil that in for you. Mark chapter eight. If you'll turn there please. Mark chapter eight Let's begin at verse thirteen. And he left them and getting into the boat departed to the other side. Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, and they did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat. Then he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread. But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, Why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments did you take up? They said to him, twelve. Also, when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said, seven. So he said to them, How is it you do not understand? Then he came to Bethsaeda, and they brought a blind man to him and begged him to touch him. So he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything. And he looked up and said, I see men like trees walking. Then he put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up. And he was restored and saw everyone clearly. Then he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town nor tell anyone in the town. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered, John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. The time would come when they were to tell everyone about him, but that time had not yet come. May God bless this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you'll take your word now. And use it in a mighty way in each and every heart and life here. Forgive us our sins as we approach your word. We know that we miss the mark. We know that we all fall short. But your word is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, and we pray that you will use it today to accomplish eternal things. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. We might call it an old-fashioned camp meeting. The Lord Jesus had been teaching about four thousand men Women and children for three days out in the wilderness. And of course, almost all the provisions that had been uh brought with the people were no doubt consumed in three days. And before Jesus sent the multitude away, he did for them what he had done before, with an even larger multitude. He miraculously multiplied a few loaves of bread and a few small fish, and they were served to the people, and everyone ate. and was filled, and left over were seven large baskets full of fragments. He and his disciples then departed by boat And along the way, the disciples realized, you know, we only brought one loaf of bread with us. What do we do with all those baskets? I guess the people took the bread, but the disciples had only brought with them one loaf of bread. And they had been discussing that apparently When Jesus began to warn them about something very serious, he warned them about the leven of the Pharisees and of Herod. Now we considered the leaven of the Pharisees. a few weeks ago. What I want you to notice here is that the disciples, when Jesus began to talk about bread, thought that he was somehow alluding to the fact that they had forgotten to bring with them any more than one loaf. It's it's hard for us, at least in what we know of the conversation, to understand how they might have thought that. Uh, but that's what they thought And uh presumably they realize uh that we don't have enough bread to feed all all uh what thirteen of us. And uh and uh maybe that's what Jesus means by this reference to the bread of the or the leaven of the Pharisees and of Herod. But Jesus, of course, was speaking of the pernicious doctrine of the Pharisees and of Herod. And he was giving them, or attempting to, give them spiritual instruction. But they seem to be focused on only on the material, right? The the the physical bread. And so he said to them, why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive and understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes do you not see? Having ears do you not hear? Do you not remember? He reminded them of the five loaves feeding the five thousand, the seven loaves and the four thousand Don't you know that if we need food, there are ways it can be provided. The fact that Jesus suggested that though the disciples had ears, they didn't hear, and though they had eyes, they didn't see. may help explain the way he conducted the healing of the blind man, as described in the very next verses. Let's look at it again. Verse 22. Then he came to Betheda and they brought a blind man to him and begged him to touch him. So he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything. And he looked up and said, I see men like trees walking. Then he put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up and he was restored and saw everyone clearly And then he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town nor tell anyone in the town. Invariably, whenever someone who was healed by Jesus went and told a bunch of other people, masses of people came to him to the point that he would have to leave, depart, get on a boat, or go somewhere else because of the crush of the people. And so oftentimes he would warn people not to go, spread it around, even as he told his disciples not to tell everyone. When they had come to understand that he was in fact the Messiah, he had a timetable, he had things to do. I believe this is the only account of a healing conducted by Christ which was not accomplished immediately. The obvious question that arises in our minds is why did Jesus grant this man sight in stages? From all we know of Christ's miraculous healings, and from all we know of his power as God in the flesh, All he had to do was say the word, and this man would have seen clearly, right? He didn't have to spit upon his eyes, he didn't have to touch his eyes, he didn't have to feel him in stages. But in fact he did. The man uh looked and he said, Well I I see men, but they're like trees. It's almost like it sounds to me like someone looking through cataracts and he's see It's not clear, it's not distinct. And so then Jesus touched his eyes again and he had him look up to heaven and then he saw clearly. Now, as I said, Jesus did not need to use his own saliva to anoint this man that he might regain his sight. There was no medicinal value in it. He might have healed them all at once, but he used his own spittle and he used his hands and he healed them in two stages. First, the man said he saw men like trees walking. And then he saw everyone clearly, distinctly. His vision was completely restored. We don't know whether he had been blind from birth. The suggestion is that maybe he had seen before. Because uh he he saw men, but they were like looked like trees to him, he said. The scripture does not explicitly say this. But I wonder if Jesus may have used this healing as a teaching moment for his disciples. Let me explain. As the feeding of the multitude was a picture of the fact that Jesus is the bread of life, as his raising Lazarus from the dead was a picture of the fact that he is the resurrection and the life. And that he who believes in him will never die, as his turning of water, water that was intended for the ceremonial washing of the Jews, into delicious wine. May picture the supplanting of the ceremonial law by Christ himself, even so, perhaps Jesus was teaching his disciples here, you have some sight. But you are not seeing quite clearly. Having eyes, do you not see? He just said to them, having eyes, do you not see? And now he heals a man who was blind, and he heals him in stages. And in the first stage, he sees things but rather unclearly Remember, the disciples would say things like, What manner of man is this? That even the wind and the sea obey him. They responded to Jesus much like the people of Israel. They recognized him to be an anointed prophet, one sent by God, a wonder worker, a gifted teacher. Their response to him doesn't seem to be much different from the response of the people of Israel. Consider the responses to Jesus that we've already seen thus far in our study of Mark. The people were astonished at his teaching, the scripture says, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. Mark 1. 22 After he healed a paralyzed man, we read, they glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. Mark 2, 12. The disciples similarly, when in the midst of a great storm, Jesus rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace be still, and the wind immediately ceased, and there was a great calm. They feared exceedingly, and they said to one another, Who can this be? That the wind and the waves obey him, the wind and the sea obey him. Chapter 4, verse 41. When he raised Jairus' daughter, remember he had with him Peter, James, and John, plus her parents. It says they were overcome with great amazement. Peter, James, and John and the parents, evidently, were all overcome with great amazement. Chapter 5, verse 42. Hearing him teach, many of the people were astonished. Where did this man get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to him? That such mighty works are performed by his hands. Chapter 6, verse 2. And remember, as they toiled on the Sea of Galilee, straining at rowing, someone told me last time I rode, I rode the wrong way. I don't know what I'm doing up here. It's just an illustration. Give me a break. So as they as they toil in the Sea of Galilee, straining at rowing, in the faith, I'm not really going to move across the platform if that's what you're thinking Straining it rowing. In the face of a strong wind, remember they were rowing against the strong wind. Jesus came walking to them upon the water, and as he entered the boat The wind immediately ceased. The scripture says they were greatly amazed beyond measure, and they marveled. And then I think tellingly Mark inserts this, for they had not understood about the loaves because their heart was hardened. What does that mean? They were greatly amazed when they saw what Jesus did. Mark says, because they hadn't understood about the loaves, because their heart was hardened. Here's what I understand from this. It seems that the disciples, like the blind man after that first stage of his healing, had a measure of sight. but not clear vision. Now it's not that they didn't suspect at times that Jesus was in fact the Christ, the Messiah. After all, that was the conclusion to which Andrew had leaped when he first told his brother Simon about Jesus. We found the Messiah, John 1. 41. But it seems that they were not all fully assured of this, or not at all times. They knew Jesus to be a man of God. They knew Jesus to be a great teacher, a mighty healer, a worker of miracles. They believed that the Father had sent him, but they had not together moved beyond that. Now it seems very difficult from our 21st century perspective to imagine them not immediately perceiving Jesus to be the Messiah, right? The demons immediately perceived him to be the Messiah. We know who you are. The Holy Son of God. Are you come to torment us before the time? But we gotta remember that Jesus was not at all the sort of Messiah that the Jews had been expecting for so long, that the Jews had been told to expect for so long. They were looking for the one who would sit upon the throne of David. The Messiah was to be the king who would be placed by Jehovah on his holy hill of Zion. Psalm 2. The Messiah they expected would receive the nations for his inheritance and the ends of the earth for his possession. Psalm 2 It was no doubt hard to reconcile their image of that Messiah who was to come with the carpenter. From Nazareth. They saw Jesus, but they did not see him clearly. Having eyes, they did not yet clearly see. Having ears, they did not yet clearly hear. And so in this respect, they were much like this blind man until Jesus put his hands upon him a second time, and interestingly the phrase is made him look up. But in the very next incident that Mark records for us, there's a breakthrough. And it seems that their sight, the sight of the disciples, has become clear. Verses 27 to 28. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. Dr. R. C. Sproles sets the stage for us. He says that from Besseda at the northern tip of the Sea of Galilee, they went almost due north for about 25 miles to Caesarea Philippi. Herod the Great, remember Herod the Great, who reigned at Jesus' birth, had built a temple to Caesar Augustus at the foot of Mount Hermon, and his son Philip had built the town, which was named in honor of Augustus. Caesarea, Caesar Augustus, with Philippi added to distinguish it from the better-known city of Caesarea, which was on the Mediterranean coast. End of quote. Now I would suppose that the disciples were on this 25-mile, approximately 25-mile journey, the disciples were talking together. among themselves, discussing all that they had seen Jesus do and all that they heard Jesus teach This was evidently one of the few times that they were not accosted by crowds, and they had some time to reflect. And as they walked, or as they approached the cities of Caesarea Philippi , called cities there in Mark, he says, Who do men say that I am? Who do men say that I am? Now he didn't need to ask, of course, this is the Lord Jesus, but apparently he was seeking to engage his disciples in conversation about his person and about what people were saying of him. And they said, well, John the Baptist. Evidently Herod was not the only one who thought that Jesus was John the Baptist risen from the dead. Herod believed that, remember. His conscience smote him, and he thought that this prophet who was wandering about in the wilderness, performing miracles and healing people, that he was John the Baptist. He's risen from the dead. And maybe he's coming back, he may have thought, to avenge his death. Some said Jesus was John the Baptist. They all knew John the Baptist. All the multitudes went out to him. John the Baptist was beheaded, and now this other person, this Jesus, is doing many similar things and teaching repentance. Some say you are Elijah. Remember, Elijah carried away to heaven in a whirlwind. Elijah, maybe you are Elijah, come back to earth. Remember the final words of the Old Testament, the very final words of the Old Testament. Behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. And a restoring natural affection. Lest I come and strike the earth with a curse. Malachi 4, 5 and 6 Well, some say you're Elijah. That's who you are. Others say you're one of the prophets. One of the prophets. Maybe Jeremiah, maybe Ezekiel or Daniel. So he said to them, but who do you say that I am? But who do you say that I am? And Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ, the Messiah. You are the Christ. Notice that the Lord Jesus did not attempt to dissuade them of this notion. He didn't say to them, No, no, no, no. You have it all wrong. I'm merely a teacher. I'm only a voice in the wilderness. That's how John would have responded. I'm only a voice in the wilderness. I'm only one who is pointing forward to the Son of God who is to come. One who is far greater than I is yet to come. I'm only one in a long line of prophets and servants. No, no, no. On the contrary, he said to Peter in Matthew's account of the incident: Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father, who is in heaven. Has revealed this to you. You see, they didn't see Jesus distinctly at first, but at a point in time they looked up and they saw everything clearly. Now, if Jesus were to ask us today in 21st century America, who do men say that I am? How would we answer it? There are no doubt few, if any, who believed who believed today that he was John the Baptist, risen from the dead. There are few, if any, who believed that he was Elijah. Or one of the Old Testament prophets returned to earth. But there are a great many who would respond, Well, Jesus, he was a man of God, or he was a servant of God. He was a holy man. He was among the best of men. There are a great many who would say he was one in a long line of religious leaders. who spoke of love and peace, and who pointed the way to God. It may be easy that some here See Jesus in this way. You see him to be kind and wise and holy, someone to be followed, someone to be emulated. Let me suggest that if you see Jesus only that way, you are seeing him with partial vision. You are seeing him the way the blind man saw men after the first stage of his healing. I see men like trees walking. I see them indistinctly. I see them like shadows. Let me use God's word for a few minutes to help you see more clearly. The entrance of God's Word brings light. The more light we have, the clearer we can see. You just ask those people in the back of the old sanctuary where they've been sitting in dark for weeks and weeks. Can't read your Bible back there, can you? It's very Difficult. The more light you have, the easier it is to see. So let's see. Let's let the light of the Bible reveal Jesus to us. Consider, first of all, Christ's remarkable claims about himself. You see, prophets and servants of God tend to be self-effacing. Quick to confess their sins and their weakness. Woe is me. I'm a man of unclean lips. That's what Isaiah said, Isaiah 6. Woe is me. I'm a man of unclean lips. Daniel wrote of confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel. Daniel 9, verse 20. The Apostle Paul called himself what? The chief of sinners. A chief of sinners. He said, the good things that I want to do, I don't do. And the evil things that I don't want to do, I find myself doing them Muslims consider Muhammad to be a holy man, a prophet. But Rabbi Zacharias points out that in the Quran, Muhammad is told himself is told to ask forgiveness for his sins. Translated false in uh chapter 47 and 48 of the Quran, surah 47 and 48 they call it And no one who considers Muhammad's lifestyle could deny that he was in need of forgiveness. Taking eleven wives suggests, if nothing else, a slight deficit in the area of self-control And according to Buddhist teaching, Gautama, the seeker of enlightenment, who came to be called the Buddha, endured numerous rebirths, clearly implying imperfect lives which needed to be improved upon. The Lord Jesus was unlike all who either were or claimed to be prophets or servants of God in at least two major respects. First of all, he declared, speaking of his father. I do always those things that please him. Other real or self-proclaimed prophets or servants of God were clearly sinners and clearly knew it. Jesus declared himself to be without sin. More on that in a minute. Secondly, other so-called prophets or holy men were looking for the way to God, looking for enlightenment, trying to point the way. Jesus boldly declared, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. He said, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger. He who believes in me shall never thirst. John 6. 35. Jesus made the most audacious claims about himself that, if not true, utterly and totally finally reveal him to be an imposter. And by no means good or holy. He said, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. John 11. What supposed prophet or holy man ever made such a claim? He said, Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. John John 10, 8. Jesus said to those who doubted him, You are from beneath. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. John 8 23. He said, most assuredly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he shall never see death. you imagine if anyone keeps my word he shall never see death John eight fifty one He said, I have come as a light into the world that whoever believes in me should not abide in darkness. John 12, 46. Jesus claimed to have authority to give life. He said, for as the Father raises the dead and gives life to them, Even so the Son gives life to whom he will. John 5, 21. What? This is no one man in a long line of prophets pointing the way. This is the one who claims to be the way. He said that his coming was foretold by Moses. He said to the Jews, If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. John chapter 5. What? Moses wrote about you? He made explicit declarations of his deity. He said this: He who sees me sees him who sent me. John 12, 44. He said to his fellow Jews, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. And they, of course, responded, wait a minute, you're not yet 50 years old. And have you seen Abraham, who lived thousands of years before? Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was I am. And you know what they did? They went to pick up stones to cast at him because he committed blasphemy, they said. Or they thought And it would have been blasphemy if it were not true. He said to his disciples, He who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? Have I been so long time with you and yet has Hast thou not known me, Phil? He who will see me has seen the Father. John 14. And it was crystal clear When the high priests of Israel, out of frustration, trying to find a couple witnesses who would agree together so that they could execute this troublemaker. Cried out, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power. and coming with the clouds of heaven. Mark 14. As we noted, Jesus made an explicit declaration of his sinlessness. He said to those who denied him, Which of you convicts me of sin? John eight forty six. And those who spent years with him said of him, He did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. Wow. 1 Peter 2. 22. Think about it. He who urged others to confess their sins and repent He who said, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish, John, Luke 13, never confessed any sins of his own. What is even more amazing is he believed that he was able to forgive the sins of others. He said that the paralyzed man lowered in a pallet as he taught, Son, your sins are forgiven you. Mark chapter 2. The scribes immediately saw the implications of this. Who can for forgive sins but God only? Jesus said he would judge the world. Jesus said he would judge the world. He says he's going to separate the sheep from the goats, the wheat from the tares at the end of the age. John Stopp writes: Not only will Jesus be the judge, but the criterion of judgment will be men's attitude to him, as shown in their treatment of his brethren, or their response to his word. Those who have acknowledged him before men, he will acknowledge before his father. Those who have denied him, he will deny. It will be enough for Jesus to say, I never knew you. The start goes on. It's hard to exaggerate the magnitude of this claim to be able to judge, to be the one who was going to judge the world. Imagine a minister addressing his congregation in these terms today. Listen attentively to my words. Your eternal destiny depends upon you. I shall return at the end of the world to judge you, and your fate will be settled according to your obedience to me. Such a preacher would not long escape the attentions of the police or the psychiatrists. You know the term megalomania is defined as a psychopathological condition that's marked by fantasies of self-grandeur or omnipotence C. S. Lewis said this of Christ's life. The discrepancy between the depth and sanity, and let me add the shrewdness of his moral teaching And the rampant megalomania, which must lie behind his theological teaching, unless he is indeed God, has never been satisfactorily got over. You see it? Now we could go on and on citing passages which either implicitly or explicitly refer to Christ's deity. Psalm 110, Micah 5. 2. John chapter 1, Colossians chapter 1, Hebrews chapter 1. He demonstrated his omnipotence, stilling the waves, raising the dead, commanding the demons to depart. He demonstrated his omniscience, knowing men's thoughts. Why do you reason these things in your heart, he would say? He declares His omnipresence, where two or three are gathered together in my name. There am I in the midst of them. He declared his pre-existence when he said, He who feeds on me will live because of me. Remember many were confused at that saying. And he said, does this offend you? What then if you should see the Son of Man ascend where he was before? He was before. You were somewhere before, before you were here. John chapter 6. But it strikes me that these things, these things are so evident These things are so evident to anyone who cares enough about his soul to open and read the gospels That spelling them out for you at any further length is like spoon-feeding those who are perfectly capable of lifting the spoon themselves You could open the Gospels to virtually any page and find the deity of Christ clearly described. There can be no more important question in this life than the one Jesus asked in this passage. Who do you say that I am? And the only way for you to answer, as Peter did, you were the Christ, you are the Messiah, you were the Son of the living God, is for the Father in heaven to reveal it to you. When and if he does, here's what's going to happen. You will fall down to your knees and you will cry out, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I believe that Jesus is your sinless son who kept the law that I broke, who went to the cross and paid the debt that I owed. I believe him when he says, No one comes to the Father but by me. Lord, I renounce my own pitiful attempts to redeem myself, and I rest completely upon the Lord Jesus Christ. I see you clearly now, Jesus. You've touched my eyes. You've made me look up. And you're no longer just a shadow. I see you as the sinless, spotless Son of God. I see you as God incarnate, as Emmanuel, God with us, tabernacling among us. As Thomas in the upper room, I fall before you and cry out, My Lord and my God. As the Apostle Peter, I declare, You are the Christ. The Son of the Living God. Let's pray. Oh Father, you know the heart's desire and prayer of those of us who are your children is that everyone here, every child, every man, woman, young person Would be driven to his or her knees to cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Lord, we don't want any who are within the hearing of this message to perish without Christ. Lord, we we don't want any of our loved ones to leave this earth without you. And Lord, you've made it so clear, so abundantly clear. May their hearts and minds be open. We we know that it's true that Satan has blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel Christ, who's the image of God, should shine onto them. But Lord, you're able to remove that blindness. You're able to give genuine sight. Father, please do that. Do that for many here today. Well, yes, through Christ our Lord. Amen.