Amen. Thank you, Choir. If you have your Bible with you this morning, would you turn to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter one? We turn to that glorious story as told by Matthew. We'd like to begin at verse 18 and read through the end of the chapter. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son. and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife. And did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son. And he called his name Jesus. Let's pray. Father, what a wonderful passage of Scripture. What a blessing to contemplate. the wondrous events surrounding the birth of our Savior. Lord, as we meditate once again upon this, we pray for your Holy Spirit to be present with us. That uh same uh Holy Spirit who came upon Mary caused the uh the miracle of the virgin birth, we pray that he would be present with us now. And awaken hearts, bring new life to some even here. We're crying out to you. We're depending upon you, Lord. This is your word. We ask you to bless it. In Christ's name. Amen. Well, of course, the uh the trees are being uh sold, and the homes and stores and churches are decorated. And the thoughts of Christians and non-Christians alike are being turned to Christmas. For the non-Christian, it's a season of celebration, although if he pauses to think about it. It may not be exactly clear what is being celebrated, but for the Christian it's a time of great joy. And he thinks about that glorious point in Earth's history over 2,000 years ago now. when the word became flesh and dwelt among us, when the eternal second person of the Trinity, who always existed, actually took upon himself human nature, and lived among us. As both God and man. This morning I'd like us to meditate upon one of Scripture's most wonderful Advent verses, and one of my favorites. Mary of Nazareth, betrothed to Joseph, was found to be with child. This took place, of course, before she and Joseph came together. So Joseph naturally assumed that Mary had been with another man. And he determined, in grief and sorrow, to put her away secretly, that is, to end their declared union But while he thought about these things, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said to him, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a Son. And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. I'd like us to focus on these words of the angel this morning. You shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. First of all, you'll notice the angel declared that Jesus would be a savior. He will save his people. Jesus is a prophet. He declared God's word. He revealed things to come. He foretold, for example, that not one stone shall be left upon another. That all shall be thrown down in reference to the temple of Jerusalem, Matthew 24. Jesus is a great teacher. Why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed as one of these. Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Jesus is a great teacher. Jesus is a king of his kingdom. There shall be no end. But the angel didn't say, He shall be called Elijah, for he will be the greatest of the prophets. Nor he shall be called Moses, for he will teach God's people, as Moses did. Nor he shall be called David, for his kingdom shall never end. Not Solomon for all his wisdom, not Daniel for his devotion, not Abraham for his faith, but he shall be called Jesus, for he shall save his people. When God chose to convey by his son 's name the essence of his life's work, he called him Jehovah Saves, Joshua. Jesus for us, for he will save his people. Now Jesus may be to you a wonderful teacher. You may follow his teachings as others follow Socrates or the teachings of Confucius or Gandhi. He may be to you a prophet. You may be fascinated to read what he says about Earth's final days. He may be to you a king. You may submit to him as best you can. But if he's not to you a savior, you miss the pearl of great price. And whatever else he is to you is of little account. You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now some of you were raised as I was in what we call theological liberal churches or theologically liberal denominations. And uh you once thought perhaps that this business of being saved from your sins was just language cooked up by some modern television evangelist. I remember uh one of my older brothers, uh Eric and Doug, returned from River Valley Ranch one summer, and they said, as we lived in the Baltimore area, and they said uh They they talked about people being saved there and salvation. And uh this was this was new uh language to us in the home. Jesus was, you thought, perhaps a moral example, as many others before and since. We can learn to be better people by emulating Him, by patterning our lives after Him By helping others, by speaking graciously, by turning the other cheek, by uh loving our enemies, by blessing those who curse us, etc. But here it's declared, even before Jesus' birth, he will save his people. Jesus didn't come primarily to be our example, he came to save his people from their sins. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost, Jesus said. The terrified jailer and Philippi asked Paul and Silas, What, sirs, what must I do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved. You and your household. Ephesians 2. By grace are you saved through faith. It's not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. There is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Acts 4. 12. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but to us who are saved, it is the power of God. 1 Corinthians 1. 18. The Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. Acts 247. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Titus 3. 5. The most important question you will ever be asked is not, are you married? Are you working? Are you happy? Are you financially secure? The most important question is, are you saved? Have you repented of your sins? Laid hold upon Jesus Christ alone as your Lord and your Savior? Are you redeemed? Have you been born from above? You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Spurgeon put it this way: God had come to earth before, but not as a Savior Remember that terrible coming when there went three angels into Sodom at nightfall. For the Lord said, I will go now and see whether it be altogether according to the cry thereof. He had come as a spy to witness human sin, as an avenger to lift his hand to heaven, and bid the red fire descend and burn up the accursed cities of the plain. Horror to the world when God thus descends It's Sinai smokes when the law is proclaimed. The earth itself shall melt when the breaches of the law are punished But now, not as an angel of vengeance, but as a man in mercy, God has come. Not as a spy to spy out our sin, but to remove it. Not to punish guilt, but to forgive it The Lord might have come with thunderbolts in both his hands. He might have come like Elijah to call fire from heaven. But no, his hands are full of gifts of love. His presence is the guarantee of grace. The babe born in the manger might have been another prophet of tears or another son of thunder, but he was not so. He came in gentleness. His glory and his thunder alike laid aside. Twas mercy filled the throne, and wrath stood silent by, when Christ on the kind errand came to sinners doomed to die Rejoice, you who feel that you are lost. Your Savior comes to seek and to save you. Be of good cheer, ye who are in prison, for he comes to set you free. You who are famished and ready to die, rejoice that he has consecrated for you a Bethlehem, a house of bread, that he has come to be the bread of life to your souls. Rejoice, O sinners, everywhere, for the restorer of the castaways, the Savior of the fallen, is born. Call his name Jesus, for he will save Amen? But not only does this text declare Jesus to be a savior, if you look a little closer, you'll see that it declares Jesus to be a divine savior. You shall call his name Jehovah Saves. That's what it means. You shall call his name Jehovah Saves. Yah Shua, Jehovah saves, transliterated into Greek as Jesus and into English as Jesus. You shall call him Jehovah Saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. Call him Jehovah Saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. We've had the human saviors, human deliverers, Moses, Gideon, Samson. But not one of them hinted that he had the power to have even a small part in the saving of men's souls. Not one of them was divine. Not one of them can by any means redeem his brother, the scripture says, nor give to God a ransom for him But of Jesus it was said, For unto us the child is born, unto us the son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. In the beginning, in the beginning was the word. Unto the Son he said, Thy throne, O God, is forever. Hebrews 1. one eight. And Jesus himself declared what his name suggested before Abraham was I am John 8 58. He who has seen me has seen the Father. John 14, 9. I and my Father are one. John 10, verse 30. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Revelation 22. We didn't need another man to tell us the way. We needed Emmanuel, God with us, to be the way. The Lord's anointed one didn't begin to exist in that stable. He said, I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me, John 6. 38. I am the living bread which came down from heaven, John 6. 51. Does this offend you? What if you see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? John 6. 62 You shall call his name Jehovah Saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. Here's cause for rejoicing. The God who made you, the God who formed you in the womb, the God you have offended, has come down to earth as a baby. Has dwelt among us, has condescended to live with us, has taken upon himself our nature, so that he might save us. This should make your mind forever resistant to the devil's lie that God is some distant being who created all of this, but is not really concerned or involved with what happens on earth now. Not only is he concerned about us, but he actually left the glory above to come and dwell with us so that he might redeem us. So the next time Satan whispers, God doesn't love you, he doesn't hear you, he doesn't care about you, you just remind him, my God came to earth to save me and millions of others. Jesus is not only a savior, he's a divine savior. He's God in the flesh. He's Emmanuel. This verse also makes it clear that Jesus is a thorough Savior. I want you to notice the angel didn't say, you shall call his name Jesus, for he shall do much toward the saving of his people. You shall call his name Jesus, for he shall be an integral part of God's whole salvation plan. You shall call his name Jesus, for he will open the way that his people might be saved. You should call his name Jesus, for he will make salvation possible for all men and women. Here's what the angel said. You should call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. He provides for us the way. But because that is for the hardened sinner insufficient, he actually becomes the way and does the saving. He will save his people from their sins. You see, in this saving act, he's not like a man who tends a lighthouse, with whom uh if we're on the ship we cooperate with our eyes, our wits, our energy. Rather, he's like a man who, when we were sinking, unconscious, helpless, our lungs full of water, unable to do anything to save ourselves, in effect dead Pulls us to the surface, swims us to the shore, expels the water from our lungs, breathes into us his own life's breath. He will save his people Simply providing the way for us to be saved would have been inadequate. I think I mentioned several years ago that uh that I'm an amateur chemist. Now some of you don't know this, but uh We have a a lower level in our house and a little basement there and I have a little uh office, you know, I have my all my uh vials and uh et cetera, etcetera. And uh I developed all that all that all that uh chemical stuff and I I developed a a potion Which, if a dead man will drink it, I'm quite certain it will restore him to life. I went next door to our queen, he owns the barrier queen. I showed him what I did, I showed him what I came up with. He said, man, that's incredible. I said, do I have your permission to offer this to your clients? He said, You cer you certainly do. It's been several years now. I haven't been able to get any of them to actually drink it That's the problem, you see. Uh you can't find a dead person who's able and willing to drink it. What good is a mere way of salvation to a dead man? You hath he made alive, you who were dead. In your trespasses and sins. Jesus came not merely to tell us how to be saved, but to save us. He will save his people from their sins. It's God who works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. He puts that desire in your heart. He causes you to will it, to want it. It's God who works in you. He's the author and the finisher of your faith. It's the Spirit who quickens us, who makes us alive. It's the Spirit who makes us willing in the day of His power Were it not for the sovereign grace of God, not one of us would be saved. He didn't merely make the way of salvation possible for his people. He saved us. He will save his people. From their sins. He bore my sins in his own body. Then he drew me by his spirit. He regenerated me. He gave me a new heart. He gave me the gift of repentance. He gave me the gift of faith. So who gets the glory for my salvation? He did it all. He shall save his people. If you're saved today, it's by grace through faith. It's not of yourself. It's the gift of God. Amen? Now, one other thing, he would make a pretty poor Savior if he pulled you from the water, brought you back to life, and then tossed you into the raging sea again. He who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. No man is able to pluck a sheep from this fold. We're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed at the last time, Peter said. So Jesus is a savior. He's a divine savior. He's a thorough Savior. And then the angel said he would be a savior of a savior of particular people He will save his people from their sins. Who are these people? Well, not specifically the nation of Israel. Scripture says he came unto his own. His own received him not. Many did receive him, but many rejected him. It's not speaking of the nation of Israel. Who are these people then that he came to save? The Bible describes them as his sheep, his bride, his church. his chosen ones. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. Ephesians 5, 25. Feed the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. Feed the church of God which he purchased with his own blood. Acts 20, 28. The Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and give his life a ransom for many. Scripture says Christ bore our sins, not a facsimile of our sins. He bore our sins. He was not an indiscriminate uh his was not an indiscriminate sacrifice meant to uh pacify divine wrath and generally pay for no one in particular. He was actually paying a debt for his sheep, his bride, his church, his people. Was Herod of his people? No. Was Judas one of these people? For whom Jesus purchased salvation? No. Were the scribes and Pharisees who rejected him? His people? No. He said to them, You are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father you will do. He said, I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and I am known by my own. As the Father knows me, even so I know the Father, and I laid down my life for the sheep. The sheep! Not some indiscriminate mass of humanity. I lay down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have who are not of this fold, them also I must bring. And they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. John 10 10. For whom did he lay down his life? For his sheep. In verse 26, he tells some of the Jews, You are not my sheep. Did he lay down his life for them? He said he did not. Now, of course, there's a sense in which we can say Jesus died for everyone. He died for the world. The Bible uses terms like that. He died for all. He is the propitiation, that is, a payment to placate for our sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. 1 John 2. 2. Well, in what sense then is he the Savior of the world? He's the only Savior the world has! His offer of salvation is extended to all. Go into all the world, preach this gospel He's the only Savior the world has. There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. His offer is extended to all. And his death was sufficient to pay for the sins of all mankind. Yet we must acknowledge that the scriptures declare that it was the sins of his sheep, his bride, his church that he actually paid for. In Jesus' story of the rich man and Lazarus, Lazarus' sins were paid for. He was ushered into glory. The rich man's sins were not paid for. He was paying for them himself. Charles Hodge says the sin of Adam did not make the condemnation of all men merely possible. It was the ground of their actual condemnation. So the righteousness of Christ did not make the salvation of men merely possible. It secured the actual salvation of those for whom he wrought. You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people. Not just assist them towards their salvation, he will save them. He accomplished what he set out to do. Theologian Betner said, if Christ's death was intended to save all men. Then we must say that God was either unable or unwilling to carry out his plans. But since the work of God is always efficient, Those for whom atonement was made and those who are actually saved must be the same people. He will save his people from their sins. He's not a frustrated Savior who tried to pay for everyone's sins but just couldn't manage it. He will save his people. Amen? So Jesus is a savior. He's a divine savior. He's a thorough savior. He's a savior of particular people. And finally, the angel made it clear Jesus would be a savior from particular sins. He shall save his people from their sins. Jesus didn't give his life to pay for sin in the abstract. His sacrifice was not a general offering. He came to save his people from their sins. Anger Malice, gossip, lust, hatred, pride, impatience, unkindness, impurity in speech, sinful thoughts, idolatry, laziness, lack of zeal Prayerlessness, coldness, hypocrisy, bitterness, a judgmental spirit, etcetera, etcetera. He bore our sins in his own body upon that tree, that cross. He paid for your particular sins, Christian. God took the written record that was against you and he nailed it to his cross. It's self-evident, is it not, that if Jesus came to save his people from their sins, then the people he came to save are sinners. Some people seem to think that uh we Christians have the idea that uh uh the the idea of the Pharisees that the world's divided into two great categories. First there's the category of the holy people, that's us, and then there's the category of the sinners, and that's everybody else. Well, there are in fact two great categories, but they're both made up of sinners. The two categories are sinners who deserve the wrath of God and are headed for the wrath of God. And sinners who deserve the wrath of God, but who have been regenerated, renewed, restored , justified, are in the process of being sanctified and will ultimately be glorified. By grace alone and through the merits of Christ alone. Sinners who are now indwelt by the Holy Spirit, sinners who will ultimately be in glory. Because of God's mercy. If Jesus came to save his people from their sins, then clearly his people at the point at which they were saved were sinners. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, the Apostle Paul said. The Lord didn't look down from the uh through the ages and find good righteous people to bring to heaven. If it were possible for us to be good and righteous, God would never have sent his son to die upon the cross. He certainly wouldn't have asked his son to drink the cup of his wrath. The Son of Man has come not to call the righteous. But sinners to repentance. But although we're saved in our sins, now that we're Christ, we're new creations, the Bible says. Jesus came to save his people from their sins. Jesus came to save his people from their sins, not to keep them in their sins. He who says I know him but does not keep his commandments is a liar. First John 2. 4 For this you know that no fornicator, no unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ at God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, and that's all they are, empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience, Ephesians 5. Don't let anyone deceive you with empty words. Anybody can say, Oh, I'm a Christian. Oh, you believe that? I believe that too. I'm a Christian too. Let no one deceive you with empty words. For this you know. No fornicator, unclean person, covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the king kingdom of Christ in God. God. God says, don't be deceived. Jesus said, by their fruits you shall know them. He came to save his people from their sins, not to keep his people in their sins You think you can cling to your sin and have Jesus too? You're in for a sad surprise. Many will say to me in that day, well Lord, Lord, I never knew you. I never knew. To those who are flippant about their sin, who think sin is no big deal, God has sent a warning. Without holiness, he said, no man shall see the Lord. But as you know, and as I know, even those who truly love Christ and strive against sin No, they can't be completely rid of it in this light, it plagues us at every turn. It rears its ugly head where you least suspect it It simply won't leave you alone. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Apostle Paul experienced it. The good things I want to do, I don't do. The evil I don't want to do, I do. Oh, wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus will ultimately deliver us from all sin. You who are justified will be one day completely sanctified, completely glorified. But here and now we still struggle. There's a great difference between falling into sin. And consciously, intentionally, not wallowing in it. You shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. He's a savior. He's a divine savior. He's a thorough savior. He's a savior of particular people. He's a savior from particular sins. He's Is it your safer? Is he your your savior. You say, well, how do I know? I think he's my savior. I've been in church all my life. I don't care how many times you've been in church. I don't care how many times you've been in this church. If you haven't repented of your sins and laid hold upon Christ, what do you mean by that, Pastor? I mean look at yourself and and take a serious look and see your pride and your selfishness and your unkindness and your anger and your hatred and Your lust. See it for what it is. Recognize it as sin. Turn away from it in disgust. And see Jesus in all his glory and all his beauty Realize that he never broke the laws of God, that he always loved God with all his heart and soul and mind. He always loved his neighbor as himself. He perfectly kept the laws of his father. And then he went to the cross, not for his own sin, for he had none He went there as a substitute for us. You recognize that, you understand that, you embrace that, you believe that, and then you sit just cry out to him, God be merciful to me. Lord, I come as a little child, not proud and puffed up, not with all my degrees, not with all my accomplishments, not with all my good deeds. I come empty-handed. I come, Lord, and I rest in Jesus alone. Save me for his sake. You come to God in that way, and I tell you on the authority of God's word, all your sins Will be forgiven. Just like the thief on the cross, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He recognized himself as a sinner. He recognized Jesus as the sinless Son of God. He embraced him. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. kingdom. This day thou shalt be with me in paradise. He hadn't done any good deeds, hadn't uh done any good works. He said Disbelieved. That's the wonder of salvation. That's how God made it. So we we would not boast in it. Nothing to take pride in. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. Friend, you can come to him today. Make this Christmas meaningful. Cry out to God, God, forgive me, save me. Boys and girls, young people, you've heard this over and over again, but have you put your faith in Jesus? Are you resting in Him? Or do you still think somehow you're good enough for salvation? No one is. Save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You come to God that way, and on the authority of God's word, all your sins will be forgiven. Jesus will save you from your particular sins. Let's pray. Oh Father, thank you for a Savior, a divine Savior, a thorough Savior. A Savior of particular people, a savior from particular sins. Lord, I do pray, we pray for those who may be here outside of Christ. Open their hearts, Lord, as you opened ours. Draw them by your spirit. Give them faith to believe. Lord, that same wonder that you worked in us, work in them. Them that you might be glorified. We ask in Christ's name, Amen