Psalm 57, which we will be looking at for today's text. And before we delve into the text itself, and children, you are dismissed for wonders of worship. Before we delve into the text itself, I want to take a moment to consider the superscription that's printed directly above the psalm. The superscription attributes the psalm to David. And while we don't know when the superscription was written, whether it was soon after the psalm's composition or many years later, we have no reason to doubt what it says. are to call into question the traditional view of Davidic authorship. What's more, the superscription is just one of nine in which David's of David's Psalms which detail the occasion of the Psalm's composition. The superscription reads, when he fled from Saul into the cave. Now there are two possibilities to which this superscription could possibly allude. 1 Samuel 22, when David hides in the cave of Adalum, fleeing the king of Gath. The more likely possibility, however, is 1 Samuel 24. In that instance, Saul is pursuing David with a search party of 3,000 men. And David and his men are hiding in a cave and for refuge in the wilderness of Engedi. Now the context of Psalm of 1 Samuel 24 really fits the context of uh Psalm 57 which will become clearer as we will as we continue. But first let's read the Psalm. Let's hear God's word. Psalm 57. David writes, Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For my soul trusts in you. And in the shadow of your wings I will make my refuge, until these calamities have passed by. I will cry out to God Most High, to God who will perform all things for me. He shall send from heaven and save me. He reproaches the one who would swallow me up. He shall send forth his mercy and his truth. My soul is among lions. I lie among the sons of men who are set on fire whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be above all the earth You, they have prepared a net for my steps. My soul is bowed down. They have dug a pit before me in the midst of it. They themselves have fallen. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and give praise. Awake my glory. Awake lute and harp. I will awaken the dawn. I will pray. Praise you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing to you among the nations, for your mercy reaches into the unto the heavens, and your truth unto the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be above all the earth. Let's pray together. Oh Father God, we thank you for your mighty, powerful word. We thank you for this Psalm of David, for it encourages encourages us when our hearts are heavy. Oh Father, may your word now lift us up to encourage us through your spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, beloved, as we look at this psalm, what is the situation that David finds himself in? Well, David is in great danger. His life is on code red alert Notice how in verse 4 he describes his plight. He says that men are pursuing him, and these men are like lions. They're after blood. They're ferocious. They have a red-hot zeal, as if they are set on fire against him. And they not only seek to destroy David physically, but they want to tear him apart verbally. Their teeth are like arrows. They want to chew him up with their threatening words. They want to have him for lunch. They want to rip him apart his reputation with their slanderous words. They want to tear up his good name. And David here paints a striking picture of incredible peril. And we can just imagine how David must have felt How can we describe it? That he was desperate, that he was trapped, that he was hemmed in. That he was hiding in a cave surrounded by bloodthirsty men, that he was between a rock and a hard place, backed against a wall. And in some way, we can relate to David, can't we? I mean, we are not kings being chased by a mad defunct king But we each of us knows what it's like to be between a rock and a hard place, do we not? Beloved, do we not live in anxious times? Just in the past several months, we've seen terrorist attacks in Brussels and Paris and on our own shore in California. And as you drive on the beltway, what do you see regularly there on that big electronic signboard? If you see something, say something. We live in a world of code alerts, and on any given day, there is the potential for disaster and carnage. And if that were not bad enough, some of us may be living lives of quiet desperation. Your personal life might in some way have the tenor of David's Psalms here You might feel like you're on the edge of the cliff and you are hanging on by your fingernails and there is a long, long drop down. It may be that your family life is marred by the civil war of strained relationships and you feel like you're just at the end of your rope. Or at work, your company is tanking, and there's rumors of layoffs. And at the water cooler, colleagues are telling you how they are putting out their resumes before it's too late. Or there may be a serious illness which threatens the peace of your family. And an uncertain future looms over you like a thick cloud. Or it may be the stagnant economy that causes you concern. Just this past week, CNBC reported uh that some ec quote unquote some economists now see the first quarter growth as negligible and it could even be negative growth. I'm not sure you how you have negative growth It sounds like an oxymoron to me, but that is the world we live in, is it not? So we can readily identify with David and his plight, but notice how David handles it He sees something, and he says something. In other words, he doesn't sugarcoat his reality. He says it like it is. And he recognizes the seriousness of the situation. He doesn't diminish it or try to dismiss it, but he looks it straight in the face and says, you know what? I'm in a life-threatening situation. And yet, despite his dire situation, his psalm excludes such wonderful assurance, such hope. His psalm is a song of confidence, of calmness in the midst of calamity, a conviction in chaos So much so that he apparently was composing these events as they were occurring. Well just imagine dotting off a ditty like this or bursting into song in the midst of a serious situation Well, his psalm is a prayer. And it is a prayer for mercy that is a prayer that is brimning with confidence in God. He begins, oh, be merciful to me, O God. Be merciful to me, for my soul trusts in you. David has put all of his hope for deliverance in the hands of the Lord. And yet he could have sung a different tune, couldn't he? He could have sang, I trust in my sword, I trust in my strength, I trust in my wits, I trust in my army. And if he had sung that song, we would have fully recognized the tune. It would be one of the top ten oldies, which we would have loved and embraced because it is natural for us. When we are in dire straits to do what? But to rely on ourselves. We tend to trust in the tangible and put our confidence in what can be seen Rather than in what cannot be seen. But David, David does not find refuge in himself. Rather, he says, In the shadow of your wings I will make my refuge until the calamities are past. Imagine strapping, ruddy David. What does he do? He compares himself to a chick. Finding shelter under the refuge of his mother hen. The Lord is his refuge, his shelter. Well, what is a refuge? It is a place of security, a place of tranquility when in the midst of chaos. You might think I'm a bit quirky, but I like to go out in thunderstorms. Not in the actual rain itself. That would be too uncomfortable. But I do like to go out and stand on our back porch. in the midst of a torrential downpour and watch the pounding rain come pouring down and watch the lightning flash all around me. Maybe I have a deaf wish, I don't know. But there is this wonderful sense of security of being in the midst of a raging storm and yet totally, completely covered and protected And David 's psalm has the same sense of calm in crisis, a confidence. In calamity. He is confident that God will act. Notice in the following verses what he doesn't say His plea for mercy is not some kind of anxious wringing of the hands. He doesn't offer a prayer of uncertainty. He doesn't pray To you, O Lord, I cry out, because maybe you might be able to perform all things for me. If possibly you are able to do it Could you possibly send me some help from heaven? And if you're up to it, could you save me? No, he doesn't wonder at all whether the Lord will act. He doesn't see the Lord treating him capriciously, or that the love of the Lord is in any way fickle towards him. Like some kind of cosmic game like God loves me, he loves me not, he loves me, he loves me not. Oh, today I hope I'm on his good side. No. There is none of that. No, he calls out to the Lord, the God most high, who is transcendent, who is above all the heavens. Who is powerful and mighty. He is so fast, so vast that I can find shelter under his wings. He is transcendent, yes. But he is one who is intimately involved with the minutiae of my life, so much so that he performs all things for me. And I am confident that he shall send salvation from heaven. He will not allow my enemies to prevail. He will be gracious and he will send forth truth which will vindicate me from the false lies of those who seek to attack me. Well, how is it that David could be so confident? Well, first of all, he knew God's word. And he knew God's word and what it said. So he could expect God's mercy because God had conclared himself to be merciful for those who put their trust in him. We see this, for example, in Moses' encounter with the Lord, when Moses asked the Lord to give him a glimpse of himself, of his glory. And as the Lord passed by him, giving him a glimmer of his glory, the Lord not only revealed himself visibly But he revealed his character, who he is, verbally. And he says to Moses The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. By no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and the fourth generation. And then Moses goes and proclaims that to the people of Israel in Deuteronomy 4. 31, for the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forget you nor destroy you nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. Well in response, we could say, well, it's one thing to say that God is merciful, but how do you know? How do you know? I mean, after all, I could say I'm a concert pianist But then if I went to play Twinkle Twinkle Little Star on the piano, you would find out pretty quick that I am no Rachmaninoff. No, we are skeptical of mere words. Very few people will take a person's word at face value. We prefer to get things in writing to have it signed on the dotted line. And often we fail to keep our own promises, even with the best of intentions. So how do we know that God is really, truly merciful? Well, David not only knew God's word, but he knew his character, and he was true to his word. Throughout centuries, the Lord have proved that he was merciful and gracious to his people, and that he had had a perfect stellar record. When the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah in judgment for its sin, he spared Lot and his family. And he delivered Israel from the bondage of slavery in Egypt. And he provided for his people for 40 years in the desert, feeding them and protecting them, even though they were unfaithful to him. And if David needed any further proof, all he would have to do is to travel to the border of Mitzpah and Shen and see the memorial stone that Samuel had erected to remind God's people of the tremendous victory he had won for them against the Philistines. So looking at history, David could say with confidence, as he says in Psalm 18, as for God. His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is proven. He is a shield to all who trust in him. David also knew personally from his own life experience that the Lord was faithful and merciful, and we could rattle off a list. He had shown his grace to him by anointing him as king, for who was David but a shepherd boy, a nobody from a small tribe and an inconsequential family. And the Lord had protected him in battles against lions and bears as he protected his flock. And he had given him a great victory in the battle over the giant Goliath. So with all of these promises and all of these deliverances, what were a few thousand angry men? They were nothing. They were a bump in the rocky road onto the way of his reigning over Israel. For nothing could stop God's plan and purpose for David. And we who know the Lord, we who know the Lord can have the same kind of confidence in calamity. Times have changed, but God does not change. And the same mercy that David experienced is the same mercy that we have experienced. And the same confidence that David had, we can have because God is unchanging. And like David, you who are in Christ have experienced his mercy personally. David was chosen by God's grace to be king, and we, beloved, have been chosen by God for salvation before the foundation of the world, as Peter writes in his first epistle. And just like David, the Lord entered into a covenant relationship with us, in which he has pledged himself to us. promising that he will never leave us nor forsake us, and that no one can snatch us out of the Father's hand. The Lord has become our refuge. And you have found shelter under his wings as he saved you from your sins. So when troubles arise We too can have confidence in calamity just like David. When you feel like life is just one long slip and slide, And you're just trying to keep your bearings, you can cry out, have mercy, have mercy on me, come to my rescue, because you know that he hears you and he responds. You can cry out to the Lord God most high, who transcends heaven and earth and who knows us and hear us, hears us. that this all-powerful God hears us and extends to us his mercy. Isn't it amazing? That though the Lord is transcendent over all, yet he cares about the littlest things in our lives. That he even knows the number of hairs on our heads. He invites us to cast all our cares upon him because he cares for you, according to 1 Peter 5, 7. And the Lord Himself said in Matthew 7. Ask and it shall be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For every one who receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks, it will be opened And Paul, the Apostle Paul, who was beaten and imprisoned and enscourged for his witness to Christ, what does he say? Does he say, beloved believers, be worried? Does he say, be fearful? No, he says in Philippians 4, 6 and 7, be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God and the peace of God. which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. We can have confidence. and calamity because of our relationship with the living God who has given us great promises. Those of you who have done rock climbing know the importance of a solid rock. You need a sturdy rock to grab onto to lift yourself up. And you need a solid rock on which to plant your feet as you climb. For a solid rock upholds you and keeps you from falling Well, God's promises to us revealed in His Word are like a rock which upholds us. These precious promises keep us steady. And they prevent us from falling into the abyss of despair. And when we hold fast to them, they galvanize us and they strengthen us to keep us moving forward. And even more so, we not only have the promises of God's Word, we have the living Word Himself, Jesus Christ, who is our rock, our refuge, and our shelter When the thunderstorms of life rage around us, His Spirit comforts us and encourages us and steals our hearts so that we can be steadfast. The Lord our rock in him we hide, a shelter in the time of storm, secure whatever ill betide A shelter in the time of storm, a shade by day, defense by night, a shelter in the time of storm, No fears alarm. No foes afright, a shelter in the time of storm. The raging storms may round us beat, A shelter in the time of storm, We'll never leave our safe retreat. A shelter in the time of storm. O rock divine, O refuge dear, a shelter in the time of storm, be thou our helper ever A shelter in the time, a storm. Like David, we have the promises of God's word to bolster our flagging faith. And like David, we had the practice of God's faithfulness as we have seen him over and over again answer prayer and provide for us in our time of need. That when we were distressed, he has given us peace, which surpasses all understanding. And when we were timid, he has given us boldness. And when we were in want, he supplied our needs. And when we were crushed, he lifted us up and upheld us. Wasn't that the Apostle Paul's experience, who said, we are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down But not destroyed. Why wasn't Paul crushed or driven to despair? Because of the power of God who was at work in him to strengthen and sustain him through peril and persecution. It is the rock, Jesus Christ, on whom we stand, who enables us to withstand the storms of life. What Adele sings in one of her songs can certainly be applied here, even though I don't think she meant it this way. But the Lord says to us in our struggle, when the pain cuts you deep, when the night keeps you from sleeping, just look and you will see that I will be your remedy. When the world seems so cruel and your heart makes you feel like a fool, I promise that you will see that I will be, I will be your reign. So when we remember the Lord's past faithfulness to us, it brings a quiet confidence in the present and encouragement for the future. I love spring. I love spring when the daffodils come out and the tulips. And they give begin to pop up after a long cold winter. It reminds me of the promise of warmer days and sunny skies. Well maybe not this year, but in previous years. But the tulips in our backyard also remind me of past happy days, because many of the flowers that were come up were planted as Easter plants. And so when they spring up, they spring to mind those joyous celebrations of years ago. And I think it is safe to say. That the Lord's past acts of faithfulness are like tulip bulbs. We plant those memories of his deliverance deep in our souls. And in the winter of our discontent, they are there waiting, waiting to spring up, to spring up, to remind us of the beauty of God's past mercy Which then gives us peace in the present. What are the flowers in the garden of your life? What are those times in which the Lord upheld you Where he strengthened you, where he comforted you. Oh beloved, do we not need to plant those memories of his past faithfulness deep in the soil of our hearts So that they spring to mind when we face winter's dark days. To remind us that the unchanging God, who was faithful in the past, will be faithful in the present, and that he will give us grace so Sufficient for the day. we can't do that. David knew the promises of God's Word. He had a relationship with the Lord who pledged himself to David. And in that relationship, we have seen that the Lord, he had seen the Lord's faithfulness and mercy over and over again, so David could have confidence in calamity. And we too. We too know the promises of God's word. And we have a relationship with the living Christ who has pledged himself to us. And out of that relationship, we have seen his faithfulness and his mercy over and over again so that we too can have confidence in calamity. Because think about it. What is the worst thing that could happen to us? Let's say God forbid that you get the tests back and you have a terminal illness. Well, what does Paul say? Who knew peril and sword? In Philippians 1 he says, for me to live is Christ. And to die is gain. And Paul, who knew the threat of death, what did he say? Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And let's say you're slandered for the sake of Christ. What does the Lord Himself say? Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you. you and falsely say all kinds of things against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And let's say that you experience trauma or loss. What does Paul say? Who was beaten, shipwrecked, and imprisoned? He says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress our persecution or famine or nakedness or danger our sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are what? More than conquerors to him who loved us, for I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Jesus Christ, our Lord. In times which try our very souls, can we sing this hymn All things work out for good. We know. Such is God's great design. He orders all our steps below for purposes divine. This is the faith that keeps me still, no matter what the test, and lets me glory in his will, for well I know it is best. So now the future holds no fear. God guards the work begun, and mortals are immortal here until their work is done. Someday the path he chose for me will one day be understood. In heaven's clearer light I'll see all things worked out for good All things worked out for good. Well, David's prayer was quickly answered, and the answer is reflected in verse 6. Speaking of his enemies, David writes, They have dug a pit before me. Into the midst of it, they themselves have fallen. Those who sought David's destruction fell into their own trap. And we see this in Psalm 20, uh 2 Samuel 24. We see this how this played out. That Saul, feeling the call to nature, went into the cave, the very cave where David was hiding to relieve himself So a great irony here that suddenly the trapper becomes trapped and the hunter becomes hunted. David's men encourage him to take advantage of the opportunity. And Saul's vulnerability. They said to him, David, this is your chance. Come on, go do it. Go kill King Saul. This is your moment. You're the rightful king. But he doesn't. David doesn't do it. No. He goes up to Saul quietly and he tears off a piece of his robe, but he doesn't kill him. And after Saul leaves the cave, David shouts out after him saying, See Saul, I've torn a piece of your robe while you were in there. I could have killed you, but I didn't. I could have gotten my revenge And he says in 1 Samuel 24, 12 and 14, 15, let the Lord judge between you and me, and let the Lord avenge me on you. But my hand shall not be against you. Therefore let the Lord be judge and judge between you and me and see and plead my case and deliver me out of your hand. And so Saul's heart was softened by the merciful action of David in sparing his life. And so he relented and let David go and acknowledged that David would be king one day. The Lord had answered David's plea for mercy, and he delivered him from his enemy. And so what did David do? He wanted to let the whole world know of God's deliverance. He says in verse 9 and 10, I will praise you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing to you among the nations. For your mercy reaches unto the heavens and your truth unto the clouds. Oh beloved, have we not been delivered from a greater peril? We who have been saved, not from a thousand men, angry men, but from the curse of sin and death itself, are we like David? Do we want to proclaim to the whole world all that Christ has done for us in saving us from our greatest enemy, sin and death, and in giving us a new life? Do we have hearts so utterly overcome with what the Lord has done for us that we desire to proclaim Christ to the nations? and to tell of his mercy and of his truth, which reaches to the very heights of heaven. This morning we have seen in this Psalm that we can have confidence in calamity. because of the unchanging character of God, because of God's commitment to us in establishing a covenant relationship with us And it has been shown to us by his past faithfulness to us, which encourages us and gives us peace in the present. And our response is what? But to praise him. And in praising him, make his mercy known to all the world. Let's pray. Oh Father God, we know that there's much to be anxious about. Not only in the world, but in our own homes and our own hearts. Father God, we thank you for this Psalm of David, which encourages us, which steals our hearts, because we are reminded once again that you are a mercy. Merciful God, who has blessed us with your mercy and grace through Christ. And we pray for any here who do not yet know of your mercy. And grace. Lord, that they would seek after you, that they would put their trust and faith in you, O Lord, and receive you as Lord and Savior. And Father, for us who are trusting in you, We thank you and praise you that though the though the thunderstorms whirl around us That you are there protecting us, guiding us, strengthening us, comforting us. Oh Lord, we thank you for your grace and mercy for you are our rock and our refuge and our shelter. We give you praise in Jesus' name. Amen.