Please stand as we read our passage for today. Acts twenty, verses seventeen through thirty-eight This is speaking of Paul. From Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church, and when they had come to him, he said to them, You know From the first day that I came to Asia in what manner I always lived among you, serving the Lord with all humility, with many tears and trials which happened to me by the plotting of the Jews , How I kept back nothing that was helpful but proclaimed it to you and taught you publicly and from house to house. Testifying to Jews and also to Greeks, repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And see, now I go bound in the Spirit to Jerusalem Not knowing the things that will happen to me there, except that the Holy Spirit testifies in every city, saying that chains and tribulations await me. But none of these things move me, nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy. And the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. And indeed now, I know that you all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, will see my face no more. Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men, for I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God. Therefore, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. To shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. For I know this, that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock And also from among yourselves men will rise up speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. Therefore, watch and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone, night and day, with tears. So now, brethren, I command you, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. I have coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel. Yes, you yourselves know that these hands have provided for my necessities, for those who were with me, I have shown you in every way by laboring like this that you must support the weak. And remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. When he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all. Then they all wept freely and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, sorrowing most of all for the words which he spoke. that they would see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship. May the Lord bless the reading and understanding which comes from his word. Please be seated. You might remember that we spoke about the Church of Ephesus in Revelation 2. It was the first church to be spoken of among those churches. And Jesus said a lot of very encouraging words to them. They were a very strong church when he did that, which is about, oh, probably somewhere between 30 and 40, 50 years. after this episode that we read about in Acts. But he said, This I have against you there at Ephesus. You have lost your first love. Remember, therefore, he said, from which you have fallen, repent and do the first works. Now carefully note those words from your first love and then do your first works. In other words, go back to what you were. When your name was being spoken of throughout all of Asia. Well, brothers and sisters, in our passage today, Paul was meeting with the Ephesian elders right when they were caught up in their first love, when they were doing all of those great works that Jesus pointed them back to. This was no church tottering on the brink of theological decline or disgrace and ruin. This was a church where the elders, and we we just kind of see this. Paul arrives in Miletus and he sends for the church at Ephesus and says, send the elders over here. And we say, oh, okay, he wanted to talk to the elders. Elders, my letters was about thirty miles of rough wor road uh between there and um and Ephesus And it says it takes, uh in those days it takes about twenty uh all day, uh one day to walk about twenty miles. What he did was say, get up and come over here, walk a day and a half, or possibly two days to get here, and then two days to get back. And we kind of passed over that. But this was no small thing that Paul asked of these men. But look, they came right away as soon as they got the word. And what does that say about the men who were elders there? They loved Paul. They just loved him. They're more than willing to go to him on a moment's notice. And if they love Paul this much, why? It was because Paul taught them to love Christ. And more and perhaps Phrase differently. Paul taught them that Christ loved them. And for that reason, their debt of gratitude, first of all, to Christ, was registered in the instrument through which He shared his love with these Ephesian elders, mainly through Paul. And so they thought it was a small thing to walk over those rocky roads. up and down those fairly steep uh hills and all to get all the way over to my Letus I would like to use that character observation to kind of set the tone for us today, for we're about the business today of installing, ordaining, and then installing members for our officers, our church. And so I think that we can get some insight into the idea not only of what they are to be doing, but we can get an insight into what kind of church we ought to be underneath their leadership. And perhaps from this passage we can see that he has designed his church to be taught by and loved by elders and deacons. And maybe thinking about this, we can grow in our own love for Christ through their ministry to us as they did grew in theirs, in Paul's ministry to them So, let's talk a little bit about the occasion, the provenance of this particular passage As you can see from it, Paul's on his way back to Jerusalem. His primary ministry as a church planner and ambassador to the Gentiles is drawing to a close. And now he's basically going to have to face the music. In Jerusalem, he will be subjected to a rough treatment and arrest. He will ultimately be referred at his own request to Caesar in Rome for a final adjudication. And he has no illusion of what lies ahead. He's not thinking this is gonna be springtime and roses, you know. I'm gonna get over there and there's gonna be some people who are highly ticked off at me, and they're gonna have their way for a while. And then he says something that the tenderness which he says brings me almost to tears whenever I read this passage. He told them that they would see me no more. And you can just feel the hurt in that, both for him and the sadness or the sadness for him and the hurt in their own heart But Paul was not to be deterred. Who was he to run away from persecution and death? He was following his Lord and Savior. And his footsteps were what was the focus. And that meant as his Lord went through tribulation and distress, so his servants have to, on occasion, also. So Paul wanted to sort of these elders before he left because he had such a special affection for them. They were, as it were, his that church. the brightest star in his crown, and his heart's desire was to strengthen them for what was ahead. So, what do you say in a situation like this? There you are, you're Paul, and you're talking to these elders who are so precious to me. Now, my image of Paul is that he just wasn't one of those gushy, weepy types. We don't have any real pictures of him. We have some cura caricatures, but we really don't know what he looked like. And what I don't get from his writings is that he was prone to being overly sentimental No , there's nothing wrong with powerful emotions. We all should have them. But Paul was focused. He was concerned with the Lord's kingdom. And his beloved, how his beloved Ephesian church would prosper in that. So Paul uses the occasion here not to get all gushy with these Ephesian elders and talk about how he loved them. and really wanted to be with them and oh this is so sad that he had to go. No, what he does is hammer home to them, or at least remind the elder, of a few things. Look at verse 22. Now I go bound to the spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there. And then verse 24, but none of these things move me. I'm not scared of what they're going to do. Nor do I count my life dear to myself. That's kind of powerful. So that I may finish the race with joy and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus. Do you see that laser-like focus? Absolutely clear what his ministry and what his mission was, and whatever was in the way, he was going to plow right through it to get to where he wanted to be. And brothers and sisters, I'd like you to take those words and let them sink into your soul and your heart. Imagine a church where elders and deacons have that same overarching focus. No matter what's going on, it's not my life that is most important What's important is that I fulfill the ministry that God has called me and ordained me and set me over this congregation to do. Would not such a church, who was convinced that that's what their elders and deacons were motivated by, who had that flaming passion, would not such a church be less prone to fall or be divided by minor differences, perhaps irritations. Or opposing views on stuff that in the long run doesn't make really amount much to a hill of beans. Have you ever wondered where that phrase comes from? A hill of beans, I don't I've heard it all my life. My mother used it all the time. It's not worth a hill of being uh haven't a clue where it comes from. Maybe Boston or something. But But the bottom line of it is that's the idea. Whatever is of small worth, that's what most of the irritations that we face in the church really are. When you look at the long-term valuable things. Now, so if a church is really uh has as their elders and their officers over them is focused like this on on cutting through the small stuff. And and making sure that the that the uh major uh ideas is what's kept in front, then that church is going to grow and be strong no matter what. So, I think the first thing perhaps we should take from this passage today is that all of us together, but especially our authors, should display this kind of commitment. What did he say? I don't count my life dear to myself. so that I may finish the race with joy and the ministry which I receive from the Lord Jesus Christ. All of us, officers, lay people alike. That's what should be our heart. Sometimes it's called being sold out for Christ. I have heard it being called being a religious fanatic Okay. But that's really what it is. The bottom line is this: Jesus wants his officers to have the same sense of high quality Calling about that which they have been given to do, as does Paul. They must long for this more than anything else, to finish my race with joy In the ministry which I received from the Lord Christ. But it's not just the officers. Their job You might not realize it, but their job is to stir up that same passion among us. They're supposed to lead us, sure enough, to having that kind of passion. But it's not just that they have it, but that we respond to their leadership and feel it grow among us too. And why is this? So that we may all grow to know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of his glory, of his inheritance in the saints. That's what Paul wrote to the Ephesians in his letter, the same church, to grow to that understanding. Let that kind of settle in as being a vision, your vision for Liberty Church, your church. But that becomes so all-important that it places a relative priority on your own life and your own perhaps Agendas. It's not that those agendas are bad, but what's most important is our church. And that it grow to have this kind of zeal and this kind of passion for Christ and his ministry. How in the world can we get ever have any hope of going in that way? You know, it sounds so strange. We're all modern Americans. We've been growing up more with consumerism and it's all about me than anything else And so we have to overcome quite a bit of, shall we say, uh sand in our uh sandals before we can start moving in that direction. Well, how in the world can we put a handle on it? I had a young person just this last week talking about Some, not esoteric, but some, you know, teachings, principles, and frameworks. And they say, well, I'm a very practical person. I want to know how you do that. And that's a very reasonable thing to say. And that's exactly what we need to think about. How can we take these lofty ideals and bring them down home? Well I've got some interesting uh uh points to make on that. I hope they're interesting. You judge the whether it is Notice the total commitment Paul demonstrates in his calling. What he does is say, you know the manner I always lived among you. So obviously here Paul is commending his own life to them, saying, you've seen me, you've been with me, we've eaten together, we've talked together, we've shed tears together, we've done all of these things together. You know me, and so you know the manner I always lived among you. So he is commending his life as a testimony to the truth. of what he taught them. It's not enough just to be clear and teaching with authority what the Bible says. It has to be lived out in front of the eyes of the persons, people who are being taught. Now, Paul the Elder, like Paul the Elder, and also Deacons, are called to be examples to the flock. In 1 Corinthians 4, 14 and 17, and also 11. 1, Paul says, imitate me as I imitate Christ. Imitate me as I imitate Christ. Your elders and your deacons are undertaking today, again, some of them and some for the first time, to become examples to you of what it means to imitate Christ How does that sit? Okay. So think about that. From this, we learn something very important. You see, discipleship is not taught primarily through doctrinal teaching. It is always taught with doctrinal teaching. But discipleship, becoming a disciple of Christ, is learned the same way that Jesus taught his own disciples. It is by observation and interaction. The shepherd undertakes to be an exemplar. And demonstrates by his life the radically different lifestyle of a person who is committed to Christ This will sometimes lead to a question. Perhaps the disciple will ask the elder, the deacon. Why don't you get example when people say things? Why don't you get irritated or take offense when people say things like that about you? Now, then is where it is time for instruction, for applying the whole counsel of God. To the life and heart of the person being discipled. Well, the reason why I don't take offense is because that's what Jesus said. If they treat me bad, they're going to treat you bad too. Don't be surprised. Keep your eyes focused on what you're called to do. Now, this is very important. And I want to have you, I want to make sure you understand that when uh when an officer is called to be an example of Christ The only way you're gonna know that he's actually being an example of Christ is to know Christ. Right And so this doesn't just cut through the the ground here and say, okay, I don't have to read my Bible, I'll just follow Elder Joe here. Well, that's the last thing in the world I'm telling you. The bottom line is that you're to understand Christ and being discipled into the teachings of Christ and being discipled to love Christ. That's what we're headed to do. And so therefore the commitment is two ways. The officer is there to show you, because he has grown in his understanding of Christ. And therefore is able to undertake through the Holy Spirit to be an example of Christ. And then you, observing him, say, Oh yeah, I see Christ. I see I see what's going on because I know Christ And I see here how that parallels what he's teaching. Now this guards us against ever becoming basically a bunch of heretics. As soon as we start following an elder, no matter what, and forgetting that we first owe our uh loyalty to Christ. then we can get in trouble and the church at Corinth had that going in spades. So the point here is that both the elder and the congregation, both the disciple and the disciple, or discipler. Both must know Christ and recognize Christ in it, but the elder and the deacon 's call is to be an example of Christ. And it is a high calling indeed. Brothers and sisters, this is what you should expect and desire from those who have been called to be officers over you. Officers, both those now serving and those being installed and ordained today, this is your life. This is your first duty to set before the flock an example of Christ. Not as an example that is seen from a distance, but rather an example that is known up close and personal. They must see your devotion to the flock. If they don't know that you love them, it's not their fault. Did you get that? If they don't know that you love them, it's not their fault. It is your duty. to show you, show them that you love them and make it known to them. And so They must see your devotion to your flock, your shepherding group, your people. They should see you as one who is serving with all humility, not as the guy with all the answers. But as the guy who is trusting Christ for all the answers. In other words, as the guy who shows up. And trust that Christ will lead them. They must see you serving with tears. When your flock hurts, you hurt. You have to show empathy, and it has to come the love of Christ has to come out of you like a faucet into the lives of those who are hurting. In the modern vernacular, you're to feel their pain. You should grieve when your people, especially the flock as a whole, are grieving. And you should be deeply concerned when it is beset with trials as Satan threatens to tear them apart. Notice what Paul says. He keeps coming back to that which was helpful. He keeps talking about how he never stopped trying to do that which was helpful. Here we see another call in another part of the calling of an officer in the church. It is to be helpful. Helpful in what? Another great question. You guys ask great questions. Helpful in dealing with life. Helpful in God's call to faith and obedience in the midst of that life An elder and a deacon is concerned with the practical realities of life. Theology is not understood until it is lived. It's one thing to know the doctrines of our religion, and you must. It's another to translate those doctrines into the living fiber. of our day-to-day life, so that those doctrines permeate our whole existence. And that's exactly what an officer of the church is called to do. And to provide an example for others to do, and then to help them when they struggle with finding out how to do that. Notice that this consciously undertaken goal of helping the flock is not done just in Sunday school. Notice how Paul did it. From house to house. In other words, I believe this means it was often, in his case, one-on-one With Paul seeking out those who needed help. He went to their house. He didn't wait for them to come to him. And doing whatever was necessary to provide that help. It's a two-way street. The members of the flock must be willing to have this kind of relationship with your officers The leaders and the elders and the deacons must not count this type of relationship a burden, but as a privilege. Imagine the sense of joy that comes when a person or a family opens up to you. They let you into their life. They let you in, sharing things with you that perhaps they've never shared with any other person outside of that room. or outside their family. But opening up to you that that tenderness that lies at the heart of every human being, I don't care how big the man is and how frightening he is in his daily or in his physical appearance, there is within him that which is vulnerable. And oftentimes that's what he hides the deepest. But when an officer of the church is given the privilege through the Holy Spirit of being allowed into a person's life, it must be precious. And it must be protected at all costs. There are some things when this happens that you have to tell the person, I can't keep this to myself. You know, if the sin is really egregious, it may require that you go outside the individual and say, we've got to take this to the to the session. But those times are fairly rare. The big thing is Your calling is to know your people in a manner that is uh that is very close There is no higher joy, in my opinion , and it is the most humbling experience an officer can have. There is no pride or arrogance in it whatsoever. You know you're not worthy of this honor. But God gives it to you anyway. Along with these things, notice that we're to follow Paul's example in total self-giving. In verse 20, he says, I kept back nothing. Now, nowhere on earth is humility a greater challenge than in church leadership. I'm saying on this side of the pulpit, you know, humility becomes a challenge. And similarly, humility must be matched by a passionate empathy, which often brings tears. Because it means giving all that you have. Be an example to the flock requires that an elder or a deacon on occasion must put it all on the line. There comes questions or difficulties which may be very difficult. In fact, when you consider them, you have to ask Will this tear this congregation apart? And the temptation in the face of such questions is to try to put it off. To try to find an easy way out to minimize what needs to be done some way or another so that it doesn't become a big issue And brothers and sisters, that's where we have to trust Christ most clearly. We have to believe that He is among us. We have to believe that he has entrusted our officers with the keys of the kingdom. And we have to believe that the best way forward is to obey God and not men. And that means doing what his holy word calls us to do and seek with passion how to understand how it applies to what we do. So, when the elders as a group unify in understanding Then they must set an example to the flock of trusting how those things are going to work out They must trust God in seeking out among the congregation those who need to be led. And most of all, they must be continually checking themselves to ask the question, what hath God said about this situation? Now, when the leaders of the church are unified in this, it's like all of that oil flowing down Aaron's beard. When that happens, God shows them the way forward. It's a matter of faith on their part to pursue it with vigor It's a part of the faith of the congregation to follow their lead. Brothers and sisters, I can tell you from being there. I've seen 12 men on a session I was a ruling elder at the time, down on the floor, flat on their face, pleading with God. Somehow, not the same words you know, that this trial might be taken from them. Because they had we had to bring discipline and ultimately excommunication against one of the most beloved and popular members of our church. And those elders, we were just ripped apart. We had to do it. It's what God's word called for. And so you have to trust that your elders are going through that same kind of thing. And elders have to trust that no matter how big the impact might be, since it's God's word that dictates it, God's going to take care of it. And therefore, you go forward with a compelling desire to be faithful. From top to bottom, elders must give their all, elders and deacons, and hold back nothing In promoting a sense of conviction among themselves as a group, and similarly within the congregation. As Jesus taught, a house divided cannot stand. And what Jesus desires among his flock is a conviction of rightness that leads them from top to bottom to lay it all on the line for Christ. To hold back nothing, but to yield it all up to Christ, even if it's our own life. The last thing I want to touch on is that of serving Christ and the congregation. And here's what you should see from your leaders. Here's what you should demand from your leaders. And here's where you must expect them to make this their top. governing priority as far as strategy of ministry. Paul says that in verse 21 he was testifying to Jews and also to Greeks, repentance toward God And faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. The church is not just one more Self-Help Slant Therapy Center. The whole cultural emphasis of encounter groups or spiritual wellness programs, no matter what kind of good things they do. That is not identical to what the church is and must not ever be thought of that way. Because quite frankly, those things tend towards equating human unhappiness or spiritual anxiety with some kind of medical condition. They blur the line Between what can be fixed by turning certain knobs, applying a certain recipe, doing these particular procedures, which some things can be done, but no. That's not what the church is about. This idea that God wants me to be happy, I'm not happy Therefore give me a spiritual aspirin and exercise program so that I can become happy as God wants me to be. That's not exactly how Paul is talking here. There is just enough truth in this, however, to make it really dangerous. God does want us to be joyful, and God does very much want us to flourish in our lives, but that doesn't all the time and sometimes not often equate to what modern Americans call being happy God wants us to live a flourishing life. He wants us to know what it means to be blessed and to flourish, to live in alignment with His will for our lives. But just as God may require us to face cancer, which is not a happy prospect, so in his providence he may ask us to endure other trials. And conversely , Conversely, he may lead us into the most deadly temptation of all, success. And he may put us in a position where we're threatened with falling down and worshiping the idol Mammon. So what we need is not some spiritual chyster. Selling us a book that is guaranteed to put us on the pathway of bliss in this life. The closest we have to that is this What we need is someone to bring the gospel of Jesus Christ to bear on the circumstances in our life that is robbing us of happiness. So that we may understand them rightly and begin to flourish in them, to flourish in love and good works, and to discover almost by chance that the difficulties that we or others are facing, that we or others are facing, actually become the sphere in which good can be shown, come forth. Our joy will not be in those circumstances, but in what God is doing in them. Paul alludes to this when he says that He did this going from house to house, speaking to both Jews and Greeks, and he was to proclaim repentance toward God and faith towards Jesus Christ. In other words , He said what he basically did was something like an E. E. call. Hi, my name is Arch. Have you come to that place in your spiritual life where you know for certain that you're going to spend eternity in heaven? Well, Paul may have started out with such a thing, but he didn't stay there. What he did was go back to them over and over again. Because repentance unto eternal life is not a one-time shot. Faith in Jesus Christ is not a one-time proclamation. The reason why we need elders and deacons, brothers and sisters, is that we have to be continually reminded. and called to avenge to repentance and faith. When we look at it that way, we hear it specifically in 2 Timothy 3. That we the scriptures are to teach us and to reprove us. In other words, cause us to repent of not doing what Scripture says, and then it corrects us and trains us in righteousness. If you will believe these things, then you'll see that's biblical repentance. The message of the elders and deacons, then , is to convey to all of us Is that we need to repent and have faith. When? Every day. Every week But when we say that, we don't say it just from a high theoretical point of view. We have to have officers that are able to help us see how that needs to be done in the fabric of my individual life. So brothers and sisters, elders, deacons, this is your job. Delight in it As elders and deacons, this is what you're called to do in leading your congregation. As a congregation, you are to hold your elders and deacons responsible to do this, and you must open up to allow them to do it. They can't help you grow in repentance and faith if you keep the door shut. If you insist upon a privacy that does not allow your officers to know you as you need to be known It is the special duty of the officers to guard the flock. That's a part of another sermon. And so we'll hold off on that. The major thing, the big thing, is to understand the call to be shepherds of God 's precious flock. Let's pray. Okay, I thank you that you have given us through our brother Paul. These insights into how you want your church governed, not through officers who lord it over others, as you yourself taught your disciples. But rather by officers who are sold out for you and your kingdom, and who lead others in understanding what it means to be sold out also. Lord and God help us. It goes so much against what the world teaches. And so our Lord, that's why it is so precious when it actually comes about. And so help us, Lord God, to do these things and help us on both sides of the leadership equation. To give ourselves wholly over to seeing it done in our church. In your name I pray. Amen