If you have your Bibles, please turn to Psalm twenty-four and please remain standing for tonight's scripture reading. And if you remember, you you probably know we've been singing a psalm every month here at church. The choir usually sings it the first Sunday of the month and then we as a congregation sing it uh as the first hymn uh the rest of the month on every Sunday. So what we've been doing over the summer for evening worship is the psalm that we're singing for that month is the psalm that we preach for evening worship. So for these three months over the summer, you get to sing it, hear it sung, hear it read, and hear it preached. So once again, this is Psalm 24, verses 1 to 10. Hear now the word of the Lord. A Psalm of David. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the rivers. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false, and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the King of Glory. This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. And let's pray together before we start. Lord, thank you, Father, for calling us to worship here on the Sabbath, on the Lord's Day, both morning and evening. Just as you prescribed morning and evening sacrifices in the Old Testament, so we worship morning and evening here on your day. Lord, we pray that you give me boldness and strength here in the pulpit, and you give the people of our church ears to hear and softened hearts to understand your word tonight. In your son's name we pray. Amen. This psalm is concerning the kingdom of Jesus Christ. This quote is from Matthew Henry's commentary. on Psalm 24, or rather on the whole Bible. And it makes the point that this Psalm has at its aim, first and foremost, the realm of our King. In fact, there's an interesting link when you read Psalms 22, 23, and 24 together. There's a procession, if you will, through these three Psalms and how they depict Christ. In Psalm 22, we see Christ as a suffering servant, experiencing trials in the world and a torturous death upon the cross. David penned the words, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? When he was being pursued in Psalm 22, and Christ echoed those words on the cross. In Psalm 23, Christ is the shepherd of his flock, the eternal comforter who walks with his people through the valley of the shadow of death, the grave to which he had descended And then we come to our psalm this evening, the 24th. This psalm is about Christ as the sovereign ruler and triumphant king over all of creation. Hopefully you see that progression through those three Psalms. Christ the suffering servant, Christ the Shepherd, and finally Christ the triumphant king. This evening we're going to dive deeper into this idea of Christ as the triumphant king, which brings us to the main point for tonight's sermon. As Christians, we are called to remember Christ's lordship over creation, the nature of the members of Christ's kingdom. And Christ as the triumphant king of glory. I'll say that again. As Christians, we are called to remember Christ's lordship over creation. the nature of the members of Christ's kingdom, and Christ as the triumphant king of glory. So let's get into the first section here. We see this in verses 1 and 2 of the Psalm. Christ the Lord over creation. The Psalm opens with quite the declarative statement. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. the world and those who dwell therein, for he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. That's quite the statement, is it not? Right from the get-go, the psalmist David makes clear the authority of God. This kind of harkens back to the creation account in Genesis 1. Or maybe the response of God to Job at the end of the book in Job thirty-eight to forty-one. The language is very similar. Think for a moment about God's words to Job in chapter 38, and listen to some of the things he tells, or he asks Job rather. He says this, and this is taken from throughout Job 38. Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place? Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain and a way for the thunderbolt? Is the wild ox willing to serve you? Do you give the horse his might? Do you clothe his neck with a mane? Those are pretty pretty serious statements that God's asking Job there. He spends four chapters making the point to Job that he alone is the creator and sustainer of the world and every living creature that dwells in it. Now what about mankind? Do we humans dwell in the same realm controlled and ruled by the Lord? Obviously the answer is yes. The end of verse 1 of our Psalm tonight says, the world and those who dwell therein, that includes all of mankind. In Genesis 1, you read the creation account, in particular the account of God's creation of man. God created man and placed him in the garden. He placed him on earth to fill the earth and subdue it and take dominion over it. Mankind is intimately involved in God's creation. The point that David is making here in verse 1 is that even though man has his creation mandate to fill the earth and subdue it and take control of it, the earth and everything in it still belongs to God. The earth is the Lord's in the fullness thereof, the world, and those who dwell therein. Brothers and sisters, remember that this world, this creation you see when you look outside these windows, ultimately belongs to Christ. He is the king and sovereign over all. We are simply tenant farmers, if you will, caretakers placed in this world for a time to work it and to keep it for the Lord. Christ was given all authority in heaven and on earth as king. You can read that at the end of Matthew 28 in the Great Commission passage. Now you may remember from your high school history classes a phrase called the divine right of kings. This was a political and really a religious idea that all authority possessed by earthly men like kings and rulers was ultimately given to them by God. Now, of course, this is a true statement. You can read Romans 13 and see that all authority on earth has been instituted by God. However, this divine right of kings, this idea, was often used as an excuse for kings to abuse their power, their subjects and their kingdoms, and often for their own personal gain. It was used selfishly by men to further their own sinful desires. However, there is one king who does not do that. If all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to Christ, then his lordship over creation gives him the true divine right to establish the terms of entering into communion with him. If all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to Christ, then you owe him fealty. If all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to Christ, then you owe him faithfulness. and your stewardship over this creation that he has made. I want to focus on that last thing very briefly here. Knowing that the world, the creation, the earth, and the fullness thereof, everything, the seas, the rivers, the world, everything that dwells within them, knowing that all of that belongs to Christ. and knowing that you are stewards of that should promote within you a heart of humility. Whatever you build in this world, whatever you build in this lifetime, ultimately belongs to Christ and not to you. You are caretakers and stewards over his creation. If your friend asked you to house sit for them, you would probably be very careful with their property, right? How much more careful should you be in the keeping of the Lord's property and creation, which he has entrusted to you Are you keeping your family in a way which honors Christ? Are you working hard at your employment in a way which honors Christ? Do you treat your neighbors and strangers on the street in a way which honors Christ? Are you loving your spouse and training up your children in a way which honors Christ? Are you being faithful and diligent with the things and the people whom Christ has entrusted to you? By saying these things, I hope to provoke your conscience. Hopefully you feel a little uncomfortable hearing some of those questions. But I encourage you to take stock of your life and think and pray about how you are working and keeping those things which ultimately belong to the Lord. And then go forth and steward them better than you were before. This takes us into the second point for this evening. The nature of the members of Christ's kingdom. And we see this in the main section, uh or the second section rather of the Psalm, verses 3 to 6, in those four verses. The section begins with a question, Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false, and does not swear deceitfully, he will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. This question essentially is, who shall dwell or live in the presence of God? Verse 3 here states that God and his hill are holy. But what does that mean? What does that mean that God is holy? This means that he is so perfect, so sinless, so complete and incredibly good that anything unholy cannot withstand his presence. If you read Isaiah 6, verses 1 to 7, you'll see the prophet's reaction to God's holy presence. When he sees God in his full glory, Seated upon the throne, he responds by saying, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. And if you read Revelation 1, verses 9 to 20, you'll read that the Apostle John beheld Christ in his full glory. And what did he do? He fell at Jesus' feet as though he was dead. These are pretty intense reactions to God's presence. Now listen for a moment to Romans 3, verses 11 to 18, and ask yourself if God were to allow someone like this to ascend his holy hill and stand in his holy presence. This is Romans 3, verses 11 to 18. None is righteous, no, not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. And their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now tell me, is that the type of person who could ascend the hill of the Lord and stand in his holy place? No. Clearly not. But that describes all of you. None of you are worthy to stand in God's presence, not a single one. Here in Psalm 24, David writes what is required of someone to ascend the hill of the Lord and stand in his place. He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully In your natural sinful state. Does that describe you? No. It does not. The reason I bring all this up, and the reason for which David wrote this in Psalm 24, is to show that you are in dire need of a savior. But the good news is, brothers and sisters, you have such a savior. You have a savior who has washed that wretched sin from your life. And made you worthy and clean to stand in his holy presence. What does Paul say later on in Romans 3? For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But what does he say next? And are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in who? Christ Jesus. Brothers and sisters, you are sinners. But the good news is that Christ has justified you. He has cleansed you. He has declared you not guilty. And this is a most gracious and incredible gift. Verses 5 and 6 tell of the inheritance you will receive if you are this righteous generation who seeks after God. It says, he will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. The people of God must be justified and righteous to be God's people. And this is precisely the inheritance which you stand to receive. Blessing and righteousness. This might sound familiar from this morning, right? Pastor Aaron talked about this in this morning's sermon on Genesis 48. You will be blessed with righteousness. You'll be blessed with adoption as sons and daughters of God. You'll be blessed with everlasting life Just like a wealthy nobleman has an heir who stands to inherit everything, his land, his house, his money, his investments. So do you stand to inherit the blessings of eternal life in Christ as his son or daughter. Now, we just went over a few moments ago that you cannot have clean hands and a pure heart on your own, and you need God to do this for you. But now you here who are Christians, who are saved, you have the ability and the softened heart to follow God's law and commandments. So by way of application, I encourage you to examine your own hearts this evening. Do you come to worship with clean hands and a pure heart Have you confessed your sins to the Lord? Do you have an issue with your brother or sister which has not yet been resolved, and you therefore harbor animosity in your heart towards them? I implore you to confess your sins to God. Go and be resolved in your issues with your brother or sister. Apologize for what you have done and seek their apology as well. Be reconciled to one another in Christ. Do not harbor sinful animosity in your heart, which prevents you from worshiping appropriately. Seek to obey the Lord's statutes found in Scripture I also encourage you to read scripture on a regular basis. It can be simple. Read a chapter in the Old Testament and a chapter in the New Testament every day. Do this so you know God's word, so you know his covenant promises. Do this so you know what God has done for you already, and do this so you know what God will do for you in the future. Think about those scriptures throughout your day. Pray that God would grant you understanding of them. Pray the words of David in Psalm 51. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me with the willing spirit. The good news is that the Holy Spirit will grant you this pure heart. He will sanctify you. This is his sanctifying work, which he performs for his people. Praise God for that work. Praise God for that creation of your clean heart and hands. For without that you could not stand in the presence of Christ or on his holy hill. That takes us into the last point. This evening, Christ the triumphant king of glory. And we see that in verses 7 to 10, the last four verses of our psalm. So this last section details the triumph of Christ as King. It says, beginning at verse 7, Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. At first, this may seem like a somewhat strange section of the Psalm. And I want to go into a little bit of background here of why this is in here. Matthew Henry, the pastor, along with most scholars, believe that Psalm 24 was written by David. upon the return of the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem. You may remember from the scriptures that the Philistines captured the ark from Israel in 1 Samuel 4, and they brought it to one of their cities. And then in the following chapter, 1 Samuel 5, God afflicts the Philistines with tumors and plagues of mice because they had sinned by taking the ark. And then in 1 Samuel 6, the Philistines can't take it anymore, so they return the ark to Israel, but the Israelites do not bring it all the way back to Jerusalem. Instead they leave it in the house of Abinadab in 1 Samuel 7. The ark then remained there for 20 years throughout the reign of Saul until 2 Samuel 6, when we see David returning the ark to Jerusalem finally. This time of twenty years when the ark was not dwelling in the house of the Lord was a time of great sorrow and mourning because true worship was not being carried out appropriately in the temp in the tabernacle. 1 Samuel 7. 2 says that all of Israel lamented after the Lord while the ark dwelt with Abinadab But here in Psalm 24, we see great rejoicing and celebration because the ark has finally been returned to its proper place in the presence of God's people. So even though the immediate context of this psalm deals with the Ark returning to Jerusalem, ultimately the psalm points forward to Christ, because the Ark is a type of Christ. Just like the ark dwelt in the presence of God's people, so does Christ dwell in the presence of us now. This psalm is really a psalm of his coronation and victory. Now the structure of verses 7 to 10 are kind of interesting. There's a repetition that you may have noticed here. Psalm 7 says, Lift up your heads, O gates, so the King of glory may enter. Verse 8 then identifies the King of glory. It says it's the Lord, strong and mighty in battle. Then verse 9 repeats verse 7. more or less. And verse 10 more or less repeats verse 8. So there's a little two-part repetition that we see here. So tonight I want to concentrate as we close here on two things from this last section of the Psalm. The gates and ancient doors that it talks about here, and the victorious king of glory. So in an immediate sense, the gates and ancient doors in this verse, these verses are speaking of, are speaking of the gates of Jerusalem and the doors of the tabernacle. But ultimately they are speaking of the gates of the heavenly tabernacle or temple. Just as the Psalm speaks of the presence of God entering the holy city by way of the ark, it also points forward to the presence of Christ. entering the heavenly tabernacle upon his ascension to the throne. There's also a sense here of Christ entering the gates, as you will, of the Christian heart. At the beginning of verse 7, he's standing and knocking. He's standing at the gate, knocking Jesus Christ, the only Savior and King, stands at the door and knocks, bidding all to admit him entry. If you are here tonight and you are not a believer, do not turn away this guest when he knocks. Throw open the gates and grant him entry. But the question remains, why should you permit Christ entry? The answer is that he is this king of glory from this passage. He's identified in verses 8 and 10. Jesus Christ is the King of glory, the strong and mighty Lord in battle, the victorious sovereign who rules over all of creation. The same Christ who stood knocking at the door of your heart is the same Christ who is seated upon the throne in the heavenly realms. The same Christ who was born but a babe in a lowly cattle stall. That 's the same Christ who died a violent, bloody death on a Roman cross for you. The same Christ who stood as the commander of the army of the Lord in Joshua is the same Christ who cries, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ has defeated sin. He has defeated death in the grave. He has led his heavenly army into battle And now he rides victorious into the heavenly city, throwing open the gates, ascending to his throne, and he is seated with his work complete. Jesus Christ, your King, reigns supreme over the universe. Pay him homage. Give your heart to him. Throw yourself upon him as the only hope of salvation. Throw open the gates and grant him entry. With Christ alone will you find the inheritance of eternal life that this passage speaks of And that is the hope of the Christian life. Amen? Let's pray together. Lord, Father, we thank you for sending your Son, for sending us your word in both written form and in the person and the work of Christ. Lord, none of us here in this church know the full depth. We do not fully understand what you have done for us, but help us in our unbelief. Lord, help convict us of our sin. Help remind us every day that we are not worthy to stand in your holy presence, but through your Son we are. Remind us of that anew every single day. In your son's name we pray. Amen.