Let's go ahead and open them to First Corinthians chapter seven verses seventeen to twenty-four. Uh if you need the pew bible in front of you, that is on page eleven hundred and thirty-five. And let's stand together in honor of the reading of God's holy word. First Corinthians chapter seven, verses seventeen. Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all the churches. Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God God. Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called. Were you a bondservant when you were called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity. For he who is called in the Lord as a bondservant is a freed man of the Lord. Likewise, he who was free when he was called is a bondservant of Christ. You were bought with a price. Do not become bondservants of men. So brothers. In whatever condition each was called, let him remain with God. This is the reading of God's Holy Word. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you and we pray, O Lord, that you would take your word and that you would apply it to our lives. Lord, that you would give me the ability to explain it and apply it. Lord, we pray that your Holy Spirit would be at work in each and every one of our hearts as we need to hear what you say. Or some of us maybe need to be called to repent of something, maybe even in just an attitude or the way we think. about our lives. Others of us, Lord, here need encouragement. Lord, you know where each person is this morning and we pray, Lord, that you would apply your word accordingly. For the power of your spirit according to your will, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if you go back to verse 1 of this chapter, Paul makes mention of the fact that he says, now concerning the matters about which you wrote. It is not uncommon for many of us to have questions about how God would call us to live at various stages of our lives. Sometimes when we're in the stage of being a student, we are thinking, well, what is God going to call me to do with the rest of my life? Maybe you're a parents here this at this morning and you have a question about maybe a decision on how to lead your children in this ever -growing complex world of society. Regardless of where we're at in life, life comes with questions, and with those questions we want answers as to what God is calling us to do. That's what Paul has been doing largely in this particular chapter, in chapter 7. We've seen him already speak to the issues of marriage. We've seen him speak to the issues of singleness and and even widowhood. And last week we saw him speaking to the issues of divorce. You know, all up to this point, Paul has been really just hammering down and speaking to the gamut of stations uh conditions, statuses, and experiences in life that Christians and non-Christians alike seem to have. It may be interesting as we read this passage in verses seventeen to twenty-four. It may seem on the surface like, well, wait a minute. Paul, what is what you're saying this week? What does it have to do with the argument you've been making and building up to this point? And I I think um that that's only a surface level observation if we look carefully What we're going to see is what Paul is saying here, he's beginning to summarize kind of in big picture fashion some of the details he's been already working through And then next the next couple passages throughout the rest of this chapter, he will continue his argument, looking at different stations of life. uh in particular again. But he kind of takes the wide angle lens here as he looks at the Christian life. And we see our main point is this The reality of the gospel means that we remain in the calling God has given to us because it transcends the circumstantial aspects of our lives. Let me let me reef let me restate that again. That's the idea we want to unpack and build this morning and see how this passage addresses that. But you can crystallize it this way. The reality of the gospel means that we remain in the calling God has given to us. Why? Because that calling transcends the circumstantial aspects of our lives. That's what we want to look at this morning. And it really breaks in down into two points that I 'm gonna go through this morning. Our first point is this the gospel and the calling of the Christian life. The gospel and the calling of the Christian life. 17, 20, and verse 24. Now the main idea is not difficult to see in this passage. There's not that many verses, but if you look with me at the structure of this passage really quick before we get into some of the details, it's very simple. Verses 17, verse 20, almost exactly in the middle of the passage, and then verse 24 at the end. So the beginning, the middle, and the end Paul essentially states the same thing. He may word it a little differently, and we'll look at those differences in just a moment, but that's the main point. Verse 17, 20, and 24. And then in the middle of stating the main point three times, he gives examples of that main point. From verses 18 and 19, and then verses 21 to 23. He gives examples of what that main point looks like in real life for the Corinthians. Well the main point is very clear, beginning in verse seventeen. Walking in the calling that God has assigned. Take a look at verse 17 as we look at the first verse that highlights the main point. Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him, to which God has called him. And just a few things here. That's not a long verse, but we see that walking implies intentional action. In fact, the the phrase there that's translated in the ESV, let each person lead the life, believe it or not, is really only boils down to two words in Greek. you can translate that word in English, let each one walk. It's interesting that grammatically that is an active verb and it functions as a command. And as you may know, this verb relates to how one lives and conducts themselves. We talk this way in Christian circles all the time. You might ask somebody in conversation, how 's your walk with the Lord doing? And what you're talking about is what is your relationship with the Lord look like and how is that practically working itself out in your life? That's really what you're asking when you're asking about somebody's walk with the Lord. We get that kind of terminology from the scriptures itself, the scriptures themselves. We see that language in Psalm 1, verse 1. You might remember. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, and then it goes on from there. In other words, the psalmist is saying, the man who is blessed is the one who does not live and conduct himself in the way that the wicked do. And so this walk is something that believers like you and I are practically to live in. And notice how Paul ends verse 17. This is my rule in all the churches. Again, you can translate that. This is what I command in all the churches. We are commanded to walk a certain way. Well, what's that way we're called to walk? Well, we're called to walk in God's assignment. And again, verse 17, it's hard to see in English, but it really contains Two clauses that explain what that means. And both of them make the same point about how we're called to walk. And both of those points highlight God's sovereignty. Or God's authority, if you will, over every area of our lives. First, when Paul commands them, let each person walk or let each person lead the life. that they're called to live. He says, as the Lord has assigned. And I think the ESV translates that very well when he talks about the life that the Lord has assigned to That is a great way to translate that word from the original Greek into English. Now, when he says the Lord here, he's referring to none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. When we get to chapter 12, talking about spiritual gifts, Paul will begin that particular chapter talking about the great Christian confession of faith. it is summarized in English in three words. Jesus or Christ is Lord. And so he's calling Christ the Lord. The Lord, Jesus Christ, is the one who assigns to us. Um our calling in life. Divided. Think of like the Lord dividing to us our portion in life. Our life circumcised. And what Paul is getting at here when he's when he's highlighting that it is the Lord that assigns to us or or divides our lot in life to us, what he's really getting at is that among the members of the Church of Corinth Each of them lives a life a little bit with a little bit different circumstance of other members, and the circumstances of their lives are a gift. And the plan of the Lord. Now let's take again the wide-angle lens view of this passage and put this in the context of Paul's larger argument. Again, what has he been talking about all this time? He's been talking to Corinthians who've had questions about marriage and what that relationship should look like. Corinthian believers who've had questions about singleness or widowhood or divorce. And so he he's talking about all these circumstances in life, and what he's saying essentially is the circumstances that these Corinthians find themselves in, even in their relationships. Is none other than the circumstances that Christ has assigned to his people. The point is these Christians find themselves in a wide variety of circumstances in life. And what's the point? indicative. When I think of assigning something as a for the former teacher in me, I'm thinking of the Lord giving me or you an assignment to live in. And the assignment is the circumstances. And so what do you do to fulfill the assignment? You live faithfully in whatever circumstances the Lord Jesus has called you to live in at the present moment. The second clause he uses in verse 17, he says, we're called to walk as God has called. And again, it's a parallel uh statement to what he's just said about the Lord's assignment, but this time referring to God, he's referring to God the Father. Notice the Trinitarian nature of of the Christian's calling here. God the Son has a part in it. God the Father is the one who has called. He's calling the calling here, and I believe is a reference. To two different things. And the point at which the Corinthians got saved or were converted. But it is also the calling of the believers living out their subsequent faith in the circumstances that they have found themselves in. Where do I get that from? Why do I say that this is kind of like a two-part calling? Well, not to get too technical, but the verb that he uses there when he says, as God has called, is a perfect active verb. In the original Greek, a perfect verb refers to something that has happened in the past but has ongoing results. So I'm just simply parsing the grammar and and teasing out the meaning. It points to how believers are called to live in an ongoing way that flows out of and is consistent with the calling to salvation and discipleship in Jesus Christ that they entered into when they first came to faith in Jesus and got saved. And so we're we're called here in verse seventeen to walk in the calling that God has assigned. But that's not all he says about this, because we have to look at verses 20 and 24. Now I'm gonna, for the sake of time and ease, put those two together because they use very similar language to one another that's a little different from verse 17. Let's take a look at verse 20 really quick. We see we're called to the remain we're we're called to remain in the calling in which God has called us. Each one should remain. Verse 20. in the condition in which he was called. By the way, the key word in verse twenty and twenty-four is remain. The key word in verse seventeen was to walk. There's kind of a progression in the idea here. You go from progressing to walking, which carries the idea of something that is very active in nature to the idea of remaining, which highlights that there is a settled conviction that sets in in the heart and the life of these Corinthians. It's you see the same kind of progression to illustrate this from the Old Testament. I already mentioned Psalm chapter one, verse one. You see the same kind of kind of progression of verbs there, right? Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand uh or you know, stand in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. In other words, what the Psalmist is saying is don't start with evil broadly because it's a slippery slope. You will go from walking to standing to sitting. You will become more firm and resolute in evil if you entertain sin. That's that progression. Well here it's a very similar progression. But not an evil, a progression in terms of our cost. Remember years ago Josh McDowell published a book uh sometime probably when I was in college called Beyond Belief to Conviction. And the thesis of that book was, yes, we're called to come to faith in Christ and give our lives to Him and we get saved that way. But uh a mature believer goes from just simply saying, I believe, to no, I am firmly. committed. That's what he's saying here about the calling of of these Corinthian believers. They are more settled in their conviction. What does that mean to be settled in their conviction? Well the ESV translates that the word condition as what I would say the Greek word there is calling. And again, I'm not gonna belabor the point. He talks about the callings of marriage and singleness and widowhood and even divorce in the context of his larger argument. And his point is that is if you were in these conditions when you were called, when you came to Christ, he's saying, be content to remain where you are. The gospel does not mean that you have to overturn all of the circumstances in your life. to be more holy and to be more spiritual. Paul is encouraging these Corinthians, no, you can actually be faithful. You can actually be spiritual. You can pursue holiness. You can serve the Lord and grow closer to Him in the condition of life that you find yourself in. when you are saved. Again, the gospel is not always about changing your circumstances, is it? It's about changing your heart so that within the circumstances that God calls you to live in, you can live faithfully in those things. I tend to think that the Corinthians were maybe a little had some discontentment in thinking that you know you could be more or you would be more spiritual if only your set of circumstances Circumstances were different. How many of you? How many of you have thought that way? I'll be I hear someone chuckling Telling me it's it's probably hitting home for some. I'll admit I have fallen into that trap at times in my mindset Oh man, if only my circumstances were different. I could pursue the Lord more. Or I'd be better off. And you know what the problem with that is? The problem with that is that Paul is getting at here is thinking that circumstances Will change our heart. And that's not true. And that's not true. Only the gospel. Only the gospel. Only Christ. Only the power of the Spirit changes our hearts And that leads us to the little nuance in verse 24, which continues to build on this main idea from verse 17 and 20. It uses the same word remain, but it adds words, the words with God. Take a look at verse 24. That's the one thing it adds. So brothers, in whatever condition, or that could be true Translated calling. Whatever condition each one was called, there, in that condition, let him remain what? With God. I've heard the before the phrase or the the maxim that there is two kinds of people in life There are people that circumstances happen to them, and then there are those that happen to circumstances. What is Paul calling us here as Christians? Well, when we have the presence of God with us in whatever circumstances life brings, we become the kind of people Not that circumstances happen to us, but we are called to be those who happen to circumstances Think of Joseph in the prison in the Old Testament. I preached through Genesis a while back and we went through that passage that Joseph was in the prison and there was the the constant refrain in that passage. And God or in the Lord was with him. He was in the worst of circumstances. And yet those circumstances we could say on the surface level, yeah, those happened to Joseph. But if you actually read the passage, no, because God was with him, Joseph happened to those circumstances. God used Joseph to redeem those circumstances in a way that pointed forward to Christ in the gospel. We see this again. I'll just give one more illustration of this point. Ezra. In Ezra chapter 7 and Ezra chapter 8 in the Old Testament, they're coming back from exile. The circumstances are not exactly safe. They're not exactly kosher. They've got a five-month journey through the Persian Empire where they're subject to robbers and maybe even death as they go back to Jerusalem. And yet The constant refrain in those two chapters is, but the hand of the Lord our God was with us. And the Lord uses his presence through his hand with his people in in that passage to bring a a redemptive uh end out of this reform that he was going to be uh bringing to Jerusalem. What's the point? Remaining in the circumstances that God has found us So the application point I would say is we're called to walk and remain faithfully with a settled conviction that God has ordered the detailed circumstances of our lives. I want you to drive that principle home to your heart this morning. God has sovereignly assigned, I'm using that word again, your lot in life. The gospel suits any and every condition and station in life Many people out there are not content with their circumstances and lot and li in their lives. And maybe you're sitting here this morning and you are not content with the circumstances of your life that God has you in. Again, you know, appealing to the broader context of this particular chapter. There are some people here who are single and maybe are not content with that. And they're tempted to think that if only my circumstances were changed and I'm not single and if I got married, maybe then I'd be happy. Or maybe then I can serve the Lord. with greater vitality and effectiveness. And the temptation then is to change that station in life at all costs and sometimes run the risk of compromising in certain areas of your life. There's people who are married. And their marriages are difficult. due to the sea either the season of life or the difference of personalities within the marriage or maybe even both I remember when I was in my twenties, my grandmother who's now passed on, um I was eating lunch with her one day and um I was dating a woman at the time and my grandmother Grandmother said to me over lunch, she said, just remember one thing. Choose your bride very carefully. She said, There are a lot of people. out there who are married and very lonely. And I remember her saying to me, you think as a single person you understand loneliness. She said, I think people who are married, who are lonely in their marriage, the loneliness is far more stark. Right. And when people find themselves in those situations, they think to themselves, if only my circumstance would change Then maybe God would smile upon me and life would get easy. And then they do things I contemplate. Paul's over our all argument here applies to us today because in whatever circumstance We find ourselves in. And it this goes far beyond just your marital status. That's just the context of what he said so far. But whatever circumstances we find in our lives, when we come to faith in Jesus Christ, we are called to be contents, knowing that God is sovereign over the circumstances of our lives. Which talks about, you know, um, you know, the Lord has each of our days written in a book, even before as yet one of them occurs. They've been laid out out for us. You know one of the implications of that is it doesn't matter how easy or how difficult life can be in various seasons, each one of us our days, each one of the seasons of our lives, the the joys and the challenges are designed by God specifically for us. Let me just use the personal pronoun that's singular designed for you to make it personal designed for you to demonstrate the glory of Christ and the gospel in your lives. In whatever station in life you find yourself, you are called to walk in a manner, that's the active again, remember that, to walk in a manner that is faithful to God and to understand that where he presently has you is an assignment that he has given you. for his glory and for your good. For some of you, that assignment may be singleness for now. Others, it may be marriage. Some it may be a the condition of being a widow or maybe even being divorced. And I realize how difficult it is for us Christians to think of even being in the state of divorce as an assignment by the Lord Maybe permanently or maybe for a season. But the encouragement from our passage, and I hope that this is encouragement. to you is that each station of life that Paul has described up to this point in this chapter and many more, each of them presents unique abilities and possibilities and opportunities to walk with Christ and remain in his presence with contentment. Each station in life brings with it the unique ability to put the gospel on display that reflects the glory and the goodness of God that goes far deeper than just outward circumstances and surface level considerations. And boy, isn't that the difference between happiness Happiness and joy. Happiness is circumstantial. Joy is rooted far deeper in the heart. And it is in some of these circumstances that we might find ourselves in that Paul will tease out in the next point. But before I get there, I just want to say our circumstances are not the measure of our spiritual status before God. Okay? Your outward circumstances, whatever they may be, are not the measure of your spiritual status or your circumstances. spiritual value before the Lord. But your status and our status as God's people increase Christ is meant to then impact how we faithfully live in our circumstances. That's how God God redeems the time that He's given us in this world. Now let's look at the examples He gives in our second point. And this is the gospel. My second point is I'm titling it the gospel and circumstances of the Christian life. We've got the gospel and the principle of contentment. Now let's look at the circumstances he lays out. Because he lays out some things that go beyond things like marriage and singleness or widowhood and divorce. Look at verses 18 and 19. We see the circumstances of ethnic and religious background. How about that? It moves from telling us the principle. It gives us now some examples that the Corinthian believers would see in their midst. Now the concepts are gonna look a little different from Corinth to 21st century America. But let's take a look at this. Verses 18 to 19. Paul asks questions and he answers. Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not remove the marks of circumcision. Let me just parenthetically say there, they had surgical means to do that in the ancient world that I'm not going to get into because it's besides the point. But we'll see what he's getting at here in a moment. Was anyone at the time Let him not seek circumcision. Why? For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision. But keeping the commandments of God. Notice here what he does. Paul talks about how God calls people from different ethnicities. That's the the point I'm drawing out of this. In this example, I think the calling is referring to the point when the Corinthians heard the preaching of the gospel and then they likely from Paul and then they were converted through faith in Jesus. That's the point. He's talking about when you were called. When you were called. When you were called. Were you circumcised? Were you uncircumcised? The circumcised are clearly the Jews, as they often are in Paul's letters and in the New Testament. The uncircumcised are clearly the Gentiles. We see that language in in Galatians chapter 2 when Paul's talking about his ministry to Gentiles versus Peter, James, and John, their ministry. He uses the language. You know, we realized when I laid out the gospel before the other apostles to make sure I hadn't run in vain. It became evident that Peter and James and John they were called as apostles to the circumcised. In other words, their ministry focused primarily on Jewish people reaching them for Christ. And Paul says, but to Barnabas and I, we were given the ministry to the uncircumcised, the Gentiles. Paul's point here is very clear. When he tells them that if they were Jews, in other words circumcised, when they came to Christ, they don't have to try to stop being Jews. That's not the point. They are who God made them to be. They were and are and will continue to be Jewish. believers in Jesus. It's interesting one of the objections that Dr. Michael Brown, who um is probably one of the foremost apolog apologists for the Christian faith reaching out to to Jewish people as a messianic Jew himself, one of the objections he deals with in his five volumes, answering Jewish objections to Jesus, is well if I become a Christian, I will no longer bec be Jewish. And it's like No, rubbish. Like look, look what Paul says here. If you if you were Jewish when you came to faith in Christ, you don't stop being Jewish just because you came to Christ. Coming to Christ as a Jew would be probably the most Jewish thing you can do. Coming to faith in the Messiah. But he goes on. Likewise, he tells them, look, if if you were a Gentile, or are a Gentile, when you came to saving faith in Christ, you don't have to try and be Jewish. You don't have to culturally convert. That that was what what Acts fifteen was all about, the the Jerusalem Council. Do the Gentile believers who are coming to faith in Christ Do the males have to be circumcised and do they have to keep the law of Moses in the same way that the Jews did and the Pharisees said that the Jews did? And the answer was no. They don't have to become Jews. Paul makes the same point in the book of Galatians. They are and will continue to be Gentiles. And certainly while Christ may redeem their culture, people nonetheless continue to be the ethnicity that God made them to be. And it's a wonderful thing, isn't it? That we all don't have to look alike. We all may have different customs. And yet the Lord can redeem those customs. You go on a mission trip to Latin America and you worship in a church, it's not going to look like what we do here. They may be doing the same things like singing. And having the preaching of the word, but it's going to look a little different. Same thing in Africa or Asia. And that's the beauty of the gospel, isn't it? God God calls people from different ethnicities. But I I'm gonna kinda put a different spin on this with the same phrase, um circumcised and uncircumcised. God God calls people from different religious backgrounds. to come to faith in Jesus. Now that doesn't mean that they continue to live in a false religion. But, you know, the circumcised and the uncircumcised could be understood religiously. The Jews, as those who were circumcised, were religiously part of the old covenant. community of Israel that got through the promises that God made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, literally and historically, and then with Israel through Moses later in Exodus. And the uncircumcised are the Gentiles that come from a religiously pagan background. you do your your study in the history of Corinth, it's pretty obvious they had pagan temples galore dedicated to the gods of the Greek pantheon. They were pagans, just like every other major city in the eastern Mediterranean, Greek-speaking Roman world. And Paul's point, again, is very clear. God can and does save people. uh all kinds of people from either a religiously Jewish background or a pagan background, and yet the end result is the same They have the same sin problem. They are saved by the same blood of Christ and saved by the same faith in the same Jesus. And at the end of the day, Paul argues that, look, one w one's religious background is not the most important fundamental thing. What is the most fundamental thing here that binds them all together in terms of the calling that God has given them? It's the transformation that occurs as the Corinthians live as new creatures in Christ. And he uses that language in 2 Corinthians 5, I believe it's 5, verse 17. But you are a new creation in Christ. The old is gone, the new is here. So this is just one example, circumcision and uncircumcision, in which the Corinthians would probably find in their church, but it's not the only example uh circumstantially that Paul gives in verses 21 to 23 he talks about the circumstances of social and economics. How about that? And so he's hitting the whole gamut of circumstances, race, ethnicity, religious background, social and economic status. Now by the way, as we look at 21 through 23, I'm just going to give a caveat here. Some of these categories socially that he's dealing with. Don't apply in the same exact way today, but we're going to do our best this morning to make this clear. Let's look at verse 21. God called people from both slave and free statuses. Let's take a look at that Verse 21. Again, another question. Were you a bondservant? You can translate that word a slave. Were you a bondservant when called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity. Notice what Paul is addressing here. He's addressing the social status in the Roman Empire of the first century of these Christians. And verse 21 makes it very clear. There are people who would be classified as slaves that were members and involved in the Corinthian church in that city. And the point is that God is not a respecter of secular, or maybe we can use the word legal, social status when he calls and saves people. And we need to pay attention to that today. I remember when I was um in seminary, I some of you know this because I've said it before, I did my pastoral internship in a Spanish language PCH. church plant in North Carolina. And I I remember when I came up for licensure before the the credentialing committee of the Presbytery where I was at. One of the questions I got, and I I I I'll admit I was a little bitter at first. I've kind of dealt with it since then, but it gets at this. I was asked, what do you do with illegal immigrants? Since you're since you're hip Mexican yourself, and since you are ministering to Hispanic people. And I I remember thinking to myself for a moment, oh wow, that wasn't on the outline of things to study for the exam. And I I was a little floored by this particular gentleman's um where he was going with that. Basically what he my answer that I gave, which I'll be honest I can't quite quite remember word for word what I said. But I um it had something to do with the fact that well, as someone who's looking to be a minister of the gospel, I don't know that his legal status This is my first concern. My first concern is one, why did God providentially allow him legally or illegally to be here? And two, what's my role in terms of sharing the gospel with him? That's that's what I'm concerned about. And he said to me, No, no, no, no, no. What you should be doing is telling those people they need to go home, they have no business here, and they And you know, they can't work, they they don't really have a right to live here and so they can't rent property legally. They should live on the street to make a point that they don't belong here I'm like, whoa. What is Paul saying here? He's saying that God is not a respecter of our social status. And calling and And we need to pay attention to that. Now I'm not trying to make an argument that illegals should be here. Please don't hear me say I think people need to follow the law. But I'm talking about how God calls people to salvation. He calls a wide variety of people in a wide variety of social uh situations. Now he mentions slavery here, doesn't he? And we need to consider what slavery meant in the first century Greco-Roman world. Why? Because when you hear the word slave and when you hear the word slavery , In our culture and context, there is some historical and cultural baggage that comes along with that because of what happened in American history. But we have to understand that there are uh some few differences between slavery in um the American context, which I would just call chattel slavery. and what slavery was in the Greco-Roman world. Because we have to understand what it means in the original context if we're going to then apply it correctly today. Okay? And so here it goes. I'm gonna lean on a commentator here, Lensky. He I think he explains this pretty well. He says this, slaves were legally freed in various ways. He's talking about the Roman Empire, sometimes even without their consent, as by a master's death or testament. This automatically set the slave free. So stop there for a moment. Let me pause the quote. Notice what he's saying. In the Greco-Roman world when the master of the slave died, the slave was automatically legally set free. The death of the Mastery set the slave free. Finally and providentially ordered in the pagan Roman world to illustrate the gospel. A master set free, the slave is automatically freed from that. Okay, let me continue in the quote here. Slaves were also freed by a master's generosity or his gratitude in reward for notable service. One method was to deposit the slave's savings that he earned, because by the way, slaves got paid in the Roman Empire. To deposit the slave's savings in the temple of some some god who was thus supposed to buy the slaves freedom. Thus we find many freedmen, former slaves set free, and among them men of great importance. Interesting social convention that we don't think of today when we hear the word slave or slavery. You know, the slaves were f paid. That's something that didn't happen. And what the master would do often is take the wages that that slave gave, put it in the temple of some god, and that was just kind of meant to be a down payment, a security Deposit so that when there was enough put aside, the master would take that, and that would be the price of the freedom for the slave. So it's interesting. Uh the difference between the American concept of slavery and the Greco-Roman context is Is in the Greco-Roman context, there was almost this assumption that slavery is not a permanent institution in every sense of that term, and that freedom is entirely Possible. And that helps us understand when Paul counsels them in verse 21: but if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity. And so as I think about that, as I think about slavery in the first century Greco-Roman society and how in some ways that points forward to the gospel, we need to see this idea of pursuing freedom in that first century context. Slaves in our history, in our country, didn't free themselves, but they could. It was open to them. in the Greco-Roman context because the reason that they were enslaved was oftentimes very different than they were in our history. Oftentimes there was an economic component to it in the Greco-Roman world. By the way, I know for for a modern, contemporary, 21st century American audience You know, to for Paul to say, are you a s were you a slave when you were called? Okay, don't worry about it. I realize how insensitive pastorally insensitive that sounds. But given the context, he's saying, don't worry about it, because that doesn't define who you are in any permanent sense. Freedom may, in fact, be available to you. But there is one observation here. That again challenges the way we tend to think as Americans. I think it's important for me to say one observation here is that just because someone became a Christian in the Corinthian church does not mean that they should overturn uh the social order, whether by violence or protest or riot or even running away as a slave. You remember Paul in the book of Philemon? He's essentially sending a runaway slave back to Philemon. Christians? Christians? are called to live within the social order that God has put them in And just as they're called to continue living in the Christian life, whether single or married or widowed or divorced, Jew or Gentile, so also does their social status make no difference fundamentally in their calling to live faithfully to Jesus in whatever circumstance God has temporarily called them. That's the point, I think, of that example. He's not quite done with it. He does have something to say to those who are free in Roman society in verses 22 and 22. and twenty three, and he again shows how the gospel defies expectations. Look at verses twenty-two and twenty-three. For he who was called in the Lord as a bondservant is a freed man of the Lord. Likewise, he who was free when he was called is a bondservant of Christ. You are bought with a price. Do not become bondservants of men Boy, you can probably take that last phrase in several different ways, right? You know, don't become bondservants of men. Boy, if you were a slave and you've obtained your freedom uh at that time, don't go back and become a slave. Live in the freedom you've been given. But it is interesting how the gospel transcends worldly slavery because of freedom from sin. When people are set free, it's merely a picture of the gospel that they have been set free from Christ by the death of Christ, the Master who Who then gives them the freedom? They would have been familiar with that social construct, remember? But it's a greater freedom than just legal status or social status. It's a freedom. From sin which held us in slavery. What is he trying to do here? Paul is trying to get us to see That the social categories of identity that were often used at that time are not the most fundamentally important perspectives for how we are to understand who we are as God's people. We're not called to define ourselves the way the world defines us. We are called to define ourselves the way that God defines us in Christ or identifies us if you want to use that word. And in this case We're freed from the power of sin, as Paul argues in Romans 6. It no longer has dominion over us. It no longer holds us in bondage and slavery. Christ has broken that. We have the greatest freedom from sin that trumps anything else that we might be defined by. But also the gospel transcends worldly freedom because of the price of the cross. Isn't it interesting? You remember when I said a few weeks ago that when it comes to singleness and marriage, both of them together are required within the local church to form a complete gospel picture. of where we're going in eternity. That either one is insufficient to really get the full scope of the gospel. It is so interesting that Paul does the same thing here with the social conventions in the Roman Empire when it comes to slavery and freedom. In other words, he's saying, look, Corinthians, both of these are necessary in some way to illustrate the truth and the reality of the gospel, which you are defined by whether you are a slave or free. We're reminded here that we are indeed the Lord's property and possession. And when he says that, he's speaking to those who were free. Why? Because Christ has paid the price of his own perfect life for theirs at the cross. And and he repeats something that he said in in in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 19. We were bought with a price. Whether one was legally a slave or free in the Roman Empire was merely circumstantial. Both were owned by Christ. being purchased by his blood, both were set free from the power and the slavery of sin that once dominated them. And so in Corinth, both slave and free, could glorify God in the temporary calling that they had in this world. Okay. That's a lot. How do we apply this today when we don't have the legal category of a slave in our society today? That makes a little bit of a disconnect. We have to do a little bit of thinking here. I think the idea is this. The idea is that the gospel transcends all of our outward circumstances and applies the promises of God to all kinds of people. That's the broadest way I can say it. Okay? So I want you want us to think about this for just a moment. I have two thoughts here. One is the gospel levels the playing field beyond anything that ethnicity, religious background, or social status can define. In our day and age, we're tempted to categorize and define ourselves and other people by the things that are merely outward and circumstantial. That includes things like race or ethnicity. That includes things like religious background. It includes things like social status. We have all those things today. It may look a little different, but conceptually it's the same thing. Right Think of the way that politics is done in our society. If you need to segment uh uh people into various identity groups and then you target those identity groups and market your political campaign to them, you just might be able to win that demographic. But notice what that does. It's a divide and it's a conquer strategy. And brothers and sisters, this is the world we live in. Isn't it? We are trained and ingrained to think this way in terms of division. There's a term for this, and I'm going to use it. It's a little technical, but you've probably heard it before. It's called critical theory. And it dominates the entire academic landscape and cultural landscape in our society. What does it do? What does it do? Divide and conquer. That's what it does. And and then what do we do? We divide over all these kinds of things today. What do you hear people say? Well, in terms of ethnicity, well I'm this ethnicity or I'm that ethnicity Okay, yeah, yeah. You you might have that ethnic background. That's great. You have to see that as a gift from the Lord. But that is not your fundamental identity. You may have come from a certain religious background. It may have shaped you, but that doesn't define you. The church is full of people who were formerly Buddhists or Muslims or Jewish people who came. The more pagan and secular our society gets, if we're being faithful to the gospel, we're going to get people in here who were pagan. They're going to have some pretty rough backgrounds. have to show grace to them when they come to Christ and embrace them. Why? Because that's not who they are fundamentally. We might have people that have different economic statuses. Poor, rich, middle class. It doesn't define us Those things don't define and encompass the calling. God saves all kinds of people from different ethnic backgrounds. And when he does so, those people who are from different ethnic backgrounds should not be required to think that they have to be a certain way that's different from who God made them God saves people from different social statuses. Now in our case in the United States, we don't have slavery. People are free, but they might be rich or poor. See, this challenge is the way as Christians that we see things. The gospel, brother And sisters levels the playing field, and that should impact the way that we see ourselves and the way that we see other people. We are all made in the image of God. Regardless of all these circumstantial things. We all have the same fundamental sin problem, the sinful heart, right? We all do sin in the same ways. It may look different on the outside, but fundamentally in the heart it's the same We're all saved by the same Jesus Christ. God paid the same price for different ethnicities and the poor and the rich and so on and so forth. The gospel levels the playing field. Let me apply this here at the end in a way that maybe you didn't see coming, and that's okay. As anything I say in the pulpit, take it and weigh it before God's Word. But I believe the we don't have slavery today. But we all do work jobs, don't we? And just like slaves were paid in the ancient world, I think it's fair to say we can apply this to our jobs, and our jobs can be a ministry That's how I'm going to apply the slavery component. Right. Just because you become a Christian does not mean unless you're doing something sinful for a job, doesn't mean that you have to fundamentally alter your career or the goals and the means by which you provide for your family? How does Paul's counsel apply here? Work that God's given us It's interesting that just as God was able to be glorified despite one working as a slave in the Roman Empire My question is, just kind of arguing from the lesser to the greater here, how much more is this the case for us in our various vocations and careers who live in a free society? Right? I think the point of our passage is to offer encouragement here again. Some of you work in education, others in the medical field Some of you work in a scientific field or engineering or finance or whatever the case may be. I want to encourage you this morning to see your job as a ministry that is meant to reflect the glory of God in Christ, in the gospel. It's meant to allow you to make friendships and network with people you maybe never would. And build those relationships that can turn into gospel opportunities. And let me just say one that I think is probably the most important that I just neglected in that list. What about those of you who are stay-at-home moms, managing a household and raising children? You know, the world will tempt you to think that your role is less because you're not earning a paycheck. And you may not get the recognition or the prestige that a career might offer you? Single mom art. Single mom art, single mom. Well single moms, but moms in general that are stay-at-home moms. Let me encourage you. you. I actually think your role is one of the most honorable roles that the scriptures can call. But not all kingdom work, brothers and sisters. sisters is confined to the four walls of the church. You're called to bring the kingdom into the world and to bring that kingdom to bear. In whatever field of service or relationships you're called to work in. By the Lord. That brings us right back to the main point, isn't it? The reality of the gospel means that we remain in the calling that God has given to us because it transcends the circumstantial Aspects of our lives. Build your identity on who you are in Christ, not on who the world tells you that you are. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you and all of us in this room are very Different in some ways. We work in different spheres and different environments among different kinds of people doing different kinds of things. Lord, as Paul's been talking, some of us are single, some of us are married, some of us are widowed, some of us are divorced. Lord, some of us come from a Jewish background. Some of us come from a Gentile background. Some of us came from a religious background. Lord, some of us came from a secular background Some of us are rich, some of us are poor. And yet, Lord, we give you praise that in all these things Jesus Christ is magnified And that we are not defined by our outward circumstances. Our value, Lord, is in Jesus and the price that He paid that we were bought, which was His own life, His own blood. Help us to know and to value who we are from your perspective, O Lord. And help us to be encouraged by that this morning. And to walk as those who are redeemed. For Lord, your word tells us in 1 Peter, for you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a nation for his holy possession. That we might proclaim the excellencies of Him who called us out of darkness into His marvelous light. Lord, empower us as we remain in our callings this week to glorify you. That you would help us to bring the light of the gospel, the joy of Christ into the circumstances that you place us We thank you for these assignments, O Lord, in Jesus' name.