If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. We're going to pick up in our series in 1 Corinthians. Chapter 6, verses 12 through 20, and I would invite you to stand in honor of the reading of God's holy word. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 12 through 20. This is the word of the Lord. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by anything. Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food, and God will destroy both one and the other. The body is not meant for sexual morality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. Do you know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Never. Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For as it is written, the two will become one flesh, but he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. This is the word of the Lord. Place be to God. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do ask, Lord, that you would give us, as I prayed often from this pulpit, eyes to see and ears to hear. minds that understand and hearts that joyfully receive your word, O Lord. Father, we do pray that you would be glorified in your Son Jesus and that during this time in your word, As we examine our own hearts, our own lives in relation to what your word says, that you would be using this time by your Spirit to prepare us, Lord. as we examine ourselves to come to the table of the Lord's Supper in just a few minutes. And so Lord, we ask that you would prepare us for that time of communion and fellowship with you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, this passage comes right on the heels of the passage we were in two weeks ago. We were not here last week because of the inclement weather, but two weeks ago we looked at uh well the this idea of conversion. We looked at this before And this after in the Christian life. We were once one thing in our sin, and now we are something very different, a new creation in Christ. In other words, we have been set free. That idea of freedom is something that I think, especially as Americans, we really treasure and value. In fact, if I'm not mistaken, I believe it is the New Hampshire license plate that says, live free or die. We have this idea that we cherish freedom. We do not uh Take very lightly anything that infringes on that freedom. But as Americans, we do have a cultural distinction on how we understand freedom. And we often import that concept of freedom politically into what the Bible talks about when it talks about Christian freedom. And I think it can lead, if we're not careful to some some mistakes in our lives that can happen. The main idea of this passage this morning in 1 Corinthians 6, verses 12 to 20 is simply this. Christian freedom does not include sexual immorality because our bodies are for the Lord through union with Christ. Which means that our bodies belong to the Lord. If you're visiting with us this morning, or if you're not really aware of how we do this, you can see on page 5 after the liturgy. that idea, that sermon idea is printed there for you to remember. But that's the idea we want to unpack this morning. Christian freedom does not include sexual morality because our bodies are for the Lord through union with Christ. Which means ultimately that our bodies belong to the Lord. Let's unpack this idea from this passage this morning. In verses twelve through fourteen, we see our first point. sexual morality and what I'm calling the maxims of the day. If you don't know what a maxim is, think of like uh something you might see in a meme online on social media. Something like short, something quotable, something memorable, something that is designed to communicate some kind of timeless truth or cultural value. We see in verse 12 the maxim on Christian freedom. Let's take a look at verse 12 again. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by anything. Interestingly enough, if you're using the EFC Bible, which is the version I'm using here in the pulpit, You will notice when it says all things are lawful for me, it repeats it twice. You'll notice that that phrase, all things are lawful for me, is included in quotation marks. In fact, most biblical scholars and students of the Bible believed that that phrase, all things are lawful for me, was a common phrase that the Corinthians likely used. It was a maxim. And it was not a maxim without some measure of truth, because what does the gospel do? The gospel sets us free. And so this discussion of Christian freedom would entail a phrase like that. Well, all things are lawful for me. It would be like somebody today in America doing something and then someone else next to them calls them out telling them, hey, you're doing something wrong. You can't do that And then the person that was doing it turns and looks at the person correcting them and saying, What? It's a free country. Every one of us would know when you hear that phrase, it's a free country, what that phrase means. It's a cultural maxim. Paul repeating the phrase twice here, and you'll notice in verse 12, he does repeat that phrase, all things are lawful for me, twice. He's addressing a common viewpoint that I believe the Corinthians were applying inappropriately. And after each time he mentions it, he adds another phrase right after that. that adds some kind of limitation on this idea of Christian freedom. He adds a qualification. Let's take a look at those really quick because I think they're really important. Yes, all things are lawful for me, but Paul says not all things are helpful. You can translate that word helpful from the original Greek to say beneficial. Not all things are beneficial. And the question that you ask in your mind when you read that is, well, beneficial for whom? Well, I think you can say beneficial in two ways. Not all things are beneficial to the person that does it whatever it is that they're doing, or it's not necessarily beneficial to the person that is being something is being done to And I think Paul is making that distinction very clear. Not all things are beneficial for the doer or the receiver of whatever is being done. But he goes on to say, not all things are lawful for me, but the second qualification, but I will not be mastered by anything. Now in English this is a little hard to see because I don't know that there's a way to word for word translate that and get the wordplay that you see in the original Greek But there is a wordplay that would have stuck in the ears of the Corinthians as they read this because the word for lawful and the word that's translated I will not be mastered sound very similar in Greek. It's almost like Paul is saying, oh, you got your own phrase, you got your own maxim. Try this one on for size. Now if I were to translate that just to get the idea across, not word-for-word translation, it might be something like this. In English. It might Paul is essentially saying, I am master enough to make my own decisions. Or you could say, I am master of my own destiny, but I will not allow myself to be mastered by anything. That's kind of the idea of the word play there, using in English the word master. At least that's the best I can do in English. But Paul's point here is yes, we have Christian freedom, but that freedom is not to be used to willingly place ourselves uh under something or in a situation that will take control of our lives. And he's saying this because the Corinthians were taking their God-given Christian freedom in the gospel, and they were taking that idea of all things are lawful for me, and they are absolutizing it, and they're absolutizing it to rationalize and justify living in certain forms of sinfulness We all know and have seen people do this in our own lives. They might take a true statement and they might spin that to do something that they shouldn't be doing and everybody knows it, but the moment you try to argue with them, they have some kind of rationalization or justification for why they're doing what they're doing and why you shouldn't call them out for it. That's what's going on, and this again goes back to what Paul was saying in the last passage in verses 9 through 11. The Corinthians were living in some form of sin, and he's got a whole categor catalog or list of sins there, and they were being unrepentant about it. And so this is not the only maxim that Paul is going to deal with in our passage. But under the guise of Christian freedom, they are beginning to justify more than just trivial reasons. Because what we see in verses 13 through 14 is the maxim on what I'm calling permissive sexual behavior. Look at verse 13 and 14. You see the next maxim. Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food. And God will destroy both one and the other. The body's not meant for sexual morality, but for the Lord. And the Lord for the body. And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. Notice the maximum in the beginning of verse 13, applied to food. That's the second one he's dealing with. And quite frankly, it's true enough, isn't it? The food is meant for the body and the body for food, at least in a temporal sense There is a symbiotic relationship. You don't cook food or make food unless you're going to eat it to put it in your body. And the body likewise does not survive without food and nourishment. That is a true maxim, isn't it? And again, notice the quotation marks in the English Standard Version there, showing this as a maxim. How does this relate to Christian freedom, though? Because this argument that Paul is making in this whole section of verses 12 to 20 is very, very tightly argued. How do we get from Christian freedom to food? Well, if you really think about it, under the old covenant in Deuteronomy 14 and Leviticus chapter 11, you find the food laws that were given to Israel in the Old Testament that the Jews in Paul's day would have been observing. And if you know anything about the food laws, what you know is they were not given necessarily for health reasons. It was a theological statement. There were clean and unclean foods, just like there were clean and unclean people. At least from God's perspective. And only those who were clean were allowed to come into his presence. And God was making a distinction between the Jews and the Gentiles in the Old Testament. There were food laws that were part of the ceremonial law of Moses. Those food laws did not apply in the New Testament. Why? Well, because in Mark chapter 7, verse 19, Jesus is locked in this dialogue with the Jewish religious leaders who are making a big stink about the fact that his disciples were eating without washing their hands first. Why do your disciples not keep the traditions of the elders? And Jesus answers them, you know, with your tradition, you make the word of God invalid. And what he goes on to explain is look, it's not what goes into the mouth, which then goes into the stomach, which then goes out our orifices in excrement and waste. That that's not what defiles a body. Rather, what defiles a body is what comes out of the heart and out of the mouth, not into the mouth. And then Mark 7, 19 says, and parenthetically says, and he declared all foods clean. Very interesting. Now we see that fully realized in Acts chapter ten when Peter gets this vision of of the um the cloth cut the the thing coming down from heaven and it had all the animals in there and he's told the Peter kill and eat and it was all unclean animals And Peter resists and says, I've never eaten anything unclean. And the Lord says from heaven to Peter, Do not call anything that I've declared clean unclean. In other words, Those food laws have been rendered null and void now that the Gentiles have been cleansed by the blood of Christ and have come into the church. And so the Corinthians would have known this. And by the way, he's going to get to in chapters eight and nine and even ten a little bit about these eating unclean foods and you know going to the idol temples and can you eat something sacrificed? to an idol and Paul's going to deal with all that in a few chapters. So you know this idea of food was on their minds. We're free. in terms of eating what we want under the new covenant, but what they do is they take the same logic and they apply it to the area of sexual behavior. Their argument was initially, well, we have this freedom to eat what we want because notice what they say, God is going to destroy both food and the body. And because God is going to destroy the body, it doesn't really matter what you do by terms of what you eat. Now some of us who have food allergies would protest there. If you're lactose intolerant, you okay, it might be lawful for you to eat something, but it may not be beneficial or helpful for you to do that. You know, if you have shellfish allergies, you know, you you might break out and hive. You're not going to do that. They're taking the same argument. They're applying it then to the area of sexual immorality. Take a look at the end of verse 13. Paul deals with this when he debunks this by saying the body is not meant for sexual morality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. Notice he takes that maximum, he switches out food and puts the Lord in there. You know, food for the body, body for the food. No, no, no. He switches it out. The body is not made for sexual morality. But it's made for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body. Why would Paul have to do that? Why does he have to speak so directly? Because they're confusing their freedom from the ceremonial law, which has to do with food, which was abrogated and fulfilled in Christ. They're confusing that with freedom from the moral law, which is summarized in the Ten Commandments. Right? We see the seventh commandment, you shall not commit adultery. And Paul is saying, no, you're making a categorical error here. You need to be more precise because the results will be deadly if you don't make these distinctions. And we have to ask why would the Corinthians then apply general maxims about Christian freedom in all things and about food to sexual behavior? Well, it has to do with their culture, it has to do with their worldview at the time. They're living in the first century in the Roman Empire, the Greek-speaking Roman Empire here. They were heirs of the Greek culture, influencing their mindset in Corinth. And what you need to know, and I can summarize a lot of Greek philosophy by just saying it was dualistic. Plato 's philosophy kind of put together this dualism of there's this world of forms and spirit. that exists somewhere out there, and then there's the physical world uh that we see all around us with our five senses and live in. And this spiritual world is really good, it's holy, it's It's everything you want to strive for in this material world is is bad, it's wicked, this is where all the problems are And so they had this mindset that, you know, when we die and our bodies are destroyed, our spirit is set free from this prison that we live in. That was their mindset. And so they reasoned that since God would destroy both the body and food and sexual morality and all those things at death, it really doesn't matter what they did in the body, and that included their sexual behavior. Notice what they do, because this world is kind of devalued in its importance in that Greek mindset, in that cultural milieu. What that ends up doing is they end up cheapening the value of sexual behavior to just simply saying it's a physical exchange and that's it. That's all it is. And this is why Paul has to argue with them in this passage that the body is not meant for sexual morality. But he does not leave it there. He calls it what it is. to go further and make a biblical challenge to that pagan mentality. He challenges the pagan worldview and he says here But the body is for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body. How does the Bible challenge that? Why is the Bible and its whole world view different from what the Greek worldview in that culture said in that day. Well, if you go back to Genesis chapter 1, man is made in the image of God, right? Genesis 1, 26 through 28. You get to Genesis chapter 2. This is really interesting. Go to chapter 2, verse 7. How does God make man? He forms him out of the dust of the ground. Very intentionally. God fashions Adam's body with his own hands. He spoke every other creature into existence. God gets down into the dirt and makes the man with his own hands, so to speak. Very intentionally. What does that tell you? That tells you that the body of man is really important because God fashioned it And then what does God do? He breathes into man, into his nostrils, the breath of life, and man becomes a living being. Don't you see where the Greek mindset separates the spirit from the body and draws this hard and fast sharp distinction? The Bible puts them together. Man is a composite being. The body is important. The spirit is important. Both are important. And Paul's point here is that their bodies, though they were physic , though they will physically die, are not destined for destruction. Do you remember what they said? Food for the stomach and the food for the body and the body for food, but the Lord will destroy them both? Their argument is the body's going to be destroyed. Paul's saying that's not true. Even though you will physically die, your body is not destined for destruction. Your body is destined for glory. Thank you. Therefore, sexual morality is rooted in sin that will be destroyed. That sin is not consistent with the glory that our bodies will one day be raised up to. That's the inconsistency of sexual morality with holiness and godliness. One will be destroyed when sin is destroyed. But our bodies are destined to be raised into glory. And so the gospel has something to say here. And it leads us to ask, how does the gospel challenge the conventional wisdom in our own day when it comes to permissive or illicit sexual behavior? The fact that Christian that Christ redeems our bodies and not just our soul challenges the notion today that it doesn't matter what we do with our bodies. We have the same problem today. We have a very similar mindset to these Corinthians. It's a little different, but it is similar in the end of the day. And the point is we need to be careful not to absolutize our Christian freedom beyond what God intended for it. When Paul interacts with the maxims of his day and he's discerning what those maxims are and how they apply through the lens of biblical truth that is given by the Spirit as he writes this letter, we need to pay attention. Yes, we have a tremendous measure of freedom in Jesus Christ, but that freedom does not give us a license to sin. Paul argues that at length in Romans and Galatians, we've been set free. Not simply to do what we want. We've been set free from the power and the slavery of sin. But that doesn't give us the freedom to run back to the things that we were once mastered by. In 1 Peter chapter 2. Um I'm sorry, Second Peter chapter two. There we go. Um Peter, actually quoting from a proverb, says that those who are once saved from their sin and then run back to it are like pigs that go back. to the mud after they've been cleaned, or dogs returning to their vomit. Rather being set free from sin frees us up to use our freedom in serving one another. Listen to this. From Galatians chapter 5, verses 13 to 14. Paul writes to that church, those churches. For you are called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Do you see the distinction there? Do you see the contrast he's making? You can either serve the flesh and sin, or you can serve other people, and we've been set free to serve other people, not sin. The Apostle Peter makes a very similar point in 1 Peter 2, 16. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants. By the way, this challenges our concept of freedom, doesn't it? It challenges our concept of Christian freedom. Yeah, we're set free to do a whole host of things that in a new nature that's been redeemed, we want to do. But ultimately, we're set free to be a blessing to others. The second thing we see here by way of application up to this point is the gospel challenges the secular worldview around us on sexuality because a lot of people today use that idea of freedom. Which is a gospel concept, to then jump to the conclusion that they can do whatever they want with their sexuality. That's what we're seeing in the world around us today. Our secular worldview, like ancient paganism, separates sharply between the material and the immaterial, but unlike paganism, which acknowledge there's an immaterial secularism today flat out denies the reality of anything spiritual or anything immaterial. They just call that myth or or fantasy. It's not real. in the world view around us today, but notice the result is the same. Sexual activity and Whatever form that takes is largely seen as nothing more than a physical exchange with little to no moral value in the grand scheme of things. And because, just think of how the Corinthians reason, people today reason the same way. Because one day we're going to die, what's the point of living an inhibited life? That's the mindset people have. Well, death is going to come to all of us. Might as well have some fun while we're here The gospel challenges that because it argues that Christ died on the cross to redeem both our bodies and our souls, and Christ rose again from the dead literally, physically, historically, to redeem our bodies. as well. And so this passage, in this passage we see the call is for us to see our sexual nature as something that God has given us as a means by which we can glorify him. Boy, if there's good news here, it's the fact that our bodies have meaning. Our bodies have a purpose. Our bodies have value in what we do. And that leads to a further development of Paul's very tightly argued case here in our second point in verses fifteen to seventeen, sexual immorality and union with Christ. How about that for a title of a of a point? Look at verses 16, 15, and 16. He's asking the question, like, in short, union with a prostitute? Really? Look what he says. What you see in verses 15 and 16, they both begin the same way. Do you not know? Now, they either really don't know, or they do know, and they're choosing to ignore. But he's asking the question in 15 and 16, do you not know? Look at verse 15, as we see with this kind of concept of members in union with one another. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Never, he says Or I think the old King James is like, may it never be. It's the strongest way to say no in Biblical Greek. But notice he ended verse 14 pointing back to the physical and bodily resurrection of Christ. He points forward to our own physical and bodily resurrection when Christ returns. Notice the tight connection there between verses 14 and 15. It is in light of the physical and bodily resurrection of Jesus that our bodies are members of Christ. The rhetorical question then assumes that, again, that either the Corinthians didn't know that or just weren't making the connection, or conveniently, for the sake of their sin and justifying it, they were ignoring it. And the question comes up again with the union with prostitutes. That question Shall I take them the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? That question gives us a little window of insight into the historical context of what's going on in Corinth in the first century to which Paul is dealing with. They were likely going and visiting temple prostitutes in the city. Well, how do you know that? Well, you know that from a few things, but I'll give you just a few. Later in chapters 8 and 10, Paul addresses Christian freedom in the context of eating food offered to idols. indicating that the Corinthians were indeed going to these pagan temples and and eating the meat and the food that was there And Paul's going to have to deal with that. It's not entirely out of the realm of possibility or probability, I think, that some of them were using temple prostitutes as well. Because at that day and age, that's often where the prostitutes were. I mean, they didn't really necessarily have the same kind of concept of a red light district that we might have today, say in Baltimore Or any other city in America. But the prostitutes were often tied to the cults and the temples for the pagan gods. And Paul's point here is that to do this, to go to these temple prostitutes and fornicate with them or commit adultery with them is to take what belongs to Christ, our physical bodies, which are members of Him, and take those members and make them members with a prostitute. Join them in union with a prostitute. In other words, what Paul is saying here is there is a union that is formed in doing this that contradicts the union that we have in Jesus Christ. Some of you never thought that doctrine of union with Christ would have so many applications. But it does. Union with Christ and union with a prostitute are two different unions that are entirely exclusive of one another. They have nothing to do with one another. That's why Paul uses the strongest way of saying no to that question in verse 15. But notice what he says in verse 16. He continues the train of thought again. Do you, or do you not know? That he is who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For it is written, the two will become one flesh. Now he does something here that is really interesting. It's easy to miss. Notice what he goes back to. Genesis 2. 24, right? That's what he's quoting And the whole of Genesis 224 says this. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to, or cling to, his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Now, in the Old Testament context, the union that Genesis 2. 24 is talking about is the union of a husband and a wife within the covenant of marriage Please don't misunderstand. When the Old Testament talks about that one flesh union between a husband and wife, that union is not simply limited to sexual activity. There is a one-flesh union that means that every part of these two people, husband and wife, become one. They become one spiritually, they become one emotionally, they become one socially, they become one the list goes on and on, right? They do become one physically in that act of sexual intercourse. But that is just one aspect of the union. And sexual intercourse between a husband and wife, according to the Old Testament, is kind of like it is a physical sign and seal of a more comprehensive union of all of their beings. Put into one. That's why the scripture says they are one flesh. Flesh is a catch-all term that goes far beyond just the physical body. But Notice what Paul does here. He does not say, we have to be very careful here, but he does not say that a man who visits a prostitute becomes one flesh with her. What does it say? She becomes one body with him That's interesting. What he's acknowledging here is by appealing to Genesis 2. 24, is that yes, there is a union that is formed between a man who visits a prostitute and that prostitute. There's a very real union. Union of body. It's a body that belongs to Jesus. And therefore, if that body belongs to Jesus. and is a member of him and then becomes a member of a prostitute, the implication is that you're taking what is Christ and you're dragging Christ into the immorality. That's blasphemous. But Paul's saying that's what happens. No, he becomes one body with her. Because these are not synonymous terms The context of body focuses on the physical union between the man and the prostitute. It is still a union, but it is an inferior union to the union that that man has with Jesus Christ. That's why he gets to verse 17, where he talks about the union with Christ through the Spirit. Notice what he says is he concludes that subpoint. But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit. Spirit with him. By the way, what he's doing is this is why unit union with a prostitute has nothing to do with union in Christ and cannot possibly have anything to do with union in Christ. Because the union with Christ is far more profound than just a physical unity, although it is a union with that prostitute and sexual immorality. How so? Through the resurrection of Christ, going back to verse 14, our own bodies are united to Christ in that we will one day be resurrected because he has been resurrected. But that's just the physical part. The spiritual part, more than that, he has given us his Holy Spirit that indwells in us so that we have a spiritual union as well as a physical union with Christ. That's his point. Because if you have a greater union with Christ, a lesser union with a prostitute whose sexual morality contradicts and even does violence. To the union that we have with Christ. That's why he says, never in verse 15. By the way, before we apply this second point, let me just go through the third point and we'll apply points two and three Our third point comes in verses 18 through 20, which I'm calling sexual morality and the theology of the body. And because of things like transgenderism today that seem to be somewhat culturally prevalent, we really need a theology of the body in the church today. And we find it here. Look at verses 18 to 20. We see a response to a theology of the body. Let me start with the response, and then I'll look at the principle undergirding that theology of the body. The response in verses 18 through 20. Flee sexual morality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually moral person sins against his own body. And I'm looking at the end of verse 20 now. So, in consequence, glorify God in your body. Those two commands, flee sexual morality, glorify God in your body, those are pretty straightforward. In a lot of ways. And they're complementary of one another. I'll explain more in the application how they complement one another, but just note that they're complementary there They summarize briefly that we must pursue holiness in the area of our sexuality. Verse 19, the principle that undergirds this theology of the body. There's so much we could say about verse. 19 beginning of verse 20, but he says, Oh, or do you not know that your body was a is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. What was the price? The price was the death of Christ on the cross, where he paid that price for our redemption from slavery to sin. He made us free by the price of his own life. And therefore we belong to him. We are not our own. This tempers the idea of Christian freedom that we started with, doesn't it? When we're free to do something, we need to ask ourselves, how does this glorify God? Not how far can I go before I sin? I always have to laugh when somebody asks me, well, how far can I go? You're asking the wrong question, man. It's how much can I glorify God? And so that leads us to this application principle. Because we holistically or totally belong to Christ. Body and soul. He has the right to tell us what we can and we cannot do with our bodies, even as it relates to sexual activity. That's the application principle there. And so again, fleeing and glorifying are the two commands we need to understand. We're called to flee sexual morality. Now, notice what he doesn't tell them to do. He doesn't tell them, stand your ground and fight sexual immorality. No. A soldier would do that. No, you're called to flee. Why? Because you're not going to win. It's as simple as that. There is nothing in your strength that will allow you to win by yourself. You have to flee. But glorifying God in our body, that's the more positive side of the command. These are kind of like two sides of the same coin. You know, without glorifying God in your body, fleeing sexual morality is incomplete as a command. Think about it like this: the glorifying of God in your body shows what we are to replace. The temptation that we are fleeing with, with. That's bad grammar, but I think you know what I'm trying to get across. You take one away and you replace it with another. That's the idea. Let me use the example of something that people probably don't think too much that's a problem with. People don't typically think fantasy is necessarily a bad thing. After all, it just stays in your mind. Okay? But it is. It is sin. Let's think, let's use that as our example of sexual morality. Fantasy or desire. So when something comes to mind, what we're seeing here is we have the responsibility to flee from that thinking and to remove that actively from our minds and imaginations. We are called to not dwell on those things. Martin Luther once said that the presence of sexually immoral thoughts are sometimes unavoidable. They just come into your head sometimes. It's not like you invited it, it just shows up. Like birds that circle overhead. But what he did say is we're responsible to make sure that those birds don't make a nest in our hair. That's the idea. Some of us have more hair than others, but so sometimes these thoughts just come We must not dwell on them, but what do you do? How do you flee from the fantasy or the thought? Well, you need to be able to expel that thought. And the only way to do that is to replace it with something else. But I want to submit this to you. Why is sexuality so hard to deal with, whether mentally or physically or emotionally? Why is it so weighty? Because there's a weight tied to it that is related to God's glory. When it is used That's probably the wrong word. When it is expressed in the context in which God intended it, between a husband and wife lovingly giving to one another of themselves, there is a weight of God's glory that is attached to that. And so if you're going to, going back to the fantasy example, if you're going to expel that thought, you've got to have a thought of either equal weight or greater weight in glory. And so what do you do? You replace it with the glory of God. And if God's glory is permeating your thinking, and this goes well beyond just sexuality, that will have the power to expel Thoughts from your mind that don't quite measure up to that weight of glory. And so seeking the glory of God and its beauty has the power to draw the heart to the Lord and to do so in a way that transforms our behavior away from sexual morality. Let me just say, this is the work of the Spirit. This is the work of the Spirit. Again, going back to Paul in Galatians 5, what does he say there? Particularly in verses 16, 17, and 18. He says, but I say , walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Verse 17. For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. And these two are opposed to one another. So that you do not do the things you want to do. Thinking of the things in the flesh that you want to do. Verse 18. So if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. This is the work of the Spirit. And I'm only going to say a few thoughts here on this theology of the body for the sake of time, but when we understand the glory of God, When we see that the Lord is for the body through the resurrection of Christ, when we see that we are members of Christ in union with him, those are our first and our second point this morning. And when we understand that our bodies are not our own, our third point this morning, this challenges the value commitments of our culture, and maybe even your value commitments this morning. The mantra that we always hear, at least in in the world, usually within the discussion of abortion, but it definitely relates to the sexual revolution that we're seeing in our world around us, is this. My body, my choice. Right? Totally debunked in this passage. When you pick it apart in the light of God's word, in the truth of God's word, in the final analysis, this passage tells us that our bodies are not our own. Because they were bought with the price. And so the mantra is not my body, therefore my choice. The body, the mantra really should be Christ's body, his choice. I'm just the steward of it. Christ owns our bodies, and therefore it is his choice about what we must and must not do with them. Man, this passage is so jam-packed. And we are like out of time. So let's pray. And we can prepare ourselves. And Pastor Jared is going to come forward and lead us in the Lord's Supper. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we are just so thankful, oh Lord, for the precious gift of sexuality that you have given. to be expressed in a way within the covenant of marriage between a husband and a wife in a way that reflects the glory of the God in whose image we are made. What a gift. We often wonder why it's so hard to deal with because it's glorious. Yet, Lord, we succumb to the lies of the world around us and We falter in this all-important area, not all important, but very important area of our lives. Help us to flee sexual morality this week. As your people, knowing, O Lord, that we have a greater union with you through your Son Jesus and by your indwelling spirit Give us the power, O Lord, as we contemplate the glory of God related to these things, to expel the thoughts and the actions and the deeds, Lord, that do violence. To the beautiful union we have with you in Jesus Christ. As we come to the table, Lord, to remember the price that you paid so that our bodies might be yours. We pray and ask, O Lord, that you would sanctify us, strengthen us, nourish us for the week ahead, O Lord. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen