A series on covenant theology and I preached through the Old Testament and now I'm going to be going through and preaching on each of how each of these covenants is fulfilled in the New Testament. So let's read 1 Corinthians 15, 20 through 28. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive, but each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming, the first those who belong to Christ. fruits Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says all things are put in subjection, it's plain that he is accepted who put all things in subjection under Under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son Himself will also be subjected to Him, who put all things in subjection under Him, that God may be all in all. Hallelujah. Have any of you guys been to the beaches yet this summer? Traveled across the uh the Chesapeake Bay Bridge, some of you? Maybe you've noticed that the toll is cheaper under this administration, right? But you would be incorrect to think that every toll and every tax in Maryland is cheaper under this administration administration. Oh that it were so, but it is not. You may have also noticed that we have a new presidential administration. There are a couple things that are different than the last administration, but for the most part, all remains the same unless it is specifically abrogated. This is how laws work. This is how covenants work. They continue unless they are specifically abrogated. Yet some people expect God's covenants not to work this way They think that if there's a new covenant, everything is undone. Not so. God's covenants stand unless they're specifically changed. Jesus says, not a jot or a tittle of this law shall pass away. The New Testament writers constantly treat the Old Testament as authoritative, except for several ways in which it's abrogated. New Testament authors and Jesus himself act as if they're living out the Old Testament, not getting rid of it. This is important because some Christians want to disregard God's laws. This principle is important because some Christians think that the covenant sign should no longer be applied to infants. This is important because some Christians think that if we don't see instruments specifically in the New Testament, they aren't allowed in worship. This is important because some Christians see the food restrictions in the Old Testament that are done away with, and they think everything is done away with then. These are issues having to do with covenant theology. How do the testaments relate? To answer this question, I've been preaching through this covenant theology sermon series, and we're dealing today with the Adamic covenant and how Jesus fulfills it. God made a covenant with Adam. Does that still apply to us? How is it still in effect? How has it been fulfilled in Jesus? What's a covenant? Can anybody say? I know this series is long and drawn out. A covenant is a bond and blood sovereignly administered through a representative. Let's remember God's covenant with Adam. In the first chapters of Genesis, God had told Adam, Of any tree of the garden you may eat, but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil you may not eat. In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Remember, he also told them, fill the earth and subdue it. And after Adam and Eve had eaten Of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, God specified the curse that would be on Satan, Eve, and Adam. He said that Satan would be humbled, that the seed of woman would bruise Satan's head, while Satan would bruise his heel. Meaning that Satan would hurt Eve's offspring, but Eve's offspring would slay Satan. And God specified that he would multiply Eve's pain in multiplying, that Eve would desire to subdue her husband, but her husband would subdue her. And God specified that he would multiply Adam's strain in subduing the earth, and that Adam would return to the earth in his death. And God then cut the covenant by killing an animal. Instead of killing them, and crafted garments out of its skin, and clothed them for their exile from the garden. So, is this covenant still in effect? Do covenants build on one another, or do they eradicate one another? Neither the Noaiic, Abrahamic, Mosaic, or Davidic covenants undid this covenant with Adam. What about the new covenant of Jesus? Surely that's a big deal. Surely Jesus would be great enough to undo this covenant with coven Covenant. But the Adamic covenant is still in effect. The new covenant builds on it and fulfills it. Briefly, let's recount how it's still in effect before we spend time exudating the passage. Finding out how Christ has fulfilled the Adamic Covenant. Firstly, Satan is still humbled. You may find him to have much power even now, but his power, his freedom, his authority are all limited by the Lord. Secondly, Satan still bruises our heels. We're still troubled by Satan. We're still tempted by him. He's still around in the New Testament. Thirdly, women still have terrible pain in childbirth. Modern science may have invented the epidural for delivery, but they haven't invented the epidural for recovery or for child rearing. Okay, there's still pain here. Alright. Fourthly, women still desire to rule over men. God created mankind with genders. God set the male over the female in the context of marriage, and he gave the man responsibility and authority in matters of the covenant. And to this day, women struggle with the fact that men were given that responsibility. And this covenant and its curses are still going on. Fifthly, men still struggle with their work. For all our modern inventions, from engines to computers, to airplanes, to 3D printers, we still toil at our work. I mean, it's a struggle for us, and we're lucky at the end of the week if we haven't messed things up so that we're back worse than we started, right? Sixthly, and finally, we still die. Jesus has come. He's fulfilled his covenant, and yet Christians still die. The wages of sin is death. We die And we're buried. We're still dealing with the curses of the covenant with Adam. The Adamic covenant continues today. I want you to focus your attention on one particular aspect of the curse that's answered powerfully. In the text before us, the curse on Eve, that her desire shall be for her husband, but that he shall rule over her. In the Hebrew, it's It reads, To your husband your desire, but he shall rule over you. At first that sounds good, right, husbands? You shall desire your husband? How is that bad? Okay, some used to interpret it that wives desired husbands more than husbands desired wives. I don't think that's universally true. I think what is universally true in the fall is that wives desire to rule over their husbands, but husbands are divinely given rule over them. And and listen, I hesitate To talk about this because in our culture it's such a divisive issue. It sounds like a culturally contrived patriarchy, which means father rule, but is it? Isn't this culturally contrived? Is patriarchy something that man came up with or God? From God's word, this is the way that authority is ordered from creation. Creation. Remember who God told to command to and who he talked to after the fall? The man. And in the end, like it or not, all authority in heaven and earth will be given to a man. A male. Now, he's not only a man, but he is a man, the Lord Christ. But before we get to how Christ redeems and fulfills, we have to acknowledge the great degradation that has come upon mankind in its patriarchy. Human society on the whole has been patriarchal, and on the whole, human society has been abusive. Destructive, domineering over women, children, and slaves. Human society has been murderous in the extreme, power-hungry, promiscuous. And what our culture tries to do is Point the finger at patriarchy, male leadership, and say, look what you've done. And men, we must acknowledge that under our leadership, human society has become morally bankrupt. The resolution being proposed by our culture is to let women lead instead. Let women lead in the homes, let women lead in the church. But this would not solve the problem. Things would be different. Sure, but things would remain very fallen and sinful. And this curse of desiring to rule, but instead being ruled over, is not the exclusive domain. domain of women. Men struggle with this. In every other area, sons want to rule their fathers. Young men wish to rule over older men. Smart Capable, hard-working men sometimes wish to rule over their lazier authorities. In many cases, anyone who's being abused desires to rule that they would rule in the place of their abusive authority. And in some cases the abused throw off all authority, as much as they're able, and they become philosophically opposed to any authority. That's an overcorrection. But on the other hand, you have conservatives who, in response to an anti-authority culture, give too much authority to men, resulting in abuse. The problem is this. We desire to rule over our authorities, and our authorities sometimes oppress us. The answer is Jesus. Jesus has been given authority over everyone beside the Father. And he will subjugate everyone and everything under his authority and then subject himself to the Father. Hallelujah. That's what we're waiting for. Jesus is the new Adam. Desire to have Him rule over you. Jesus is the new Adam. Desire to have him rule over you. Adam led humanity into sin. Adam stood quietly by as Satan accused God and tempted his wife. Adam didn't warn his wife of her imminent danger when she was about to eat something that Adam had on good authority known would lead to death. He allowed her to be a guinea pig in a spiritual experiment that failed utterly. But thanks be to God, we have a new Adam. who is so good, so holy, so gentle, so kind, so loving, so sacrificial, so humble. Don't you desire to be under such an authority? You can be. Subject yourself to him now. Bow the knee to your rightful king. Christ has become the new Adam, and under his administration of the covenant, there are blessings. Blessings, whereas under Adam there were curses. Christ is the new Adam. He is a direct son of God, like Adam. Christ is the new Adam in that he was born sinless, like Adam. He's the new Adam and that he was there in the beginning. He is like Adam in that he has the authority to name or rename everyone and everything. And Christ is the new Adam in that he fulfills the earth and subdues it. Point number one. With Christ as covenant representative, physical death is overruled. Verses 20 and 21. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead. The first Fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man, Adam, came death, by a man, Christ, has come also the resurrection of the dead. In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Were the words God said to Adam. But Christ has in fact been raised from the dead. In the Gospels, we have four reliable witnesses saying that Christ rose from the dead, that there was an empty tomb. Now We have accounts of other people being raised from the dead by Jesus, by the power of Jesus. But those others rose to die. Jesus rose. Never to die again and to reign. Death came to all men through Adam. Adam's first transgression doomed us to death, but the new Adam's resurrection faiths us for resurrection. Only if we're in him, though. How can we be in him? How can we be one with him? One is in Jesus by faith. By nature, We're in Adam. He's our great grandsire. By faith, we may be in Jesus if we repent and believe. Believe Jesus to be the Lord God, who took on flesh, who became our Savior. Believe Him to be our new King. If you believe that, you are in Christ, and you will be resurrected. You'll die. This covenant with Adam is still ongoing, but it has been fulfilled in Christ such that though we die, yet shall we live My wife, Annie, and I have six children and two Honda Odyssey vans. And sometimes we go out at the same time, and there's great controversy. And struggle over who's going to ride in which van. And even though my car is older and has older car seats, I still get a lot of requests to go in my car. And, you know, I'm in spite of the fact that if you go with mom, sometimes she might stop at Dunkin' Donuts, Walmart, Menchies. I still get kids coming in my car. And so I'm wondering, why is that? And I ask them, what are the benefits of going in my car? And some kids like the booster seats in my car better. Some kids like to listen to my music better. Um and some kids know that I go to stores that give out free lollipops on occasion, so the car that you're in determines your benefit. If we're in Christ, we are in the vehicle that takes us to heaven on the other side of the grave. Hallelujah. He obeyed authority. And when Satan came to tempt Jesus, Jesus refused Satan. It was a recapitulation of the garden where instead of Adam being silent and failing, Jesus, the new Adam, rebuked and overcame. He drank, Jesus drank the cup of the Lord's wrath, and when within 24 hours, he He died. He rested, Jesus rested from all his work on the Sabbath, and then he rose again on the first day, overruling death. If we're in the vehicle of Christ, we pass through death and get to heaven. But if we're in our own vehicle, trying to use our own vehicle of good works to get to heaven, it's not going to work. Point number two, with Christ as covenant representative, spiritual death is overruled. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. How did Adam die on the day in which he ate of the tree of knowledge of good and evil? Evil, he died spiritually. His heart and soul became dead to righteousness, unable to perceive or Left to our own devices, we're all dead in our transgressions and sin. We're not merely unwell, maimed, diseased. Diseased, floundering, we're dead. The Valley of Dry Bones in Ezekiel presents a vivid picture of just how dead we are spiritually. Once you understand that, you understand how all the evil in this world is possible. In Adam our spiritual inheritance is spiritual death. It's what makes people so impervious to gospel proclamation. To winsome evangelism, to winning arguments, sometimes even to the utter bankruptcy of their sin-soaked life, they're still impervious to it because they're spiritually dead. All that has little effect on a corpse. That's what we are by ourselves, husks with no spiritual life. Look, it may seem spiritual to talk of chakras or being one with the universe or meditation, but to be truly spiritual, one must have the spirit. The natural man does not have the spirit. That's why we need Christ. That's why Christ powerfully fulfills the Adamic covenant, giving us spiritual life, where once there was only death. In verse 22, the word is zoapoytefetai. Which means we'll be made alive. Listen, anybody can bring somebody back from the dead. Have you seen the TV shows recently? I mean, they're all bringing people back from the dead. Okay? We've got a zombie culture. But But notice they bring them back from the dead, but they don't fill them with life Only Jesus can do that. Only Jesus can raise you from the dead and fill you with life. Like we've never had before. So what does Spiritual life look like? Spiritual death looked like murdering your brother over an offering. Polygamy, revenge, setting humanity up as equal with God until the thoughts of their hearts were only evil can Continually. That's spiritual death. What does spiritual life look like in Christ? Spiritual life looks like wearing socks with your uniform, pouring concrete for your shed at 9 p. m. on Saturday night and singing at the top of your lungs in a room by yourself. Well, that's what it looked like for me. I had been a grown Runge Rock rebel, pointing out or exploiting every lame rule my parents or my school or the land had set up. I was such a rebel, I wouldn't wear socks to cast Catholic school. Bad boy. But then Christ came into my life. And in the shape of a homespun boy's Bible study down the street and two lacrosse teammates who happen to be the sons of the local PCA pastor. I saw my sin in the mirror of the Ten Commandments. And once I had seen how beautiful Christ's grace was, it changed everything for me. Where where once I had felt incorrigibly mediocre, I'd seen that the Lord loved me and valued me as a prince. I I saw that I needed to and had the power to obey even my parents and and when they prevented me from going out with my friends all day Saturday and I had to work all day on the shed, even pouring con Concrete at 9 p. m. on Saturday night, I could still honor my parents by the power of Christ. The shed still isn't done, by the way. I started obeying all of the crazy rules my Catholic school had because I didn't need to prove that I was a bad boy. And the Lord freed me from bondage to popular. opinions so powerfully that I would go into the chapel by myself and sing to the Lord, even though I was told that I sounded like a dying cat. So I turned it on But I had I have stuff I have something to sing about. For the Apostle Paul, spiritual life looked like being willing to die for Christians where once he had killed Christians. Spiritual life looked like being a missionary to the Gentiles, where once he had had nothing but scorn for the Gentiles. Spiritual life looked like rebuking arrogance in his fellow Christians when once he had been the most arrogant man in any room. Spiritual life looks different for different people, but it means freedom, power, submission, joy, value, prayerfulness. What is spiritual life look like for you? Point number three. With Christ as covenant representative, God's enemy is overruled. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and authority and power. This is awesome. First of all, there's a kingdom. That must mean that the Davidic covenant, the covenant of a kingly line, is still in effect. It's just fulfilled by Jesus. We'll get to that in another sermon. David had an amazing kingdom. He was a warrior, poet, king. He expanded Israel's borders like never before. Prior to David, Israel constantly suffered oppression. And had to pay tribute to others. After David, it was the other way around. Neighboring nations were paying tribute to Israel. But even as great a kingdom as David had, there was so much left wanting. The world. No, God only commissioned them to cleanse the Holy Land and set it apart for Him. It was partly His grace to Israel and partly His judgment on the Canaanites. But Jesus' kingdom is over the whole earth. Jesus' kingdom is righteous where David was sinful. Listen, right now there are rulers, authorities, and powers that are abusing, that are oppressing. They will be destroyed. Hallelujah. The Psalms and Revelation and the prophets describe specifically how this is going to happen. The nations are going to gather against the Lord and Christ. They will seek him out to destroy him and his army. How foolish is that? Just imagine it. Jesus is back. Yeah. He's got legions of angels and what appears to be a sword sticking out of his mouth. Let's attack him now. I mean, it's it's it's foolish. It's foolishness. And yet that's what What they'll do, and that's how they'll be destroyed. As they set themselves against the Lord, he destroys them. It's been said, because God is angry, I don't have to be. Because God will take revenge, I don't have to. Because God will bring down the oppressors, I don't have to. It's so freeing. It's such refreshing and wonderful news. The sticking point is this, however. If Jesus is coming to destroy all rulers and all authorities and powers. And I happen to be a ruler, authority, or power, or part of one, what's going to happen to me? I'm an American citizen. America Is a power that has set itself against the Lord and his people frequently. Worse, I myself have denied the Lord. I've sinned. Oppressed, I've wronged those under my care. What will happen to me? Will I be destroyed too? Thanks be to God, no. First Corinthians 15 3 says, For I delivered to you as of first importance the what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scripture. Christ died for us, for our sins. If we lay hold of him by faith, if we repent and believe, if we bow now, all our sins can be washed away. We're no longer counted as one of his enemies. Though by every right we were, as we submit to baptism and publicly proclaim his name, we're not only saved from destruction, we're given life. We're resurrected, we're given spiritual life. Hallelujah The last enemy to be destroyed is death. Listen, earthly powers may oppress, but death kills. Mocks our mortality, rips families apart, takes babies from within their mother's womb, separates sister from brother, son from mother And waits for every one of us, regardless of where or how safely we live. Have you recently had to face death Have you ever had a near-death experience? Have you ever acutely felt that you were a breath away from death? What about facing the reality of loved ones outside of Christ dying? Have you had to face that? That's what the Corinthians were facing. Some wanted to rearrange their whole theology, soteriology, eschatology, around the jarring reality that people they loved had died without Christ. It's a harrowing experience. It's a test of faith. But the good news is this. Jesus will rule even over death. Nothing can stop Jesus. Death did not stop him before. It can never stop him. Christ's resurrection is the basis for our hope, our hope for our own resurrection, our hope for our loved ones' resurrection, our hope for a new spiritual life for our soul today. And our hope that one day all the proud oppressors will be cast down. This hope rests on the fact that Jesus has fulfilled the Adamic covenant. He has not undone it. He has built on it. He has fulfilled the curse in his flesh through his crucifixion. on the cross. He has returned to dust. He has had the sweat on his brow with his work, sweat drops of blood. He toiled for us. And he has crushed the serpent's head, though his heel was bruised in the process. He has submitted himself to sinful, weak authorities that we all might submit ourselves to his kingdom. He has become for us a tree of life, a way back into God's garden, the New Jerusalem. Hallelujah. Let me pray. Oh, Father There are sinful authorities in this world. And for many of us, we are those sinful authorities. And we know that you are coming to destroy. Sinful authorities who have set themselves against you. I pray for all the authorities in this room that we would bow the knee to you now, this Day and accept all the wonderful blessings that come from that. That now we can have a wonderful authority that we love to submit to, that it's gracious, kind, and humble, that gives us resurrection, that gives us spiritual life. Right now, I pray that we would see spiritual life in our own life, in the life of our congregation, by the powerful work that you have accomplished, by being the new Adam. And being our new representative, in Jesus' name we pray, Amen