All right, if you have your Bible, if you'd uh turn please to 2 Corinthians chapter twelve. And uh we're gonna start at verse 14 and read through the rest of the letter. 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 14. Paul says, Now for the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be burdensome to you, for I do not seek yours, but you. For the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children. And I will very gladly spend and be spent for your souls, though the more abundantly I love you, the less I am loved. But be that as it may, I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you by cunning. Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you? I urged Titus and sent our brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps? Again, do you think that we excuse ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ, but we do all things, beloved, for your edification. For I fear lest when I come I shall not find you such as I wish, and that I shall be found by you such as you do not wish Lest there be contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, backbitings, whisperings, conceits, tumults. Lest when I come again my God will humble me among you, and I shall mourn for many who have sinned before and have not repented of the uncleanness, fornication, and lewdness which they have practiced. This will be the third time I am coming to you. By the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word shall be established I have told you before, and foretell as if I were present the second time, and now being absent, I write to those who have sinned before, and to all the rest, that if I come again I will not spare Since you seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, who is not weak toward you, but mighty in you. For though he was crucified in weakness, yet he lives by the power of God. For we also are weak in him. But we shall live with him by the power of God toward you. Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless indeed you are disqualified? But I trust that you will know that we are not disqualified Now, I pray to God that you do no evil , not that we should appear approved, but that you should do what is honorable, though we may seem disqualified. For we can do nothing against the truth but for the truth. For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. And this also we pray, that you may be made complete. Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being present I should use sharpness, according to the authority which the Lord has given me for edification and not for destruction. Finally, brethren, farewell. Become complete. Be of good comfort. Be of one mind. Live in peace. And the God of love and peace will be with you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet you. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen. May the Lord bless this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, I thank you so much for your word. I thank you for the privilege that we have to read it in our own language. And thank you for the privilege we have to proclaim it, to expound it, and to hear it. And I pray now that you'll help us, each one of us, Father, men, women, children, help us to focus upon your word. To learn, to grow, to be strengthened. And if there are some here outside of Christ, Lord, please bring them to saving faith. We ask it in Christ's glorious name. Amen. I wanted to mention that this is, I think, just checked with Barry. This is the first Sunday that Kevin and Lori Chilton have been able to be with us with their family. It's great to have them here. They're in the mission home here from Cameroon. And please uh welcome them and say hello to them. And certainly we'll give you time to get up and and share something, but uh not today, I guess, but sometime soon. Alrighty, uh let's get into God's Word. Sometimes, as you know, sin requires harsh measures, doesn't it? Sin requires harsh measures. As some of you know, uh Dale and Charlotte Crone have a mechanical parrot that uh repeats whatever you say. It's it's quite annoying And uh whatever it hears within its its range of hearing, it repeats it. But you may not know that before they got the toy parrot they had a real one. Uh the problem was the parrot had picked up from its previous owner, no doubt, a nasty habit of swearing. And uh you might call it foul language. I wouldn't I wouldn't call it that, but Dale and Charlotte tried uh tried all sorts of things to break this parrot's swearing habit. Finally one day Charlotte was really frustrated. She was in the kitchen, the parrot was started to swear, and she thought she'd teach the parrot a lesson. So she took the parrot, she said, I'm just going to do this for a few seconds. She put the parrot into her freezer. Uh just for half a minute. You know, she weren't planning on hurting the parrot, just teaching the parrot a lesson. And sure enough, when she got the parrot out of the freezer after half a minute The parrot was was very uh apologetic. You know, he said, uh, oh, oh, you know, I I beg your pardon, you know, please forgive me. It won't happen again. And then, you know, after a pause, he asked, uh, by the way, what did the chicken do? You heard that probably, yeah. Sometimes sin demands harsh measures, that's the point. As uh as Paul closes his letter to the Corinthians, he warns them that if they persist in their sin He will be forced to be harsh with them when he comes. I fear that I will not find you as I wish, and I shall be found by you such as you do not wish. Verse 20 of chapter 12 When I was growing up in northeast Baltimore in the Oberley uh section of town, my dad, who worked for Martin, would uh travel, I guess, engineering conferences or whatever, he had to go to different airports and stuff and uh whatever he did, but he would come back from his business trips. And bring uh we always loved it when he came home, not only because his dad was home and the meals got better, but but because uh because he would bring us things from his from his trips Uh I remember one time you brought maracas and uh Mexican jumping beans and uh Indian uh drums, you know, little tom uh uh was that what it's called? Tom toms. uh totem poles, I don't know, and teepees. And then uh and he and he also brought uh this beaded belt, you know, Indian belt and all these neat little designs. But here's the the the rub, if my brothers and my sister and I had been really making life miserable for my mom while Dad was away We weren't quite as anxious for dad's plane to touch down and dad to come home. And we certainly didn't want any extra belts in the house. You know, beaded or otherwise. Well, the Corinthians had been influenced by false apostles who caused them to question Paul's credentials. One of their arguments was Paul's letters were very weighty and powerful, but in presence he was weak. We would say today, you know, he writes like Superman, but but he acts like Carkent. Neither his presence nor his preaching was at all imposing. The false apostles contrasted Paul's behavior unfavorably with their own behavior, exalting themselves, devouring and dominating the pliable Corinthians. They were hard on them, they were tough on them. And they threw their weight around. Now Paul says as he brings his letter to a close, if you want proof of my authority and of the fact that Jesus Christ is working through me, Then you will have it. If when I come to you I find out that there are contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, backbitings, whisperings, gossip. tumults, conceits. If I find that there are in Corinth those who have not repented of their uncleanness, their fornication, their lewdness, he says in chapter twelve. Uncleanness, acatharsia, moral defilement, fornication, pornea, pornea, a word broadly used for any form of sexual impurity. Lewdness, acelgia. Excess, absence of restraint, indecency, wantonness, shameless conduct. Remember, in his first letter to the Corinthians, he had to address many of these things He dealt with very similar behavior. Where there are envy and strife and divisions among you, are you not carnal and walking as men, behaving as mere men? Chapter 3, verse 3. Flee sexual immorality, he wrote to them in this first letter. Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you were not your own? For you were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Chapter 6 of 1 Corinthians. Paul declared that the most blatant offender in Corinth, the member of the body who was committing incest, should be dealt with very severely for his sake as well as for the honor of Jesus Christ. Paul dealt very strongly in his absence with the leaven in the Church of Corinth. Put out the old leaven, he said. Put it out, because a little leaven leavens the whole lump. Perhaps this is what the Judaizers, the false apostles, were pointing to as evidence that Paul was not the same in his presence as in his absence. Now look at chapter 13, verse 1. This will be the third time I'm coming to you, by the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word shall be established. Now, what does he mean by that? Well, he's quoting from Deuteronomy, where the Lord establishes rules of evidence for his people. He's saying, in effect, if there are continuing backbiting, whisperings, conceits, tumults, uh fornication, lewdness, uncleanness, etc. if these things are verified by the mouth of two or three witnesses Then I, Paul, as an apostle, will establish that truth through those witnesses and will deal with the offenders. Verse 2. I have told you before and foretell as if I were present the second time, and now being absent, I write to those who have sinned before, and to all the rest, that if I come again I will not spare. During my second visit, I warned you that I would punish you and anyone else who does not stop sinning. Another way to put this in modern English. I'm far away from you now, but I give you the same warning. I will not spare. Look at verse 3. Since you seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, who is not weak toward you, but mighty in you In other words, if you want proof that I've I'm truly an apostle commissioned by Christ, sent by Christ, and that Christ is speaking in me and through me This Christ who is not weak towards you, but mighty in you, okay then, you will have it. Verse 4 For though he was crucified in weakness, yet he lives by the power of God. For we also are weak in him But we shall live with him by the power of God toward you. Just as Jesus assumed the role of weakness and was viewed as weak, in fact, at the cross. Certainly by his enemies. Come down from the cross and we'll believe in you. They viewed him as weak, but in fact, uh all this was a part of his uh plan to demonstrate his power and to redeem us. Even so, Paul says, we are weak in him, but we live with him by the power of God toward you. It would be folly to presume on a temporary weakness and to forget the present reality of Christ's power to punish as well as to save. This is the way one commentator puts it, Joffrey Wilson. Look at verse 5. Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless indeed you are disqualified? But I trust that you will know that we are not disqualified. You've been encouraged by the deceitful workers who have come into the church to examine me so carefully. You ought to be examining yourselves, Paul says. Look at your own lives. For evidence that you are in fact in the faith. A footnote in the Geneva Study Bible reminds us such evidence would include these things: trust in Christ. Hebrews 3. 6, as what we were talking to the children about. Hold fast the confidence and rejoicing of the hope firm to the end. Hebrews 3. 6. Obedience to God Matthew 7, 21. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of God, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Growth in holiness, 1 John 3. 3. Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself, just as he is pure. Examine yourself, see if you have faith in Christ. Examine yourself, see if you're obeying God. Examine yourself, see if you're growing in holiness. Fruit of the Holy Spirit, Galatians 5. Love, joy, peace, kindness, faithfulness, goodness, gentleness, self-control, etc. Love for other Christians. is an evidence that you really know the Lord. 1 John 3. 14. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. A positive influence on others. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. That's in evidence. If your light is shining before men, it's in evidence that there's light there. A positive influence on others. Adhering to the apostolic teaching, 1 John 4, 2. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. And the testimony testimony of the Holy Spirit within you. That's in evidence. Romans 8, 15-16, for you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption. By whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. So, do you not know yourselves, Paul says, that Jesus Christ is in you unless you are disqualified, disapproved? A docabas , disapproved, unable to withstand the scrutiny, unable to stand the test. The opposite of it would be to be approved. 2 Timothy 2:15, study to show yourselves approved. unto God, the workman who need not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. But I trust that you will know that we and he uses that term editorially, you might say, he's talking about himself, but I trust that you know that we are not disqualified, not disapproved. I trust that my labors among you and my character among you was sufficient evidence, or they were sufficient evidence to convince you that I am a genuine Christian. That I am not disapproved, Paul saying. Verse 7. Now I pray to God that you do no evil. Not that we should appear approved, but that you should do what is honorable, though we may seem disqualified. Now that's a little tricky verse, but if you follow his line of reasoning What would be the best way for Paul to establish his reputation or re-establish his reputation among the Corinthians? As an ambassador of Christ. The best way would be for him to come to them and authoritatively deal with those who are continuing in sin, perhaps calling the judgment of God upon them. Such as the judgment that fell upon Ananias and Sapphira in Acts 5. So great fear came upon all the church That would certainly, if Paul did something like that, and and the person who had sinned had fell over dead in the presence of everybody. Uh well that would pretty well establish his credentials as an apostle, re-establish them for the Corinthians. But Paul was not keeping his fingers crossed, hoping that those who were sinning in Corinth would just keep it up long enough for him to come and manifest his authority. He was praying they would not do evil, that they would do what is honorable, even if that meant that Paul might seem disapproved. So look at that verse 7 again. Now I pray to God that you do no evil. Not that we should appear approved, but that you should do what is honorable, though we may seem disqualified. If he comes back and everything in the church is fine and and the Christians are working together and there's peace and there's love and and those who have who have sinned have repented of their sin, then uh then Paul will not need to manifest his apostolic authority. And that's really what he wants. That is, he doesn't want to have to manifest it. Alright, verse 8. For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth. You see, should he come to Corinth and find their conduct was in conformity to the truth of the gospel, there would be no occasion to demonstrate his power. Because they wouldn't be being disobedient. If Paul his his power, when I say that I mean of course his power is granted to him as an apostle. The signs of an apostle were wrought among you, and all signs and wonders and mighty deeds he said earlier. So if Paul preferred that the saints do no wrong, so he so he could be uh i rather if he preferred that the saints did wrong so he could be approved among them by demonstrating his power, then he would be opposing the truth. Now, verses 9 and 10. For we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. And this also we pray, that you may be made complete. Therefore, I write these things being absent, lest being present I should use sharpness according to the authority which the Lord has given me for edification and not for destruction. Paul's saying, I'm glad, I would be happy to be weak among you or to appear to be weak if that means that you are strong and you require no chastening. His prayer for them is completeness, restoration to spiritual wholeness. The word refers to a resetting of what has been broken or dislocated. It's because Paul wants the saints to be restored to spiritual wholeness that he wrote such a strong letter. He would rather that his coming to them be a time of joy and not a time of pain. But Even if he should have to use sharpness in their presence, it would be for their edification, not destruction, for their building up, not tearing down, he says in verse 10. Now verse 11, finally, brethren, farewell. Become complete. Be of good comfort. Be of one mind. Live in peace. And the God of love and peace will be with you. Heed my counsel, he says to them. Be complete. Reform yourselves. Correct the evils that prevail. As you know, we use the term reformed Christians today to refer to those who embrace the doctrines of grace, as we call them. Calvinism is the little buzzword we use. But in biblical terms, the reformed Christian is the one who's reforming himself, changing his behavior, changing his attitudes, changing his thought processes. That he finds to be dishonoring the Christ, that he finds to be out of accord with the principles of God's word. He's constantly growing. He's making progress. He's maturing. That's the biblical concept of the reformed Christian. But you have good comfort. The word used is akin to pericaleo, to be comforted. One who was called alongside to help, paracaleo. or to call alongside to help. Jesus said, I will give you another comforter, one called alongside to help you. So he says, be of good comfort, be of one mind. That is, be united in the faith. End the wrangling, the jealousy, the divisions, the disharmony. Live in peace with one another, he says. If you have the mind of Christ, it's going to banish that selfish way of thinking that fosters strife. And notice, notice how he puts it. This is quite interesting. He says, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. If you live in peace, the God of love and peace will be with you. Listen to how Presbyterian theologian Charles Hodge explains this. We have here the familiar Christian paradox. God's presence produces love and peace, and we must have love and peace in order to have his presence God gives what he commands. He gives, but we must cherish his gifts. His agency does not supersede ours But it mingles with us and becomes one with it in our mingles with it and becomes one with it in our consciousness. We work out our own salvation while God works in us. Our duty is to yield ourselves to the operation of God and exert our faculties as though, now get this, as though the effect desired were in our own power. You want God's peace, then you endeavor to do everything in your power to live at peace with others. That's what he's saying. And leave to his almighty mystic cooperation its own gracious office. He illustrates it. The man with a withered hand had to do something. Jesus said, Stretch forth your hand. He responded to Christ's command. He stretched forth his hand. Although the power to move was divinely given. He cooperated, you might say, although the power was divinely given. It is vain for us, Hajj says, to pray for the presence of the God of love and peace unless we strive to free our hearts from all evil passions. So look at it again. Look how he puts it. Be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. It reminds me of uh what Paul says uh Be not drunk with wine, wherein is success, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Well, that's something you can do, right? You can speak to yourself and to others with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. You can sing and make melody in your heart to the Lord. But as you do , then the Lord fills you with the Spirit. Be of one mind, live in peace, do all in your power to do so, and the God of love and peace will be with you. Look at verse 12. Greet one another with a holy kiss. This was, and of course still is in many countries, the customary greeting. You see the Secretary of State Hillary Clinton goes to visits different leaders and she will kiss one on one cheek, one on the other cheek. You see it in Middle Eastern countries all the time, you see it in African nations, elsewhere. The customary greeting in Paul's culture was the kiss of peace. Someone put it this way, it's not a command of perpetual obligation, as the spirit of the command is that Christians should express their mutual love in the way sanctioned by the age and community in which they live. In other words, if Paul were writing to us today, he'd probably say, give one another a a hearty handshake and a and a and a hug. That's how we greet each other. We don't walk up and kiss each other on the cheeks. His point is, let there be peace and love and unity and harmony. Look at verse 13. All the saints greet you. All those with Paul, all those who are writing uh uh joining with him in this letter, you might say. And he ends the letter with this precious Trinitarian benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Only through the grace of Christ, unmerited, unearned, freely received, can we know the love of God and enjoy the presence and fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Now, let's highlight a few things here quickly that we see in this close to Paul's letter. First of all, we learned something here about preserving the purity of Christ's church. The Apostle Paul was prepared as a representative of the Lord to deal harshly with those in the church who were involved in uncleanness. lewdness, sexual sin, contentions, whisperings, gossip, outbursts of wrath, backbiting, etcetera. He was going to deal harshly with that. Even true Christians, of course, can fall into serious sin. And when a believer does, what does the scripture say? You who are spiritual, restore such a one with a spirit of gentleness, considering yourself lest you also be tempted. Galatians 6. 1 However, if the professing Christian continues in his or her sinful behavior, flaunting his or her own actions, without regard for Christ's word, Christ's honor, Christ's church He or she is to be dealt with fairly, impartially, not based on hearsay, not without the presence of two or three witnesses. And if it be clear that the sinful behavior is continuing , Then steps of discipline should be followed, to the point of ultimately removing the obstinate sinner from the body of believers, having no fellowship with him or her. Purging out the old leaven is the way Paul put it. 1 Corinthians 5. If he acts like an unbeliever, he should be treated as an unbeliever for his own sake. If ye neglect to hear the church, then let him be unto thee as a heathen man and an idolater, Jesus said, Matthew 18. That his spirit may be saved, that is, that he may see the seriousness of his sin and repent of it. And that Christ's church may not be defiled by a toleration of sin. And that Christ's honor may not be tarnished before the world. You Christians, you're no different than the rest of us, except for your hypocrisy. You go around talking about yourselves as if you're different, but look at all the divorce and look at all the uncleanness and the fornication and You know, look at all the all the the movies you Christian wa Christians watch and the the videos you people rent and the see that's the way the world looks at us as hypocrites You do the same thing we do, except for Sunday morning. Only difference is you think of yourselves as holy, and we admit that we're not. By this deed you have given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, Nathan said to David. The damage is all the greater when the offender, like David, is known as a man of God. My brothers, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. James 3. 1. So Christian, I ask you, are you contemplating or already engaged in some activity that dishonors the Lord Jesus Christ? If we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord that we may not be condemned with the world. I'm talking about things that you do that nobody else sees. What you do on your computer when no one else is around. What you watch on television when nobody else is there, what you think in your mind, that no one else can see, other than the Lord Himself. See, even if your brothers and sisters in church don't know about it, the Lord does. And his Spirit is urging you to repent of that sin If your eye offends you, pluck it out and cast it from you. Take drastic action, he says. That's what that means. If your hand offends you, cut it off. If you have to quit your job, quit your job. If you have to cut off that relationship with that person, cut it off. Sin begins in our minds. I was reading this week something the Puritan Richard Sibbs wrote. Listen to this The greatest and hardest work of a Christian is the well-ordering of his heart, which is unseen. A good Christian begins his repentance where his sin begins in his thoughts. That's what Nick was talking about last week. It's really our mind, isn't it? Uh the heart's just pumping the blood. But that's what we uh what we talk about. God has sovereignty over the inward as well as the outward man As we desire a whole man to be saved by Christ, so we must yield the whole man to be governed by him. We must conform to the truth and goodness of God in the inner man. Imagination is the womb and Satan the father of all monstrous conceptions and disordered lusts. Even the best of God's people that are kept from evil because of their conscience may fail in their imagination. Both, however, are open before God and hateful to him. When one does not exercise his conscience concerning his thoughts, God often gives him up to the actual deed. God counts it an honor when we regard his all-seeing eyes so much that we do not take liberty in what is offensive to him, not even in our hearts. It is evident that the Spirit has set up a kingdom in our hearts when our spirits rise within us against anything that lifts itself up against the goodness of the inner man. When desire has conceived, it brings forth, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is finished, brings forth death. James 1. 15. That's where it starts in the mind. Where the desire is conceived. Boy, I wish I had that car. Man, I wish I had that house. Boy, I wish I was married to that wife. That's where it starts in the mind. It gives birth to sin, and when it's full grown, it brings forth death. But if you scorn God's word, then you're in effect daring him to take more drastic measures. As some in Corinth discovered when they persisted in abusing the Lord's Supper. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and some sleep. For abuse of the Lord's Supper. Now secondly, this passage reminds us of the importance of self-examination. The scriptures make it clear that many who consider themselves believers are deceived. There are tares, weeds, mixed in with the wheat. There are wolves in with the sheep. There are foolish virgins who have no oil in their lanterns. There are those who will enter the wedding feast without having on the wedding garments that were provided. There are seeds that immediately sprout but have so little soil that they wither and die away. The scripture says, there are many who profess to know God, but in works they deny him. Titus 1:16. Many who call Jesus Lord, Lord, but do not what he says, Luke 6. 46. Many who say they have faith, but show by their works that they do not, James 2. 14. Many who say they know Christ, but don't keep his commandments and are thus liars. 1 John 2, 4. Many who say they have fellowship with him, but actually walk in darkness, thus they lie and do not keep the truth. 1 John 1. 6. Many who say I love God, but they hate their brother, and thus they are called by God liars 1 John 4. 20. Many who think themselves to be something when they are in fact nothing, deceiving their own selves, Paul says, Galatians 6. 3. They appear religious, very religious. They may speak with the tongues of men or of angels. 1 Corinthians 13, 1. They are spots in your feasts of charity, Jude 12. They have a form of godliness, 2 Timothy 3. 5. All the works of the scribes and Pharisees they do to be seen by men. Matthew 23, 5. They draw near to God with their mouth, but their heart is far from him. Matthew 15, 8. So the scriptures exhort us over and over again to examine ourselves to see whether we are in fact in the faith. What are we to look for? We're to look for fruit. Every branch in me that bears not fruit will be taken away. John 15, 2. Are you resting in Jesus Christ alone for your salvation? Or is there any hint, any little bit? Of confidence in the flesh? Do you have a hatred of sin? Or do you simply tolerate it? Are you making progress in holiness? Or are you stagnant? Do you have a love for God's word? They have a love for God's worship. They have a love for God's people. They have a love for God's commandments. They obey Him. Does it grieve you when you see it? Does your life demonstrate love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, temperance, faith, meekness, etc. Does your life demonstrate that? Can other people see that in you? Do you have the witness of the Holy Spirit in your own heart? Crying out, Abba Father. Do you have the comfort of knowing that He loves you, that He cares for you? If not, then seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he's near. What I'm saying is leave the Sunday paper in the mailbox, in the newspaper box, if you haven't picked it up already. Leave the television off, leave the radio off, leave the uh latest novel aside, and curl up this afternoon with a really good book. Take the Gospel of Mark or the Gospel of John and read it. And as you read it, pray, God, show me. If I don't know you, make it clear to me. Because I want to know you. I want to be sure I have this gift of eternal life. I want to know for sure that I've been born from above. Call upon him. If there's any doubt in your mind, call upon it. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Jesus said, He who believes in me has everlasting life. Finally, Paul draws the letter to a close with this encouragement. Assured of our salvation by self-examination, assured of the purity of our walk by daily confession, daily repentance. and a moment by moment trust in the merits of our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, then the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Spirit will be with us. We can be of good comfort, we can be of one mind, we can live in peace, knowing that the God of love and peace will be with us. Let's pray. Father, I pray very specifically if there is yet someone here today, boy or girl, man or woman, still dead in Christ, without hope. The dead in their sins without hope in Christ, without everlasting life. Lord, I pray that you will bring new life to that person. That that uh dead heart will receive life, that you'll breathe upon those dry bones That you'll take away that heart of stone and give a heart of flesh. That you'll renew the mind. That you'll regenerate the soul. Lord, you're the one who can do this. So we pray that your Holy Spirit will do it. Do a mighty work of grace. And Father, if there be some here who are living lives of sin and they know it. They're continuing to walk in sinful patterns, refusing to turn away, to turn it off. Then Lord, I pray that you'll bring great conviction of sin. That we would judge ourselves that we might not have to be judged by you. Lord, I pray for every believer here. Strengthen us, encourage us, build us up. We ask it in Christ's glory's name. Amen.