To be here this morning to give God's word to the congregation here at Liberty. And uh I've been here, I know I've been here for an evening service recently. And I'm trying to think over the years, if I've been here, I think I was here for a morning service years ago. Years ago, many years ago. But it's a joy to be here. Um Our church is going through some of the same things your church is going through. I'm going to talk a little bit about that. In fact, the passage that I've chosen this morning is a passage that I preached at our church last Sunday morning. With a little bit of changes because you are not faith Christian fellowship. You are Liberty Church, PCA. But the passages, let me read the passage first. It's Deuteronomy chapter 11, verses 1 to 17. And the New King James translation of the scriptures. Of course, the context is the human author is Moses. God is the God's holy word. He's the the author, but this is uh they're on the verge of the promised land. Moses is the leader, he's about to leave them, and these are uh Deuteronomy is a series of sermons that he gave the people of God as he was about to depart. Okay, verse 1 through 17. Therefore, you shall love the Lord your God and keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments always Know today that I do not speak with your children who have not known and who have not seen the chastening of the Lord your God, his greatness and his mighty hand and his outstretched arm. his signs and his acts which he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to all his land, what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and their chariots How he made the waters of the Red Sea overflow them as they pursued you, and how the Lord has destroyed them to this day. What he did for you in the wilderness until you came to this place. And what he did to Dathan and Ebiram, the sons of Eliab, and the son of Reuben, how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up. their households, their tents, and all the substance that was in their possession in the midst of all Israel. But your eyes have seen every great act of the Lord which he did Therefore, you shall keep every commandment which I command you today, that you may be strong and go in and possess the land which you cross over to possess. And that you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord swore to give your fathers to them and their descendants. A land flowing with milk and honey. For the land which you go to possess is not like the land of Egypt from which you've come. where you sowed your seed and watered it by foot as a vegetable garden. But the land which you cross over to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water from the rain of heaven. A land for which the Lord your God cares. The eyes of the Lord your God are always on it from the beginning of the year to the very end of the year. And it shall be that if you earnestly obey my commandment, Commandments, which I command you today, to love the Lord your God and serve him with all your heart and with all your soul, then I will give you the land for your reign in its season. The early rain, the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain your new monk new wine and your oil. And I will send grass in your fields for your livestock, that you may eat and be filled. Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them. Lest the Lord's anger be aroused against you, and he shut up the heavens, so that there be no rain, and the land yield no produce, and you perish quickly from the good land. Which the Lord your God, the Lord is giving you. Amen. God's word. Liberty Church, you're in search for your next senior pastor, your next lead pastor. Well, faith, Christian fellowship, we're in the same boat, going through the exact same experience. Many of you might know Craig Garriott, um, planet uh faith as a daughter church of liberty over 37 years ago. Craig was the lead pastor, the the the the pioneer the pioneer the the church planter And he has served there 37 years. So in one sense, we're in a different kind of a boat because this is the first time in the church's history that we're looking for another pastor, another lead pastor. So similar, but not exactly the same, but many similarities. And as the months go by, I'm sure that just like at our church You feel in some ways like the children of Israel wandering in the wilderness, waiting for God. To get things settled down for you a little bit. So I want to look at this text today in Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 11. And my title is A Compass for Wilderness Wanderers. A Compass for Wilderness Wanderers. Earlier this month, Craig and a couple of others of us went down to Memphis, Tennessee. Fifty years ago, Dr. Martin Luther King died at the Lorraine Hotel in Memphis, Tennessee. A lot of celebration. There was a great conference that we attended At the end of that conference and I'll I'll talk a little bit b about that later, but at the end of the conference uh it was uh I I I was the one who we were at different hotels and I had the rental car and they said to pick 'em up at five in the morning to get to the airport. You've had that experience. before I'm sure. 5 a. m. not just to wake up but to be there at their hotel. If you're like me, you're not a morning person. If you're not a morning person, please say amen. So at five o'clock in the morning I've got to get up, get it, get, you know, get the room ready, get get get out, get my stuff together. I did some for the night before, like a wise person that I am So it's five o'clock and I rolled into the hotel and and and we and and and and and there they were. They they were there on time, four of them. And um so we we head out for the airport in Memphis, Tennessee. And I of course um You know, yeah, it's a couple turns on the interstate and get and I knew that once I'll go when I was going down the interstate, the main interstate, all I used to do is look for 55 east. And then I'd find the airport. So I didn't worry about the GPS or anything. I'm just, but, but Craig is a warning person. And he wants to talk about the previous night's message. And so we're talking and I'm driving and he and I'm trying to make sure I don't miss my turn And so we're listening to Craig and we're processing it, and all of a sudden I come to, and I knew I needed to go 55 east, and all I saw was a sign that I didn't see the airport signs, but it was a sign that said, St. Louis, right here 55, so St. Louis. And I and I had like three seconds to say, is St. Louis east or west? Well, I said, I'm taking it. So I I turned, of course, St. Louis was west. So I we had to backtrack about five, ten minutes, big deal. But as we did that, Craig said, well, did you get did you use the GPS? I didn't need a GPS. I just want one turn off the interstate. So we put the GPS on to make sure that we found our way. Sometimes when you're lost, you need to use the GPS. You need to use the GPS. God has given us a compass. Have you ever been lost at sea or lost in a wilderness in the woods? God's put the North Star there, and if you're wise and you can figure out where the North Star is, it'll help you some. Some. God has given us a North Star. That's one of the things we want to talk about today. The children of Israel were wandering in the wilderness for 40 years, moving from one phase to the next phase. Not following the North Star, but following the Lord. Something more important. Following what the Lord had given them for direction. A supernatural cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. It was not easy following the cloud and the fire. It's not easy for us to discern and to wait either, is it? To follow, to pray, to trust, and to wait. In the wilderness, the children of Israel followed the Lord as he directed them day by day and night by night. And the goal was to follow the Lord no matter where that took them. And for us, the word of God Is the cloud and the fire that guides us and moves us into the center of God's will, God's word. Let's face it It's true that as individual followers of Christ and for us as all of us as we live out our faith together as a covenant community of believers, In times of uncertainty, when we're going through a wilderness experience, it's difficult to trust and wait on the Lord, isn't it? It's difficult. The children of Israel were on the brink of the promised land. 38 years of wandering. 38 years as a people, following God's direction, following the cloud, following the fire, burying an entire generation. In the wilderness, the book of Deuteronomy, we we see Moses giving many exhortations, reminding them of who they are. Who their God is, and what he desires for them to do as they go into the next phase as his people. See , life in Canaan would not be like life in the wilderness. So Moses is seeking to prepare them for the upcoming changes. The biggest change is that he would not be with them. He would not lead them into the next phase. It was going to be Joshua's turn. So one look at this passage. During times of uncertainty, God's people have the certainty of God's presence, his guiding presence. Three things in the text we're going to look at. We're going to look at the exhortation to remember the past, to anticipate the future, and to walk faithfully with God today. present. First remembering the past, remembering the great works that God has done in the past. Verses 2 to 7, focus on that. Moses in verse 2 reminds them that they would they they would need to to keep on telling the next generation Of the things that God had done. Remember, for 40 years people were dying and the new people were being born. Some of the children, most of the children there were not alive when these events happened. And the same is true for us, isn't it? We need to tell the story. Tell the story of how we've overcome. We'll understand it better. Bye, bye, bye, the old song said. The history of Israel, we have it rehearsed here in these verses. He talks about the Exodus, the great deliverance as Moses went before Pharaoh, let my people go. And Pharaoh said, okay, and then he changed his mind ten times. And then there was a great Passover when when the the when the children of Israel uh had that that great Passover celebration that God gave them and and and and the the the Egyptian firstborns were were killed? And then finally they were they were let go. And then there was the Red Sea where again Pharaoh changed his mind. And so the children of Israel went through the Red Sea, but the army of Pharaoh drowned. He reminds them to remind their children of those stories. You know, I was thinking as I've meditated on that, that the Passover story and the Red Sea story remind us of our sacraments because the Passover is about blood. And the Red Sea is about water, the two sacraments of our of our faith, water and blood. Not just Exodus, though. Remind them of the wilderness, the experiences in the wilderness. Let's think about that. Caring for the wayward flock. The great provision of God in the wilderness. In Deuteronomy chapter 29. Moses says this in the words of God. I have led you 40 years in the wilderness. 40 years. He says, your clothes have not worn out on you. And your sandals have not worn out on your feet. Can you imagine that? Do you have any clothes that you used to wear forty years ago that you can still wear I still have some, but I don't think I can wear them anymore. I think forty years ago, let's see, polyester shirts, platform shoes, dough bottom jeans. So you still got some? Yeah, you put that stuff away, haven't you? Yes, yes, yes Imagine 40. They were wearing the same, they passed them on there, and yet they hadn't worn out. God provided for them. God gave great protection for them during those years. The external threats. Think of it. Here's this nomadic people going through this territory, this desert. And God protected them from the enemies who might say, you know, maybe we can take them. May we may we enslave them and take them. They were enslaved in Egypt. God protected them over the many, many years from the external threats. But no, he mentions an internal threat though. There was an experience, you can look it up in N Numbers chapter sixteen. Where the the sons of Korah, there was a rebellion against Moses' leadership. You know what it was like. They said, you know, God doesn't just speak through Moses. Who are you, Moses? And so a rebellion came up in the among the the people. And he he He mentions about about Dathan. And Psalm 106 summarizes it. Psalm 106. 17. The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan and covered the faction. of a biram. So this faction that rebelled, God judged them. Sometimes the threats were on the outside, sometimes the threats were even on the inside. God protects them His people. And of course, the what the great work of God, we've already said, is his guidance for them during this time. The cloud and the fire. The supernatural guidance for them. as they travel through the ancient desert. Notice also verse 7, talking about the past, but your eyes have seen every great act of the Lord. Which he did. Your eyes have seen. He says, remember what your eyes saw. You saw those things. You and your parents saw those things. You as a people. It's not just a message here for the history of Israel. There's a message for Liberty Church as well. No matter how long you've personally been worshiping here regularly, If you do worship here, there's a sense in which you also embrace the history of what God has done through this congregation. And I imagine these days you've done some significant reflection on who you are, what God wants you to be. When I think of living church from afar , There's four things to think about. Here they are. The first thing is faithfulness to the word of God. Faithfulness to God's words. Preachers, you've had a Preachers who have maintained a solid commitment to preaching, proclaiming the message of God's grace. In times where there's theological challenges, All around us, this congregation has been a fortress in this community. At the last uh presbytery that you hosted months ago, Pastor Russ preached Gave us a great word and as he and as he gave that word I thought, wow, they they they're gonna miss that man. I at that time I I I I I heard that he was moving he was preaching though we living in Richmond. I said that sounds crazy. After hearing her preach I said I know why they want him to preach still, though he lives in Richmond. He preaches. He preaches the word of God. Faithfulness to God's word. I'm sure Barry is continuing on with that legacy. here during this interim time. This church has a history of calling men who clearly proclaim the good news of Christ. Now the second thing is sim is is connected. I can't think of Liberty Church without thinking about Dr. Mark Pett. Some of you don't even know him. But again, I've been around for a while. I've been around for a minute, as the kids say And uh I I I uh years ago when I was serving with Intervarcy, I directed the Intervarse conference um where he gave four memorable talks. on the book of Daniel. In fact, in my basement somewhere, I have a blue cassette tape of that of that conference. Any of you still have cassette tapes in your basement? Mark Pett, I remember his vision for Chesapeake Seminary. I have friends around the country who were serving, who graduated there And of course, he was a mentor for Craig and Maria Garriott, who I serve with now at Faith. And not just Faith, several churches that were planted from this congregation. Dr. Mark Penn. May the Lord bless this church in his memory as we continue to live in that. The third thing I think about is this this congregation is the classic struggle to remain faithful to your mission, to remain missionally faithful. That's a struggle that many churches have. The changing demographics of Randallstone Owing's Mills remain a challenge for the congregation. And you should know that this is similar to challenge to other congregations. When um I was pastor at Forest Park Church at Garrison Boulevard, a predominantly black, uh a black PCA church at that time. In a black community, Garrison Boulevard, we face a similar challenge. Who are we? What is our mission? How can we reach our community? So don't so here never conclude that the challenge you face are merely skin color because they're not. It's more than that. It's not that simple. But you're dealing with the challenge that many churches in the PCA are facing in various ways. The fourth thing I think about when I think about this church is Liberty Christian School. Faithful over many, many years. I know the ministry that you have here is been faithful. It's been a a real outreach to many of the families in Randallstown and Owensville. In fact the whole Northwest corridor. My my my in-law, my sister-in-law and brother-in-law live in Ricestown and and they they used their children, their three children, uh where they graduate from Chapel Gate, but one of them uh graduated here from middle school, Kyler. I mean and I I remember that because I remember uh uh being asked to speak at chapel once 'Cause I one time I spoke at chapel here, um, again, a few years ago. He's now an adult. But but I remember the one thing I remember was I remembered that it was a good a great picture of the kingdom with the the diversity that was here. People from the church here, people from the community here. Very impressed by by that. Liberty Christian School. Again, remembering the past. You know, the hymn writer says this: God has been and is our help in ages past. He is and has been our hope for years to come. He is our help, our shelter from the stormy blast. And he is, and hopefully will be, our eternal home. That's who our God is. And you were linked to that God You are linked to him. And you're linked to the past history of Liberty Church as children of Israel were linked to their history. The wilderness was 40 years, and the original regeneration had been buried over those many. The young ones were now mature. They were tired of the desert and ready for a new phase. And the second thing I want to look at is the new phase. Moses didn't just look back, he looked ahead. He sought to give them get them excited and to anticipate God's work among them in the future. Let's talk about verses 8 to 17, touching on their anticipation of what God was going to do. The great acts of God in the future. Look carefully. Look carefully verse 8 to 10. Therefore you shall keep every commandment which I command you today, that you may be strong and go in and possess the land which you cross over to possess. That you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord swore to give your fathers to them and their descendants, a land flowing with milk and honey. For the land which you go to possess is not like the land of Egypt. from which you've come, where you sowed your seed and watered it by foot as a vegetable garden. He says, He says first that you may be strong. He wants them to be strong as the enter that land. He says that the days may be prolonged. They're promised there. They'll survive there and and thrive there. And then he says that they may go in and possess the land. And verse 18 and 8 to 12, just talk more about the land, how the land is a very fruitful land. There's more soil there. No need to for some sophisticated irrigation system like they had The parents had to do down in Egypt. So they're transitioning to a Joshua phase, the land they were going to conquer, putting behind them the Moses phase. The biggest change in this phase, more than the absence of Moses, They now have an accurate compass to follow. They had followed the fire and the cloud, but those were only temporary. They have something even better now. What am I talking about? Deuteronomy 8. 3, he'd already said that several chapters ago. He humbled you, allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone But man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. Every word that proceeds from God's mouth. You know, Jesus quoted that in the garden, in the wilderness. What are we talking about? When Moses dies and Joshua's in charge in Joshua 1, God says this: this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in it. day and night, that you may observe to do every according to all that's written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous and then you will have good success. There is now a word. There is now a book. There is now going to be something written that they're to follow. They have to follow carefully that there may be a people who are blessed. There's now for the first time there 's a five-part canon or list of books that are divinely inspired. They no longer just have the the the wisdom of Moses. They have it written down to follow. And the word tells them about the unconditional and the conditional blessings that can come to them as God's people. By grace, God had rescued them. Of course, the Passover. It wasn't because of anything in them. And now they have obligations, duties. as his people. Their joy, their fellowship, their blessing will be determined by their obedience to his clear commands. And as a nation, this was a matter of survival for them. And the warning is to be beware of idolatry. Look at verses 16 and 17. Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived. You turn aside and serve other gods There's a warning against idolatry, against pride, against complacency, the other dangers, against not preparing the next generation for life in the next phase. Talking about the future, notice in verse 7 we looked, he talked about uh your eyes have seen the great acts of God. Notice here uh in verse 12. It's not your eyes, but the eyes of the Lord your God. And that's interesting because in the future you haven't seen the future yet, have you? Liberty Church, you haven't seen the future yet, have you? I have good news for you. God sees the future. Amen? God sees your future. You can look back and see your past, but you can't look ahead and see your future. But you know a God who sees and knows your future. And his future promises for us are promised for blessing and not for cursing. The eyes of the Lord. You know, in our times, like that, we we have the confidence of God saving deeds on our behalf. With it comes some unconditional promises, right? We we have heaven. It's undeserved by by grace through faith. We have the promise of the Holy Spirit in our lives, undeserved, by trusting in the Lord God. We have the promise of wisdom and illumination from the Spirit, undeserved, that we are as Proverbs says more wise than our teachers. We have the undeserved privilege of having a family of fellow believers that we can lean on. Undeserved things by God's grace. But let us never forget that there are certain blessings that are conditional. I think of several New Testament verses. John 15, 7. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, it will be done for you. John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If. Conditional. Not a conditional promise. It doesn't say if, but it's an if promise. It's Ephesians 6, 1 to 3. Children, obey your parents of the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise. That it may be well with you. You may live long on the earth. Maybe that's in my head because my parents said that so much to me. I don't know. But that's that but that's a that's another that's a that's a could a promise That's conditional. You honor your parents and God will take care of you and you'll live long in the land. Taken from, of course, the Ten Commandments, Ephesians 6, 1-2. Many younger people are questioning the Orthodox Christian faith in our world, saying that we're out of touch, we are too restrictive. Too against the culture counter we're too counter-cultural. We need to go with the flow more. And um There's an old saying that I like to think of that says, if you feel like you are no longer close to God, guess who moved? Guess who move? And I have to say that there is in our society many who have moved. They have moved. You know, we were never a society that fully embraced the gospel. Never. But there is now an antagonism to the gospel. message. And young people seem to feel that distance. They don't want to be part of a counterculture of weirdos, of strange people who have a message that is so missing. The popular messages of our day. I mean we believe, you know, we we we we believe it's like that that the creator of the universe has given us a perfect book through an imperfect man. They say, what? You have a perfect book through through imperfect men? Yes, we do. We believe that a perfect man, Jesus, was really born apart from natural causes , from natural human sexual contact. That's weird. That's strange. That takes faith. We believe that human beings are fallen and that our only hope is Jesus. We believe there truly is justice in the universe. Ultimately, and so God will not just let everybody go to heaven. That's unpopular. We believe there's a difference between men and women. That's unpopular. We believe that marriage is good, but it's only for men and women. That's unpopular. We have a countercultural message in this world. The core beliefs of the faith are a major stumbling block for most of the younger years around us. And I believe the biggest challenge Facing the church in our day is a challenge of maintaining an uncompromising message that exalts the name of Jesus Christ and proclaims the crosswork of Christ, proclaiming it with a faith that God still uses that message to save people In the last few years, there's been a lot of young people who have become, quote, woke. Maybe that's a new word to you. They get woke. They become awakened or energized. Towards the need to change the world, to make the world a better place. So they're no longer sleeping, they're awakened. Use that word on your grandkids and they'll be impressed Some call them social justice warriors. We have especially seen this recently, for instance, in the response to the shootings in the school just over the last few weeks. Demonstrations and marches and all over the nation, the world. Even if you but believe that some of the solutions are not carefully thought out, this is not a bad movement, folks. And a large number show that the age of youthful apathy is not over. At the conference in Memphis I really appreciate the constant reminder that we are to pursue both the righteousness of God in our world and the justice of God in our world. See, because we're all sinners, we need to know the righteousness of God. We need to know justification through the blood of Jesus Christ. But because we're all made in the image of God, we need to understand that the justice of God See, a biblical worldview is a balanced worldview of the Christian life and embraces a gospel that includes both God's justice and God's righteousness because God is just and God is righteous. We cannot let the world's definition of justice discard us from thinking biblically and acting biblically. At the conference, there was one speaker, Jackie Hill Perry, who hit this directly with even her topic, which was equipping the next generation to embrace gospel diversity. You know, there's a lot of understanding and appreciation of diversity in our world. The diversity, I mean, that's a popular word. That's a bad word, isn't it? But her topic was gospel diversity, because there's a kind of diversity that kind of strays from where the gospel takes us. What's her title? Good talk. And then John Piper ended the conference by pleading with us through the book of Colossians. He said, Young people, you have only one hope to find a path that exalts Christ and does justice. An infallible Spirit-illumined Bible in a colorful community of the redeemed. An infallible Spirit-illumined Bible in a colorful community of the redeemed. What's he saying? God is calling a people from every nation, from every tribe, from every tongue into his body. In the 21st century, you see, where young people are accustomed to being around diversity, of all our friends and co-workers and even family and fellow students, if we want to reach this generation , We need to have churches that reflect what this generation is looking for in the body. That's a challenge for many churches. to challenge for every church, creating a community of redeemed people who will stand upon the Word of God and seek to evangelize our world and that looks like heaven. That looks like what heaven looks like. We see the vision of heaven in Revelation chapters 6 and 7. People from every tribe and tongue worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the greatest challenge for the church in our generation. In a world where there's so much dis uh discussion on these things, we have a compass. We have a compass. We have clear direction. The word of God is our North Star. The Word of God is our North Star. GPS. If we fail to follow it, we'll be lost. We'll never find our way home. Lastly, love our great God in the today in the today. Again, verse 1. You shall love the Lord your God, keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, commandments always. And he says, no, today. Today. Verse 8. Therefore you shall keep every commandment which I command you today. Verse 13, it shall be that if you earnestly obey my commandments which I command you today, to love your God and serve Him excellently. During times of uncertainty, God has a word for us right now. And the word is, I'm with you right now. I'm with you, the Great Commission, I'm with you always to the close of the age. Joshua 1. I will never leave you or forsake you. God is with us today. And his word for today is to be faithful today, to love him today, to serve him today, to walk with him in the today. Obey, serve, love. God's word is the compass. You you probably are familiar with Psalm 119, verse 105. Your word is a lamp to my feet, a light to my path. You don't know the verse? You probably know the song by Amy Grant years ago. I don't know The Word of God, and they had they would have light light little lamps little lamps that would be on their feet when in the dark path And they would go one step at a time and they could see what was ahead of them on the path. But you know you you couldn't see everything around them. It reminds me of the the images you see of people in in cave i in in m who mining in caves. Which dark and they have a little lamp a little headlight head I headlight? Is that what it's called? I don't know what it's called, but a a lamp on their head. And it just looks ahead. Don't be on the side. If there's a danger on the side, I don't know what they do. But they can see ahead, right? Well, they have those on their feet. And the Word of God doesn't show us everything. It just shows us what we need to know. It shows us what the next step that we can take. And we need to take as we walk with God. Love your God today. You know the word love is used 24 times in the book of Deuteronomy. 24 times in the book of Deuteronomy, we hear the word love. Five times it's referring to human loves for one another. Eight times it's used like in this passage, our love for God. But 11 times of the 24, it's use of God's love for us. And that is grace. That's grace. That's the grace of God. In chapter 7, Moses said this: The Lord did not set his love on you or choose you because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the least of all peoples. But because the Lord loves you. Because he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers. The Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand, talk about the Exodus, redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh. King of Egypt. It's about God's grace. We see our love for God spoken of all these verses, but remember that 1 John says we love him because he first loved us. He first loved us. In Hebrews 3, the writer of Hebrews talks about the wilderness experience. He quotes Psalm 95, which talks about the wilderness experience. Hebrews 3, 7 and 15. Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, the Holy Spirit, the writer of Psalm 94, the writer of the scriptures. The Holy Spirit says, today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion in the days of trial in the wilderness. Well your fathers tested me, tried me, and saw me, my work forty years. Therefore I was angry with that generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known my ways, so I swore in my wrath they shall not enter my rest. Beware, brethren, says the writer of Hebrews, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily. There it is today. While it is called today. There he says it. Lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. We have become partakers of Christ. If we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the end. Well it said today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. Today. The writer of Hebrews says today. David in the Psalm says today. Moses says today. I plead with you, today, walk with God. Love him. Serve him. Forsake the idols of our time. Follow his word as the compass for your life. This commitment begins with understanding his grace. Never put your trust in Jesus Christ alone. If you need a compass, if you need direction in your life, I urge you to simply believe it. Believe him. Agree with the Father. About Jesus, that Jesus died for your sins. Repent and trust him. The uh say the hymn writer, I guess it's the country singer, Chris Christopherson, wrote these words. I don't think it's a hymn. I'm only human. I'm just a man. Help me believe in what I could be and all that I am. Show me the stairway I have to climb. Lord, for my sake, teach me to take. One day at a time. Do you remember when you walked among men? Well, Jesus, you know, if you're looking below, it's worse now than then. Cheating and stealing, violence and crime. So for my sake, teach me to take one day at a time. One day at a time, sweetie. Jesus. That's all I'm asking of you. Give me the strength to do every day what I have to do. Yesterday's gone, sweet Jesus. Tomorrow may never be mine. Lord help me today Show me the way. One day at a time. Wilderness wanderers, you have a compass. Follow it. Follow him daily. Let's pray.