Amen. Thank you, Choir. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the last chapter of the Gospel of Mark? Lord willing we'll uh conclude our study of Mark this morning. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones, the wee ones, for the Children's Church program downstairs. I think with uh the wine rights this month. Mark uh chapter 16, as we turn there, I want to thank everybody for your uh concern, your cards and uh calls and uh emails, etcetera, uh after um I mean after or during or whatever my uh uh uh what was it shoulder uh rotator cuff uh surgery And uh appreciate that. And uh here's a card I got just yesterday. Remember, this too shall pass. And then it says painfully, like a kidney stone. But it will pass. This is all the the whole reason I I had that fall was to have empathy for you people. So in a sense it's your fault. All right. Mark chapter 16. You people are getting body parts replaced right and left, I know. Shoulders and knees and Mark chapter sixteen, let's uh let's begin at verse nine Now, when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept. And when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe. After that, he appeared in another form to two of them as they walked and went into the country. And they went and told it to the rest, but they did not believe them either. Later, he appeared to the eleven as they sat at the table, and he rebuked their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen. And he said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He who believes and is baptized will be saved. But he who does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will follow those who believe in my name. They will cast out demons, they will speak with new tongues. They will take up serpents, and if they drink anything deadly, it will by no means hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover. So that after the Lord had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word through the accompanying signs. Amen. Let's pray together. Oh Father, how we thank you for this gospel record of the life of Christ. His ministry. Lord, we thank you for what we have seen as we've studied through it, and we pray for your presence now. As we seek to conclude this study, we pray for your Holy Spirit to guide us. Open our minds, open our hearts to receive your truth. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As you know, Mark is a gospel of action. It's a gospel of action. It moves at a fast clip. And the close of the book is no exception. The forty days that the risen Christ interacted with his disciples before his ascension, the ascension itself And then the dramatic spread of the gospel through the witness of the apostles. That's all covered in a brief passage that was eventually put into twelve little verses. First of all, we have a summary of the events on that glorious resurrection day. Look at verses 9 to 11. Now, when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept. And when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe. For an expanded account of that interaction between Mary Magdalene and the Lord Jesus, you have to turn to the Gospel of John. But uh there, by the way, we're told that remember Mary was weeping and that she heard a voice, why are you weeping? And she said, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. And then she turned and saw Jesus, but didn't recognize him as Jesus, certainly wasn't expecting to see him, and she supposed him to be the gardener, this man she saw. But he spoke to her, he said, Mary, and just him saying her name was enough for her to recognize him all at once, and Mary Magdalene was of course overjoyed. Jesus sent her back to the disciples. Go tell them that I've risen. Mark uh tells us that when she told those who had been with him, it was as they mourned and wept. As they mourned and wept. It's hard to overestimate the grief that the disciples must have been feeling, the horror and the shock. As the one they believed to be the Messiah, the promised one, who would sit upon the throne of David as he was crucified before their eyes Their Lord and Master had been executed. This is the last thing that they would have imagined happening. No doubt through the whole agonizing debacle of the arrest, the trial, the crucifixion. They were expecting God to intervene in a mighty way and reveal Jesus to be his beloved Son, in whom he's well pleased. This was the opportunity for God to reveal to all Israel what they knew to be true, that Jesus was the promised one, the descendant of David, who would sit upon his throne forever and ever. But no, God did not intervene. Not in the Garden of Gethsemane when the soldiers came to arrest Jesus. Not uh when he was being tried in uh the high priest's house. Not when he stood before Governor Pilate. God didn't intervene in those long six hours as Jesus languished upon the cross. On the cursed instrument of death. They must have wondered, how can this be? Could we have been wrong about Jesus But no, we saw the miracles, we heard his teaching. And when Mary went to tell his disciples the wonderful news that Jesus was alive, they were mourning. They were weeping. And they were evidently in such distress of soul that when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, Mark says they did not believe. In fact, only two of them mustered up enough interest to actually go to the tomb and see what Mary spoke about. Only Peter and John. Andrew, James, Philip, Bartholomew, Thomas, and the others all stayed behind. Now look at verses 12 to 13. After that, he appeared in another form to two of them as they walked and went into the country. And they went and told it to the rest, but they did not believe them either. Now, what was this incident? Well, it sounds very much like what we read about in Luke chapter 24. Two of them on their way to Emmaus, the very day of the resurrection. There seems to be a clear reference to that incident. The followers of Christ were walking out of Jerusalem towards Emmaus. It's about seven miles, we're told. And they were talking together of all the things that had taken place. Of all that had happened over the last several days. No doubt the entrance to Jerusalem, the arrests, the trial, the mock trial, you might say, the bringing Jesus before Pilate, the crucifixion, and even the news that they heard that morning. They were talking together about all that had taken place, and Jesus drew near to them from behind, evidently, walked up and said, What is this that you're deciding discussing together. What is it that you two are talking about? And uh they reacted with some astonishment Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known the things that have happened there in these days? What are we talking about? We're talking about what everybody's talking about, what the whole city is talking about. We're talking about Jesus of Nazareth, the prophet Who came into the city, we received him as a king, and then he was taken at night, and he was tried in the early hours of the morning and he was crucified. We're talking about Jesus. What else could we be talking about? We're talking about how our chief priests and rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, but we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel, they said to this stranger, as they thought. But that hope has now been shattered, you see. We had hoped, is the way they put it, we had hoped that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Oh, and by the way, today is the third day since these things have happened. And yes, one more thing, certain women of our company who arrived at the tomb early astonished us when they didn't find his body. They came saying that they had seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. Well, that was when Jesus said to these two, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? Isn't this what the prophet said was going to happen to the Messiah? Aren't you familiar with Psalm 22 and Isaiah 53? And you must have said cited many other passages because the scripture says beginning at Moses and in all the prophets he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself Later, as they ate together, he blessed and broke the bread and gave it to them, and then the scripture says their eyes were opened. They realized this was Jesus. And they said, well, that makes sense because didn't our hearts, did not our hearts burn within us while he walked with us by the way, while he spoke to us of these things? They rushed back to Jerusalem to tell what they had heard and seen, but what Mark tells us is that, what Mark tells us that Luke did not mention Is that at first the disciples didn't believe them either. It does sound kind of hard to believe, doesn't it, that Jesus was walking along beside them for these seven miles or portion of it anyway, to Emaus. Might have been conversing with them for an hour or more, uh expounding the scriptures, and they didn't recognize him. And then finally when they got to this uh inn or wherever they ended up staying He broke bread and gave it to them, and then their eyes were open. So at first they were s at least some of the eleven were still skeptical. The Lord Jesus then made it a little bit easier to believe by standing in the midst of them. No mention of a door, no mention that he came through a door, suddenly he was in their midst. And they were terrified, and supposed they had seen a spirit. Luke 24 tells us. Now look at verse 14. Later, he appeared to the eleven as they sat at the table, and that's the incident I'm just speaking of, and he rebuked their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen. This verse reveals that when Jesus appeared to the disciples, he rebuked them for not believing the testimony of those who who had seen him. Mary Magdalene, the two on the road to Emaus , others, others who spoke to them about seeing Jesus. Now, understand there is a thing we call healthy skepticism, right? We're not to believe everything we hear, we're not to believe everything we see, we're not to certainly not to believe everything we read on the internet. Right? We're supposed to have a healthy skepticism. And so there's that, and then there's something else that's unbelief and hardness of heart. The disciples weren't demonstrating just healthy skepticism. They were demonstrating unbelief and hardness of heart. If they were experiencing just healthy skepticism, Jesus would not have rebuked them. But he called them foolish and slow of heart to believe all the prophets have spoken. Both on the road and also in the room where they were assembled. He rebuked them. Look at verse 15. And he said to them, Go into all the world. And preach the gospel to every creature. He who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who does not believe will be condemned. Now, clearly these words every creature mean every human creation, every human. We don't preach the gospel to our dogs and cats, do we? I don't. I haven't. You don't preach the gospel to your pets. Every creature is a reference to us as created beings. Every person, I suppose they used the word creature to remind us that every one of us is the creation of God. And as God's creatures, the message that God has for us, his creatures, should be of primary importance to us. Now, verse 16 could certainly give the impression that baptism is essential for salvation. And there are churches that believe and teach that. And some of those will even teach that unless you are baptized into their church, you cannot be saved. But if you build your theology, listen, if you build your theology on one or two verses that you find in the Bible, And don't look at all the Bible has to say on that topic. You can easily be led astray. You can easily be led into error. can become serious error. Yes, when the scripture says, He who believes and is baptized shall be saved. It could be understood to mean, right, if it were the only passage on baptism, it could be understood to mean, well, unless you're baptized, you cannot be saved, right? He who believes and is baptized shall be saved But to understand it that way, you'd have to disregard virtually everything else the Bible teaches about baptism, as well as what it teaches about the Old Testament sign of faith, circumcision. What the Bible teaches is that these were not religious rites that ushered us into the estate of salvation. These were religious signs or rites that identified us as followers of Christ, that symbolized new life and cleansing and faith. They were pictures, they were signs and seals of the faith that the believer has. The faith that is accounted for righteousness. Faith in the Messiah, the faith in the Messiah that ushers us in to the kingdom of God. of God. By grace you're saved through faith. It's not of yourselves, it's the gift of God. Abraham believed God and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. To believe that baptism is essential for salvation, you'd have to disregard all those passages that say salvation comes by faith in Christ alone. Give me a second here. And all dry. Passages like this. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved. Acts 16, 31 Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Romans 1013. He who believes in me, Jesus said, has everlasting life. No mention of baptism. John 6. 47. And you'd have to explain how Jesus could say to the thief on the cross who believed but was obviously not baptized, this day you will be with me in paradise. Yes, if you believe, you should be baptized. And it's certainly true that those who believe and are baptized will be saved. But it's also true that he who believes and is not baptized will be saved. Right? This verse continues, but he who does not believe Note whether or not he's baptized, but he who does not believe will be condemned. One of the errors being promulgated in our uh day By certain segments of the Christian church, is that whether or not you, as an adult, believe the gospel, if at some point You were baptized. You are a Christian, whether you like it or not. And when you die You'll be dragged, if it need be, kicking and screaming and protesting, to heaven to dwell forever with the saints that you despised and the God that you denied Some really believe that. They believe an atheist, an atheist, if he was baptized, some water got to him somewhere along the line. He is going to heaven whether he likes it or not. No, the Bible says very clearly, he who does not believe will be condemned Boy, that sounds a bit harsh, doesn't it? Just because someone doesn't believe in Jesus, just because someone doesn't believe Jesus is the Son of God, just because someone doesn't believe that Jes Jesus died and rose again. He's condemned Do you mean the the dedicated Hindu who spends all his life uh uh uh worshiping the gods that he's taught to worship, and he's sincere and devoted? You mean if he doesn't believe in Jesus, he's condemned? Are you telling me that the devout Muslim who worships as he's taught from a from childhood If he doesn't believe in Jesus, he's condemned? Are you telling me the sincere Buddhist is condemned? The Orthodox Jew is condemned? The unpersuaded agnostic? The animist? The Sikh? the the moral, upright, generous, kind lover of mankind, of whatever religion he may be, or of no religion. Are you telling me that that man will be condemned simply because he does not believe in Jesus? Now listen carefully. He is not condemned for refusing to believe in Jesus. He may have never even heard the name of Jesus There are people in this world who've never heard of Jesus. Jesus, they've never heard the good news of Christ. That's why we're sending missionaries all over the world, translating the Bible into all these different languages. Because people, many people still have not heard. He's not condemned for refusing to believe in a Jesus that he may have never heard of. He's condemned because he's a member of a fallen race. By one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. Romans 5. 19. He's condemned because he's a member of a fallen race. Through one man's offense, judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation. Romans 5. 18. Through one man, sin entered the world, Adam. And death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sin. Romans 5:12. As a member of a fallen race, a race of sinners, in your natural state, You are condemned and I am condemned. Your parents are condemned. Your children are condemned in their natural state. In his natural state, every man and woman, every child born since man's tragic fall is condemned. We're condemned already. Not only are we condemned because of the sin of our first parent, we're condemned because of our own sin. Why that doesn't sound fair. What about the innocent native? What about the innocent native? The one that you were talking about who never who has never even heard the name of Jesus. Listen to me. There is no innocent native You're not innocent, I'm not innocent, the native is not innocent. The native, like every one of us, is a sinner by nature and by practice. Well, you may say, well, that's a raw deal. That doesn't seem quite fair. Well, let me tell you what would have been fair. It would have been fair if God had destroyed mankind when we rebelled against him. That would have been fair. When we violated God's holy law, it would have been fair for God to destroy all mankind. But in his mercy, he provided a way for us to be forgiven. A way for us to be restored. A way for us to be renewed. A way for us to be regenerated. A way for us to be justified It's through the sinless life and sacrificial death of the Lamb of God, his own dear son, whom he sent to this sinful world to give his life in our place. It's through him and his glorious resurrection. So why is it that he who does not believe will be condemned? Because as Jesus puts it in John chapter 3 He who does not believe is condemned already. Listen to what Jesus said. He who does not believe is condemned already. You're already condemned. You're headed for justice. You're headed for God's judgment. You're headed for hell. You're a member of a condemned race. You say, well, that's a raw deal. Yeah, it's a raw deal, but it's a fact. If you're drowning in the North Atlantic and you refuse the lifeline that's dropped from the Coast Guard helicopter, your cause of death will be listed as drowning, not rejection of the offered lifeline. But I don't want to be saved by the Coast Guard. I want to be saved another way. I want to be saved by Navy SEALs. That would be cool. Like Tom Hanks, you know, and Captain Phillips. Saved from the Somali pirates. I want to be saved by Navy SEALs. Well, then you will perish. Because this is the lifeline God has offered. He who does not believe will perish. Look at verse 17. And these signs will follow those who believe. In my name, they will cast out demons, they will speak with new tongues. They will take up serpents, and if they drink anything deadly, it will by no means hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover. Now, but one of these signs are actually recorded for us in the book of Acts as attending Christ's apostles. This reminds us of Paul's words in 2 Corinthians 12. Truly, he said, the signs of an apostle were wrought among you, and all signs and wonders, in perseverance, in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. Let me read it again because I've messed it up. Truly, the signs of an apostle were accomplished among you with all perseverance. in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. His apostleship was being questioned, remember? And he said, wait a minute, when I was with you I demonstrated the signs of an apostle. Remember at one point it says they would take a handkerchief from Paul's body and bring it to the sick, and the sick would be made whole. I evidenced the signs of an apostle among you. The Lord Jesus foretells that signs are going to follow those who believe. He was not encouraging believers to drink poison. He wasn't encouraging believers to handle poisonous snakes. He was saying that he would, at his own discretion, intervene on occasion, as he did with Paul when he was bitten by a poisonous snake on the island of Malta, Acts 28. He would at his own discretion intervene to demonstrate his power and to authenticate his servants. Now, verse 19. So then, after the Lord had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven, and he sat down at the right hand of God. Here's the ascension, the glorious ascension. And Mark covers it in one little verse, one little sentence. Jesus ascended to heaven. List listen to uh Daniel 7. Daniel says, I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man, coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. Then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all people, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. which shall not pass away, and his kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed. See, Jesus ascended into heaven, but he also at the same time, you might say, ascended to the throne, right? When a king or queen on earth ascends to the throne, there is great rejoicing. There's a great celebration. No doubt there was great rejoicing in heaven when Jesus, who had conquered death, Who had struck Satan with a death blow that he's still writhing from when Jesus sat down at the right hand of the Father. No doubt there was great rejoicing in heaven at that point. Now, what was the significance of the ascension? Well, I think three things at least. First of all, the ascension, like the resurrection, declares that Christ's sacrifice was acceptable to his Father. Right? Hebrews 10. After he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, he sat down at the right hand of God. From that time waiting until his enemies are made his footstool. Footstool, place to put your feet. Footstool. For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. By one offering He's perfected forever those who are being sanctified. So, first of all, it does what the resurrection did. It verifies Christ to be who he said he was. Had he remained in the tomb, had he not risen from the dead, then it would have declared that he was not who he said he was. Secondly, at the ascension, Christ began his ongoing work of intercession for us. Right? We all know 1 John 2. 1, if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. If we sin, and we do, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. That intercession, by the way, I suspect It's not a continual verbal pleading with God, right? With the Father. It's not, Father, uh, forgive Bob for coveting, he's one of mine. Forgive Joan for uh uh lying to her boss. She's one of my sheep. Uh uh, have mercy on Ernesto. He's a new believer and he doesn't yet understand about submission to people in authority. It's not a continual verbal intercession, not necessarily. No. The very presence of the nail-scarred Jesus in heaven, his very presence is making intercession for us. See It's a continual reminder that the penalty has been paid, that the price has been paid, that sinners have been redeemed. Continual reminder of the sacrifice that he's offered. The great debt of his church has been paid. As our high priest, he ever lives to make intercession for his bride. Hebrews 7. 25 And thirdly, the ascension signifies that Jesus is reigning over the affairs upon earth. May not look like it from our perspective, but Jesus is reigning over the affairs. on earth. And one day all mankind will submit to his reign, whether willingly or unwillingly. And in the Psalm most quoted in the New Testament, we read, The Lord said to my Lord Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Psalm 110. Now verse 20. And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word through the accompanying signs. Amen. After they tarried in Jerusalem, right, Jesus told them, not in the Gospel of Mark, but we read it elsewhere, tarry in Jerusalem until you be endued with a power from on high. After they did that, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and then they became bold witnesses for Christ in Jerusalem, in all Judea, in Samaria, and to the end of the earth. The apostles labored to carry the message as far as they could carry it in their day. As far as a ship could take them, as far as they could travel by foot. Or by horse or whatever. And many of those who heard their message did the same thing. They traveled as far as they could travel, bringing this message of new life and hope. They got they went so far and they reached so many people that uh the uh angry uh Jews in Acts 17 Declared that these believers in Jesus have turned the world upside down. Acts 17, 6. And you can read all about the apostles' adventures in the book of the Acts of the Apostles, the book written by Luke. In fact, uh the Wednesday Ladies' Bible study is studying the book of Acts right now. You wonderful Opportunity for you to learn more about what happens in the book of Acts. Now, let me underscore just a few things before we leave this chapter and leave this gospel. First of all, as I said when I commented on the beginning of verse 16, he who believes and is baptized will be saved. We are not to build our theology on one or two verses taken out of context. We are called to compare scripture with scripture. We're to consider the whole counsel of God, and we're to use our natural gifts that God has given us, gifts of reason, gifts of sense. This chapter contains more than one illustration of that truth. As I said, you could conclude from verse 16, as some have done, that unless you are baptized, you can't be saved. And you could then reason from there, well if we're a true church, then they have to be baptized in our church. We're the true church, and so if they're Methodist or Lutheran or Presbyterian, unless they're baptized in our church, they can't be saved. Well That's just ludicrous. Or you can also conclude from verse 18 that any true Christian at any time could handle serpents or drink poison and not be harmed. You see, it's only a very short slither from there to get to the point of believing and teaching that one should intentionally handle poisonous snakes or drink poison in order to demonstrate one's faith. But to do so would be to ignore Christ's words to Satan when he was tempted to throw himself down from the pinnacle of the temple. Remember what Jesus said? You shall not tempt the Lord your God. It is written, Deuteronomy 6, I think it is, it is written, you shall not tempt the Lord your God, or you shall not put the Lord to the test. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Well, Lord, if you're going to keep me safe, I'm going to just jump off of this roof or whatever. You shall not put the Lord to the test. This passage reminds us of the importance of taking the whole counsel of God into account before embracing some novel doctrine based on just one or two verses, in particular a doctrine that the Church of Jesus Christ has not embraced. We have the benefit of godly men through the ages who have interpreted Scripture and written books of theology and compared Scripture with Scripture. We need to utilize those who've gone before us and not run off on a tangent. Now let me call your attention again, my second point here in conclusion. Let me call your attention again to the evidence, even in this, in these few verses that we read, 12 verses, the evidence for the resurrection. We see it here again. It's something we noted when we looked at those first eight verses of this chapter. It was two weeks ago. Somebody hid my water The Gospel of Mark, Mark here in these few verses, mentions three distinct occasions when the risen Christ was seen by those who were not expecting him to rise from the dead. He appeared to Mary Magdalene, that's one. He appeared to the two disciples as they were walking into the country. We assume that's the two on the road of Ebaeus. And he appeared to the eleven as they sat at table. In fact, there were 15, I can't do it all on one thing, I guess I can, fifteen , fifteen such appearances presented to us in the New Testament. Now, you may deny the historicity of the resurrection, but before you do so, you should at least examine the evidence. Speaking of the resurrection of Christ, the former Chief Justice of England, Lord Darling, reportedly said, the crux of the problem of whether Jesus was or was not What he proclaimed himself to be must surely depend upon the truth or otherwise of the resurrection. On that greatest point, we are not merely asked to have faith. In its favor as living truth, there exists such overwhelming evidence, positive and negative factual and circumstantial, that no intelligent jury in the world could fail to bring in a verdict that the resurrection story is true. Now, closing words to believers. We have here Christ's marching orders to us, right? First of all, to the apostles. But by implication to those who have believed through the apostles, to you and me. That's why he said, I'm with you even unto the end of the age. Well, the apostles died off, right, before the end of the age, but Jesus said, you go forth and preach the gospel, and I'm with you even unto the end of the age. It's talking about us He's talking about those of us who have received this good news down through the centuries. We've been called to go forth and to proclaim this good news. So how well are you fulfilling the Great Commission? Are you giving God's glorious news, the news of forgiveness, the news of reconciliation with God, the news of eternal life? When you think about it, it's incredible news. You don't have to die and pay for your own sins. Christ has died for you. You don't have to live as if you don't know what's to come, and you don't have to live fearful. You don't have to be anxious. You don't have to live in guilt for your sins. Because Christ has come and died that you might have life. And if you believe in him, all your sins are forgiven. It's a glorious message we have to proclaim. Are you proclaiming it to your classmates, to your friends, to your co-workers, to your family, to the fellow that repairs your furnace, to the woman that refills your coffee? Are you proclaiming this good news? We have wonderful news to share. And Christ has told us to go into all the world and proclaim it. Secondly, Jesus rebuked the unbelief of his disciples. They didn't believe the prophecies of his death and resurrection. We mentioned a few of them, Psalm 22, Psalm 110, Psalm 118, Isaiah 53. They didn't believe all those prophecies. Or they didn't understand them, didn't hear them, didn't know them. But Jesus rebuked their unbelief. So presumably they heard them, but just didn't believe They didn't believe or even remember Christ's clear declaration of his impending death and resurrection. Here's what he said to his disciples, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes. They will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles. And they will mock him and scourge him and spit upon him and kill him. And the third day he will rise again. Mark 10. They didn't believe. Their hearts were hardened. So it makes me wonder if he might rebuke me or rebuke you for our unbelief. I told you in my word that all things work together forbid to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Why did you not believe me? I told you in my word that if you would seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, then all these things, these things you work so hard for, all these things will be added unto you. These temporal things that you need, why did you not believe me? I told you in my word to cast all your cares upon me because I care for you. Why did you not believe me? Why did you carry all those cares yourself? Why were you so anxious? Why were you always so worried? What did you have to worry about? I said, cast your cares upon me and I'll care for you. I told you in my word that I would return one day in power and majesty and glory. Why did you not believe me? Why was it such a shock when I did? And then a closing word to unbelievers. There is a day fast approaching. It's approaching for you, it's approaching for me. When dawn will break upon your family and your friends, but you will not see it. Alarm clocks will sound, family members will stir, but you will not hear them. Your time in this world will have passed. How you will wish in that day that you had cared enough about your soul, about your eternal destiny. To seriously consider the biblical claims, the biblical evidence for the resurrection of Christ. How you will wish in that day that you just turned off the TV for an hour or two and looked into God's word and said, God, if this is true, I want to know. Speak to me from your holy word. It's living, it's powerful, it's sharper than a two-edged sword. Heaven and earth shall pass away, Jesus said, but my word shall not pass away. Do you think so so little of your soul that you'll go off into eternity without ever even determining is this true or is it not? If the Lord's working in your heart, if he's revealed to you your sin, if he's drawing you to repentance and faith, you can settle this matter today. You don't have to put it off. No man knows what a day may bring forth. You don't know that you'll have time later on when you're old to consider it. This is the day of salvation. This is the day to make it right with God. Now how do you do that? You fall on your knees, you cry out, God, be merciful to me, I'm a sinner. God, I know I've broken your holy law. I've been angry, I've been proud, I've murmured, I've complained, I've been uh I've I've uh lusted, I've coveted. A stolen, lied, whatever it is. Acknowledge your sin before a holy God. He knows all about it. He wants you to know all about it. You confess it to him. God, be merciful to me. I'm a sinner and I know it, but God, you can save me. Your word says he who believes in Jesus Christ will be saved. That's what I want, Lord. I believe that He lived that perfect life, that He died upon the cross, that He rose again from the dead, and I want Him as my Savior. You come to God that way, you pray that prayer and mean that in your heart. Sincerely cry out to him. Come to him humbly as a little child. And he promises all your sins will be forgiven He'll usher you into his kingdom one day. You'll be reconciled to God, and you'll know the joy of sins forgiven, the joy of Christian brethren, the joy of worship, the joy of fellowship. The joy of reading God's word and having him feed your soul. Won't you come to him today? Let this be the day of salvation for you. Let's pray.