If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to Genesis chapter four? Let's see here. Genesis chapter four, let's read the first ten verses. Now Adam knew his wife, knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Then she bore again, this time his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground to the Lord. Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat. And the Lord respected Abel and his offering, but he did not respect Cain and his offering. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. So the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door. And its desire is for you, and but you should rule over it. Now Cain talked with Abel, his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. And then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? He said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? And he said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Want to make sure the little ones have been dismissed for wonders of worship. I neglected to mention that. Let's bow and ask God's blessing on his word. Let's pray. Oh Father, uh we do ask for your help now as we approach um this uh heavy uh topic. Um of the preciousness of human life. We pray for your spirit to guide us and and I pray, Lord, for anyone who may be here today outside of Christ that this might be the day of salvation for that one. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. It was a peaceful Sunday morning in Hawaii. Disturbed only by a distant roar of engines in the sky. A surprise attack on our Pacific fleet in Pearl Harbor thrust America into war. And by the time that war ended, almost four long years later, over four hundred thousand American lives had been lost. President Roosevelt rightly declared December 7, 1941, the date of the attack on our fleet, a day that will live in infamy. If an attack that ultimately led to the untimely death of 400,000 Americans is a day that will live in infamy , Then what words could be used to aptly describe January 22, 1973? On that date, as you know, the majority of justices on the U. S. Supreme Court declared that the The Constitution of our nation guarantees the right of a pregnant woman, for reasons sufficient to herself, to kill her unborn child. And elective abortion became the accepted birth control method of last resort. But this war against the unborn became much more lethal than World War II, with casualties of well over a million a year. And the war goes on. At this point, 42 years later, the U. S. Center for Disease Control, the CDC, has documented, based upon reports from individual states, and not every state reports every year. That over 50 million lives have been snuffed out by means of legalized abortion. Well, over a hundred times more than the American lives lost in World War II. more than the entire population of Canada. The actual number may be much higher than that 50 million reported to the CDC. And on this weekend when Americans honor Dr. Martin Luther King and the Civil Rights Movement, it's worth noting that legalized abortion has done great harm to the black community. It's estimated that since 1973, 16 million black Americans have been aborted. 16 million. Since the total African-American population is approximately 36 million , The loss of 16 million is enormous. 16 million is 44% of 36 million. Michael Novak said abortion has swept through the black community like a scythe. Cutting down every fourth member. So because of the Roe v. Way decision, the Sunday near, January 22nd, has been designated Sanctity of Human Life Sunday. Irish orator Edmund Burke spoke of an issue about which he said it is difficult to speak, but about which it is impossible to remain silent. This is such an issue, and it's been several years since we've devoted a message to it. Let me begin with the basics. Human life is precious. We don't have to venture far in scripture to see this established. God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female, he created them. Genesis 127. So precious is life that God proclaimed a severe warning to any who would have the presumption to take innocent human life. Surely for your lifeblood I will demand a reckoning. From the hand of every beast I will require it, and from the hand of man, from the hand of every man's brother, I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. For in the image of God he made man. Genesis 9, verses 5 and 6 As we read in our scripture reading this morning, after the very first of a long history of murders on this planet, the Lord said to Cain, The voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. You are aware, I trust, that you shall not murder is the sixth commandment. The Hebrew uses a verb that's not applied to the killing of animals. Or to killing in self-defense or national defense, nor is it applied to capital punishment. God is very clear on the question of whether human life is precious Human lives are precious in youth. That's why Jesus told the apostles to allow the little children to come to him. Forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. Human lives are precious in old age, which is why the scripture exhorts us to rise up before the gray-headed and honor the presence of an old man. Leviticus 19 Life is precious whether or not it's perceived as productive or valuable to society Whether or not it is self-sustaining. It is precious because we are the apex of God's creation. We are made in His image, crowned with glory and honor, the scripture says. But what about the child while he is yet unborn? Is there any indication in the Word of God that God views the unborn child not as a mere appendage of the mother, but as a separate living entity? Well, the psalmist certainly suggests as much in Psalm 139. You formed my inward parts. You covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise you, for I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret. Your eyes saw my substance being yet unformed, and in your book they were all written, the days fashioned for me, when as yet there were none of them God said to Jeremiah, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Before you were born, I sanctified you. I set you apart. I ordained you a prophet to the nations. Isaiah said, the Lord formed me from the womb to be his servant. Isaiah 49, 5. And of course, Elizabeth, the wife of the old priest Zecharias. The mother of John the Baptist declared that the baby in her womb, little John, leaped for joy at the approach of Mary with the baby Jesus within her. making it clear that both children were alive and separate entities distinct from their mothers. But I think Exodus 21 should put it out of doubt. We read there, if men fight and hurt a woman with child so that she gives birth prematurely, yet no harm follows. He shall surely be punished accordingly as the woman's husband imposes on him. And he shall pay as the judges determined. But if any harm follows, Then you shall give life for life, eye for eye, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. Surely this passage passage should put it beyond all doubt the the fact that God views the life of the child, although yet uh unborn, as every bit as valuable as the life of one outside of the womb. The evidence of Scripture and of our own God-given reason is so clear that the Christian Church has long declared the intentional killing of the unborn to be sin. The Didake, which means the teaching, the earliest known Christian teaching outside of the New Testament, which dates from the mid to late first century, so the Apostolic Era, declares, Thou shalt not murder a child by abortion or destruction. In the second century, Church Father Clement of Alexandria wrote, Those who conceal sexual wantonness by taking stimulating drugs to bring on an abortion, wholly lose their humanity along with a fetus. Calvin, commenting on the Exodus 21 passage that we read a few moments ago, said, The fetus, though enclosed in the womb of its mother, is already a human being. And it is almost a monstrous crime to rob it of the life which it has not yet begun to enjoy. If it seems more horrible to kill a man in his own house than in a field, because a man's house is his place of most secure refuge It ought surely to be deemed more atrocious to destroy a fetus in the womb before it has come to light. Today, with the wonderful insights we have into the unborn that the science of neonatology has given us, we now know that at about six weeks from conception. Quote, all the major internal organs that are present in the adult already appear in the fetus. Even the toes and fingers are asserting themselves The eyes, nostrils, ears, mouth, lips, and tongue are visible. The tiny heart is beating 160 times a minute, and brain activity can be measured. He may begin to test his new knees and kick. But Mom won't feel anything for another eight weeks or so. By two months from conception, the little one is beginning to swallow. By the end of the third month, a family resemblance may be seen. In the fourth month, the baby begins to suck his thumb, which is hard to do when you're talking. The baby begins to suck his thumb. In the fifth and sixth month If the amniotic fluid is removed from his mouth and vocal cords, the infant may be heard crying in the womb. , The scientific evidence is now impossible to ignore. Even pro-abortionists like the late Mary Calderone, former medical director of America's largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood. admitted in the American Journal of Public Health, quote, abortion is the taking of a life. It's self-evident if a woman uh enters an abortuary for a procedure and she walks out With that child either still alive, or uh with the child still alive or not in the process of dying, then the procedure has failed and she's entitled to a refund Dr. Neville Sender, founder of an abortion clinic in Milwaukee, put it this way, we know it is killing. But the states permit killing under certain circumstances. One organization pull no punches, declaring abortionists, listen to this, modern Herods, educated assassins, monsters of iniquity. The unborn child is human and at all periods differs in degree and not in kind from the infant and the adult. Therefore, we must regard it as a human being with an inalienable right to life, and that its destruction is homicide. Now, what pro-life group use such strong language? National Right to Life? The American Family Association? The Family Research Council? No, it was the American Medical Association The AMA over a hundred years ago now. But if the evidence of Scripture and of human reason and of science all agree, then why is abortion still legal in the United States forty-two years after the Roe v. Wade decision. Well, uh your answer is as good as mine. I I would suggest we could answer abortion remains illegal because of the sexual revolution Because Pandora's box has been opened, because Victoria has no more secrets. And abortion is legal because that's how most Americans want it Sexual freedom with no restrictions and no consequences. Or we could say that the problem is the church has failed to speak with one voice on this subject. The pro-life movement has failed to effectively convey its message. We could say that the problem is that there are federal judges who have exalted what they understand to be a woman's right to privacy over and above an infant's right to life, which is stipulated in the Constitution. Certainly in the amendments. We could say the problem is many Christians have refused to speak out or get involved, or that too many have allowed issues of less importance to decide how they vote. But as I said in a message five years ago now, a major component of the problem, I suspect, is what we might call America's schizophrenia. Now, when we use the term, we're using it not in reference to that personality disorder with which you may be familiar, but in reference to the confusion of Americans. The term schizophrenia comes from Greek words meaning split mind. Let me illustrate what I mean. Listen to the following quote and guess in your mind who might have said it. The vital element in our system is a belief of our people in the pure doctrines and divine truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the vital element in our system. The belief of our people in the pure doctrines and divine truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Who do you think said that? Jerry Falwell in 1984? No, it was the House Judiciary Committee in 1854. Why may not the Bible and especially the New Testament be read and taught as a divine revelation in school? Where can the purest principles of morality be learned so clearly or so perfectly as from the New Testament? Who said that? D. James Kennedy in 2004? No, it was the U. S. Supreme Court in 1844. Who said this? Christianity is the foundation of those morals and manners upon which our society is formed. It's their basis. You remove this, and they would fall. Christianity is the foundation of the morals and matters upon which our society is formed. It's their basis. If you remove it, they would fall. What would fall? The uh morals and matters upon which our society is formed. That wasn't Pat Robertson in uh 2006, it was the Supreme Court of South Carolina in 1846. The morality of the country is deeply engrasted upon Christianity and not upon the doctrines or worship of other religions. And you'd be pilloried in the press for saying that today, wouldn't you? Imagine a public leader, imagine a legislator saying publicly? The morality of this country is deeply engrafted upon Christianity and not upon the doctrines or worship of other religions. Well, that was stated by the Supreme Court of the State of New York in an 1811 decision. Our founders were the ones who determined that the military should have a chaplaincy program. And it was understood that those chaplains would be Christians. The first official act of Congress was to declare that sessions of Congress should be open with prayer. With the loss of Britain as a trading partner during the war for independence, there was a shortage of commodities in the colonies, including a shortage of Bibles. What did Congress do? They acted to import 20,000 copies of Scripture from Holland, Scotland, and elsewhere. Congress called for a National Day of Thanksgiving and prayer for the Continental Army's victory at Saratoga. And this was no mere pluralistic plea to some higher power of some sort. Citizens were urged to offer, quote, humble and earnest supplication that it may please God through the merits of Jesus Christ. Mercifully to forgive and blot out our sins. Or or blot our sins out of remembrance and to prosper the means of religion for the promotion and enlargement of that kingdom which consisteth in righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. Now, here's where the schizophrenia, the split-mindedness comes in. Obviously, clearly our government, our laws were established on biblical principles. Not all our founders were believers, of course, but our our laws were established on biblical principles. The whole concept of our republican form of government with its checks and balances. It's based upon their knowledge of the depravity of the human heart. And, you know, power corrupts absolute power corrupts absolutely. So there were checks and balances. Yet we're being told, and we're allowing our children to be taught, that we are nothing more than the chance byproducts of time and slime And think about it, if mankind is only an accident of natural forces without any purpose or meaning, then why shouldn't I get rid of my unwanted pregnancy? What could be more important than my comfort, my convenience, my plans, my goals? I have no one else to answer to. We kill animals all the time for food. Are we not just highly evolved animals? If we're nothing more than advanced apes, the happy accident of a chemical collision billions of years ago Then there's no reason why we may not clone humans for spare parts, harvest organs of the weak , from the weak, and uh defenseless. Cull the race of those who have defective genes or who don't measure up to our standards, get rid of children, born or unborn, who interfere with our lifestyles. When you think about it, it's those who take the lives of others, or who take their own life, who are acting consistently with what they've been taught about our origins. The conflict comes because there are still laws about such things Laws against them. Laws that were based upon an old discredited cosmology that taught that God created the world and man and he established certain laws of right and wrong. If he didn't create the world, and he didn't create man in his own image and grant him authority and dominion over the other creatures, then those who disdain all law are the ones who are really being consistent with the Western world's accepted view of reality. There's the schizophrenia. If you reject the biblical worldview, the question you have to grapple with is Is there anything with finality that separates mankind from the intelligent chimp or the intelligent dolphin? Well, Peter Singer of uh Princeton University says no. Humans who bestow superior value on the lives of all human beings, he writes, solely because they are members of our own species, and he would say that's precisely what we Christians do, are judging along lines strikingly similar to those used by white racists who bestow superior value on the lives of other whites merely because they are members of their own race. Well, we'll come back to that in a minute, but he goes on to say, if we compare a severely defective human infant with a non-human animal, a dog or a pig, for example, we will often find that the non-human has superior capacities for rationality, for self-consciousness, for communication. And anything else that can plausibly be considered morally significant. Now to move from such a reasoning to the point of advocating for the supposed benefit of all of us, the elimination from society of those who are mentally disabled or severely physically disabled, or the elderly with dementia That's a very short train ride. We already have one renowned scientist, Nobel Prize winner, Francis Crick Who has reportedly said, no newborn infant should be declared human until it has passed certain tests regarding its genetic endowment. If it fails these tests, it forfeits the right to live. Professor Singer argues that bestowing superior value on all human beings is similar to racism. He calls it speciism. We heard him talk about this. Is Carol Byrd here today? I don't see her out there. We heard him talk about this at uh CCBC some years ago. But in fact, the biblical view that all human life is precious, because we were created in the image of God, is our safeguard against the vilest acts imaginable. Princeton Law Professor Robert George disagrees strongly with his colleague, Peter Singer. Robert George says there's a simple test to determine how pagan a society has become. Quote, a Judeo-Christian society respects the intrinsic value of life, whereas a pagan society is known by the body count. Many of you have uh parents who uh served in the Second World War. It was about five years ago now, I think, that Pastor Barry and I had the honor to conduct the funeral service for Scott God 's father, Bill. He was a member of what uh Tom Brokoff famously termed America's greatest generation. He fought to rid Europe. Of the plague of Nazism. He was in the U. S. Army's 9th Division at the Battle of the Bulge. Imagine for a moment what life would be like for ourselves. And our descendants, if the Allies had not succeeded. No doubt the death camps that scarred Central Europe would have spread like a fungus to England and Russia and Africa and ultimately the United States. And those among us who were judged to be unfit to live Or those among us who resisted the Nazis would have been put to death by uh efficient means, no doubt The gas chambers of the Third Reich were the logical conclusion of a naturalistic, godless philosophy that declared that only the fittest should survive. Hitler had adopted the view of German philosopher Hegel, no action is right or wrong in itself if it produces a desirable effect, it is acceptable. You may remember me sharing the testimony of a nun who lived through Hitler's Germany. Her name was Sister Rutilia. She said this. Even before Hitler came to power, the philosophy, this philosophy, was heavily propagandized and generally accepted in Germany. The educational and the judicial systems began to lean in this direction When Hitler could no longer be successfully or openly opposed, he set up the killing centers. He ordered the deaths of the insane, the aged in in state homes, the retarded, and the deformed Their crime was that they could not contribute. They were a burden, an expense. They were not wanted. And because they were not wanted, they were killed. Sister Rutilia was present when the trucks came to haul away the handicapped children that she cared for. Dr. Leo Alexander was a consultant to the Secretary of War on duty with the office of chief counsel for the war crimes at Nuremberg. He probed the Nazi nightmare for two years, and this is what he wrote in the New England Journal of Medicine in July of 1949. A propaganda barrage was directed against the traditional compassionate 19th-century attitudes toward the chronically ill, and for the adoption of a utilitarian, Hegelian point of view. Sterilization and euthanasia of persons with chronic mental illnesses was discussed at a meeting of Bavarian psychiatrists in 1931. Two years before Hitler came to power. The fatal first step, here's how he summarizes it, the fatal first step was the acceptance of the attitude that there is such a thing as a life not worthy to be lived. America's schizophrenia is evidenced in this, although our laws remain in great part based upon the biblical worldview, Much of our philosophy, our sociology, our educational system, and that which calls itself science is closer to the thinking of pre-war Germany than it is to biblical truth. And Psalm 11 asks the question, if the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do? Now some of you may be thinking, yeah, Pastor, you're preaching to the choir here. This is an evangelical? uh Bible-believing church. Surely no Bible-believing Christian supports abortion. Well sadly, uh I've lived long enough to uh witness uh elections When uh candidates who support what they call the woman's right to choose, they mean by that to choose to kill her infant have been elected only, according to the posters, because they received the majority of the votes cast by evangelicals. People like us who believe the Bible to be God's Word and believe the gospel of Jesus Christ. So how do we defend the most vulnerable among us? Well, first of all, obviously we have to respect life ourselves. Respect and honor life, the lives of the elderly, the lives of the disabled, the lives of infants, the lives of the unborn. And then we have to convey this respect for life to our children and our grandchildren and all those with whom we have any influence. This is why we have to continue to underscore the sanctity of life from our pulpits in newspapers and rallies and sit-ins at the voting booth and prayer sessions, etc. So parents, let me ask you, do your children have a biblical worldview? Do your children have a biblical worldview? And then, of course, we have to confess our own sins in this area of sexual immorality. We have to confess our own sins in the area of sexual immorality, sinning with our eyes, sinning with our minds. Sitting with our actions. Now I'm aware that there are some here who have undergone abortions, elective abortions, intentional abortions. And there are others here who encourage the girlfriend or a wife to do so. And I trust that you are aware that there is forgiveness through Christ And there is no reason to carry guilt for a sin that has been atoned for by your Savior. The solution is, of course, repentance and faith. And that's also the ultimate solution for America. God has every reason to carry us away into captivity as he did Judah and Israel. It's sobering when we read of God's judgment upon his people. 2 Kings 24 writes of Jehoiakim, king of Judah. The Lord sent against him raiding bands of Chaldeans, bands of Syrians, bands of Moabites, bands of the people of Ammon. He sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by his servants the prophets Surely at the commandment of the Lord this came upon Judah to remove them from his sight because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done. And also Because of the innocent blood that he had shed, for he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, which the Lord would not pardon. 2 Kings 24. You say, well, wait a minute. Pastor, we're not Judah. America's not God's chosen people. It's not God's chosen nation. Well, sin has consequences. Sodom and Gomorrah were not God's chosen people either. Not cities made up of believers. The scripture says the wicked shall be turned into hell and all the nations that forget God. Psalm 9, verse 17. And finally, of course, we need to proclaim the gospel, the good news of Christ, to our friends, our relatives, our neighbors. This is the first step. Until they come to faith in Christ. It's these concepts are difficult for people to get their minds around. But it's when they come to faith in Christ they realize, yes, there's a God who made us. Yes, there's a God who loves us. Yes, there's a God who has laws. Yes. God's laws have consequences when we violate them. Although we sinned against the holy God The message we need to convey is that if we will repent of our sin, lay hold upon Jesus Christ alone, all our sins are forgiven. Past, present, future. He promises us everlasting life with him. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they're red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Let's pray. Oh Father, we do lift up our nation. We do ask for your mercy. Lord, we know we've done grievous things. We've violated your law. We've been lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. And we see it all around us in our culture, and we we experience it in our own hearts. And Lord, we ask your forgiveness. And Father, we pray that you would remember all those who have gone forth from these shores preaching your good news and have mercy upon us as a people. And Lord, remember the godly men and women who helped establish this nation and all the prayers that were offered for her. And for us. And Lord, I just pray for your mercy. And we do ask that you will motivate your people to give forth your good news. And that as more and more people come to know Christ, come to know your truth, that we'll see this wickedness for what it is. And one day this land will be free of this blight. We ask it in Jesus' name for his glory. Amen.