Amen. Thank you, Clar. We'll uh dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs as we ask. The rest of you to turn please to Mark chapter 9 as we resume our study in the Gospel of Mark. Mark chapter 9. And this morning we'll begin at verse 30 and read through verse 41. Then they departed from there and passed through Galilee. And he did not want anyone to know it. For he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed in into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after he is killed, he will rise the third day. But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to ask him. Then he came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was what was it you disputed among yourselves on the road? But they kept silent, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. And he sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, If any one desires to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all. Then he took a little child and set him in the midst of them. When he had taken him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. Now, John answered him, saying, Teacher, we saw someone who does not follow us, casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow us. Jesus said, do not forbid him, for no one who works a miracle in my name can soon afterwards speak evil of me. For he who is not against us is on our side. For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in my name, because you belong to Christ , Surely I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward. God bless his word. Let's pray. Father, remind us as we come to your word that it is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Jesus said, Heaven and earth. shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. So we ask for your spirit to take them and apply them to our hearts this day and accomplish something that will last forever. In each of us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. On a walk to the town of Capernaum, the disciples were discussing something among them. among themselves, and that discussion led to something of a disputation. They were discussing which of them would be the greatest in Christ's kingdom. Began to argue about it. Later, Jesus corrected them by saying, if you want to be first in my kingdom Don't try to be great here. Be a servant here. Be a servant to others. Be a servant to the least. To drive home his point, he brought a child into their midst, took him up in his arms, and he said, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And of course anyone who receives me is is receiving my father who sent me. This teaching that even little children should be granted honor and received and welcomed by Christ's followers seemed to remind John of something that had happened recently Now it seems he wasn't quite sure that he handled it right. And so he interrupted Jesus' teaching about humility to ask if maybe he had made a mistake. Maybe In retrospect, he had acted in pride rather than in humility. He was absorbing the teaching about humility. That Jesus was giving. Look at verse 38. Now John answered him, saying, Teacher, we saw someone who does not follow us, casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow us. His implied question is, did we do the right thing? But Jesus said, do not forbid him, for no one who works a miracle in my name can soon afterward speak evil of me. Clearly, there can be unity in Christ while there is great diversity in our service of God Christ. Think about it. Every human face is uh normally equipped with Let me see if I get this straight. One nose, one mouth, two ears, two eyes, a couple eyebrows. That's the basic pattern. That's the unity we all share. But think about it, there's such a wonderful diversity in these features and the way those features are arranged on each face that no two faces are exactly the same. Some of you remember former Liberty members Pat and Jodie Donnelly. Well, Jody's parents worshiped with us last Sunday. Perhaps you saw them. And they had with them Jody's twin sister. Which might have caused some consternation amongst us. She looked very much like Jodi, but nonetheless I'm confident that her parents, or their parents, can discern the difference, right? can tell them apart, maybe not all the time. There's so much diversity in our faces that there are, as you know, facial recognition programs that computer Scientists, I guess is the word, I don't know, computerists have come up with. The facial recognition program, software engineers, I suppose, can identify particular individuals out of a database of millions. I suspect it's only a matter of time before some megachurches begin to track their attendance with facial recognition technology. Within the unity of one nose, one mouth, two ears, two eyes, a couple eyebrows, there is great diversity. And it's uh it's It's true in the church as well. Within the unity of faith in Christ, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, there's great Diversity. We don't all agree in our understanding of scripture. We don't all worship the same way. We do not, as Christians, all look and act like each other. But that is not a bad thing. That's the way the Lord designed it. It's the way he designed us. And this is one reason why individual Christians tend to gravitate toward different churches. Think about it. Worldwide, there are reportedly some 34,000 denominations. 34 ,000 denominations. And America reportedly has about twice that number of individual churches, 68,000 individual churches. So people join particular churches for all sorts of reasons. Oftentimes it's because that's the church that their parents attended and they grew up there. Or they're drawn by the fellowship or the doctrine, by the worship, by friends, as I said, by family, or all of the above. But sometimes, especially when we've been in a particular church or denomination for many years, we can begin to think, perhaps subconsciously, this way. If what we believe is true, and if other churches out there don't believe what we believe, then those other churches must be false. And so we begin to think that our church or denomination is maybe The true church, and other churches or denominations are false churches. And the result of that sort of thinking can be sectarianism, a lack of toleration, a judgmental spirit. That dishonors Christ and defiles the unity of his body and places a stumbling block before unbelievers. Some denominations have even declared that if you have not if you have not been baptized in their church, You're lost. Well, at least uh four errors incline us toward this kind of thinking. First of all, it's believing that we are unique, that we're virtually the only ones embracing and standing up for the truth. You get to thinking that you're the only one, or our church, or our denomination, the only one standing up for the truth, then you're going to fall into this error. of sectarianism. It's what happened to Elijah, 1 Kings 19. You remember he had confronted the false prophets of Baal. He had stood up against King Ahab. But he became discouraged as he fled from the behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and he said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? So he said, He said, I've been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with a sword, and I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. But eventually God made it clear to him that he was far from being alone. The Lord told him, Yet I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal. and every mouth that has not kissed him. Elijah, you're far from home. I've reserved seven thousand in Israel who've not bowed to Baal. We can, like Elijah, be inclined to think that we're the only faithful servants of the Lord or or the only faithful church or only faithful denomination. I think the second error we tend to fall into is the one that we see in our text. We can be inclined to think or speak harshly of those who profess to follow the Lord, but who are not walking with us. The man who was rebuked by the disciples in this incident Was evidently one of the many in Israel who believed that Jesus was the promised Messiah. Remember Well, it's kind of hard to forget, isn't it? The entrance to Jerusalem. We think about it every year. The entrance to Jerusalem and all those disciples who would come down to for the for the uh for the Jerusalem feast For the Passover feast. And here is here comes Jesus. And what do they do? They take the branches of the palm trees. They take their clothes. They throw down. And the scripture says there was a multitude of disciples. There was a multitude of followers of Jesus. Yeah, there was a 12, but then there was a 70, but there was a multitude. So this guy, this fellow, seems to be one of that multitude of followers of Jesus who was not in the twelve among the twelve, not even among the seventy that Jesus sent out to teach and to preach, but he was was on the periphery. The apostles attempted to stop his unauthorized ministry because he wasn't part of their group. Evidently he wasn't wearing the right uniform. He was, you might say, in the wrong church, the wrong denomination. He was not fellowshipping with the disciples. He was not among the many followers of Jesus that were known to the disciples. who seem to always be uh nearby and and linger near him to hear his teaching and observe his miracles. And that's hopefully that's where we would be, if not amongst the twelve, uh at least in the periphery, if we lived in Jesus' day, and he graciously saved us then as he has saved us now. But this fellow was not known by the disciples. He wasn't authorized by them. He hadn't been sent by them. He certainly hadn't been sent forth by Jesus directly. to as far as they knew, he was, you might say, ministering without being ordained. Certainly he wasn't ordained by Jesus or the twelve. The incident reminds me of something that uh Spurgeon talks about, but that shortly I've mentioned more than once. He writes about it in his autobiography. Uh a y a young man named T. W. Midhurst had been brought to faith through Spurgeon's ministry. Now to set the context here, Spurgeon was, I think, nineteen years old at the time. He certainly wasn't yet twenty, and he was pastoring the New Park Street Church in uh London, I believe it is, and and as he was ministering there, T. W. Medhurst, this young man, presumably Even younger than Spurgeon, came to faith. And so this is early 1854. Spurgeon wrote this in his autobiography. When Medhurst began to preach in the street, some of the very precise friends who were at that time members at New Park Street were greatly shocked at his want of education. And so they complained to me about it and said that I ought to stop him, for if I did not, disgrace would be brought upon the cause. Christ. Accordingly, I had a talk with the Ernest Young Brother, and while he did not deny that his English was imperfect, and he might have made mistakes in the other respects. Yet he said, I must preach, sir, and I shall preach unless you cut off my head. Spurgeon says, I went to our friends and I told them uh what he had said, and they took it all in in seriousness. Oh, they exclaimed, you you can't cut off Mr. Midhurst's head. So you must let him go on preaching. Well I quite agreed with them. And I added As our young brother is evidently bent on serving the Lord with all his might, I must do what I can to get him an education that will fit him for the ministry. This is the uh the impetus uh uh for uh Spurgeon's pastor's college that I believe is still going on in London today. John uh recounts that he and presumably other disciples saw this uh fellow, I keep calling him fellow. I don't I don't know his name. This just saw this man uh casting out demons in Christ's name. But of course he wasn't one of the twelve, nor one of the larger group of disciples. of whom they were aware. So they forbade him to do this. You can say forbade, you can say forbad if you like, but they told him he couldn't do it. And uh and and uh And presumably they told him that because it wasn't in their group. And Jesus said they were wrong. That doesn't mean that he's not a believer. It's true that Jesus' name is not some magic incantation that can be used to good effect by unbelievers as well as believers, right? We know that, as the sons of Skeba, the Jewish chief priest, discovered, as recorded in Acts 19. You know, I adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches, I think is the way he put it. Jesus I know, Paul I know, but who are you? The demon said. Right? So you can't just use Jesus' name as some sort of magic incantation. But just because someone is not serving Christ with us does not mean that he's not serving Christ at all. Amen? Jesus said, no one who works a miracle in my name can soon afterwards speak evil of me. Apostle Paul put it this way. In 1 Corinthians 12, no one speaking by the Spirit of God calls Jesus accursed. And no one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. There are diversities of gifts, but the same spirit. There are differences of ministries, but the same Lord. So we can be inclined to speak or think harshly of those who profess to follow the Lord but are not walking with us. That's the second big error we can make in this area of sectarianism. And then thirdly, it's easy for us to expect others to plainly see that our interpretation of Scripture is the correct one. This was the error of the Pharisees. Jesus said, Beware the leaven of the Pharisees. What was their great error? Well, I believe the great error was among among other things, uh expecting everyone else to follow their interpretation of God's Word. I guess the the greater error is that that their interpretation of God's word was an error, but one of their errors was expecting everybody to follow theirs interpretation. the the uh rabbinic uh law or tradition as they had received it from the scribes. If others didn't follow their interpretation, they were disdained by the the scribes and Pharisees. Why do your disciples not ceremonially wash before eating? Why do they eat with unwashed hands, not following the tradition of the the elders. Why do you heal on the Sabbath day? Why do you eat with tax collectors and sinners? You see, it's one thing to think that our interpretation is right. We ought to, otherwise we shouldn't hold it, right? It's quite another thing to demand that others agree with us. The Pharisees required all others to subscribe to their particular interpretation, and they were offended at them when they didn't. And similarly, you could make this the fourth point, it's easy for us to judge or think harshly of anyone who holds religious convictions that simply differ from our own. Evidently, Paul Paul saw this spirit in Romans chapter 14, or he addressed it in Romans 14. He saw that spirit in the Christians. Look at uh or listen to this Romans 14 uh verse 1 Receive one who is weak in the faith, but not to disputes over doubtful things. For one believes he may eat all things. But he who is weak eats only vegetables. Let not him who eats despise him who does not eat. Let not him who does not eat judge him who eats, for God has received him. Who are you to judge another servant to his own master? He stands or falls, and eats He will be made to stand, for God is able to make him stand. He goes on, one person esteems one day above another, another esteems every day alike. Let each be fully convinced in his own mind. He who observes the day observes it to the Lord. He who does not observe the day to the Lord he does not observe it. He who eats eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks. He who does not eat to the Lord, he does not eat, and gives God thanks, for none of us lives to himself, and no one dies to himself. If we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we are the Lords. For to this end Christ died and rose and lived again that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. But why do you judge your brother? Why do you show contempt for your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. I've uh uh shared before the story that's told of a Muslim youth who uh Rose in the middle of the night to watch and pray and read the Quran. And one night as he was engaged in these uh holy exercises, as he saw them, uh his father awoke. Behold, the religious youth said Said to his father, Thy other children are lost in irreligious slumber, while I alone awake to praise God. Son of my soul, the wise father answered, It is better to sleep than to awake to notice the faults of thy brothers. The sectarian schismatic, intolerant, judgmental spirit is so strong in us Or such an effective tool of the evil one that Christ's high priestly prayer before his crucifixion shows his concern for it. He prayed to his father, Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world. and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one as we are. And later he prayed that they may be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. And the Apostle Paul dealt with a sectarian spirit in Corinth. He had rebuked this spirit. I am of Paul. I am of Apollos. I am of Cephas. I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized in the name of Paul? By one spirit, we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, have all been made to drink into one spirit. First quote was from from chapter 1, the second from chapter 12. By one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Paul urged the believers in Ephesus to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called, and one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. Ephesians Now, of course, we're going to disagree about some things. We don't all understand Scripture the same way, but that doesn't mean we can't recognize that those who disagree with us may still be brothers. In Christ. Francis Schaeffer, as you know, was a Presbyterian and one of the leaders in the history of what became the PCA. He wrote back in 1971, Let us keep our doctrinal distinctives. Let us talk with each other about our distinctives as we keep our distinctives. But in a day like ours, let us recognize the proper hierarchy of things The real chasm is not between the Presbyterians and everybody else, or the Lutherans and everybody else, or the Anglicans and everybody else, or the Baptists. The real chasm is between those who have bowed to the living God and thus also to the verbal propositional communication of God's word, the scriptures, and those who have not. As a Bible-believing Presbyterian, he said, I feel very close to true Christians from other traditions and true Christians with other distinctives. I feel no separation in Christ. I come and I shake your hands and I speak as though I've known them forever. If we get down to certain points of doctrine, we differ, but the things that I have spoken about here in the message he was was giving, are not rooted in Presbyterianism or in other distinctives. They're rooted in historic Christianity and in the scriptural faith. While I feel close to Bible-believing Christians who are not Presbyterians, I am not close to non-Bible-believing Presbyterians. This is where the division lies, he said Dr. Carl Truman, professor of church history at Westminster Seminary, Philadelphia, the birthday boys alma mater , right over there. Uh uh put it this way, in last June's issue of Table Talk magazine. I write as a Presbyterian. I cannot serve as a pastor or elder in a Baptist church. for example, nor can a Baptist serve as an officer in my church. Yet I can enjoy fellowship with many Baptist friends in numerous settings, some more formal and some less. I have close friends in ministry who are Baptists. I have I have shared conference platforms with Baptist speakers. I've had Baptist friends preach at my church. In short, while I'm not able to enjoy full instant Institutional fellowship with Baptist friends. I'm not separated from them as if we held to completely different systems of belief. And this is true of believers no matter what name they use. The apostle John put it this way, whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, is born of God. John 5. 1. Hamlet said to his friend, there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy, Horatio. And some Christians will be surprised to discover that there are more saints in heaven. and on earth than we're dreamt of in their philosophy. As I've said before, I'm not going to be surprised to find in heaven positions of honor occupied by Christians who on earth were members of denominations whose doctrine was lightly esteemed by me Remember that scene in heaven. Behold, a great multitude which no one could number of all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb. I suspected of that huge number before the throne, made up of believers from all the centuries , and all nations, all tongues, all tribes. etc. The percentage of those who in this life call themselves Presbyterians will be quite small, maybe five percent. or less. And of those, of that little five percent, the number who were ever members of a PCA church will be maybe one out of a hundred. This is why, you see, we can join hands with brothers and sisters who embrace salvation by faith through Christ alone, even though we may disagree with them about church government or baptism or election or many other non-essentials. What a joy it was to join hands with St. Abraham's Baptist Church for our Christmas concerts as an expression of our unity in Christ. Even though it was clear to all that they worship with far too much volume, far too much enthusiasm, far too much intensity and movement. The Apostle Paul interacted with some brethren who were preaching Christ even out of a spirit of envy. and strife. So get this from selfish ambition, not out of sincerity. Apparently they were preaching to try to uh uh add distress to Paul who was in prison. Well Paul's in prison. Let's go make converts. That'll make them feel really bad. What? What were they thinking? But even then, Paul says, he was still able to say, I rejoice that the gospel is preached. Philippians 1. Supposing to add afflict That's the way he put it. What? Let me re let me remind you of the words of uh Whitfield, a very very famous quote, who as a strong Calvinist, you know had uh a a longstanding disagreement with John Wesley on exactly how we're brought to faith. You may remember that it was said that when a man asked Whitfield if if he thought, you know, I could see a there's someone from the press doing that today, you know, putting the microphone in your face. So Mr. Whistle, do you think you'll uh you'll ever see John Wesley in heaven? You know, he wants to get a good quote. And uh And he responded, No sir, I fear not. Oh, let me get this. No, sir, I fear not. He will be so near the throne, and I will be so far away that we shall hardly get a sight of it. In essentials, unity, in non-essentials, liberty, in all things, charity. That quote ascribed to Augustine of Over fifteen hundred years ago A is good for us to remember. In essential is unity. Salvation by faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone, Christ as a sinless Son of God. That's essential. Can't deny that. But in non-essentials, liberty. You believe this about church government? I believe this. I look at this verse, you look at that verse, I think of it this way, you think of it that way. That's fine. But in all things, charity, brothers and sisters in Christ. Now a few words in conclusion. Let me talk to our young people here. We believe uh in what we call the uh Apostles' Creed, among other things, a statement of faith that dates from about 350 years after the resurrection. And we say there, I believe in the Holy Catholic Church. And sometimes that throws people for a loop and say, I thought it was in a Protestant church. Why do they believe in the Catholic Church? If they believe in the Catholic Church, why are they in the Protestant Church? Now I believe in the Holy Catholic Church we're saying we believe that God's true church is made up of true believers all over the world. The word Catholic means universal. So we're it's another way of saying I believe in the universal church. Some have replaced the word Catholic with that word to uh uh avoid confusion. There are Christians, in other words, in India, and there are Christians in China and in Korea and Russia and Denmark and Bahrain and New Zealand and the Netherlands and Morocco and Madagascar and Malaysia and Zambia. You get the idea. There are Christians everywhere. In virtually every country, no doubt every country. They call themselves Lutherans or Methodists or Anglicans. Sometimes they call themselves Orthodox. Sometimes they call themselves Baptists. Sometimes they call themselves independents or Presbyterians. Or they just say, I'm a non-denominational Christian. and I'm a member of the Church of Christ or whatever. They have all sorts of different names for themselves to differentiate them one from another. When we speak of the universal church, we're not talking about denominations We're not even talking about individual congregations like ours. We're talking about individual believers who have repented of their sins and put their faith in Jesus Christ alone as Lord and Savior. You see that? And not everybody who's a member of any given church is necessarily a member of that church. You may also hear this body of true believers called the invisible church. You may hear us talk about the invisible church of Christ. What we mean by that is that uh I I can look out upon the congregation and I I can see those who are here, but I can't see into their souls, and nor can they see into mine. So we cannot individually determine who's a member of Christ's true church and who isn't. You're not a member of a church is uh of Christ's church just because you you worship So just to be clear, Liberty Church, like any other church, is is not as an institution a part of the universal or invisible church. But it is our hope that every member here and everyone who worships with us either is now or will be eventually a member of the universal or invisible church of Christ. Amen? That's our goal. That's why we preach the good news for the benefit of those of us who know it and embrace it and for those who who do not yet. What we want, you might say, is to fill up our church with invisible people. That's the goal. So you go to sit down, you can't just plop on a chair. You gotta you gotta feel that or First, to see if there's any invisible person there. The uh the universal church, the invisible church, is comprised of every true believer, both in heaven and and on earth. And these Christians don't all look the same. They don't speak the same language. They don't sing the same songs. They don't use the same instruments. But they're all trusting in the same Savior. And everyone who believes in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, everyone who's been born again by the Spirit of God, is therefore your brother or sister in Christ. As our Westminster Confession puts it, the Catholic or Universal Church consists of the whole number of the elect that have been, are, or shall be gathered into one under Christ, the head thereof. They're sheep who are of different folds, but will all be together in one flock, one day. When you look at the night sky, boys and girls, you see hundreds of stars. uh some brighter than others. And beyond them, there are millions, billions of stars that you can't see with the naked eye, all bringing glory to God. Such is the universal Church. And our church is just one among thousands and thousands of churches all over the world, churches that believe in and attempt to follow the teachings of of God's Word. And then a word to those of us here who have embraced the Reformed faith. If your experience was like mine, it was eye-opening when you realize for the first time that God was active not only in providing your Redeemer but in pursuing you and drawing you to Himself. When you realized that your salvation was all of God. That he was an author and the finisher of your faith. That he sought you, that he brought you, that he bought you, and you were his. And it was all part of his plan for your life. For me, as much as I resisted this teaching when I first heard it in the first year after my conversion, after I was convinced it was true, the scripture seemed to open up to me. And I said saw them in a new light. But I would encourage you, if you believe in those truths as I do , to be patient with those who were sitting under reform teaching perhaps for the first time in their life. Along the same lines, we should be patient and gracious toward those who may have different views or convictions about baptism or church government or worship music or one of the many other subjects about which Christians may disagree. And we did touch on this subject when we quoted Francis Schaefer, but I think more needs to be said. Remember, even though there's a universal church comprised of various stripes, I don't want to be misunderstood. I certainly don't believe, and I certainly am not saying, that it doesn't matter what church you choose. One is as good as another. If I believe that, uh I wouldn't be here. The fact is, in our nation and And in our day, a great number of churches, perhaps even the majority, have departed from the faithful preaching of God's Word. Sermons that declare salvation through Christ alone. Through faith in Jesus Christ alone. Sermons like the sermons that John Wesley would preach cannot be heard today in many of the churches that You might hear a lot about loving uh your neighbor, but not about the saving grace of God that makes it possible to truly love your neighbor. Not about the new Birth that makes loving other people possible. In the same way, the gospel that was once preached by Luther can no longer be heard in many churches that use his name in their in their name. And the gospel preached by Calvin or Knox can no longer be heard in many Presbyterian churches. So the most important factor in choosing a church is finding one that faithfully preaches and teaches, that faithfully believes the Word of God. That proclaims God's word. It's not what I think, what you think, who cares? I used to think that as I sat in church when I was a young man, I went to liberal churches and I said, well, that's nice the pastor thinks that. Who cares what he thinks? My my dad thinks something else. Everybody thinks something. Where's the authority? This is the authority. It's God's word. If we don't have that, then Stay home, go to Starbucks. You can't stay home and go to Starbucks. Stay home, sleep late, then go to Starbucks. You can go to Panera Bread if you want. The point is, we're here because we come to hear Hear God's word. It's God's word that we believe, not our own ideas about it. And here's what God's word tells us about salvation. We've sinned against our holy creator. We deserve his wrath. We deserve his judgment. But his love for us was so great that he sent his son to take our place, to die instead of us. To bear our punishment. He perfectly kept the law that I broke, and then he went to the cross and said, in effect, Father, punish me. Let me give my life for them. And so So for his bride, for his church, for his own, he shed his blood. He's the good shepherd who gave his life for his sheep. And if you and I will repent of our sins, see them as vile and disgusting and turn away from them and lay hold upon Christ alone, rest in him. Put our faith in Jesus Christ alone. All our sins will be forgiven, the Bible says, and we'll be with him in heaven. One day. Not on the basis of any good works we've done, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saves us. And that's the most important thing in all the world. Jesus said, What shall the prophet of man gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Let's pray. Lord, uh, I do pray For this flock. Lord, I pray for each person here. Each man, woman, child, each young person, each uh little one. Lord, uh work in Each heart and draw each one of us to true saving faith, I pray that none here would be lost. That we'd all be together one day in your presence. Forth, we don't know how much time we may have on this earth, but we do pray that uh we would not put this off. Uh may we uh seek the Lord while he may be found. We call upon him while he's near. We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen.