I would ask that you remain standing for just a moment longer for our scripture reading this evening from Exodus chapter 20, verse 16. Very simple. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and we are thankful again for your law. Lord, we read passages like Psalm 119 that extols your law, and we're told even in the new covenant that you will take your law. And that you will put it in the minds of your people and write it on their hearts. Lord, as we look at the law tonight, as we look at the ninth commandment, we pray, O Lord, that you would write that on our hearts, that we might be transformed and live as the people whom you have called and are redeemed. And so, Lord, we pray your blessing on the preaching of the word this evening. And it's in your name, Lord Jesus, we pray. Amen. We've all seen before, either on TV or maybe in real life, a court scene where a witness ascends to the witness box or the witness stand. And they put their hand on the Bible, their right hand, and they raise their left hand, and the person administering the oath says, Do you swear to tell the truth? The whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God. And the person standing there says, I do I've always wondered, whether it's TV or real life, and real life being more pertinent, I wonder how many people have taken that oath in a court of law and then proceeded to break it by lying I mean it is not only a crime to lie in court as a witness under oath, but because of the nature of that oath, it is an affront to God Himself, and then it compromises because of that the integrity of the witness. And if there's one thing we see in this particular command, it is this, that God loves justice. God loves justice. Our ninth commandment, again, is very straightforward. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. So as we unpack this commandment this evening, the big idea is simply this. Because God is a God of justice, We ought to prevent the perversion of justice and to seek it for our neighbors. That's the idea. Because God is the God of justice, we ought to prevent the perversion of justice and to seek justice for our neighbors. Now what I want to do is very simple with this commandment this evening. It's not too complicated, I don't think, is look at first the context of false witnesses. The context of false witnesses. And in order to do that, we need to look at the legal context of witnesses in general. Now, one of the things that we need to understand about the Ninth Commandment is Most directly and specifically it relates to cases of court and legal situations that arose in Israel. It directs directly applies to the legal sphere. Now, when you look at the implications of the Ninth Commandment, it does broaden out to other areas of life aside from just simply going to court, but that is where it begins. And because that is where the law begins, most pointedly, that's where we have to begin this evening. We get this from the Hebrew word that we translate as witness, which is a legal term. It has to do with calling people forward as witnesses. to a crime in a court of law. And so I want to think through this this evening with you and I want to consider first the legal context in Israel. The legal context in Israel. This would have been important, this ninth commandment would have been important for the court system in Israel. And I want to point out to you the context. If you go back just two chapters from chapter 20 of Exodus. In chapter 18, Moses is in a situation where he is seeing people come to him from morning until evening, bringing their disputes, their complaints uh their conflicts that they have with one another. And what they're doing is they are seeking the justice of God. In fact, you might remember the story. Moses is doing this day in, day out. His father-in-law Jethro sees this, and he asks him, Why are you doing this? You're going to wear yourself out and you're going to wear the people out with you. They're going to get impatient with you. Why are you doing this? And Moses answers in Exodus 18, verses 15 and 16. He says this Because the people come to me to inquire of God. When they have a dispute, they come to me, and I decide between one person and another, and I make them know the statutes of God. It should be no surprise to us that a nation like Israel, even though they've been redeemed in the Exodus, would certainly have conflicts with one another among the nation. We see years earlier, 40 years earlier to be precise in Exodus chapter 2, when before Moses flees to Midian. To begin with, leaving Egypt, he sees two Israelites striving with one another, fighting, and he tries to get in the way and stop them and get in the middle and say, Why are you striking your brother this way? If you remember what the guy said, who made you a prince and a judge over us? Well, by this point, he is kind of like a prince. He certainly is functioning as a judge in Exodus 18, before the law of Sinai was given in Exodus 20. Well, we see that this ninth commandment in context would kind of provide some guardrails for how justice is to be pursued in Israel. And that was important because Israel was supposed to be the model of justice and righteousness among the nations when they went into the promised land. So it's not just this legal context in Israel that is important. We can broaden that out to look at the whole Mosaic covenant and acknowledge that it is a covenant of law. That's what the Mosaic covenant was. It specified in black and white terms what you can and what you cannot do. It was designed to be the charter and the constitution of a nation. And that's what we see with the book of Deuteronomy, which broadens out the Ten Commandments. and gives all kinds of case laws applying each of the Ten Commandments throughout the entire book. But we see here the legal need for witnesses in serious cases of sin. Now, not every dispute that goes to court requires witnesses, but crimes of a scandalous nature certainly do, and Israel was no exception. And when I say serious cases of sin, what I mean is cases that would lead to the death penalty at the end of the trial. And there were many cases like this in Israel. There was idolatry, there was murder, there was uh uh sexual sins of certain types that would lead to the death penalty in Israel. But here's the thing about the death penalty or serious cases that lead to the death penalty. In Deuteronomy 17, 6 and 7, it speaks of the need for two or three witnesses If a case is going to lead to the death penalty, one witness was not enough. One witness was not enough. It needed two to three. In fact, Deuteronomy chapter 19, verses 15 to 20 says the same thing, but it introduces the situation of what if there's malicious witnesses? I mean that that is what I started off this message this evening talking about. You know, we have this oath that's taken in the beginning of a court case when a witness ascends the stand to give testimony. What if they're lying? If they're lying, it's a malicious witness. And if they're lying, there is a purpose and a reason for which they're lying, and the law of Moses actually deals with that. It says this in Deuteronomy 19, verses 16 to 19. If a malicious witness rises to accuse a person of wrongdoing, then both parties to the dispute shall appear before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who are in office in those days. Let me pause there really quick and just say uh there were two levels of courts in Israel in those days. There was what we would probably call like the city hall type of court. at the gate of each city where the elders would gather. And then there's what we would call today the Supreme Court, which was in Jerusalem or wherever the temple or tabernacle was in those days. And that's what it's talking about. If there is a malicious witness there to appear before the Lord, the law goes on to say, the judges shall inquire diligently. And if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him as he meant to do to his brother. So you shall purge the evil from your midst. Boy, that's a very serious consequence if you are found. to be a false witness of a brother in a court of law, thus breaking the the ninth commandment in Israel. Whatever you are seeking to do to your brother maliciously, that would be done to you. And that is justice in God's eyes. And by the way, I've often wondered why is it that a case requiring the death penalty, why does it require two or three witnesses? Because one of the challenges to justice, if we're honest, that comes up is what if there's a serious crime that occurs in Israel, uh say somebody accidentally gets killed or something, and there's only one witness Or maybe we say someone didn't accidentally get killed. What if someone intentionally was murdered? Like Cain and Abel, for instance. Cain, there was no one there to witness. Cain murdering his brother. We know because God's word tells us. But what about those situations where there's only one witness? What I need you to understand is even in the Old Testament law There was the possibility that something could happen and justice in the human terms would be circumvented because there wasn't enough witnesses. And that points us to the fact that there will be a greater judgment one day by which nothing will escape the notice of God, who is the judge. But when it comes to human courts, why two or three witnesses? Well, first, I think we need to really take something away from this. This shows the tremendous value of the life of a human being. I mean scripture is very clear over and over again. You know, human beings, men and women, are made in the image of God. And so how we treat image bearers shows a lot about how what our attitude is like towards God, in whose image those image bearers are made. And if we mistreat an image bearer, even a guilty one, we become guilty before the court. So first, the tremendous value of a person's life, not just one witness suffices. Secondly Because man is made in the image of God. The Bible reveals God to be a God who is one God who exists in three persons. So the nature of how justice is to be carried out needs to match the character and the person, and in this case, tri -personality of the God in whose image we are made. It stands to reason then that two, if not three, witnesses would be necessary to accuse an image-bearer who bears the image of a triune God in the case of the death penalty. And third, and this is a lot more practical, one witness could feasibly lie to the court without difficulty of being contradicted. That happens. But multiple witnesses, such as two or three, can be cross-examined. They can be tested by the judges or the jury, as the case may be. in a court to determine the consistency of their testimony. Let me give you just an example. It's not necessarily related to murder or anything, but Um think about the the nature of the three god the f we have four gospels, right? There's three of them that are called synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And if you read them, they they follow a very similar trajectory. They tell very similar stories. Sometimes from a little bit different angles, but they're telling the same basic stories of the life of Christ. John's gospel is a little different. But why is it that there are four Gospels with three of them being very similar? It's along this line. How does the gospel end? It ends with the death of Christ. The death penalty for sin. That would require three witnesses to make it authentic. And then you see in the goodness of God, he gives a fourth witness later on, because John writes a fourth gospel as a witness much later on. But where there's a consistent testimony, lies or false testimony is easier to discern than not. So practically one witness doesn't suffice But what about false witnesses? What does that look like? Well, I think what's fascinating about the Ninth Commandment is it comes up twice in the Old Testament, once. In Exodus 20, which I read here, and the second time in Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse 20. Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5 are the two places we see the the ten commandments listed for us. And what's fascinating about this is in each of these two different um lists of the law, in this particular commandment, the word false is a different Hebrew word. And you're like, well, wait a minute. But in English it's translated the same way, precisely. It does translate the same way, but each word in Hebrew has a little bit of a different nuance. And I want to look briefly at each one to kind of add some flavor to understanding this commandment more fully. In Exodus 16, the Hebrew word used for false, when it says false witness, can also mean deception, disappointment, or falsehood. And other texts throughout Deuteronomy will use the same word to refer to fraud. So you think about how this gives a little bit of flavor. What is deceit? What does it mean to deceive somebody? Deceiving somebody is not just simply selling a lie. That's part of it. But deceiving includes the other part of the lie, which is covering the truth intentionally. And so think about how that would become pertinent to this particular commandment. In Exodus 23, we see a lot of different things like false reports, false charges. Taking or giving bribes to pervert justice to the poor or the innocent or the oppressed. I mean, what what does the bribe seek to do in the sense? It seeks to deceive because it seeks to cover something over and to use money to accomplish those means. In Deuteronomy, it's a little different. The Hebrew word for false can mean emptiness, vanity, or vanity. And I want you to think about that for just a moment, because what this does is it uses the same word from the third commandment, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. And so what this does is it creates an inextricable link between the third commandment and the name of the Lord, and not taking the name of the Lord in vain and not giving a vain witness. In a court of law. It's the idea of not treating justice as something that is light and trivial. That's what vain means or empty. Don't bring a trivial or a light careless witness against your neighbor in the attempt to seek to harm him. And so when we see this inseparable link between the third commandment on taking the Lord's name in vain and the ninth commandment on justice and how it's meted out. That link connects because it's the character and the name of the Lord that stands at the foundation of the pursuit and the execution of justice in a court of law. This week at uh Carolutheran Village, I preached on um uh Luke chapter 18, verses 1 through 8, and that's the parable of the unjust judge. You might remember that parable. Where this widow is coming to the judge and she's pleading her case to be saved from the adversary, and the unjust judge doesn't want to do it. He goes on for a long time. And then Jesus finally takes a step back from the parable and he tells the crowd he's listening to, hear what the unjust judge says. What does he say? He's unjust because he neither fears God nor cares for men And that's the point here, this inextricable link between the third commandment and the ninth commandment that you see more clearly spelled out in the Deuteronomy version of this commandment. highlights the fact that it is the name of God and the character of God that stands at the foundation of justice, and it is from God that justice flows forth. Therefore, when you treat a witness as trivial or light or careless, you are making a statement about how you view God Himself. And so at this point we stop and ask, well, what does the ninth commandment reveal about both God and man with respect to justice? Well, I think the summary application point is this. The Ninth Commandment reveals that God is a God of justice, very clearly, and that man has a sinful tendency to pervert justice. I want you to think about that for a moment with me. God is a God of justice, and I want to draw the line as to how that brings us straight face to face with the gospel of Jesus Christ this evening. The consistent testimony of Scripture is that God is a judge who will one day render judgment against all mankind who are outside of Jesus Christ. Because God is the foundation of justice. It's his character. Mark this and mark this well. God will always judge and punish sin. Now for those who are outside of Jesus Christ, that punishment is going to fall on their own heads. Sometimes that happens through situations in this life. Right? Somebody, well, uh maybe not in Maryland, but let's say tech in Texas, you know, somebody might murder somebody and in Texas they might get the death penalty, right? That could happen. But in the cases where justice does not get fulfilled this side of eternity, justice will always happen because God will judge sinners. That's what this commandment points out. The other side of this commandment, this is where it draws the straight line right to the gospel, is that for those that are in Jesus Christ, justice is still fulfilled. It's not neglected. It's not minimized. It's fulfilled. How is it fulfilled? It's fulfilled in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Think about some of the things that happened leading up to the cross. Think about how the ninth commandment here to not bear false testimony against a neighbor or a brother. Think about how that anticipates the trial of Jesus Christ before the Sanhedrin. Now there were a few trials Jesus went through. He went through really two trials, if you want to be clear, one at the house of Annas, then at the house of Caiaphas. One was a father-in-law and one was a son-in-law, but they were both on the Sanhedrin and high priests. Uh Jesus was f uh, you know, ferried between one house to the other where he was examined in one place, then examined in another. There's two trials Then he gets brought to Pilate, and Pilate puts him under trial, and the Pilate finds out, according to Luke, that Jesus was from Galilee, which was Herod's jurisdiction. So what does he do? Sends him to Herod. Herod examines him. And then Herod finds nothing wrong with him, even though the Jewish religious leaders are there accusing him just as they did before Pilate. And then what does Herod do? He sends them back to Pilate, where Pilate has another court case or trial against him, finally leading to a crucifixion. When you really think about it, that's five trials in the scope of just a few hours. And if you remember particularly the trial before the Sanhedrin , All of the Gospels tell us the witnesses did not agree. In fact, The original Greek New Testament calls them pseudo -marturis, which means pseudo or false witnesses. Even when they said, oh, I heard him say, I'm going to destroy the temple and in three days I'm going to raise it up from from you know and build a new one. Even then, their witness was not consistent. And by the way, this is the ultimate example of breaking the ninth commandment, isn't it? But it's interesting how all of the law points forward to the person and the work of Jesus Christ in the gospel. But think about the ninth commandment in the cross. Now justice has not necessarily been meted out for the unbelieving world who are outside of Christ. That will come one day. But there's a tremendous confidence that we can have as believers in Jesus tonight because justice has already been rendered against God's people by pouring it out for them on the head of Jesus Christ, who paid the penalty for sins on the cross in their place. And so it's interesting, even with the breaking of this commandment, which seems to violate justice, God uses that as a means to fulfill justice at the cross for his people. And so where does that leave us today as God's redeemed this evening? Well, there is the danger of perverting justice in the local church, isn't there? Just because we're redeemed doesn't mean we escape the temptation to pervert justice Now, on the surface, I do believe that this commandment has an application to our civil magistrate and the civil courts of law in our country. There's no doubt about it I think the Westminster Standards, uh Jared could probably correct me. Is it chapter 19, paragraph 4, something like that, that talks about these laws having a general equity in society? That's true But the church also has courts as well. And in the Presbyterian Church of America, if you don't know, there are three layers or three levels of courts. You have the session of the local church, you have the Presbytery, which is more regional, then you have the General Assembly, which is national. And if you want a good comparison, think of it like this. The session of your local church kind of functions a lot like city hall in your local town or city. The Presbytery, being a little more regional, functions a lot more like, say, the state Supreme Court in the state of Maryland. There are cases germane and specific to Maryland as a state. And our boundaries. And then the General Assembly is a lot more like the Supreme Court of the United States at the federal level And by the way, if you didn't know, they actually patterned these court systems, these three tiers in the civil government on Presbyterian polity. How about that? That'll make you feel good as a Presbyterian. But what are they what are they designed to do? They're designed to adjudicate conflicts between members and enact in c in certain cases, not all. But certain cases enact church discipline that may or may not lead to excommunication. Now, I made a big deal about talking about the death penalty and how that played out in the Old Testament. In the church, we don't put people to death. We are not given the sword. That's the civil magistrate. But we do have the power to excommunicate for unrepentant sin at times. And this idea of witnesses and having two to three witnesses plays out as well in Matthew chapter 18, verses 15 to 20. By the way, if you're a note taker or you don't know much about church discipline, that would be a key passage to check out this week. Matthew 18, 15 to 20. There's a three-stage process. How about that? going one to one. If that doesn't work and and the person doesn't repent, you take two or three others so that by the witness of two or three every fact may be confirmed. If they don't listen to the two or three witnesses, then what do you do? You take it to the church. Now in our system, what what that looks like typically is you the session then is the representatives of the church membership um take jurisdiction of that situation and they try to work with that person to bring them to a place of repentance. And if they won't listen to them and then what that leads to then is excommunication. And I think one of the more difficult things, um and I say maybe maybe socially and emotionally difficult things that people go through when you talk about excommunication is the fact that There has to be a public acknowledgement within the church that a named person is being cut off from the community and taken out of membership. People have to know who is being disciplined and why. But let me give you another example of how we might tend to violate this commandment, and it's it's not as it may not sound as severe as excommunication, but it can really do a lot of damage in people's lives. We talked about bearing false witness against someone. I said that from the beginning that this applies most directly to court cases, legal situations, but there are broader implications, and this is one. We might entertain a false report about someone which which I would call gossip or slander. That doesn't seem as serious as excommunication and its weight, but it has the potential to do a lot more damage in somebody's life Think about it. It has the tendency to diminish the reputation and the integrity of the person being gossiped about in the eyes of the person that we're talking to. And oftentimes the person we're talking to has nothing to do with whatever situation we're complaining about to them about this other person And the net result then is it subjects someone to the court of public opinion in the form of other people's opinions that we're talking to when the person has no idea that they're being talked about. And the result is that they end up judging the person uncharitably. And so we look at this ninth commandment. There are some very broad-ranging applications, and there's also some very, very intimate applications to how we treat one another, how we talk to and about one another. is how we present people true and honest, even if we don't like them. That's what this gets at the heart of. And let's face it, every single one of us in this room, when you're talking about someone you're in conflict with or don't like, the temptation is to maybe fudge the truth a little bit or or or Spin it in such a way that makes them look worse and makes you look like the hero. We all struggle with this That leads to my second point, which is far more short of a point, is the def uh the defendant in cases of false witnesses. Who is this defendant? Look at the language of the commandment. The defendant Is my neighbor. Look at the way that that commandment is worded. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor It doesn't say you shall not bear false witness against your enemy. It doesn't say you shall not bear false witness against your legal adversary. It does not say you shall not bear false witness against someone you don't like. No. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You know what that tells you? That tells you that someone who might be your legal adversary, someone who might be your enemy, someone whom you might not like, especially within the body of Christ, is still your neighbor. I remember in Luke chapter ten, I should really reword that. I can't say I remember because that sounds like I was there. I remember reading It's not that old. Remember reading in Luke chapter 10, there was a lawyer that approached Jesus and asked him, which is the greatest commandment? Which, by the way, was a uh that was a question of discussion and dispute among the Jews in the first century. And Jesus answers, as you know, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. And you remember what it says, that wanting to justify himself, well, who is my neighbor? You know, that question was designed to, one, trap Jesus, and two, to make an excuse so that he doesn't have to love other people around him. It revealed more about his heart. And Jesus in answering that question shares the parable of the Good Samaritan and I won't go into all the details of that particular parable, but the parable does bring out the idea that our neighbor is anyone that comes into our sphere of influence. In the ninth commandment, as we think about the question, who is my neighbor, it is important for us to see that even someone we are at odds with in court , Is our neighbor. The fact that our neighbor is not determined by how we feel about them, what we might think about them, or whether we get along with them. Is an important point. Your neighbor is anyone around you. And even then, talking about people that you don't like, you are to love your neighbor as yourself by treating them as if you want to be treated. Treating them as you want to be treated and not pervert justice for them. So what positive response does the Ninth Commandment call us to? It requires us to seek justice for our neighbor regardless of how we feel about them. And I would go even further in just saying Justice, it requires us to love our neighbors as ourself. When you're in conflict with someone, do you still see them as your neighbor? And going further, do you still see them as someone that you are required to love, particularly as a brother or sister in Christ? And I just want to say once again, the gospel gives us power that we need to seek justice for our neighbor and to love them the way that God has called us to love them. Again, think about Jesus Christ. He sought justice for us at his expense so that we might receive mercy. What does Paul say? You know, we were once enemies of Christ. We were once at enmity with God. And yet God, rich in love and mercy, sent his Son Jesus to die for our sins. I said this this morning talking about love being the foundation of a Christian ethic, not knowledge. I made the point this morning that, look, Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane could have forgone the cross. Father, not my will, but yours be done, but let this please let the cup pass from me. But it was out of love for us that he took this upon himself. He sought justice for us because he loved us. so that we might receive mercy. And I want to just say this at the end of this message. We have to understand that putting this commandment into practice will require us to lay ourselves down. And sometimes in doing that, it may cost us greatly in order to fulfill justice for someone just like Christ did, so that our neighbor might receive mercy. So how are you doing under the requirement of this commandment this evening? If you fall short, as I did this week thinking about it, run to Jesus, where this was fulfilled And he will empower you by his spirit to keep this as the proper response of grace. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we are thankful, O Lord, for the law. Lord, just like the psalmist in Psalm 119, O Lord, we love your law. But we love it because of how it points us forward to your precious son Jesus. We love it because it reveals your character to us. And Lord, we love it. Because those of us who walk by the Spirit, those of us who are led by the Spirit, are not under the law. But are freed up from sin to keep it by your strength. Help us to do that this week Help us to take stock of how we view others around us. Do we love them the way that we're called to? Do we seek their praise and their honor before other people? Help us to take these things to heart this week, O Lord. And then empower us to do this and transform us, Lord, as we rest in you today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.