That was great. Appreciate that. And uh if you have your Bibles, uh would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark chapter two? And we'll dismiss the little ones for wonderful of worship downstairs. And as you turn there, I should say, Barry, I was not aware we were in any competition about. But now that I know How far are you from any any funeral home if there's any if there's any need that night? We have one right next door. And that full that's right. Full service. All right, Mark chapter two, let's read the first uh twelve verses. And again he entered Capernaum after some days, and it was heard that he was in the house. Immediately many gathered together, so that there was no longer room to receive them, not even at the door. And he preached the word to them. And then they came to him, bringing a paralytic who was carried by four men. And when they could not come near him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. So when they had broken through, they let down the bed on which the paralytic was lying. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic , Son, your sins are forgiven you. And some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why does this man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone? But immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they reasoned thus within themselves, he said to them, Why do you reason about these things in your heart? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven you, or to say, arise, take up your bed and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. Immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went out in the presence of them all, so that all were amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his inspired word. Let's pray. Oh Father , we ask now for the presence of your Holy Spirit. Working in each heart and life. Those of us who are yours, who are your children, who have been graciously redeemed, in order that we might understand and grasp your truth. and have it applied to our hearts. And for those who may be here still without hope, without Christ, without any certainty of everlasting life. Lord, may this be the day of salvation for those. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. After his baptism and then his temptation in the wilderness, the scripture says that Jesus called two sets of brothers to follow him. He returned to the Sea of Galilee, evidently to Capernaum, and he called to himself Andrew and Simon He whom we know best as Simon Peter, and then James and John. All were fishermen. He called them to leave their nets and come and follow him. He told them he would make them to become fishers of men. Then on the Sabbath day, Jesus entered the synagogue of Capernaum and taught the people. And those who were there were astonished at his teaching because he taught as one who had authority and not as the scribes normally did. He was interrupted there by a demon-possessed man. We know who you are, the Holy One of God. Have you come to destroy us before the time? Jesus cast the demon out of the man, the man. r rise uh uh upon the the ground evidently and and gave a great shout and and it was clear that this demon had left this man and all who were present were of course astonished at seeing this happen in their very midst. They'd never seen anything like it. Jesus left the synagogue and spent the afternoon at the home of Andrew and Simon, or Andrew and Peter Remember while he was there, they brought to his attention the fact that Peter's mother-in-law was sick with a fever. Jesus cast the fever out of her. And she immediately began to minister to them. Then at sundown something uh odd happened. Uh virtually the whole town came and gathered at the door. Apparently they were waiting until sundown, lest they should uh uh incur the wrath of the scribes for violating the Sabbath. But once the Sabbath was over they came and they gathered about the door all those who who had uh loved ones who were demon possessed or sick. All those who were in need of Christ's healing power to be at work in them. And Jesus healed all of them of various diseases, the scripture says. Well, early, very early, the next morning, arising a great while before day, Jesus went out, the scripture says, into a solitary place. to uh to pray to his father, to have communion with the Lord where he were with his father where he would not be disturbed. But before long, Simon and others found him there. And they said to him, Everyone is looking for you. Evidently there were more who came that morning seeking healing. But Jesus said, Let us go into the next towns that I may preach there also. Because for this purpose I've come forth. And the scripture says he went throughout Galilee, so uh Bethsaida, Cana, all sorts of little towns and villages, preaching and casting out demons. Chapter 1 verse 38. However, after a period of time, he returned to Capernaum, what Matthew describes as his own city at Capernaum This point in his life, Matthew 9, 1. And just as we would have imagined, not long after Jesus arrived, word began to spread through the town that Jesus was back. And so uh news would would travel fast in in that uh community, and all the people began to come again. Apparently he was saying again with Simon and Andrew, and the crowd soon grew so large that they could not be accommodated in the home or by the door. Look at the first few verses of Mark II. And again he entered Capernaum, and after some days it was heard that he was in the house, or he entered Capernaum after some days of ministering in other towns And it was heard that he was in the house. Immediately many gathered together, so that there was no longer room to receive them, not even near the door. And he preached the word to them Now, somewhere in that town, or perhaps nearby, was a man who was paralyzed. He was not among the many who had been healed by Jesus during his previous ministry in Capernaum. And it seems that he and the four men who carry him were determined not to miss this second opportunity. Then they came to him, bringing a paralytic who was carried by four men. Verse 3. And verse 4, and when they could not come near him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. So when they had broken through, they let down the bed on which the paralytic was lying. These four men who evidently cared a great deal for their afflicted friend or family member, may have carried him from some distance after they received the good news that Jesus was back in Capernaum. But I can imagine if I had been one of them, I would feel some great disappointment as I arrived at the place where Jesus was and found there was such a huge crowd around the door that we couldn't possibly make our way to him They must have felt some disappointment when they saw the crowd was so large that they wouldn't be able to push their way through. But they were undeterred. They found an innovative way to get to Jesus R. C. Sproll sheds some light on this incident. He says, in Palestine during Jesus' time, houses normally had one story with a flat roof. Roofs were constructed of beams laid across and resting on the walls of the house, and between the beams were interlaced sticks and wreaths, and within these was woven a kind of thatch. On top of the thatch uh lay several inches of mud, and the mud was packed down hard against the thatch, because builders uh in the ancient world would use rollers to pack and smooth this mud until it became very hard. Almost like ceramic tiles that we would use in, say, a kitchen or a bathroom. Sprohl goes on, stairs outside the building led up to the roof, which was the place where people would go for fresh air, and they would often eat their meals on the roof and receive company there. So the roof served as something like a deck would serve for us today. So you get the picture, they came, they couldn't get to the door, but Over on the side of the house there were steps leading up to the to the roof. And so they they carry the man up those steps. And uh and when they get up on the roof, they they began to uncover These this uh hard packed mud and the uh the thatch and whatever was required to uncover to get Jesus Down into their into the midst. Look at uh I'm sorry to get the paralyzed man, of course, down into the midst where Jesus was. The scripture says in verse 5, when Jesus saw their faith He said to the paralytics, son, your sins are forgiven. Or forgiven you. So these men. Were intrepid, they found a way, they got up on the roof, they uncovered it, and whether with with the ropes they already had with them to carry the pallet or through some other means, they found a way to lower this paralyzed man into the very presence of Jesus. So Jesus is is in the house, let's say he's in the midst of the house, people all around, all sorts of people at the door, and suddenly the roof is uncovered and there's a big hubbub. As people say, well look, what's going on up there? And the and the mud and the the tiles and things are in the thatch. It's all being removed. And and suddenly this man is lowered down into their midst. He's in a pallet. As we would carry someone off a someone injured on a soccer field, for example, he's on a pallet. And the scripture says, when Jesus saw their face , He said to the paralyzed man, Son, your sins are forgiven you. I think that's an interesting phrase. When Jesus saw their faith, I think what Mark means is that Jesus saw their faith manifest it, right? They believed so much that Jesus could heal this man, they took this certainly unusual tactic and lowered him into his very presence. When he saw their faith, their faith manifested. The faith isn't tangible, it can't be seen any more than hope. or love can be seen, but faith can be shown, it can be demonstrated, it can be evidenced, as when David went to face Goliath, or when uh Daniel faced the lion's pit. And of course, it's also true that Jesus can see things that we cannot. So Jesus perceived, you might say, their faith. And here's, so listen to the way the scripture reads. So when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralyzed man, And here's where we would expect him to say, son, take up your pallet and walk. But that's not what he said. He said, son, your sins are forgiven you. This man's friends must have assumed that his greatest need was for physical healing. But Jesus knew that his greatest need was for the forgiveness of sins. Now, we're not told what Jesus perceived in the heart of this man. It may well be that this paralyzed man, who had obviously ample opportunity to think about his life, Was under conviction of sin. It may well be that this paralyzed man was under conviction of sin. Perhaps he even thought that the loss of the use of his legs was God's judgment. For something he had done. And certainly that thought must have occurred to him. In any event, whether he realized it or not, his greatest need was to have his sins forgiven. And this is precisely what happened that day in the presence of a large crowd. However , Present in that crowd were some scribes. In fact, Luke describes this incident in chapter 5, and he says, quote, there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by. who had come out of every town of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. So not only were there a few scribes, but there were a lot of scribes and Pharisees, and no doubt many, if not all of them, had come to see what this Jesus would do. But they were still making up their minds about him and uh and uh or were already deciding against him. And so as they sat there, they hear Jesus say to this paralyzed formerly paralyzed oh I'm sorry, still paralyzed man, son. Your sins are forgiven you. And of course, immediately they begin to think in their hearts: who is this man? Who can say this? What blasphemy is this? Who does he think he is? Who can forgive sins but God only? They were sure of this, that God and God alone has the authority to forgive sins. And so their response Was predictable. Some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why does this man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone? Verse 7. Oh, here's how describes reason. Major premise, only God can forgive sins. Check, we would agree. Minor premise, Jesus claims to forgive sins. Check. Their conclusion, Jesus claims to be God. Check. They're right so far. But then they went further. They concluded this way: no mere man is God. Premise one. Premise two, Jesus is a mere man. Therefore, conclusion, Jesus is not God. For one who is not God, to claim to be God is blasphemy. It seems clear that's how they reasoned. Now, what was their error? Well, not their major premise that no mere man is God, that's true. It was the minor premise that Jesus is a mere man. What they didn't know is that Jesus was God incarnate, God in the flesh, and no mere man, but Emmanuel, God with us. The very image of the invisible God, the scripture says. Now verse uh eight. But immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they reasoned thus within themselves, he said to them, Why do you reason about these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Arise, take up your bed, and walk. Now that's what certainly those who had witnessed his miracles before no doubt expected him to say, right? Arise, take up your bed and walk. He didn't. He said, Son, your sins are forgiven you He says, which is easier to say your sins are forgiven, or to say what both we and they may have expected him to say, arise, take up your bed and walk. Now, I want you to notice Jesus did not say which is more beneficial to forgive a man's sins or to heal a man's body. No doubt the scribes would concur that the forgiveness of sins is of greater value than any temporary healing. Listen to Jesus' question. Which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say to a paralyzed man, get up and walk? Anyone can say, your sins are forgiven. Kelly, your sins are forgiven. Phil, your sins are forgiven. Anyone can say that. I can say it to you, you could say it to me. But there's no way to see if that in fact has taken place. It's a very easy thing to say. But if I were a blind man and you said to me, receive your sight, or I were paralyzed and you said to me, Get up and walk, that's much different That requires a power, an authority, because it will be quite evident momentarily if in fact you have such authority or not. It's an easy thing to say your sins are forgiven or I've just granted you rewards that you will receive in heaven. Anyone can say that. Any charlatan or false messiah could say as much. But it's not at all easy to say to a man who is paralyzed, a man whose spinal cord has been severely injured or severed, arise. Take up your bed and walk. Because the words have to be backed up with immediate action. Look at verse 10. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. Immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went out in the presence of them all, so that all were amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. It's almost as if the healing of this man were an afterthought, an illustration, an object lesson. It was no doubt precisely what his friends were seeking when they took dramatic uh measures to bring him to the attention of Jesus. But the way Jesus speaks of it, we could imagine that it's conceivable that he could have sent this man home on the same pallet on which he came, with only an imperceptibly lighter heart, having had the burden of sin remove. But he says, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, he said the more difficult thing. He said to him, I say to you, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. And immediately this formerly paralyzed man arose, picked up his pallet, walked out of the house. Now this miracle may be best appreciated by the by the physicians and nurses and others who have studied such things. In our midst. Because this man's nervous system, his atrophied muscles, his ligaments, his tendons, all those things and many others would have to be instantaneously restored. to enable him to stand up and walk at that moment. The eyewitnesses, of course, were amazed. They'd never seen anything like this. They glorified God As we would if we saw this. If Jesus did this in our presence, we'd probably fall to the ground and praise God with a doxology or something Now, let's think about this incident a bit more and what we can learn from it. I want you to think about this for a moment. The blessing of this man's paralysis. The blessing of his paralysis. Have you considered if he had not been paralyzed, his friends would presumably not have brought him to Jesus. He may have never met the Lord. He may have never heard those wonderful words, Son, your sins are forgiven you. You know, we have a tendency to think this way. Health, oh, that's a blessing. Sickness, well, that's a curse. Wealth is a blessing. Poverty is a curse. James writes, listen, my beloved brethren, listen. Has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him? Chapter 2, verse 5 of James. This passage reminds us even severe physical afflictions can sometimes be the instruments of God's Spirit to drive us to Christ. They can sometimes be ultimate blessings to us. We often hear or read testimonies of those, for example, who are parents of children with Down syndrome. Who declare that as grievous as it was for them to hear the diagnosis, as difficult and as stressful as it is for them to care for their child, they would not change those circumstances even if they could. I know Dr. Mike and Linda Anderson, who devoted uh years of their life to caring for their daughter Angel, a doc a adopted daughter angel would say that, that as challenging and as heart-rending as it was, it was nonetheless a blessing. Whatever your affliction may be, God has the power to sanctify to you your deepest distress. And the believer may have confidence, when through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie, my grace, all sufficient, shall be thy supply. The flames shall not hurt thee, I only design thy dross to consume, and thy gold to refine There came a time when the paralyzed man in our passage could praise God for the affliction that brought him to Christ. Perhaps you can do the same. And then, secondly, let's not forget the perseverance of this man's friends. That deserves some mention, doesn't it? It was sympathy and kindness that made them willing to carry their friends to the house in which Jesus Jesus was staying. When they saw the crowds around the home, they might have said, Well, uh, brother, uh, there's no way we're gonna get you to Jesus this day. Well we cannot reach the rabbi. Uh we'll try another time. Uh no doubt he'll be here again. Uh and as men of faith, if in fact they were men of faith, they might have said, Well, Jesus uh uh Noted their faith, so I would call them men of faith. They might have said, uh, you must trust God's providence, brother. This is not the day of your deliverance. We cannot Now I feel compelled to talk to my cousin about Christ, but uh Not today, not at a sister's wedding. I'll wait for a a more uh auspicious time. I I think I could be a blessing teaching children, but you know, I so much enjoy my adult Sunday school class. Maybe later. I'd love to invite that new church family to my home. Maybe after we get our kitchen remodeled, we could do that. The friends of the paralytic might have turned away. They had good reason to turn away. Can we uncover some stranger's roof? Can we interrupt the prophet's preaching? But compelled by their sympathy, compelled by their faith in Jesus' power to heal, they persevered. Their faith was noted by Jesus, their friend was forgiven, and he was healed, and God was glorified. All those things happen, humanly speaking, because these men persevered out of love for their friend. Christian, what is your excuse for not doing good? To those in need. You'll notice thirdly, this passage clearly reveals Jesus' claim to have the authority to forgive sins. Now, when you think about this, it's mind-boggling. The scribes and Pharisees saw clearly, they saw immediately the implications of what Jesus said. Now, it's true that any servant of the Lord, if approached by someone who is carrying a heavy burden of sin, asking if it's possible to have that burden relieved. Ask me if it's possible for God to forgive someone who has sinned as grievously as I've sinned. Any servant of God can declare God is merciful, and if you sincerely repent and confess your sins and you embrace the promised Messiah. As your sacrificial lamb, your sins may be forgiven. But that is not what Jesus said. He said to this man a man he had evidently never met, a man who had verbalized no repentance, a man who had confessed no sins. He said to this man, Not, I will pray for your forgiveness, nor uh May God have mercy on your soul. He declared to this man, son, your sins are forgiven you. The scribes were right when they reasoned that none but God could say such a thing. And it should have led them to conclude, or at least consider, that the one standing before them was deity. Could this be, in fact, the Son that Isaiah said would come? The one who would be called wonderful, counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace? Isaiah 9. 6, but their hearts were hard. Not only did Jesus claim the authority to forgive sin, you'll notice, this passage As many others reveals that he had the power to heal with his word alone. With his word alone. Arise, take up your bed and walk. He didn't perform an operation on this man. He didn't manipulate his spine. He didn't conduct any physical therapy. He didn't give him any medicine. He didn't wave over him some sort of scanner that he brought with him from the future. He simply spoke to him. The Lord Jesus, of whom it was said all things were made by him, evidently repaired with his word, whatever had gone wrong in this man's body. There can be no natural explanation for this. This was super natural And note that Jesus knew what the scribes were thinking. Why do you reason these things in your hearts? Now I I don't know what you're thinking. I have no I have no I have no interest in what you're thinking. Because it might uh be disturbing, but I I wouldn't possibly ever say to somebody, I know what you're thinking. Jesus knew what these guys were thinking, and then he addressed it Why do you reason about these things in your heart? He didn't overhear them. He hadn't read their lips. These were their thoughts he was talking about. He perceived in his spirit that they reasoned thus within themselves. Verse 8. And so we have, think about it, in these few verses. Jesus forgiving a man's sin, healing a man with his word, and perceiving in his spirit what others were thinking. We have his omnipotence and his omniscience on display here. We're only in the second chapter of this gospel, and we've already seen Jesus referred to as the Christ, the Son of God, chapter 1, verse 1. As Mark testified of him. We've seen him referred to as Jehovah, as Mark quoted Malachi in the passage where the Lord says, Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. We've seen him declare to be God's Son at his baptism, You are my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. And we've seen him declare to be the Holy One of God by the demons he cast out, demons who acknowledged his authority. Did you come? To destroy us before the time. Clearly, it would seem to be impossible to read the Word of God without recognizing that it declares Jesus to be God in the flesh. Now you may not believe it, but if you suggest any lack of biblical evidence for Christ's deity, you're only declaring your own ignorance And then this passage reminds us that the greatest need of man is not healing, it's not comfort, it's not money, it's not pleasure. Our greatest need is for forgiveness. To know that God forgives us. Marce Sproul wrote, Twenty five years ago, a psychiatrist who had a very prosperous practice in South Florida asked me to come on his staff. He offered me what at that time, Sproul said, would have been a princely salary to join his team. I said, I do not have a degree in psychiatry. Why do you want me? And the psychiatrist responded, RC, 95 % of my clients do not need a psychiatrist. They need a priest. Because their lives are being destroyed by unresolved guilt. 95 %, according to this psychiatrist, 95% of those who come to me, they don't need a psychiatrist, they need A priest, they need to know their sins are forgiven. Their lives are being destroyed by unresolved guilt. Listen, if you're not a believer in Christ, your greatest need is not to win some lottery. Your greatest need is to be forgiven. To know that your sins are forgiven. To know that you'll stand before God one day, cleansed, righteous in his sight. The clothed in the bright white garments of the sinless Lamb of God. And that forgiveness is freely offered to you, but it's very, very, very expensive. It costs the very day of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, God is holy and just, and you and I are not. And because we've sinned against him, we deserve his wrath. And his justice demands the death of the sinner. The soul who sins must die. The wages of sin is death. But there was a way for God to be holy and just, and yet for us To be spared. God covenanted with his own dear Son, the second person of the Trinity, to come to earth, God becoming flesh and dwelling among us. He would perfectly keep his Father's law, keeping the law that we broke. And then go to the cross and endure his Father's wrath as our substitute, paying the debt that we owe. The good news Jesus came to proclaim, the good news he was proclaiming in this passage. We continue to proclaim today, if you'll repent of your sins, recognizing them as vile, as affronts to your Creator, and lay hold upon Christ by faith. Trusting in Him as your Lord and Savior. Your sins will be forgiven. You will gain what so many people lack. Peace with God. The assurance of his pleasure. The assurance of his love. Is it possible there's someone here today who has not yet? Come to Christ that way. Christian, are you praying for those who come to our worship services who are outside of Christ? Pray that God God might use His word to open their eyes and give them saving faith. I have only one more point to make. Mark tells us that the whole city of Capernaum was gathered at the door of Peter and Andrew's home. Chapter 1, verse 33. And in today's passage, many gathered together. And he preached the word to them. So in one case he says, it's like the whole city was there. And then he says, many gathered together about the door. Pastor J. C. Ryle wrote, No city in Palestine appears to have enjoyed so much of our Lord's presence during his earthly ministry as this city. It was the place where he dwelt after he left Nazareth, Matthew 4. 13. It was the place where many of his miracles were worked and many of his sermons delivered. And we we might add, and where s some of his disciples lived. It was a place where uh where uh Well as I said, many of his sermons were delivered, but nothing that Jesus said or did seems to have had any effect on the hearts of the inhabitants They crowded to hear him. They were amazed. They were astonished. They were filled with wonder at his mighty work. But they were not converted. They lived in the full noontide blaze of the Son of Righteousness, and yet their hearts remained hard. And they drew from our Lord the heaviest condemnation. that he ever pronounced against any place except Jerusalem. And you, Copernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained to this day. But I say to you, Jesus said, that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you. Matthew 11, 23, 24. Now think about that. They witnessed his miracles. They heard his teaching. He lived amongst them. You live in a land where you have God's word in your own language. Many, many people do not. You live in a land where you can freely read God's word and freely worship. Many do not. You attend a church where God's word is honored and where the gospel is proclaimed. Many do not. Maybe that you have parents who love you and who try to honor the Lord. Many do not If with all these blessings and all these opportunities, you turn your back upon Christ, you shut your heart to him, you spurn his offer of salvation, freely offered to you. Are you not acting like the people of Caperna? Are you not acting like the people of Caperna? How much better to come to Christ and to hear him say those wonderful words, son? Your sins are forgiven you. Let's pray Oh Lord, what a glorious gospel we have to proclaim. What wonderful news that not by any works of righteousness which we do, but by your mercy we can be saved. Oh Lord, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By grace are you saved through faith. It's not of yourselves, it's the gift Of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Lord, please, if there be some here still dead in sins, open their eyes. Breathe upon those dry bones. Draw them to yourself Lord, you can do this through the power of your word, through the power of your spirit. We pray for it, Lord. We pray For those outside of Christ. And those of us who know Him, Lord, remind us, remind us afresh that we stand by the grace of God. It's the grace of God. By which we stand. Thank you. In Christ's name, amen.