Hallelujah. Choir, you're singing that like you sound like you believed it. And church, you were singing thy word is a lamp unto my feet. And it sounded like you believed it. Hallelujah. Children, you may be released to uh go to wonders of worship at this time Ecclesia reformata, sempre reformanda, secundum verbum die. The church reformed and always being reformed according to the Word of God. It's Reformation Sunday, where many Reformed churches across the globe celebrate the Protestant Reformation and a return to the life-giving doctrines of grace. And we're going to take a look at a case study from God's Word in 2 Kings 22 and 23. This is the story of King Josiah. Josiah's grandfather was a powerful religious man, and he was as wicked as he was powerful. And Josiah's father was just as wicked. And he too reigned over God's people. And Josiah's father was murdered at a young age. And so it came to pass that Josiah was made king by the people at eight years old. So turn with me in your copy of God's word to 2 Kings. Twenty-two and twenty-three. But first let me pray Oh Jesus, we do love your word. It is a light unto our past. I pray, Lord, that you would apply it to our hearts this morning. I pray that you would cause us your name to be lifted up this morning from your word, and that you would teach us what you would want to teach us this morning. Apply it to our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name, Amen. Second Kings 22. Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jedidah, the daughter of the Diah of Bozcath, and he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and walked in all the way of David his father, and he did not turn aside to the right or to the left In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azalea, son of Meshulem, the secretary, to the house of the Lord, saying, Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may count the money that has been brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the threshold have collected from the people. And let it be given into the hand of workmen who have the oversight of the house of the Lord. And let them give it to the workmen who are at the house of the Lord repairing the house, that is, to the carpenters and to the builders and to the masons. And let them use it for buying timber and quarried stone to repair the house. But no accounting shall be asked from them for the money that is delivered into their hand, for they deal honestly. And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan and he read it. And Shapon the secretary came to the king and reported to the king, Your servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house and have delivered it to the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the Lord. And then Shaphan the secretary told the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king. When the king heard the words of the book of the law, he tore his clothes. And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest. Ahikam the son of Shaphan and Akbar the son of Micaiah and Shaphan the secretary and Asiah the king's servant saying, Go inquire of the Lord for me and for the people and for all Judah concerning the words of this book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us. So Hilkiah the priest and Ahikam and Akbor and Shafan and Asia went to Huldah, the prophetess. The wife of Shalom, the son of Tikvah, son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe. Now she lived in Jerusalem in the second quarter, and they talked with her And she said to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel. Tell the man who sent you to me, thus says the Lord. Behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants. All the words of the book that the king of Judah has read. Because they have forsaken me and have made offerings to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands. Therefore My wrath will be kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched. But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, thus you shall say to him. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, regarding the words that you have read, because your heart was penitent, and you humbled yourself before the Lord, When you heard how I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and you've torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the Lord. Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place. And they brought back words of the king. Then the king sent, and all the elders of Judah in Jerusalem were gathered to him. The king went up to the house of the Lord, and with him all the men of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all the priests and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great. And he read, and he read in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant, all the words of the book of the covenant that had been found in the house of the Lord. And the king stood by the pillar and made a covenant before the Lord. To walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people joined in the covenant. And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priests and the priest of the second order and the keepers of the threshold to bring out of the temple of the Lord All the vessels made for Baal and Asherah and all the hosts of heaven. And he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron and carried their ashes to Bethel And he deposed the priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to make offerings in the high places at the cities of Judah and around Jerusalem. Those also who burned incense to Baal, the sun and the moon, and the constellations, and all the hosts of heaven. And he brought out the Asherah from the house of the Lord. outside Jerusalem to the brook Kidron, and burned it at the book Kidron, and beat it to dust, and cast the dust of it upon the graves of the common people. And he broke down the houses of the male cult prostitutes who were in the house of the Lord. where the woman wove hangings for the Asherah. And he brought out all the priests of the cities of Judah and defiled the high places where the priests had made offerings, from Geba to Beersheba. And he broke down the high places of the gates that were at the hindrance of the gate of Joshua, the governor of the city, which were on one's left at the gate of the city. However, the priests of the high places did not come up to the altar of the Lord in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers. And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the Son of Hib, that no one might burn his son or his daughter. As an offering to Moloch. And he removed the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun at the entrance of the house of the Lord by the chamber of Nathan Melech, the chamberlain, which was in the precincts. And he burned the chariots of the sun with fire, and the altars on the roof of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made. And the altars that Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the Lord, he pulled down and broken pieces, and cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron. And the king defiled the high places that were east of Jerusalem, to the south of the mounts of corruption, which Solomon, the king of Israel, had built for Ashtarith, the abomination of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites. And he broke in pieces the pillars and cut down the ashram and filled their places with the bones of men. Moreover The altar at Bethel, the high place, erected by Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin, the altar with the high place he pulled down and burned, reducing it to dust. He also burned the Asherah And as Josiah turned, he saw the tombs there on the mount, and he sent and took the bones out of the tombs and burned them on the altar and defiled it, according to the word of the Lord that the man of God had proclaimed, who had predicted these things. Then he said, What is that monument I see? And the men of the city told him, It's the tomb of the man of God who came from Judah and predicted these things that you have done against the altar at Bethel And he said, Let him be. Let no man move his bones. So they let his bones alone and the bones of the prophet who came out of Samaria And Josiah removed all the shrines also of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made, provoking the Lord to anger. He did to them according to all that he done at Bethel, and he sacrificed all the priests of the high places who were there on the altars. And burned human bones on them. And then he returned to Jerusalem. And the king commanded all the people: Keep the Passover to the Lord your God, as it is written in the book of the covenant. For no such Passover had been kept since the days of the judges who judged Israel, or during all the days of the kings of Israel, the kings of Judah. But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, this Passover was kept to the Lord in Jerusalem. Moreover, Josiah put away the mediums and the necromancers. and the household gods, and the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, that he might establish the words of the law that were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the Lord. Before him there was no king like him, who turned to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to the law of Moses, nor did any like him arise after him. Still, the Lord did not turn from the burning of his great wrath by which his anger was kindled against Judah, because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked him. And the Lord said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and I'll cast off this city that I've chosen, Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there. Now, the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of Chronicles of the kings of Judah? In his days, Pharaoh Neko, a king of Egypt, went up to the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. King Josiah went to meet him, and Pharaoneko killed him at Megado as soon as he saw him. And his servants carried him dead in a chariot from Megado, and brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own tomb. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and anointed him and made him king in his father's place. Thank you. You did well. It's Reformation Sunday. Let me talk to you about the Dutch further Reformation. The Protestant Reformation had happened almost a hundred years previous. Martin Luther had already taken pen and paper and hammer and nail and tacked his 95 theses onto the door of the Catholic Church in 1517. And Jean Calvin had already summed up the Bible in a systematic theology and led a broad church-planning revival in France and Switzerland in 1536. And by 1674, the Dutch had long since embraced Reformed doctrine, salvation by grace alone. But further reformation was needed. And this period in Dutch history is called Nadir Reformati, the further reformation. The Dutch Church had the correct beliefs and all their official creeds, but there was lacking a living faith. There was no personal zeal for Christ and his righteousness. It was during this time that Yadakus van Lodenstein wrote a book called Meditation on Zion, where he first used that phrase that we that this is the sermon titled, Ecclesia Reformata. Sempre reformanda, secundum verbum dia, which means the church reformed and always being reformed according to the word of God Yadekus van Lodenstein was concerned with the evil he saw around him in an officially reformed church and state. Michael Horton explains that in 1674 According to the quote, according to these writers, the Reformation reformed the doctrine of the church, but the lives and practices of God's people always need further reformation. Amen. Then Lodenstein's words have become a motto for many reformed churches. So let's examine them briefly before we look at the story in the Bible that's a case study of Reformation. Reformata. Eccocia reformata. Vin Lodenstein assumed that the true church would believe the great doctrines of grace preached in the Protestant Reformation. That Christ alone was head of the church and the sole author of our salvation. That God's people were guided by the scriptures alone, not the scriptures plus whatever stuff the church wanted to make up. The church was to be reformed because the church was to believe that salvation was by grace alone, as we see and read in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. And we lay hold of this salvation by faith alone. Reformed meant understanding that God's people do good works only for the glory of God, not for earthly or heavenly reward. And reformed doctrine was in some a rejection of the Catholic Church as arbiter of truth and salvation, and turning to the Scripture itself as arbiter of truth, and Christ Himself is the arbiter of salvation. Always being reformed. But Ben Lodenstein, as he looked at the church, was frustrated at the lack of ongoing spiritual vitality, a sanctification in the reformed church. The century after this further reformation would see the Netherlands rise as the first and perhaps greatest free market economy. They had the first stock exchange. And through their free trade, they facilitated employment of hundreds of thousands in trade. But these so-called Dutch reform, the reformed Dutch traders also traded in African slaves. The Dutch had experienced reform, but needed further reformation, ongoing reformation, to be continually reformed. So reformation and salvation in the Reformed tradition should always be understood as being both finished and ongoing. The scripture defines it by saying, we work out our salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose. Philippians 2, 12 and 13. God worked in the elect. God continues to work in us. Therefore we work out our salvation. God 's can people continually submit to His Lordship and they grow in the grace they apply as they grow in grace they apply the gospel to every area of their lives. We should. That is to say, being reformed, being a Christian isn't just about initially believing the right things. It's about an ongoing belief that shows itself in continuous obedience, repentance, submission, and joy. Tim Keller says it this way. The gospel isn't ABC, it may believe confess. It's A2Z. It's all of life. According to the Word of God, Secundum Verbum Dia, this clause of Van Lodenstein's famous motto, along with Ecclesia Reformata, frequently gets left out. Insidiously. And if the motto of the church were only reformed and always reforming, it could be the motto of practically any earthly institution. In fact, it is the motto of the church that this church came out of, the PC USA, the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America. They claim this motto as their own. And the emerging church adopts this motto as well. But neither of these groups fully submit to the Word of God, Secundum Verbum Die. These groups denounce churches that are submitted to the Word of God by calling them logo-centric. And they pretend to be above the authority of the Word of God. Belief in Jesus' deity is optional. Belief in the miraculous is optional. Belief in the exclusivity of the gospel is optional. Hell is optional. Homosexual acts are optional. Abortion is optional. The options are only limited by the imaginations of men But that is not wise. That is not Christian. That is not reformed. So what should guide reformation? What is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy God? The Word of God contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. The old liberal church and the new liberal church defend themselves saying that they're merely open to new manifestations of the Spirit. But Experience of God must be tethered to God's word as definitive, or else the church will be awash with every imagination known to man. What did God give us according to Ephesians 4 that we might not be tossed to and fro by the waves of every wind and doctrine? He gave us apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. According to verse 11. But you might say, it's these so-called evangelists and pastors and teachers that have been carrying us about by every wind and wave of doctrine. Indeed, Peter himself says in 2 Peter 2. 1, but false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies. even denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. Therefore, upon what do we depend for reformation? Pastors and teachers may err. So-called prophets may err. Church councils may err. On what shall we rely as our guide for reformation? Peter answers that question in 2 Peter 1, 19 through 21. And we have something more sure. The prophetic word, to which you all would do well to pay attention to, as a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Knowing this, first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. So we are always being reformed according to the Word of God. Not according to church counsels or whatever someone claims to be a movement of the Spirit. And we as the church should always allow the Word of God to reform us from objects of wrath to objects of grace. Reformata, Sempa Reformanda, Secundum Verbum Dia. Now, as God's people, there are two no-nos. That prevent us from doing reformata secrebum dia. The two no no 's nostalgia and novelty. Nostalgia and novelty. Apart from the Word of God, nostalgia is a longing for the past, passing over the sins of the past and glorifying their victories. And being set in one's ways because that's always the way that we've done things. Nostalgia for a nostalgia state can keep us from obeying God's word. And apart from the Word of God, novelty is aligned for something new, something fresh, magnifying the sins of the past And passing over their victories and running to something new, no matter what the cost, if one ever even stops to count the cost. Novelty for the sake of novelty doesn't solve our problems. I just want something new, something different than what I have. It doesn't solve our problems as a people, as a church. Both nostalgia and novelty prevent us from always being reformed according to the Word of God. So, let's see if Ecclesia reformata sempre reformanda secundum verbum dia is biblical All right. According to Chronicles, when Josiah was 16, he began to seek after the Lord. And when he was twenty, he began to tear down the high places. where other gods were worshipped. And when he was 26, he began to direct temple restoration. He directs that temple funds be given to the builders to restore the temple physically. And as this young leader begins to turn to the Lord, he begins to be concerned about idol worship. So he begins to tear down idols. But there are so many that tear down. I mean, you guys had to sit through that list. Okay? So he begins to turn his attention from preventing worship of false gods to encouraging the worship of the true God. And this is noteworthy for us. If we desire reformation, and reformation always precedes revival, it is right to turn our attention from destroying idols to worshiping the Lord. And as Josiah turns his attention to the worship of the Lord, he finds that the Lord's temple is in disrepair. He finds that the house of the Lord has not been given the attention it needs And so the workers begin to repair the temple with wood and stone. So in this case study of Reformation, we find Josiah seeking the Lord, and then tearing down idols, and then turning his attention to the worship of the Lord. And he finds that the worship of the Lord lacks the attention it deserves. So he begins dedicating attention and resources to the place of worship. As you seek the Lord, as you work against the idols of this land, do you ever turn your attention to the worship of the Lord? We can busy ourselves with tearing down idols for a long time because they're legion. But will you give more of your attention To the worship of the Lord. Start with the physical. Here at Liberty, the deacons and their helpers have given much attention to this property so that it is properly repaired and conducive to worship. Thank you. But that work is not done. That work needs fresh eyes to see things that we've become accustomed to. It needs fresh hands to work. The worship center needs more attention, needs your attention. Are there things that we could do that would make worship more accessible and at the same time lift higher the name of Jesus? Are there things that we could do to encourage more worship, deeper worship, broader worship, more spirit-dependent worship? As the Lord brings these things to your mind , bring these things to the deacons and elders and people of the church and trust these things to your leaders, for they deal honestly, just as the workers in Josiah's day. And leaders of the church, let us be open to working differently and diligently on worship, just as the leaders in Josiah's day had to do. As we turn our attention to the physical place of worship, we need to be aware of nostalgia and novelty. Nostalgia could have led Josiah to despair over the repair, since the Solomonic temple, the old temple, had been so glorious in the Golden Age. But that nostalgia would be forgetting that it was under Solomon that idol worship bloomed and blossomed and flourished in the kingdom. So too, we can be nostalgic for a barn with three services, or just a church filled with family and friends. But bare nostalgia demotivates and causes despair. First and foremost, we should desire reform to the Word of God. And the Lord will work out the specific details of how it works in our midst Novelty. Novelty could have led Josiah to just want to tear the whole thing down and start afresh. But instead he repaired So too, we could long after a building with the coolest design that wasn't shaped in an L. It's the only church I know is shaped in an L. And we got state-of-the-art equipment. But a desire for something new and fresh is not the same as a desire for reform. So that attention to the physical place of worship leads to finding and reading the Word of God. As a result of turning his attention to the physical place of worship, Hilkiah finds the book of the law. This probably refers to the Pentateuch, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, and Deuteronomy. It is nothing less than astounding that God's people has the lost track of this book. These are God's people. God had chosen them of all people, and he spoke with them and he brought them out of Egypt with mighty wonders. And he gave them his law on a mountain with thunder and lightning, and they were ruled by kings appointed by God, and they had lost the book of the law They've been told to meditate on this day and night, and they've just like let it go for decades. How could this be? And it's almost as if they didn't notice they'd lost it until they found it Have you ever had that happen? And it's it's it's such a shameful story that it can cause one to question everything. How and why would the covenant God even allow this kind of thing to happen? Was he really God? Is he really holy? Are you really active? That you would allow your people to go into this kind of oblivious rebellion, this rebellious oblivion. Surely this Jewish people has gone too far. And so it's understandable that they were destroyed when there was such disrespect for God's word. And yet, O people. Of God. Is this not similar to our situation? We have forgotten God's word We don't treasure God's word as we ought. We do not read God's word as we ought. Do you know where your copy of God's word is? Do you know where it lays? And if you know where it lays, have you picked it up recently? Has God's word become an heirloom to you, a keepsake, a treasure, not to be touched? Let it not be so. Oh, take up and read. Find your copy of God's law. And if you don't have a copy, we'd love to give you one For the Lord of the universe has spoken. He is there and he's not silent. Let us not treat him as if he were mute. But some would say, I don't need the book of the law. I have Christ. In Christ, I'm free from the law. Indeed, in Christ, we are free from the law From the curse of the law. But Christ was a student of the law. He spoke the law. He interpreted the law. He said he came to fulfill the law, not to get rid of it. And are you the servant greater than the master? Then we too should take up this book of the law and read. Yet, as we do, we must be on guard for nostalgia and novelty again. Those who long for novelty may desire a a direct word from the Lord and concoct in their minds dreams, words, visions, their own imagination, and then attribute them to the Lord. Don't long after such things. God has spoken in his word and it is sufficient for us. Or, less radically, some of us may become bored with our copy of God's word and think, ah. A snappy new book about God's Word. Ah, that would get my attention. Or we may even prefer a paraphrase to a translation of God's Word. All these things are longing for novelty. Books are good. Paraphrases can be helpful, but only inasmuch as they point us back to this tool, this rule that God has given us to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. And sometimes in this endeavor to find and read God's Word, we're more tempted by nostalgia. But nostalgia can prevent us too from reading the best translations of God's Word based upon the most current archaeological manuscript evidence. The King James and the New King James are not based upon the most reliable manuscripts. Nostalgia can actually dissuade us from taking up God's word at all. We may say to ourselves, Yeah, I've gotten along fine so far without reading God's word and pretending it to it myself. Josiah could have said the same thing, but but he didn't, and we shouldn't God's word is a wonderful transformational blessing. Taking up the Word of God and reading it is the reformation and its inception. And taking up the word of God prompts repentance and requiring of the Lord. Look at what Josiah does in verses 11 and 13. When Josiah heard the words of the law, he tore his clothes and inquired of the Lord. He was deeply convicted of the sins of his people, both past and present, and hearing the law of God resulted in an immediate physical show of repentance. Tearing the clothes is an outward sign of an inward condition, shame. And then Josiah sends five top-ranking officials to go inquire of the Lord from the last prophet mentioned in King's Huldah. So in this reformation, seeking the Lord leads to destroying idols, leads to eventually repairing the place of worship, leads to finding and reading God's law, leads to repentance and inquiring of God. In our day we have a copy of God's law. We have a righteous king, Jesus, who also is our prophet. And so if we're to follow in Josiah's footsteps of reformation, we should repent of our sin and ask God what he would have us do. And you can do that today. If as you hear God's word read, and you know that you do not have the righteousness that it takes to please God, In yourself, if you see a lack of zeal for his kingdom that wouldn't honor him, if that's your situation that you find yourself in, repent. Show fruit of your repentance and call out to Jesus. It's okay to rip your clothes. It's okay to cry. It's okay to lay down on the floor. It's okay to fast. The Lord will surely answer you. A desire for nostalgia or novelty could have held Josiah back from following this course of reform, from repenting and calling out to the Lord. Nostalgia. Nostalgia could have led Josiah to just ask his male counselors what God would advise, to ask all the court-appointed prop prophets. Josiah could have said, Don't go to Holda. Her name? It means weasel. I bet one of the establishment puppets gave her that name Josiah could have said, there's no way I am hearing from God through a woman. Go go instead of the establishment prophets we've got around here. We've got I'm sure we've got a bunch of them. Ms. Falda could lead us too to listen only to the traditional sources of wisdom. But God can speak through the young, the female, the foreigner, the poor. According to his word, of course. But the downtrodden, the powerless notice different things. From God's word than those who are in power do. And in order to really hear God's word, we would do well to listen as he pours his truth through even unlikely sources. Or novelty. Josiah doesn't engage in novelty that's tempting to those that find themselves in a very tough situation. There's a real temptation for Josiah. Knowing his father and his grandfather before him have failed to keep God's law, he has failed to keep God's law, there's a temptation to just throw out God's law. Many young folks like Josiah, when they find out the radical, God-wrenching truths of God's of God, they throw out God. They realize that the tension is unsustainable, that we cannot claim that the Lord is our God and yet so neglect Him in our life. So some choose to give up the claim that the Lord is our God. They go after another God or pretend to be God themselves. Let it not be so with you, young people. As you hear hard things from God's word, convicting things, inquire of the Lord. Do not turn from him. And turning away from God is actually nothing new. It's old. You've been there and you've done that, and it's not satisfying. So let us repent. And that repentance and requiring of the Lord leads to an answer of judgment and mercy. So Josiah is doing everything right, walking in the way of David, minus the adultery part And now turning aside to the right or left. And as the king of Judah, he's seeking the Lord. He he's tearing down idols. He's he's repairing the temple. He's regarding the word of the Lord. So we expect good news when he requires of the Lord. Perhaps one righteous king will be enough to undo all the unrighteous kings have gone for centuries. So what does hold a report from the Lord? Disaster upon this place. Ouch. The pure righteousness of one king was not enough to quench the inferno of God's wrath, at least not in Josiah's case. Josiah was but one man, and God's people had been disobeying the Lord for centuries. But because Josiah's heart was penitent, God heard his plea and promised to preserve him from the humiliating disaster that he had in store. So, within the context of this reformation, repentance leads to calling out to God. And God responds with a mixture of judgment and grace. The grace for those that love him and are called according to his purpose. But wrath and judgment for the rest. And this is what we should expect in a Reformation. This is what to expect from a holy and gracious God. Justice and mercy, not one or the other. Terrible justice. And free mercy. In our day, some desirous of change proclaim a message of only grace. They say, heaven has already come. There's no final judgment. There's no fiery inferno of wrath for those that continue in their disobedience of the Lord. That's what the false prophets of our day say. Josiah could have inquired of a false prophet, and he could have told him exactly what he wanted to hear. That his actions, oh, we're sure to ensure a blessing in his life and beyond. But Josiah wasn't interested in hearing only what he wanted to hear. He wanted to know the truth. Do you want to know the truth? Imagine we lived in Josiah's time, and Josiah came to one of us and asked us what we thought the Lord would say to him. What would we say if we didn't have a divine word from the Lord? What would we tell him? Hey, we would want to say, hey, nice try, Josiah. You know, keep keep um keep going. You know, keep doing what you're doing. It'll probably be good enough for God. You know, God's nice. And you just keep on working, and that will probably be enough to prevent fiery condemnation of our nation by God. That's what I want to say. I want to encourage him to keep on working. But Holda 's message is different. The Lord's message is different. The Lord says it's not enough. Your actions will never be enough to thwart judgment. Many preachers would want to stand up here and tell you, keep working, and that 'll be enough for God. But that's not the word that I have for you this morning. That's not the word that we have here in God's Word. Your works will never be enough. Even if your righteousness matched that of Josiah, it wouldn't be enough to thwart God's judgment. Don't work as if your salvation depended upon you. Do the work that God laid out for you to do. But understand that eternal salvation and judgment are the Lord's. And this word, this answer of judgment and grace, causes reading of the word and covenant renewal. In verses 23 -2, we see Josiah's response to this prophecy of grace and judgment. He brings together all the priests and the prophets, rich people and poor people, and he read the book of the covenant in their hearing. He read He didn't delegate this responsibility. Josiah read the book of the covenant. This is what the law is called in Exodus 24, when Moses reads it to the people in covenant ceremony. And this is what the law is called again in a covenant renewal ceremony where it reads it to them again in Deuteronomy. It's a recommitment to the Lord with a legally binding oath. And that's what's going on here. Josiah reads the book of the law in the context of a covenant renewal ceremony. He enters into a legally binding agreement with God, ratified in blood sacrifice. And then all the people enter into the covenant with him. We see at work here another aspect of the Reformation. The God of God is again read in the presence of people, and the leaders publicly committed to it, and the people follow them. It was the case in the first Reformation that the Word of God began to be read in the vernacular, in the tongue of the common people. And the leaders of the Reformation themselves committed themselves to the word, and the people followed. In our own church's history, right here at Liberty, when it became evident that our denomination was not going to regard the Scripture as the Word of God. The church leaders left Mount Perrin and formed a new church where the Bible would be proclaimed as the Word of God. So to have further reformation here at Liberty, to be reformed and always being reformed, we read, we read the Bible. We believe that the Bible is the Word of God. But how do we renew our covenant with the Lord? How do we do that aspect? Well, we renew our covenant with the Lord by taking the Lord's Supper. And in so doing, we are making a statement. We're making a stand that we will no more fill our lives with idols. That you and I will be exclusively the Lord's. That they will find no joy in anything else forevermore. Many of you have been taking the Lord's Supper and not really understanding that this is a covenant renewal ceremony. Just like Josiah, where he says in verse three that he covenanted to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and all his soul to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book. That's what you're saying when you enter into that covenant renewal ceremony. And now we we serve a better king. And we have a fuller book. And our hearts and souls have been purified by the Holy Spirit. Therefore, we should be all the more bold to recommit our lives to Christ through that covenant renewal ceremony. And there are others of you who have committed to the Lord, but you have not publicly, not covenantally. Today we think it's enough to just ask Jesus into your heart, to just pray a prayer. That's not entering into a covenant. A covenant is an outward sign of an inward condition. You may suppose that you have this inward condition, but there's no outward sign. There may be likewise no inward condition. If you want to commit your life to Christ If upon hearing the word of the Lord you want to covenant yourself to the Lord, you want to change the direction of your life, then come before the elders of this visible church and be examined for membership. This is not private, this is public. If somebody had uh, imagine somebody said, Oh, I have a private marriage. No, what trickery! A private marriage is either a figment of the imagination or it's a lie. So let your commitment to the Lord be in public. Be counted among the Lord's people. Come before the elders and be admitted to the covenant community by baptism, like we saw today. And so take it. Pardon that outward sign of an inward condition. And renew your covenant to the Lord. Every time we take communion, that just as Christ publicly committed himself to us, we would publicly commit to serve him. Okay, so um it begets, it pushes that reading of the word and covenant renewal ceremony pushes priestly purification and temple purification. What happens next in our story is just again just mind-boggling. Right after they do their covenant renewal, and they walk into the temple and take out all the idols that were in the temple. All the vessels for Baal, for Ashrah, and for the host of heaven. And Josiah deposes the priests that the kings of Judah Had ordained to make offering to these gods. I don't know which is more ludicrous that the kings of Judah think that they can ordain priests or that they ordain them to these other gods. It's just crazy. Or that God would allow this kind of thing to happen for so long. This is the height of unbelief, and Josiah begins the work of reformation after covenant renewal. It sounds crazy. It sounds like something that we would never do this. We would never bring idols into God's holy temple. And yet, O people of God, have we not indeed sinned in a similar way? For we are God's temple. It's no longer a physical building. God's dwelling place is flesh and blood. And have we not filled our lives with idols? Sure, sure, there aren't idols of wood and stone, but they're idols. We've adopted the idols of our surrounding culture as our guiding principles for life. Greed, indolence, entertainment, sports, sex, work, influence. Or maybe you like old school uh idols. Maybe you prefer motherhood Fatherhood, independence, hard work, land, gold. Anything that you make as the guiding principle for your life besides the Lord is an idol. Why in the world would the Israelites have Baal in their temple? Why in the world would you, Christian, get your value from how much you make or how great your toys are? Why would the Israelites have priests, Asherah? Why would you, Christian, get your identity from motherhood rather than from being a daughter of the covenant? It looks so awful when the ancient Israelites worshiped idols, yet it looks normal when us Christians do. Let it not be so So be reformed. Oh, Christians, exile the idols from your life, exercise the false gods that give you worldly pleasure and worth. Choose instead the only wise God, the covenant Lord. And as you do that, as we purify the temple and the priests, it overflows into purification of the whole land. I think that's what lots of you want, is you want reform of the land. Notice the trajectory here, the pattern of this case-studying reformation. Verses 8 through 20 catalog all the idols that Josiah tore down throughout the land. But notice that the author first tells us how reform began at the temple of the Lord. Josiah tore down the places, male cult prostitutes, tapestries, all these things against the Lord. And then he moved on to tearing down the places where they would they would kill babies. Atopheth, he destroyed special Babylonian chariots that bespoke foreign alliances and allegiances And he broke altars that his ancestors, his own ancestors had made, even building projects made to remember his father and grandfather And he tore down all the foreign gods that have been set up by the great King Solomon. He's tearing down things that the great King Solomon did. These idols had symbolized peace and fraternity, camaraderie with pagan nations surrounding Judah, Sidon, Moab, Ammon, and he broke the ashram throughout the land. And these were an homage to Canaanite worship. And he even broke down the altar at Bethel that had been set up since Jeroboam, king of Israel after Solomon. And he tore down all the high places of Samaria, which goes to show you how far his reign had and his influence had gone. It had spread from just Judah. So Josiah tears down symbols of appreciation to foreign superpowers, relics of indigenous peoples, markers of alliances with immediate neighbors. Culturally significant statues, and even family monuments. He tears them all down because they're setting themselves up against the Lord. So do you see how dangerous it is to start down the path of reformation? It is dangerous to all our idols that we hold dear. If you recommit to your covenant with the Lord and follow that to its logical conclusion, You will no longer rely on human military might to accomplish the kingdom of God. If you covenant with this God, You will let go of your allegiances to any earthly power that sets itself up against the kingdom of God. No allegiance to mighty superpowers. No allegiance to ancient cultures. No allegiance to geographical neighbors. No allegiance to even your current culture, nation, or family when it sets itself up against the Lord or before the Lord. Do you see how comprehensive the reform is? Just like it tears down monuments that will when he does this, he endangers his relationship with Assyria And Babylon, and Tyrant Sidon, his immediate neighbors, and Moab and Ammon to the east, and various Canaanite subcultures that are existing within there. And if we embark on reformation, we stand to make a lot of enemies. For when we say that we will be exclusively a Lord, it means that we will tear down markers of allegiance to other gods in our lives. Let the Holy Spirit lead you to those areas in your life where you've got something else in God's place. And don't be afraid to just tear that idol down. God's people will take care of it. of you. That idol is not what's providing for you. God will provide for you in that idol's absence. And so that purification of the whole land. leads to the sign of the covenant celebrated rightly. The sign of the covenant celebrated rightly. So this this national reform culminates In the celebrating of the Passover, the sign of the covenant. And it hadn't been done since Samuel. This is amazing, it's astounding. Hundreds of years under Covenant Kings, and they hadn't done the sign of the covenant. Especially in light of Exodus 12, where it says multiple times, this shall be a statute forever, throughout your generations, all Israel shall observe the Passover. The Passover was a covenant sign to remember God's miraculous salvation of his people from Egypt. It's kind of a big deal So you'd think that people called by God's name would remember as a nation their foundering victory by observing Passover. Now, a little qualification. Under Hezekiah, the Passover had been observed, but several things were lacking then. It was not observed in the first month as it was prescribed. And many Israelites blatantly rejected Hezekiah's invitation, and those that did heed his call didn't sanctify themselves to the Lord. In other words, they still didn't treat the ceremony as serious and holy. Now, celebrating to be fair to them, the celebrating the Passover wasn't without difficulty. If you were a man , You needed to be circumcised. And if you hadn't been following God, that would be kind of a painful preparation. It was a national feast, so everyone gathered to Jerusalem, which would make for a kind of crowded campo. And if you don't like camping and you don't like crowds, it would be uncomfortable. And you needed to bring an unblemished lamb for your family, and this could be financially costly. Trip and lamb. And finally, you needed to consider the fact that the Lord had saved you from death and passed over your people in judgment. And if you give very much time and thought and all those steps on the road to thinking about such a thing. It might mean that you should probably let go of those idols that you've got in your house. So, too, for us, it can be hard to observe the Lord's Supper. In the way he he described it. First of all, you shouldn't take the Lord's Supper if you haven't been baptized. The sign of entry into the covenant. You shouldn't take it in an unworthy manner. You need to consider the seriousness and holiness of the sign. The elders can help you confirm this if you're wondering. It's not a sign it's a sign not only of your covenant with the Lord, but also with his covenant people. So can you really renew that covenant in good conscience? If there's if there's things Some hard conversation that you need to have. You need to have that hard conversation as a preparation for that covenant renewal. And then there's a cost involved and labor to prepare the Lord's Supper. Thank you for those of you that do that. And then how often should it be partaken? Surely not as often as the Israelites. How often then? Well, the early church celebrated the Lord's Supper weekly with wine. Why shouldn't we? For proof, see Acts 2. 42, Acts 20, verse 7, and 1 Corinthians 11, 20. So being reformed and always being reformed according to the Word of God means directing our attention to make sure that we're following the sign of the covenant according to the Word of God. And all of this reform, all of this reform still isn't enough to thwart God's judgment. Look at verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. The Lord says that in spite of Josiah's reforms, he will not turn his wrath that he's intended to pour out upon them, especially because of Josiah's grandfather. And sadly, Josiah's life did not end on a happy note. He he went to do battle with Pharaoh Neko on behalf of Babylon. Babylon was attacking Assyria, and Egypt went to Assyria's aid, and so Josiah attempted to intercept Pharaoh in that famous valley of battle. Megado, from whence we get our word Armageddon. According to Chronicles, Pharaoh, Pharaoh even warned Josiah. saying that God had told him to hurry, that God had told Pharaoh to hurry, and that by opposing Pharaoh, Josiah would be opposing God. And then sadly, it was two of Josiah's sons and one of his grandsons that ushered in the final close to the kingdom of Judah. Verse 26 shows us that even exhaustive biblically based, comprehensive of reform that begins with the household of God still does not thwart God's earthly judgment on a nation for its sin. So Don't be reformed in order to save your family or your country. It won't necessarily work. We don't embark on reformation to save America or any other earthly country We are continually reformed by the Lord, by his word, for his own glory. For his sake. So that a people called by his name might be justified by faith, not by work, that any man would boast. And so ends the story in the text before us today. We we witnessed a roadmap to reformation, how to be reformed and ever reforming according to the Word of God. And yet the story ends sadly for King Josiah. Which is why we stand in need of a new king, a better king, who would not die at Armageddon, but prevail, who would not be buried with his fathers But rise up. A king whose reforms would not die with him, but would rather transform nation after nation after nation until the whole world was brought to righteousness. A kings whose reforms weren't the final chapter in the end of a book, but instead would usher in a whole eternal kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. What if we had a king who didn't just study the law as a boy, but who embodied the law? A king who doesn't merely recite the law but speaks the law, a king who doesn't merely need a priest, but is a priest. A king who doesn't inquire of a prophet, but inquires straight to the Lord. What if we had a king who doesn't merely cast down idols, but cast out demons? What if the king didn't really cleanse the temple, but he was the temple, imperishable? What if we had a king who didn't just celebrate the sign of salvation, Passover, but rather ushered in his new Salvation, salvation from a greater foe than Pharaoh, from Satan himself. What if that king had already come? The good news is that the kingdom is at hand. The king is now reigning. He is seated at the right hand of the Father Almighty, and he's coming again to judge the living and the dead. His name is Jesus. He is our King. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, you are great. You are wonderful. You are the king that we need. And we need reform. And we know that you are the only one that can do that. I pray that we would submit ourselves, that we would be reformed in our thinking, that we would always be being reformed by your word. O Jesus. Amen.