Our scripture reading this morning is from 2 Corinthians chapter 8. If you'll turn there, please. 2nd Corinthians chapter 8. And uh as we turn there, uh let me welcome uh Nancy Hammett is here with us. Uh Diana Cody 's mom and her son Stephen. Good to have you with us. And I believe Erica Watkins is back from uh St. Kitts. Is that what you call it? St. Kitts? Which she claims is some island somewhere. And uh I'm sure it is. And uh there may be others with us this morning where that are not normally here. We're grateful to have you. We'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs as we begin to read from 2 Corinthians chapter 8. The Apostle Paul writes, Moreover, brethren, we make known to you the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded in the riches of their liberality. For I bear witness that according to their ability, yes, and beyond their ability, they were freely willing, imploring us with much urgency. That we would receive the gift and the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. And not only as we had hoped, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and then to us by the will of God. So we urge Titus that as he had begun, so he would also complete this grace in you as well. But as you abound in everything, in faith, in speech, In knowledge, in all diligence, and in your love for us, see that you abound in this grace also I speak not by commandments, but I'm testing the sincerity of your love by the diligence of others. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ That though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. May God bless this portion of his word to our hearts. Let's pray. Oh Father, please speak to us today from your word. I pray for believers that our hearts will be blessed, that we'll be fed, that we'll be nourished. I pray for unbelievers, Lord, that you'll bring conviction of sin. And draw them to true saving faith this day. May there be joy in the presence of the angels this day over a sinner who repents. We ask in Christ's name Amen. In Mark Twain's historical novel, The Prince and the Pauper. which was set in 1547. The son of King Henry VIII, Prince Edward, has an opportunity presented to him to lay aside his royal robes and assumed the rags of a poor Londoner for a period of time, so he might be able to experience the life of the common people in his realm. Well, about 19 centuries before Twain's novel was published, a real event took place in space and time in which the sovereign of the universe. The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, laid aside his royal robes and assumed earthly rags. I refer, of course, to the wondrous event we celebrate at Christmas, the incarnation of Jesus. When pastors preach on the incarnation, we tend to turn to the dramatic account of Christ's birth that we read in Luke's Gospel or in the Gospel of Matthew. Sometimes we'll turn to John's prologue. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And then later the word was with God. Or we may preach from Isaiah 9. 6, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulders, and he shall be called wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, etc. Or Micah 5, 2, but thou Bethlehem, Ephrata, though thou be little amongst the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me, who is to be ruler in Israel, whose going forth have been from old, from everlasting. But there's a verse tucked away here in Paul's second letter to the Corinthians that so beautifully encapsulates the wonder of the incarnation that it becomes a perfect verse for us to meditate on. Christmas. The situation was the Christians in Jerusalem were suffering from severe poverty. This is a number of years now after Christ's crucified. And resurrection. The gospel has spread. But Christians in Jerusalem were suffering from severe poverty. It seems that it was resulting both from famine and from persecution. Macedonian Christians, that is, Gentile believers from Philippi, Berea, Thessalonica, and other places, had responded with liberality to the needs of the Hebrew Christians in Judea. They gave as much as they were able. In fact, Paul says they gave more than they were able to assist the poor believers in and around Jerusalem. Paul was here encouraging the Corinthians, who abounded in many gifts, to abound in the grace of giving as well. This would be a test of the sincerity of their love. And as the greatest example of selfless giving, as the best encouragement to freely give of ourselves, Paul cites the giving of the Lord Jesus Christ. this glorious verse. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich Yet for your sakes, he became poor, that you, through his poverty, might become rich You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Though he was rich He was rich in his person. He was rich in who he was. The second person of the Trinity. In him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. Colossians 2. 9 The creator of all things, Colossians 1. 16, all things were created by him and for him. Through the Son, God made the world, Hebrews 1. 2. the sustainer of all things. In him all things consist. Colossians 1. 17. In him all things hold together, you might translate. That the master of all created beings, king of all kings, lord of all lords, he who was rich, rich in his person, the eternal one. In the beginning was the word. His goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting. Micah 5. 2. He was rich in his person, and then secondly, he was rich in his possessions. Every year, as you know, Forbes magazine publishes its list of the richest Americans. I'd like to check it out to see how many of my friends have cracked the top 100. A few of you are getting very close, I understand. Not surprisingly to us, uh Bill and Melinda Gate Gates uh top the list again with a net worth of $76 billion. Orbes says. Now that seems like a lot of money. If uh if Bill and Melinda, and and yes, we are on a first name basis, if you must know. If uh Bill and Melinda had put 76 billion dollars under their mattress on the day Jesus was born And if every day since then they donated $100,000 to a charity of their choice , 2,000 years later, they would still be billionaires That's how much money seventy-six billion dollars is. And uh that's true, even if they spent another thousand dollars a day on personal care items, and at their advanced age they would need a lot of personal care. personal care. But the Lord Jesus Christ had all the gold All the silver, all the valuable gems, all the real estate, everything that anyone could consider of any value, not only on earth, but in the universe. He was rich in his person. He was rich in his possessions. He was rich in power, that which so many people seek. His was complete, total omnipotence. Angelic spirits did his bidding. He spoke, and it was done. No Pharaoh, no emperor, no conqueror, no king Rivaled his authority. He was rich in his power. He was rich in honor and glory and homage. He received the adoration of the heavenly hosts. As you know, the last book of the Bible is called The Revelation of Jesus Christ. And it reveals to us something of the adoration that the Son receives in glory. Then I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands. saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. He was rich in honor and glory and homage. He was rich in his relationship with his father. Father, I desire that they whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you have given me. For you loved me before the foundation of the world. I have kept my father's commandments and I abide in his love. John 15, 10. In Isaiah, the Father speaks of my servant whom I uphold, my elect in whom my soul delights. I put my spirit upon him. Isaiah 42, 1 Who can imagine the joyous relationship between the Father and the Son for all eternity? Who can put a value on that? Though he was rich. He was rich in his relationship with his father. John Piper says, their intimacy and communion are incomparable No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son. Matthew eleven twenty seven. No one has ever seen God, the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father. He has made him known. John 1 18. Jesus spoke with such unprecedented endearment and intimacy concerning the Father that his enemies ought to kill him because he called God his own Father, making himself equal with God, John 5. 18. The Father's intimacy with the Son was such that he opened all his heart to him. The Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. John 5. 20. He withholds no blessing from the Son, but pours out his Spirit on him without measure. He whom God has sent utters the words of God, for it is not by measure that he gives the spirit Spirit, the Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. John chapter 3. And as the Son carries out the redeeming plan of the Father, the father's heart abounds with increasingly intense expressions of love for the son. For this reason the father loves me, Jesus said, because I lay down my life. John 10 says seventeen. This overflowing esteem that the Father has for his only Son spills over onto all who serve the Son, Piper says. If anyone serves me, Jesus says, the Father will honor him. John twelve twenty six. Thus the Father seeks every means possible to manifest his infinite delight in the Son of His love. Though he was rich. Rich in his person, rich in his possessions, rich in the uh in the honor and adoration he received, rich in his power. Rich in his relationship with his father, though he was rich, yet he voluntarily became poor In the Greek it's very strong, to be poor as a beggar, to be destitute. Theologians describe this as his humiliation from the Latin humilus, near the ground. Christ's humiliation consists in his being born, and that in a low condition, our shorter catechism says, made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life. the wrath of God and the cursed death of the cross in being buried and continuing under the power of death for a time. Let's think about what was involved for Christ to become poor. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor First of all, he left his eternal abode. He left his eternal abode. For us, the longer we've been in a place. The more difficult it is for us to leave, the more traumatic it is for us. When a missionary leaves his own land and goes to a strange place, a strange culture to live, it requires humility. Requires a great deal of sacrifice. Jesus left his eternal home to come and dwell here. He left the presence of his father. What would such separation mean to one who was called by the Father my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased? To the one who, while he dwelt here, went to prayer at every opportunity. To leave one you love for a long period of time is a great sacrifice. We'll do it. We'll do it for a job. Sometimes we'll do it out of a sense of duty. uh uh in the service, for example. Some will do it for personal gain. Jesus left the presence of his father not by constraint But willingly, not for personal gain, but for personal loss. And then he left the unimaginable wealth that he He controlled and enjoyed all the honor, all the glory, and the homage. He took upon himself humanity. Now notice he didn't lay aside his deity. He laid aside the glory which his deity deserved. He didn't lay aside his deity, he laid aside the glory. which his deity deserved. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see. His incarnation is a veiling of his glory, not a removal or a suspension of his divinity. Gabriel said to Mary, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. The power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Through the miracle of the virgin birth, God could become man, being born of a woman, without inheriting our sinful nature passed through Adam. When Jesus came to earth, God became flesh. So to his eternal deity was added humanity. So that Jesus had from that point two distinct natures, human and divine, in one person. Though his deity was veiled, it could still be seen. Even through the veil. For example, when he controlled the elements, when he revealed men's thoughts, when he exercised power over life and death, when he forgave men's sins, when he accepted men's worship. Peter, James, and John saw the veil lifted temporarily on the mount where Jesus was transfigured before them. They saw him in his glory. His clothing whiter than anyone on earth could make it. And they heard the Father speak to him. But in general, his life was a veiling of his deity. Though he was rich, he became poor. Consider the humble circumstances of his birth and his life. the lowliness, the humility of his birth, in a low condition. She brought forth her firstborn son and laid him in a manger. In a feeding trough, in a in a no doubt a a a wooden uh uh uh trough which would have uh oats or or or just straw there for the feeding of animals. She brought forth her firstborn son, laid him in a feeding trough. For there was no room for them in the inn. No room to stay or no place to give birth. Lots of people there in the inn. No place here for you to give birth. But there is a place with a little privacy. You'll have to give birth in the stable. You'll have to place the child in that Early church leader Justin, who lived just forty miles from Bethlehem, said uh wrote in about the year 100 A. D. that the birth took place in a stall which was was in a cave which adjoined an inn. The cave was used for sheltering livestock of those who would stay at the inn. So you can imagine the smell and the cold and the indignity of it all. Uh sometimes uh I think one or two of you were born on the way to the hospital only because they didn't get there in time. Some were born as soon as they entered the door of the hospital. But here's a child born in such humble circumstances that he's put in a in a feeding trough. Lo, within a manger lies he who built the starry skies. Earth and heaven before him bow. And he is in the manger now. Marvel now, O heaven and earth, that the Lord chose such. Born into a poor family, we noted last Sunday, after the birth of a son, the parents were to offer a lamb plus a dove or a pigeon. A poor family was permitted to offer two doves or two pigeons, and this is the offering that Mary and Joseph brought. Clearly, he was born into a poor family. When an ambassador or president or king visits our country, where is he lodged? He's lodged in the finest uh uh uh uh rooms that we can provide, uh beautifully appointed. But when the creator of all came to this earth, he was in a stable. He was laid in a feeding trough. He subjected himself to Joseph and Mary as he grew as a child in their home, Luke 2. 51. He worked in Nazareth doing manual labor with Joseph. When he preached in Nazareth years later, the people said, Is not this the carpenter? The tetnon, it is in the Greek. It could involve stone cutting, as as well as working with wood. Is not this the tetnon? He who made all that exists with his word alone stands in a small shop and works with his hands, making brooms, perhaps, chairs, tables. Maybe cutting stones for the use of construction projects by the sweat of his brow. When he began his ministry he had no home. Foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, Jesus said. Said, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head, has nowhere to lay his head. Luke 9, 58. He lived in poverty, dependent upon the offerings of others, depending upon the charity of others. At his death it appears that his only possession was his clothing. And remember that was uh divided up. And uh bartered. No, if God wants his people to go first class and have the best of everything, as some people try to convince The life of Jesus is a very strange way to show it. It may well be asked, well, why such poverty? Couldn't Jesus have accomplished his mission here without such abasement? Would his sacrifice have been any less effectual had he been born in a warm home instead of a cold stable, had he been born to a prosperous merchant rather than a poor carpenter? Was poverty a necessary element of his satisfaction of divine justice? Well, certainly his poverty highlights the contrast between his life above and his life below. Certainly, it helps the poor everywhere to know that he can commiserate with them, and it reminds us not to set our affection on things below, but on things above. But Puritan Thomas Goodwin has pointed out that Jesus' poverty might have been a necessary aspect of our redemption. He wrote this: A mere creature cannot give the simple tribute of glory that is due unto God. except by humbling himself in some way. Angels cover their faces. Elders cast themselves down before him. One of the things that man's sin has done is dishonor God. There is a great debt of honor that is due unto him that we have neglected to pay. Jesus, who came to pay our debts for us, humbled himself. debased himself, lowered himself in satisfaction for our failure to honor God. For nothing but a debasement can make a full amends for a debasement. Christ's humiliation, humbling of himself, becoming poor, extended to his relationship with others, rubbing shoulders with sinners. Though he was rich, with all the adoration of all the angelic beings, with the possession of all things, with all power, all authority, with that relationship with his father, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. He came here and he rubbed shoulders with sinners such as us, or such as we How our common speech must have offended him. We're men and women of unclean lips. We dwell among a people of unclean. unclean lips, gossip, swearing, slander, blasphemy, malice, witnessing our immorality, knowing our thoughts. Can you imagine? What patience was required as he interacted with men, men who were at the lowest level of understanding. Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How then can you say, show us the Father? How is it that you don't understand this parable? How then will you understand all parables? Parable of the sower. You picture Einstein spending his whole life teaching remedial science. to uh seventh graders. Picture, you know, Rembrandt or Monet spending his entire uh uh life uh f uh helping kindergartners uh finger paint. That's the idea. He came here, he dwelt with us, with sinners, to endure the rejection of his own people. We have no king but Caesar, the religious leader said. His own town, when he went and preached in Nazareth, what did they do? They brought him up to a hill. They were going to throw him over the cliff. His family. Neither did his brethren believe him. The scripture says, not till later. His disciples, they all forsook him and fled. His nation, he came unto his own, and his own received him not to endure the rejection of his own people. He became poor. To endure their mocking. Say we not well that you're a Samaritan and have a demon? John 8. He cast out devils through the prince of the devils. He saved others himself he cannot save. This was a long way from the adoration of the angels. And then, of course, to endure the cross, to endure the wrath of his father. Even the contemplation of going to the cross, being in agony, he prayed all the more earnestly, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And then to endure his father's turning his face away from him. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That's what he endured for us. He allowed his father to pour his wrath upon him. He went willingly to the cross to endure that because there was no other way for us. To be forgiven. Though he was rich, he became poor. Why? That we might become rich. He had to become man and die if we were ever to live and be restored to fellowship with the Father. God's holiness demands that sin be punished God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. God cannot permit any sin to ultimately violate his creation. It must be dealt with. Our only hope was for the innocent to die for the guilty. Though Jesus was rich, he became poor, that you and I, through his poverty, might become rich. The Greek term translated might be rich expresses completeness with permanent results. Jew might become rich, completely rich with permanent results. Christian, I've got news for you. You are rich. You're rich He that overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. You have great riches stored up for you. Paul tells the Corinthians, all things are yours. You are heirs of God. You are joint heirs with Christ. 1 Corinthians 3:21. The Apostle Peter said, God has begotten us to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away. that is reserved in heaven for you. Jesus said, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. You're like a child who has great wealth awaiting him when he reaches the age of maturity. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us, Paul said. So how foolish to bemoan our temporary lot here when I'm a child of the king. Now some of you may be thinking, yeah, well it'd be good to it's good to know about my inheritance, but it would be nice to have a little advance on it now Because I could sure use it. Well, in fact, God has given you a down payment. He has given you a down payment. From time to time you you read an article uh about uh someone who lived as a pauper in squalor, and then it's revealed upon his death or her death that in fact he or she had had great wealth. Valuable stocks or bonds are found among personal effects. For example, it was reported that a man named John Wendell and his sisters received a huge inheritance from their parents, but they used very little of it. They lived in the same modest house for 50 years. And when the last sister died, this is back in 1931, her estate was valued at more than $100 million Her only dress, however, was one that she had made herself and that she had reportedly worn for 25 years. Christian, you have riches now. The question is, are you reaping the benefits of your wealth? Are you using your wealth? You have the wealth of peace with God. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. All your sins are forgiven. They've been separated from you as far as the east is from the west. They'll be remembered against you no more. You have that wealth. You know what that's worth? Can you imagine what that's worth? You know what people in the world who have wealth would give to have that? The assurance that all their sins are forgiven? That you have an everlasting, unconditional love relationship with God? Are you enjoying your wealth? Yeah, the wealth of the peace of God, God has promised to work all things together for good to them that love it, to them who are the called according to his purpose. You have the wealth of the peace of God that passes all understanding, that keeps, that guards your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You have nothing to fear, you have nothing to worry about, because God 's in control How can you put a value on that? You have the wealth of access to God in prayer. Call upon me, and I will answer thee. Show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. not. Yeah, the wealth of access to God in prayer. What is that worth? How much could you sell that for on eBay? What would people give to have access to the creator of the universe? It's yours, Christian. You know, the wealth of power over sin. Reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Sin shall not have dominion over you. Are you using your wealth? Yeah, the wealth of a spiritual gift or gifts that God has given you for his service. The manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit of all. Are you using your gift for gifts? For the benefit of your brothers and sisters? Yeah, the wealth of the power to witness. Ye shall be witnesses unto me Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. You have the wealth of power to witness for Christ. Are you using your wealth? Yeah, the wealth of the fellowship of the saints. Brothers and sisters to encourage you and support you, to challenge you, to edify you, to call you to account. Are you using your wealth? Now why did Jesus do this? Though he was rich. Yet for your sakes he became poor. For your sakes he became poor. Out of the ivory palaces into a world of woe, only his great eternal love made my Saviour For your sakes. For you and me. Why did he do it? For us. For our sakes. For those who are proud and selfish. Discontent, sometimes angry, ungrateful, rebellious, impatient, disobedient, hypocritical, covetous , bitter. Gossipers, profane, idle, complaining, fearful, unfaithful, impure, etc. etc. For us, for our sakes he did it And what does the Bible call this willingness of Jesus who was rich? His willingness to become poor? What does the Bible call that? Grace. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. Grace. In other words, he didn't have to do it. He didn't have to do it. And was there ever a day in those 10 or 20 years that he labored as a carpenter when he couldn't have just dropped those crude tools and said, that's enough, enough of this? In the garden he could have said, Father, I will not do this, I cannot do this. I cannot go through with it. On the cross. He could have called for those legions of angels to come and deliver It was grace. It was grace. Grace that brought him here, grace that kept him here. Grace that led him to the cross. It was all grace. He did it for us. He did it for you. It's by grace that we're saved. Let me say a word for believers here. This passage provides us with a pleasant meditation on the incarnation. But let me remind you that it was written in order to motivate believers to give to supply the needs of fellow believers in distress. I think it's safe to say that compared with Compared with these to whom the Apostle Paul wrote this letter, most of us, us, are quite wealthy. Much more wealthy than most of those who received this letter when it was first written. And we will be called to give an account one day of how we used that material wealth that God has so abundantly bestowed on us. On us. What you do with your money is an expression of your deepest heart. Christian, what does your checkbook reveal? is most important to you. In response to the grace of the Lord Jesus manifested by his impoverishing himself for us, Christians have done things like stole themselves into slavery in order to reach other slaves. Entered leper colonies in order to reach lepers. Is it too much for God to ask us to be slightly materially diminished that others might be made spiritually rich? Forever? And then a word to unbelievers here. I hope that the implications of this verse are not lost on you No matter how much you own, if you don't have Christ, you're spiritually bankrupt, destitute of true holiness, without a relationship with your Creator. And Jesus said, what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Over the spot in Bethlehem, which is believed by many to be the birthplace of Christ. That is the spot in Bethlehem that is believed by many to be the spot. upon which Jesus was born, in other words, if indeed it was a cave, it was that area there. Over that area has been built the Church of the Nativity. A little devotional booklet, Our Daily Bread, many of you noted that over the centuries, the entrance to the church has twice been made smaller. The purpose in the last case was to keep marauders from entering the basilica on horseback. It's now referred to as, quote, the door of humility. I think uh We still have a photo somewhere of uh Donna bending down to enter that church when we were there forty years ago, I believe it was, 1975. It's a fitting way to see the spot, of course, that is believed to be Jesus' birthplace. It's fitting for at least two reasons. First of all, as we've considered this morning, Jesus humbled himself when he condescended to come to earth as a child to take upon himself human flesh. And so it's fitting that a visit to his birthplace should require some stooping. But secondly, and more importantly for us, just as Jesus humbled himself to come to earth, so we, earth dwellers, must humble ourselves to come to Jesus What am I saying? We have to come, Jesus says, as a little child. Not proud and puffed up. Little children don't have a lot of degrees. They don't have a lot of things they can point to that they've accomplished in life. That's the idea. We come to him not with our hands full of things that we think we've done, but empty-handed. So when you come to Jesus, you come on your knees, you come humbly, you lower yourself, you acknowledge your sin. You acknowledge your pride and you humble yourself and you come to him as a little child. You bow down before him. You acknowledge him as Lord, you acknowledge yourself as sinner, you cry out to him, God be merciful to me as sinner. That's how you come to Jesus. And boys and girls, if you haven't done that, this is a wonderful time of the year to do it. Jesus, if I haven't made it clear before, I want to make it clear now. I believe that I'm a sinner. I know it. I disobey mom. Sometimes I hit my sister. or take things that don't belong to me. Sometimes I tell lies. There's something wrong inside of me. I know it's there because it's in every one of us. It's certainly in my heart. But Jesus, I believe that you left heaven and you came to this earth and you lived a perfect life. You kept those laws that I broke. And then you went to the cross and you died, not because you sinned, but because I've sinned. You died as a substitute. You died in my place. You said, Father, punish me and let him go free. Let her go free. Lord, I believe that. If I haven't made it clear before, I want to make it clear now, Lord. I believe that. I want you to be my Lord and my Savior. You come to God that way, you pray that prayer. I don't care how old you are. You pray that humble prayer, mean that in your heart, and God says in his words, all your sins will be forgiven. And you'll be with him in heaven just as surely as the thief on the cross who just looked to Jesus and said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus said, This day you will be with me in paradise. Come to him. Won't you come to him today? It was this time of the year, I've said it before, I'll say it again. This time of the year when God brought me to saving faith. It was a wonderful time to come. I wanted Christmas to mean something that year. God opened my heart and gave me faith to believe. Won't you come to him today Let's pray. What a wonderful thing it was. When Christ, who was rich, for our sakes became poor. Why? That we, through his poverty, might become rich. Thank you, Father, for this precious gift. Work in our hearts we pray. May believers continue to pray for unbelievers that this might be the time for their salvation. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.