We're starting a sermon series today on Ephesians, and today we will be introducing a primary theme called being in Christ or being united to Him. to Christ. And so I would ask as you stand that you stand as we read the opening 14 verses, which we'll be looking at for about a month to six weeks. So kind of get used to them. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will to the promise of the glory of his grace by which he made us accepted in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence having made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which he purposed in himself That in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth. In him. In him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. That we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him you also trusted. After you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also Having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. To the praise of his glory. And may the Lord have his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Our sermon title is in Him. Please be seated. Well, the book of Ephesians has been described as one of the most one of the sublimest and most profound of all New Testament teachings. It is perhaps the grandest of all Paul's letters. In elegance An exalted phrasing it surpasses even Romans in my estimation, although the content does not surpass that of Romans But its beauty and its uh phrasing and the way the the sublime nature of the topic is such that it does, in my mind, uh surpass Romans. And as I did with the Revelation, we need to get the big picture of its teaching before we get into it The revelation helped us understand God's eternal plan in terms of how we're to view the world today, specifically in the world today in light of what God is doing and what he is going to do. So Ephesians also has a major purpose, and that's why it's included in the Scripture, and it is such that we, as God's people, God's church, may understand who we are. As God's people, God's church. It teaches us as individuals where we are in that, how we stand in God's loving providence. But even more this letter speaks to us as a church, the gathered people of God, corporately considered. And here's where it rises to the most sublime of all of its teachings. Ephesians, especially chapters 1 through 4, are the most definitive teachings in all scripture about the nature of the church. And it's uh it calls us to a deeper understanding of what the church is, so that so that the church as we see it in God's eternal plan and what he's designed for it becomes an object of great joy for us that we have been privileged to be included. So it calls us to a deeper understanding of the church. And today we'll be seeing how God has called the church in Christ. We're going to be pondering that. that those words in Christ throughout the whole study of what's coming for the first few months or the first few weeks. I don't know, it might be months. But we'll be doing this so this it's not like today I'm going to tell you everything there is to know about being in Christ. We'd be here till the cows come home. But we are going to introduce it today and at least begin to get a feel for it. So today we see that in Christ, God has called us, called forth a new creation. a new man, a new community. And although, and though being in Christ is not identical with being in church, in his church, yet you can't separate them. And being in Christ is the reason why Paul wrote this first chapter of Ephesians, as we look in at today. They are perhaps the most sublime of the entire letter, which is perhaps the most sublime of all of Paul's writings. And they open our eyes to something which is truly beautiful to behold. And that is my prayer for this study. I pray that we as a church together shall be so lifted in our ideas of what God is doing and has done for us in Christ That we will take on a whole new excitement in the way that we worship as together and work together and do the things God has put together for us. Okay, well let's begin by fixing the importance of being in Christ in our minds. Now look at the bulletin, if you will, today. I've outlined it and you can see there. that in the uh in the scripture passage that uh that we have just read, I didn't even underline and well embolden all of them You see the words in Christ or in Him or in the Beloved, you see those throughout the entire chapter. It's just like, you know, God saying, hey, I want you to think about this, what it means to be in Christ. And so the whole chapter or the whole passage holds together with the idea of Paul bringing out different facets of what it means to be in Christ and what God has done in Christ. So I count something like 10 times, 10, 12, 13 times in those passages that Paul talks about being in Christ. And folks, this is God's word. He says that that much you would think he would want us to what he's talking about, right? And so we have to apply our minds to this. It may be a challenge, but at the same time, we need to work on it to get it fixed better than perhaps before of what it means. Well, today we will focus primarily only on the first two verses and why Paul calls out to the Ephesians as saints and faithful ones in Christ Jesus. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, let's step back and say what do we see in these verses? First, Paul calls himself an apostle. An apostle of Jesus Christ, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. Now this verse plainly speaks to some important points that we need to understand if we're going to grow in our understanding of what the letter to Ephesians speaks to. What we see here is that Paul right away introduces a great idea. God in his Provision in his beautiful plan for what he was going to do in the world has furnished his church with apostles. Chapter 4, verse 11. Paul will bring this out. When Paul says that God gave some to be apostles , Some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints. So right away Paul is asserting here that he is an apostle, he is bringing that to mind as a statement for how we should understand everything that's going to follow. This verse speaks in that same way to the idea of Christian vocation. Paul was called to be an apostle. He didn't just wake up one day and say, I'd kind of like to be an apostle, you know? No. God set him aside from all eternity to be an apostle. He was an apostle of Jesus Christ, not just any old apostle, but an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. So, just in passing, I'm not going to spend a great deal of time on this. The idea is That there is such a thing called Christian vocation. And that Christian vocation doesn't just go with all. The question is: what has God set each of us aside for? We are here to be part of his church. We are here to be in Christ. We are here to be servants of the Most High God. How could we not expect that God has given us and has planned for us a Christian vocation, as he did with Paul? It's very difficult sometimes, particularly for young people, to come to grips with what their vocation might even be, and some old folks the same way. But the bottom line is that we should all be striving. We should all be striving to find out what it is that is my role in God's providence. What am I here for? And sometimes those things will open up for us new ways of seeing our life. Because that question opens us, opens up to us the picture of how God wants us to live our life. I'll just give you a couple examples, you know. Suppose that your vocation has to be some particular ministry of some sort. Well, that's your vocation, and it opens up that that's with the purpose that God puts you here, and all other things are subordinate to it. Or God may call us to the vocation of parent. Now, how is it that if I've been called as a vocation of parent, how am I to fulfill that in such a godly manner that it's going to be a representative of what it means to be in Christ. So all of those kind of things are important, and that's what we will do. So I'll briefly develop two points. First, that of Paul being an apostle of Jesus Christ, and then we'll speak just briefly about the other. Paul's commissioning and convert- conversion and convention uh commissioning was branded into his mind. Now we all know the story, I assume, and it's recorded for us in Acts 9. And when he then, as Saul of Tarsus, uh was a young, fire-breathing, rabbinical Jew who hated Christians. Not a good place to start. But he had guarded the clothes of those people, coats of those older men who had stoned Stephen. And he was zealously making a name for himself by seeking out Christians for persecution and for murder. And he's on his way to Damascus. And he's on his way there to do more of this bloody work. And then Jesus appeared to him on the road. And I'm not going to go into the details. I'm going to let you look it up and read it. But his appearance to Saul on that road has a great bearing on what it means to be in Christ because Saul, now Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, is taking what he learned starting at that moment, the earth-shattering significance of it. And applying it in his teachings. It goes back to what saw what Jesus said to Saul. He got your attention now, Saul? You're down fat flat on your face, you know. Are you listening? And the question is, Saul Why are you persecuting me? Now that hit Saul like a ton of bricks. He didn't say, Saul, why are you persecuting those people who believe in me? He didn't say anything like Saul, you know These people do nothing to you, you're being unjust by persecuting them. Notice that? Jesus said, why are you persecuting me? Now let that think in. Because it hit Saul like a ton of bricks. And it's like I think happened to him, like happened to us so many times. When we have done something and it suddenly impact of what we have done hits us and we say, what have I done? How can I be that stupid? Well, Saul saw then and there that how Jesus of Nazareth was the true Christ of God And not only that, but these people who were he was persecuting were the true people of God and that there existed a covenant relation between these Christians and their Messiah so intimate and so close and so personal That Jesus identified with them and they with him. Not only were these Christians his people But in a very real sense, they were in Christ, in the Messiah. And they are so closely united to him. that to persecute them was to persecute the person of our Lord Christ himself. Now, if that doesn't curl your socks, I don't know what else can. That is deep stuff. And to realize that that's exactly what is driving Paul now as an apostle to write this letter and to express these things to us should somewhat overwhelm us. Jesus went then to commission Saul as Paul as his apostle, his messenger, his prophet. He is an apostle of Jesus Christ. Now that tells us a great deal. He was an apostle to speak to the whole world. about Jesus Christ and and to take the words of Jesus Christ and to take the message that Jesus gave him, it's a living relationship, not not just taking the history of Jesus on his earthly walk, but Jesus in his exalted and raised position as he was guiding him and sending words through him to guide his church. Saul was there to speak the words of Jesus to God's people. And what was he to say? That this blessed privilege Of being united to Christ was open to them also. The Gentiles were to hear that they could be united to Christ. So Fossil was an ambassador. He spoke with the authority of the king who sent him And Paul was now, as he says here, an ambassador of Christ, and therefore that was his Christian vocation. And I'm not going to go into a great deal about what this Christian vocation idea is, but I do think it's worthwhile touching on it slightly. He was an apostle by the will of God, the eternal will of God. Now, this translation is a little bit misleading if you look at the original language. best support the translation, he was an apostle through the will of God. In other words God did j did not just assert to Paul, or in other words, God's will did not just assert to Paul that God wanted him to be an uh apostle to Jesus Christ. God's will made him an apostle of Jesus Christ. God formed him as an apostle. God gifted him as an apostle. God transformed him from a fire-breathing traitor into a self-sacrificing, submissive zealot for Christ. There's an amazing transformation here. And that transformation was in the essence of what it meant had to be. for him to be an apostle. So God's will actually transformed him into it The problem that we have oftentimes with the Damascus experience of Saul of Tarsus is that we all think that, you know, if you don't have one of those, you're not really a Christian. But that is far from the truth. But what happened to Saul is what happens to us all. Brothers and sisters, if you are in Christ Jesus, And you are united to him through faith, such that you are in Christ Jesus, then God has already begun to transform you. and to make you what he wants you to be as his servant. If it was his will that you be saved, it is also his will that you be sanctified and empowered and equipped to do his will. Can you stop that? No. You can kick against the goads, but like Jonah learned, it's better just to get up and go to Nineveh and get on with it. So that's the idea behind what is going on here. God's will, each of us, God's will has is for us to play a part in his kingdom, and he's going to equip us and make us ready for that. Now, God doesn't save people so that he can put them on a shelf. Are you collectors, any of anybody in here collectors of stuff? No, I'm the only one. Oh man. I think I have right at two hundred and fifty knives of different sorts. You know? And will I ever use 250 knives? No. Some of them I got from my brother, but the bottom line is I got a lot of knives. And occasionally, like my brother, I like to pick 'em out, polish them, sharpen them, just look at 'em. Well, they serve no useful purpose other than the fact that I like them. Well, brothers and sisters, that's not how God saves you. He isn't collecting you to put you up on a shelf and step back and say, look, you know, I got all these guys. Aren't they pretty? No. God 's salvation and his sanctification is unto the end of being his servants. He has a role that he wants us to fill. In Romans 2, Paul asserts that God has created works from all eternity for us to walk in them. So God calling us in Christ, as he did with Saul, is a call to be in Christ as a servant of Christ, as Paul was an apostle of Christ. And therefore to understand our mission, to fulfill our mission, and thereby play our part in the advancement of Christ in this world. It's not exactly apparent to know what this is, but it's a great obligation on us. to seek to know what God's will is for our lives. And that's an area where oftentimes discipleship is needed in a church. And if we need discipleship in the church for that to happen, I I know some guys that could probably make that happen, make it come too. I will submit to you, though, that I don't believe any Christian can be truly happy in their life, truly walking in a sense of flourishing. until he understands or she understands herself or himself in terms of God's vocation. Because that's where our hearts become settled. And it builds our confidence and perseverance, and because we know our vocation, we know that God is working in us in our vocation, and that we will not fail to bear fruit. So, think of what it would mean for Liberty Church if we became on fire for Christ. Each of us to do our individual part, and even more importantly than doing our individual part, to work together to fulfill our corporate part because just as he's given a vocation to us individually, so he has called us to be a new creation, a new thing in this world called the church. And it has its own identifiable vision and ministry to fulfill also. And we need to know what that is. Because many of our individual vocations, Christian vocations, will be directed to the end for which he has prepared his church. Okay. All right. The second main point here is to see how God identifies the recipients of this letter to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Now let's consider this whole saints thing. You guys have been a church here for 50 years. I know this is all kind of review, but let's take that word saints. The word saints translates a Greek word that essentially means holy ones. Hagioi is in the Greek word, and it's a substantive, which means it's an adjective that is being used as a noun. And in its form, in its adjective form, when it's actually used as an adjective, it it translates directly to holy. So these things In Ephesus, and the saints at Liberty Church are those that God has called together and has given them the status of being holy ones. Brothers and sisters, if you're united to Christ through faith, you are holy. You are holy to the Lord. Now the first thing that hits us is me. I'm the guy that was just praying imprecatory prayers on the car, you know, on my way into work. Yet that doesn't change the fact. It's not essentially and ultimately how we act, it's who we are. Now, what we have to do and what we work on in sanctification is bringing our lives in conformity with who we are, but that doesn't change the fact that who we are are holy ones. We're saints. To God in Christ. Now Paul spe specifically speaks of those in Ephesus, but his letter is to address all of those who are holy in the Lord and faithful in Christ Jesus, which means that Paul, the apostle of Jesus Christ, is speaking to us. And one of the things he wants us to learn today is that in Christ, as we're developing what that means , We are holy, holy ones. And it is not particularly or immediately associated with our actions, but rather our status. To be holy to the Lord, like the altar in the Old Testament. or the things that were sanctified were those that had been set aside for God's holy purposes and use, and they became holy in that setting aside. So, wherever we are in our life, as we live through our life, we have been set aside. We have been anointed through baptism. We have been. We have been given all of the things we need to do to show a force to the world that we are holy to God. Holy to God. Well, it says that we are holy to God because we are faithful, or those who are faithful in Christ Jesus So what is this in Christ Jesus business a bit more closely? The word saints or holy ones would have been directed to the people of Israel also in the Old Testament times, and in fact though they that weren't called they were used Hebrews to talk about them. But uh the people of God back then were were called to be a holy people, a holy priesthood. They were holy to God And so God has called all of Israel to faithfulness. But what do we see here? Paul doesn't see any ambiguity in this. He is writing to those who are holy ones in Christ Jesus. And that is a key point. Here we introduce the comprehensive plan of God for all things. And so let's look back at creation and work our way forward and track it down to today. We see that in that period of time from creation up till today, God has divided it into two sections The first section is put under the biblical heading of being in Adam. The period of time was governed by death, as the scripture teaches us, not for all people. But because that was the prevailing idea. Death reigned in those days. There wasn't the sp uh the effusion of life that came later. That period of time was governed by death because in Adam all men died. And Adam was the head of all of those who seek to govern their lives without God. If you Paul will be talking about what it means to be in Adam and in Christ and holding them in against each other. And before Christ was born. Adam was the covenant head for all practical purposes of the whole world. There was only this tiny little backwater bunch of people over in Israel. that have always been a pain in the neck, and they continue to be a pain in the neck, but God kept them as his special people And from them, of course, we have the Old Testament and the great words of that. But there was no real light in the world. The world was in darkness because the the light that shone in Israel was dim indeed. Now during that period of time, I'm not about to tell you that no one was saved, but their individual salvation was based on faith for the Christ that was coming. and the salvation he would bring. And that salvation was always an encompassing thing. It was never pictured as only individual. When Christ came, the world was going to change, brother. There's going to be a lot of good stuff going on, and though it goes on, that that change in the world that's going to happen. We're going to be part of that, or those who had faith in the coming Christ look forward to it. They died in hope, not seeing what we see today. and which we take for granted. But then in the fullness of time, Christ was born of a woman. He came into the world to be the true Adam, the second Adam, and through his work, through the indwelling Holy Spirit and the power of God , He kicked off a whole new epoch in history, a new period of time. And now the prevailing covenant head in the world. is no longer the first Adam, but the second. We now live in a period of time as we saw Jesus pictured in the Revelation when he's riding his white horse and going about slaying the nations with his sword, the word of God. And he is at the head of a victorious army. An army that is comprised of angels, yes indeed, but also of men, men and women called saints. the holy ones of Christ. This relationship with Jesus is so intimate that those who are tied to him in his vocation, that of bringing salvation into the world They are so intimately tied to him as their leader and as their Lord that they can truly be said to be in him. Because they are united to him in faith, and they are therefore the faithful ones in Christ Jesus, as Paul says here. They're so united to him. They're united to him in his birth. They're united to him in his life on earth. They're united to him in his death on the cross And most importantly, for our continuing life, they are united to Him in His ascension to heaven and in His present rule over all men and all things. We're united to Christ intimately such that everything that is his is ours. It's a really hard thing for us to really or to grasp. This union that we have with Christ is the ground of all of our blessings. We are united to Christ, means that we are in Christ, and thus we have God as our Father, as Paul says in verse 2 As we go through the rest of this passage in the coming weeks, again and again we will see this. We are blessed in the heavenlies by God. Because we are united to Christ. We were predestined by God, elected by God before the creation of the world, because even then we were united to Christ. Brothers and sisters, this is the gospel. All of our blessings, all of our hope, all of our promises are yes and amen because we have been united to Christ. He united to us, himself to us, as his will for us and the purpose of his coming. This sounds like a done deal, right? It is. But we must embrace it. We must trust it. We must be overwhelmed by it. It must fill us with awe as well as joy. and a powerful motivating force that becomes a fire in our belly to serve this Christ who has united us to him. This sermon today I've only touched the surface. John Calvin saw the whole gospel as being summed up in our union with Christ. I'm not going to say he was wrong, he was John Calvin. Well I'm going to say is that if we as individuals and as a church truly embrace what it means to be in Christ, Brothers and sisters, our lives will be transformed. You may have been a Christian for 50 years, 60 years. I doubt any of you, a few of you are older than me. But you know, for however long you've been a Christian, you may have been that. But maybe this idea has not truly sunk in And let me tell you, when it does, you will see the world differently, you'll see yourself differently, and you'll see your salvation differently. It's not just a matter of a get out of hell free card. It is a matter of entering into a whole different sphere of existence and knowing you're in it. A sphere of existence that's called being in Christ. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, as we try to approach the depth of meaning that is inherent in these words. Open our hearts and open our minds to it. Oh Lord God. Create in us a new heart. A new heart that rests in the condition that you have united us to yourself through faith And that in doing so, Lord God, our lives have been predetermined to fulfill your the role of servants that you've given us to be. And that this is far from being some awful reality, but rather the opening of our greatest joy. Give us that sense of feeling, Lord, as we as we pursue this wonderful letter that Paul wrote, and help us, Lord God, as we study it, to become more and more convinced. that you truly are a great and wonderful God, even as we have just sung a few minutes ago. In your name we pray. Amen.