Well we come again to essentially the same passage that I read last week and that we thought about Ephesians one verse uh fifteen and we're now moving down to chapter two verse ten. We'll be here, like I said, for the first half of the sermon on this passage today and the next one following next Sunday, the Lord willing So I would ask, if you would, to please stand as I read the words of Paul, the Word of God, from Ephesians 1, verses 15 through chapter 2, verse 10. Therefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all of the saints, do not cease to give thanks to you, for you Making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you The spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of His glory, of His inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his mighty power which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at the right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might and dominion And every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And he put all things under his feet. And gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. And you, he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you Once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit, who now works in the sons of disobedience. among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath just as the others. But God, who is rich in mercy Because of his great love, which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved and raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The title for today is Death to Life. Please be seated. Why me, Lord That was the title of Chris Christofferson 's greatest hit. Believe it or not, in his career. How many of you have heard of Chris Christofferson? Uh yeah, there's a few. elite, educated, tasteful people out there. I'm glad to hear it. So anyway, that was the title of his Greatest hit. Strangely enough, he also wrote Sunday Morning Coming Down, which is a good song, and Help Me Make It Through the Night, which but But he wrote this particular song, Why Me, as a result of his conversion experience. He was in a revivalist type meeting. The Lord put his hand on him and he wound up doing something he never thought he'd ever do, and that was to come forward and confess his sins and hear the words of grace with new ears. So this song, Why Me, Lord, was his response to that. My sons, by the way, sang this song and played their guitars. at my brother's funeral service. So it has uh a great deal. The song today has had uh touched my heart also for that reason. I think every true Christian comes to a point in his or her life when the humbling truth of their own salvation touches them down in the very deepest part of their soul. They see just what God has done for them, but they see it with enlightened eyes, with with eyes that have been awakened to see it in a different light When the truth of having been raised from death to life, it becomes vivid before their eyes. Like the lyrics of the song. Why me, Lord? What have I ever done to deserve even one of the pleasures I've known? Tell me, Lord, what did I ever do? That was worth loving you for the kindness you've shown. I'm sure some of us here today know exactly what that song is speaking of. I would love to hear your story. I love hearing how God has worked in people's lives. Perhaps you might even be persuaded to share it with a congregation someday by giving a testimony before them. However, as life presses upon us, even we who have have gone through that experience of having that awareness of just what God has done, as life presses on us, we tend to lose sight of it. Satan constantly seeks to strip us of the joy of our salvation. That's one of his big deals And that joy, the joy of our salvation, is firmly grounded in a sense of wonder and gratitude for what God has done for us. and particularly for the miracle of having received life from the dead. Our passage today should shake us right out of our spiritual lethargy if that's part of what you may be going through now. The psalmist many years ago sang about it in Psalm 40. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust and does not respect the proud. nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord my God, are your wonderful works. which you have done and your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them They are more than can be numbered. When's the last time you had that sense of just amazement Perhaps on your knees or your spiritual knees, praying with our Lord and praying to our God, and just having the sense of being overcome with the blessedness of what He has done for you. Paul is much of that frame of mind in writing these words. For he proclaims in this passage the wonderful works that God has done for us in Christ Jesus. And notice how Paul frames God 's great works for us in terms of gifts. Gifts. I'll get it out. Gifts. Therefore, I also, after I heard your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of Glitch, may give to you The spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. This whole passage is about God's wonderful works that he does for his people, and he frames it first to last in terms of gifts. In verse 17 and following, Paul pleads with God to pour out even more gifts on these beloved Ephesians. He begs God to give them the spirit of wisdom and revelation and knowledge. Because Paul longs for the Ephesians to be filled with overwhelming shalom, a sense of well-being. Even in the midst of persecution, even in the midst of hunger, even in the midst of hard times they're being spat upon when they walk down the street. Even for the slaves among them who are having to endure tough times, or those who have come there at great risk of maybe losing their social status for hanging out with these crazy Christians But what God, when God gives them these gifts, all of those things in Paul's minds are counted for nothing. For the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord. Shalom. Being at peace, having an underlying joy. That transforms our lives is the gift that God can give and for which Paul prays. This leads us to the thrilling realization, if we, if Paul, uh, the things that Paul prays for, leads us to the thrilling realization. that we have a glorious inheritance in Christ. So Paul rounds out his prayer asking God to make us know, to really know, grab a hold of that. Don't just read over it. To really know the exceeding greatness of his mighty power, in specific the power of which he worked in Christ, to know it not just aware of it, but to know it. So Paul frames this entire passage in terms of God's gifting to his people. with the stuff, the things that make our life worth living. Its climax in verse 8 points out that faith itself, this is chapter 2, verse 8, That faith itself is a gift of God. And I will not I will do an entire sermon on that next week, God willing. And so we'll just pass by that now and pass it in mentioning it by mentioning it. So let's pause and think for a minute and let some of this that I've spoken of this far sink in. Now all of us here today, I imagine, like getting gifts at birthdays, anniversaries, weddings, and showers. And there's nothing wrong with that, within limits. As I get older, I realize that I have more stuff than I will ever actually get the use of. And so there's not much that I really covet anymore. But I remember what it was like when I was a kid coming around Christmas time. Our family didn't really do much for birthdays. We noticed them, but there was no gifting. That cost money, so we didn't do that. But Christmas was important. And I even had a special bank account, maybe some of you had it, that you could put money into the bank and then save it up for Christmas through the year. Now the downside of all this, that emphasis on Christmas and looking forward to giving gifts, is that kids particularly think their entire world their whole life will be better if they just get this particular gadget or that particular uh uh uh thing of clothing, whatever it may be that is high on their list of, oh, I just gotta have that. And this materialistic kind of attitude doesn't just correspond to children. It comes about whenever we measure our lives, the quality of our lives, by the presence or lack of material things. It's a great irony when we look forward to getting something like the little kid in the Christmas story looking forward to that Red Rider BB gun. It's a great irony that when we do get them, we're usually disappointed. Life just doesn't improve all that much. But it's not so with the gifts of God. And that's what Paul is saying here. His desire for these Ephesians and for us also is a desire. for them to overflow in particular prosperity, not in physical prosperity, but in spiritual well-being. More accurately, Paul wants them to fully appreciate what God has already given them. Already given them Not something they're looking forward to, but something they already possess. He wants them to wake up to the gift that God has given them in Jesus Christ. not to just a bare hurt head knowledge or an acceptance of propositional truth What he wants for them is an overflowing heart knowledge of what God has done. Like when a man, perhaps, is observing his wife going about her regular business. And his heart just warms up at seeing her and thinking of her and delighting in the joy that she brings to him. He knows that he or she is his wife. He knows that propositionally that is true. But in his heart, he knows the beauty of that. The joy of it. The blessing of it. And that is what Paul is longing for, for the Ephesians and for us. He knows that awakening to that recognition of what we have received in Christ is in itself a gift of God through the Holy Spirit. And I would suggest that this gifting in particular is the foundation for living a blessed life, a flourishing life A life of shalom. A life that we would not trade for any other becomes grounded in this. an awakened heart that loves God for what he has given us in Christ. So Paul goes on then to point us towards some of the specifics, verse 22 and verse 23. First he he emphasized, as I mentioned last week, and can't emphasize enough, so I'm going to do it again. That God's wonderful gift of Christ to his church is a huge one. Verse 22. And he put all things under his feet and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. Verse 22, God gave him Jesus to be head of the church. Now notice what Paul is precisely saying. God has given a gift to his church. God has given us a gift. We are the Church of Jesus Christ. Therefore, we have this gift. This gift is Jesus Christ as head over all things Now, as head over all things, that means he is the governing mind, the guiding oversight over all things, and he has been given to the church. Now this raises up that whole idea, the doctrine of covenant headship, and we need to talk about that a bit. Now Paul's going to follow up on this throughout the chapter, throughout the book of Ephesians, most precisely in Ephesians 5, when he talks about covenant headship regarding husbands and wives. So we need to get this idea of Jesus' covenant headship over the church clear in our minds because all other aspects of covenant headship, all other questions of covenant headship, Find their uh uh foundation here. Covenant heads of household Elders as subordinate covenant heads over congregations and even God's design for the entire reach of human society. God has built into all social orders, human social orders. The concept and application of covenant headship. It's not just something that applies to the church. And so it's all founded, though, in the idea that Christ is present in the church as head over all things. So therefore, our covenant headship in the world has to be consciously an expression of Christ's covenant headship. Why? Because, as Paul clearly says here, He gave Christ to be head over all things to the church. Now, if he's head over all things , What has been left out As he left out our neighborhoods, as he left out our government Has he left out anything? Now, he has been given to the church as head over all things And therefore, the purpose of the church, as we will more fully develop in the coming chapters, the purpose of the chapter of the church is to equip the saints. for the work of the ministry in presenting to the world that Christ, who has been given to the church, is head over all things. Both that within the church and that outside it. Now, brothers and sisters, that loan built on what we've already talked about, should fill our hearts and our lives with hope and gratitude. It should give us the deepest, most compelling sense of purpose for our lives. We need to have our lives stand for something. We can't just go on day to day and day to day without having some overriding sense of purpose for all of the stuff we put up with. And still and be able to find joy and a sense of flourishing in it. We've got to have something that we can see as being a purpose for all things. And so therefore, if we can see that purpose, then we can align our lives for it, and we can have a sense of purpose for how we're working in the world. I'm watching a DVD series right now, recommended to me, and I've been watching a few uh episodes of it called The Pacific. And it's all about the First Marine Corps and their uh battle and the war against the Japanese island hopping across the Pacific. And what it shows for us in there very clearly is that those Marines were fighting for something. I mean, they are putting up with horror. But they only way they could reconcile the horror that they were receiving and the horror they were inflicting. The only way that they could reconcile that was to have a sense of purpose, a higher purpose in what they were doing. Now I'm not talking about some George M. Cohen For those of you who know who he is, some George M. Cohen since uh Cohen sense of patriotism. Now they they saw something, they were fighting for something that was above And even larger than their own country. They were fighting evil. Evil as it indwelt and motivated an entire empire. Evil which drove soldiers to have to be brought out one by one in holes in the ground because they would not give up. They fought to the very end, and the only way to win was to kill them all. It caused the Japanese soldier to fiercely and suicidally Conduct mass attacks against entrenched marine positions so that after the smoke had cleared, the bodies were stacked up like firewood. See, these Marines had to reconcile in their own minds, or they would have gone crazy. That they were part of something that was larger than themselves. And so they endured and they fought in a manner and did stuff we can't really imagine and I shall not talk about. But brothers and sisters , the idea of living and working and perhaps even dying or something that is larger than ourselves is at the core of the Christian faith. It's about self-sacrificial loving. A love that willingly submits Because it is for something right and just and true and in submission And dedicating our lives to that higher purpose, our lives then begin to take on new meaning and purpose. We discover that not only do we submit, that we love to submit Tell me, do you have a sense of that purpose in your own life? I would love to hear it from you if you do. No matter what you're facing, does that sense of purpose clarify and inform you in how you should face it? Do you see your life in terms of having been given a great honor? And if you do, how has that changed your life personally in your daily interactions? And the way you are directing your life. God has given us a great gift, Christ, as head over all things. And the church as his body. Now, verse chapter two, verses one through three I want to go into some detail with God's wonderful gift to us as individuals. We've talked about his gift to us as a congregation. Now let's talk about how he has gifted us individually. Chapter 2, verse 1. And you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked according to the course of this world. according to the Prince of the Power of the Air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just like the rest of them. Now this gift is truly amazing. We need to take it to heart and ponder it. Because Paul is here saying For we who believe, for us who believe, we have been, had a miraculous work done for us. Something truly extraordinary. In other words, we have to appreciate what has been done. But in order to appreciate what has been done, we have to appreciate what we were before it was done. We have to come to grips with the truth that apart from Christ and the Holy Spirit, we were by nature children of wrath. Children of wrath. We were en route to hell. And we didn't just sin. We were sinners. Our entire being was sinful. Now this is the doctrine of total depravity, and only Calvinists truly appreciate it. The other approaches to this try to try to smooth it down a little bit and say, well, at least there's one good thing about us, we have free will, something on that order. But this is the doctrine of original sin also, which contributes to it. When Adam, our first father, passed down to us his sinful DNA. He caused all of his offspring to inherit his corruption and guilt. And therefore corruption is corruption of our entire nature. Now let me illustrate it this way. Some of you won't like this, but it worked. I would like you to consider walking into your kitchen kitchen and discovering a roach on the floor. I heard it. You, I heard it. And he's just there. He's running around on your floor doing roach-like things. Now, metaphorically speaking, he has free will. He can choose to run under the bridge, or he can take his chances scurrying for that hole in the wall over there. He has free will, but nothing he does is pleasing to you. Right? Okay Do you bend down, do you pick him up, and do you say, that's okay, Roach, I know it's not your fault. It's just the way you were both created. No, because nature is abhorrent to you. You don't want him just out of your kitchen. You want him dead. Now consider a butterfly flitting around your garden on the flowers. What reaction does this evoke in you? Oh, what a pretty butterfly. You don't want you uh in every way that insect's nature is pleasing to you. Now, what would it take to transform a roach into a butterfly? Would that not be amazing? It would be transformed from an insect who by nature is an object of wrath into one who by nature Is pleasing to you and God. Now, brothers and sisters, we who have been born again have had that same miracle applied to us. We are by now, we are now by nature pleasing to God. Now you may not see that But we are. Why? Because we are no longer slaves to sin like we once were. A person who is by nature a child of wrath is a person enslaved to sin. And Paul describes it in great detail. It is to walk according to the course of this world, to be obedient to the prince of the power of the air. It is to have the Spirit who works in the sons of disobedience present in us. It is to conduct ourselves for the lusts of our flesh, and those lusts are not just those that are, you know, so blatant. Rather, it is to pursue the desires of our flesh in our sinful minds, not being focused on the spiritual things in the world around us. but to be focused on lives that are characterized by the society in which we lived. I wonder how many of us here know what it's like to be a slave to sin. Some of us may have never given it much thought, and that's one of Satan's most deadly traps. Because really what that means is that we're wearing a comfortable dog collar. All the while we're on a leash. And as such, we don't realize just how much we are enslaved. That we all know about those highly visible addictive sins, that we may know of others, or have had our own history of being enslaved to alcoholism or drugs. And some of us may have been enslaved to sex or corn or partying. And those are readily discernible. But brothers and sisters, there's other sins. that are just not that blatant, and who are per which are perhaps even more insidious Think about Jesus talking to that to his disciples about how hard it is for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. Why is that? Because he loves his earthly life as it is. He loves that life more than a self-sacrificial life for Christ. Now think of how hard it is. To by our own will turn away from something that addictive. We may, by sheer willpower, stop doing the overt stuff My brother again, he broke a cigarette addiction of 50 years, more than 50 years, by simply throwing a pack of lucky strikes in the in the uh uh garbage and never smoked another one But right up to his dying day, he never stopped wanting to smoke. That weakness in us, that total inability , To rule over our own desires is in essence what it means to be dead in our trespasses and sins. We can't control our passions even though we deny them, and the result is a diminished quality of life of joy. We're not really living but rather existing in that area. Now what kind of gift would it be for God to give us victory over that To where we hated the idea, in a trivial sense, of cigarettes. And so it's easy to put them away. Easy in quotation marks. What kind of gift would it be to have victory over sin rather than just by discipline controlling it? Would that not be like moving from darkness to light? Would it not be like getting life from death? God, through Jesus Christ, through the Holy Spirit, has transformed us from our former state of being dead and trespasses in sin. Such that we were indistinguishable from the sons of disobedience and were by nature children of wrath. And that, brothers and sisters, is worth thanksgiving. Next week we will take up the next stage of his gifts, which is the gift of life, as it is clearly stated in chapter 2, verses 4 through 7 My prayer for you today is simply this, to realize that our God through Christ has given us every reason to live a life of meaning and purpose. Shalom, peace, and appreciation. And that is exactly what he has called us to do. Pray with me, please. Our Lord and God, even as we think about this, we thank you for the great blessing that you have given us in Christ, one that we can barely even wrap our minds around. How could you love us this much? Why us? And really, it just comes down to you again. It's because you loved us. So, Lord and God, we thank you for these great gifts and for the gift of life, which we will take up next week. And I ask, Lord and God, that you seal these to our hearts And help us know them more deeply, more purely, and love you more purely as a result. In the name of our blessed Savior who brought all of these things to us, I pray. Amen.