The passage today presents a challenge to me, and I will ask your prayers for me as I go through it, because Uh there is just so much in it, so m much that is deep and sublime, I fear that I'm unable to do it justice. But we will uh we'll start with verse eleven because it sets the uh context for verse 17 and following, which is where I'll be spending my time. So I would ask if you would please stand as I read our sermon passage for today, Ephesians 4, verses 11 through 24. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints to the work of the ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, that we should no longer be children uh uh tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men. For the cunning in the cunning craft craftiness of deceitful plotting But speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things unto him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective workings by which every part does its share. causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. This I say, therefore, and testify to the Lord That you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind. Having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness to work all uncleanliness, uncleanness, and greediness. But you Not so learned Christ. You have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. that you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lust. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind that you put on the new man, which created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness. And may the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes through his word. The sermon title today is The Offer of True Humanity. As it develops throughout the week, it might be better said the two ways before. us. Please be seated. I think I mentioned before to you that when I was young I loved baseball Don't care so much for it today because it's just gotten so professional and the you know these guys giving so much money that something's been lost in my estimation. But I loved it when I was young. St. Louis Cardinals were my favorite. Stand the man musual. Oh yeah, he was great. But everyone knew during those days back in the fifties and the dark ages uh that the team to beat was always going to be the New York Yankees. I don't care. Sooner or later you're gonna have to go up against them. And they were just that good. The entire roster was a powerhouse. Names that many of you probably don't remember, but were everyday words to us kids back then. Mickey Mantle Roger Maris, Whitey Ford, Casey Single, who was the manager. But my favorite Yankee, however, was Yogi Berra. There was Star Catcher. He was a hoot. You never know knew what was gonna come out of his mouth next. Like when he once said, you know, a nickel ain't worth a dime anymore. Or it ain't the heat, it's the humility. And that was another one. However, for today's purposes, I will choose perhaps his most famous quote. If you come to a fork in the road, take it. And he was not talking about a dinner fork either. That was just yogi. And the reason why I chose that for an opening illustration is because this passage that we are speaking of today is talking about a fork in the road before us. And Paul is concerned in this passage to tell us to take the right fork Not just any old fork or any uh either one of them, as I think yogi met. And so he's very concerned that we take the right one and understand what we're doing. And the focus today is on chapter 17 , verse 17 and following, and we see right away that this continues the main theme of this entire section of Ephesians. Back in the first verse of chapter 4, Paul told us to walk worthy of our calling. And here, of course, he's talking about that we are not to walk as we used to walk, but rather to walk in a new way to in the way of a new man. And so as we are continuing past that first verse in chapter 4, in this section of Ephesians, Paul is actually developing in these sections How we are to walk worthy of our calling. That verse ties together the whole rest of this right up through chapter 6. And in this verse before us, we are told that we are no longer to walk as does the rest of the world. And phrasing it this way, he effectively presents us with this fork of the road that I was talking about. Because we're not to walk in the way of the rest of the world. That means there must be the rest of the world walking one way. And we are to walk another. And the path that we are to walk is that path which is worthy of our calling So I'd like to ponder those thoughts as we go through today. First, notice the connection between verses 17 and following and the preceding context, 11 through 16. Paul has exhorted us to grow as individuals. Yes, there's definitely the intent there to grow as individuals, but he's calling in that section for us to mostly to understand that we're to grow as a church together, individuals together to grow as a congregation. And we are to grow into all things, in all things, into him who is the head. Now that's verse 15. And the manner in which the church is to be built up, the way that we are doing this and to build up and to edify the church is to be, is through love. Now, as we talked about in the previous passage or the previous time I spoke on this, the church is a unified organism. It is a composite whole made up of many parts. And though it is it is very definitely intended to be diverse, in fact the true Church of Jesus Christ must be be diverse. diverse It must have people within it who show the breadth and the width and the depth of God's grace as it goes out of the world. It must be diverse. But though diverse, it is truly one, and that's the great work of the Spirit, to take people who in the world might actually be very much at each other's throat. And to build them into a family, a loving family of God, united and bound together in such a way that any stranger walking through the door says, these people love each other. What's that all about? And it's that impact of people who, in the world's experience, don't love each other. That constitutes the work of the Holy Spirit and the major witness of the Church of Jesus Christ. I don't care what we proclaim as doctrine, and you know me, I like doctrine, and I proclaim doctrine, and it's important. But remember this. In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul effectively says, we can preach all the right doctrine in the world, but if we have not love, it profits us. Nothing. And so we have to remember that as we go through this. And so now that's the vision that Paul sets before us in this first section. And then Paul basically shifts gears a little bit and he introduces to us that this idea of the church being like that doesn't just happen. It doesn't just poof come about in space and time. Now how do we see that? It says, verse 17, this I say, therefore. Therefore, in other words, what I'm saying next is a necessary condition for the church to grow in the manner that Paul has just described it. For Liberty Church to grow even more, to be the church that Jesus Christ designed it to be. Paul is here telling us what is necessary for us to do. In saying this, he says it with the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ himself. I testify in the Lord, he says. Hey guys, this is not just me, Paul. giving you my opinion about something. And he actually does that in one section of 1 Corinthians. He says, this is I, not the Lord, saying this. And so Paul is very careful to speak when he to let everybody know when he's talking about Joe Paul, you know, just another guy in the pew, and Paul the Apostle. talking as for uh Christ himself. And so what he's saying here is, I testify in the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that you are to do such and such, and goes on to tell us. Now, brothers and sisters, we have to realize this is not a polite suggestion. It's just not. Okay. Uh he is speaking as an apostle For Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, the one we proclaim for ourselves as our Lord and Savior. Jesus, the King of kings, seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, from whence he shall come to judge the living and the dead. I think we've said that before somewhere So the idea here is that Paul's speaking as an emissary, as a direct voice, if you will, for Jesus is like a town crier going out saying, hear ye, hear ye, hear ye. This decree has come down from the king. That's what we see. Now we have to take notice. I encourage you to turn up your hearing aids so that you hear what's going on. Jesus once told the people who followed him, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I say? Is that not fairly straightforward? He then went on to speak of two ways of living. When Jesus said those words, he went on to speak of two ways of living. Building our house on a rock instead of shifting sand. Two ways of living. And we know in that passage what happens to each. But back to the present point. Paul is here speaking for Jesus himself, and both he and the Lord expect us to think long and hard about what follows next. That's why this is so important, as I mentioned earlier. We're not dealing here with just some uh ear-tickling doctrine that makes us, you know, think, well boy, isn't that nice. Now, our Lord is speaking through Paul here and saying, folks, I want you to take this to heart, and I want you to do it. And this that's the aspect that I hope to encourage and exhort you to today. Because then Paul proceeds to show us this fork in the road, two pathways before us. In verse 17 through 19, there is the way, the path which the wider world is working. Or is walking. And in verses 20 through 24, there is the other way that he sums up as being the way of true righteousness and holiness. You got the way of the world, and then you got the way of true righteousness and holiness. Now I'll tell you that That many in God's church today don't think doesn't think that any human being can walk in true righteousness and holiness There's a basic kind of depression that comes through in a lot of different places, and people didn't think that such an aspiration is even warranted, might even be arrogant to even aspire to it. But that's not what this passage says. This passage says there is a way of true righteousness and holiness, and by the way, the Lord Jesus says, take that one. So, in looking at it, here's what the Lord Christ through Paul is saying. You must consciously choose which path you're going to take. You must decide what will be the testimony of your life Will you live a life indistinguishable from the world around you? Or will you live a life testifying to the righteousness and holiness of Jesus Christ? Now I'm sure some of you, maybe all of you are sitting there because you're good Calvinist and you're probably thinking, wait a minute, that sounds a lot like making a decision for Christ. And haven't we been taught that man's will is not free in this regard? Isn't the doctrine of effectual calling grounded in the truth? that all who have been given to Christ will come to him, not of some act prior act of their will with the freedom to choose Christ, that uh God in the terms of the fall has left them that they're able to do on their own. No, we reject that. The Holy Spirit unites us to Christ and our free will Not our free will in choosing him. You might be thinking, isn't that what is at stake here? To this I answer, preach it. You're right. You know, those things that I just said are absolutely true. But that doesn't mean that a person doesn't have to choose. When we are born again, our will is changed. Our hearts and minds are opened to the truth of God. And the exercise of our new will is such that we can choose Christ. And in fact, through his effectual calling, he will so work on our new transformed will that we will choose him. inevitably, without fail. So our transformed emotions are such as a result of regeneration that that's what we want to do. We don't want to not have Jesus as our Savior. So, no one in Scripture preaches the idea that man's will is not free in its fallen condition. to choose God if it so desires. Paul makes that very clear. But what he is saying here, and what he is saying here, certainly does not contradict that. What Paul here is saying is having called by Jesus Christ as your Lord, having called him Lord, how must you then live? How must you live having called Jesus Lord? He's going right back to verse 1. How in fact are we to walk worthy of our calling? And he teaches us that salvation is God's work. Salvation is God's work. First, foremost, and last. But sanctification, brothers and sisters, which is what we're talking about here, sanctification is a cooperative work in which our will cooperates with the Holy Spirit To accomplish God 's goodwill in us. Sanctification begins with and continues throughout our life in making decisions. Paul here is showing us that we are confronted with this fork in the road every day. It 's not just months back when we make our initial profession of faith. Sanctification is a continuing work. It's something that happens every day. It consists of walking following the Lord, as we spoke about once before, and in doing so, more and more being transformed into his image. So what we are seeing here is that it continues with making a decision to do so. It is a conscious act, not an unconscious one. This fort is always there before us, staring us in the face, saying, today, this minute, this instant, which road will I follow? So, sanctification consists, if you will, in a principled manner of choosing. This is not something new. This is not something that just came about for the first time in the New Testament where everybody says, oh yes, now we understand. Let me quote just a few verses from old, from the Old Testament. to show you just how this idea of two roads in front of us is consistent. Deuteronomy 30, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil, and I command you today that you love the Lord your God to walk in his way and keep his commandments. Walk in his way. That's the way of life and good. If you don't walk in his way, it's the way of death and evil. Two roads are ahead of you. Which will you choose? I command you to walk in God's ways. Jeremiah 2, 21, 8 through 10. Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death. Sounds familiar? Jesus now moving to the New Testament in Matthew 7. Enter by the narrow gate. For wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction. And there are many who go in it. Because the narrow gate, because narrow is the gate, and difficult is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it. So what we're saying here, brothers and sisters, is nothing new. It was the challenge of life and faith that Abraham faced. It is the challenge of daily sanctification that David faced. And he did really good with Goliath. Not so much with Uriah and Uriah's wife. That's the same way or the same choice, decision that Peter faced. It's the same choice that Paul himself knew and faced. We have a God in heaven and Jesus is his son and our Lord. How then shall we live? That is the question. And we don't answer it just once. It's not just some prior decision that from then on things just happen and it works out. It's something we have to answer every day. Now, the only reason I'm kind of hitting that hard is because there is a movement within our denomination amongst some pastors, and far too many in my choice. They basically teach that sanctification is as easy as falling off a log. I heard that specific statement by a very well-known pastor. I confronted him with it then and told him he was wrong. He hasn't had much use for me since But the bottom line of it is the whole idea, I don't see how any pastor can say that sanctification is easy. It's not easy for the pastor and it's not easy for the people he pastors. It's something that Jesus himself described as difficult. And so therefore, working in sanctification, we have to understand what we're dealing with and go that way. Now, what is it that we see then as we pursue sanctification in these roads ahead of us? The first road, which I will arbitrarily call the left one , is the challenges that we must overcome when we go to walk as Jesus would have us to walk Verse 17, you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind. Now he's talking to Gentile Christians. In other words, he's talking to us. And he's saying, you see that crowd of people out there that you used to be part of? Do you see them walking down that wide and easy path that they have chosen? Now externally they look just like you look. But when we look at them and think about the way the people who are walking that pathway think. They think they are living as they have to live in the world in which they live. Their goals and ambitions are set by that which the world offers to them Now some in the world they see it maybe perhaps as being really deadly and ugly stuff, like uh growing up on the inner city and seeing nothing but gangs as being those people who have any security and any hope of financial uh advancement. And so they see that. But then there's a whole mass of people, the greatest majority, who are just simply leave living comfortable lives. They got a job, got their Xbox, they got, you know, they got everything that a man could or a person could possibly want, right? And so they're just living that life and working it out as they go. And what they have in common is that no matter where they are, their goals and ambitions are set by what the world offers. Now, many of them are what appear to be good people, hardworking. Many of them very strongly family-oriented. And they care for their kids, and they try to give them a good head start in the world. And so they pay lots of money to send them to the best schools they can send them to. Do you see them? Do you have a picture in your mind of the broad mass of humanity walking down a very wide road? Do you see that? Do not follow them. They are walking in the futility of their mind. That word futility. is in the Greek the same word that translates in the Septuagint the Old Testament Hebrew in Ecclesiastes where it says vanity, all is vanity. So that word futility right here speaks to the idea of worthlessness, of having no real significance. Vanity of vanities, it's all vanity. Ecclesiastes taught that. He explored everything and the thing and the way the world thinks about everything under the sun, about what it means to advance. in life. And he comes up with the idea that it's all futility. It's all vanity. And he was right. Jesus is teaching us here that the way the world thinks, the world thinks, is fundamentally flawed. They may aspire to things that we call good, a good family. But they do it ultimately for wrong motives. They are blind, as it says here, and they are ignorant of God. So they can't understand what is actually good for their family. Because they're not seeing their family through the eyes of God. They are blind and ignorant. Brothers and sisters, no matter how good a family is, if it's apart from, if it does not have God at its center, it is serving Satan. Because Satan will use that family to tempt Christians away from a distinctly Christian view of family and how family should be done. Now why am I hitting on family? It's because something we have in common with the world, and we generally think of family as good. And so that's the only reason. There's a whole range of topics here. In fact, every topic in the whole world. has to be viewed from a distinctly Christian world view to have to find what's good in it. So what is true of family is true for every other aspect of life in the world. If it were if it if we were not prone to see the world I'm sorry They are prone to see the world as Eve saw the fruit of the tree. They see the world as beautiful and useful for making one wise. Now, if it weren't so, if it weren't, you know, tempting, then we wouldn't have to worry about it. It wouldn't appeal to us. It wouldn't tempt us. So this fork in this road that we are facing here is this. There are things over that wide and easy path that I wouldn't mind having some of that And we have to look at it that every day, oftentimes, many times throughout the day, we have to recognize what is wrong with that, and we have to make a conscious choice. to turn away from vanity and the futility that lies along that road. Now how do we do that? And how do we recognize where that the where those things that the world offers along that road are in fact futile. Always it is through the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit has to open our eyes through Scripture to see a better way. In other words, we have to see what this world offers in terms of what this narrow road offers. And we have to see this world in comparison with true righteousness and holiness. And then and only then can we really recognize the futility of the wrong road. Let's take a look at that a little more carefully. The road to the right is the path of being made new in Christ Now positionally, once again, being good Calvinists like we are, we know positionally that we are as righteous as we will ever be. Because the finished work of Jesus Christ has positionally made us righteous in the heavenly places. Ooh, I remember that. That's back in chapter one, right? Where blessed be the Lord our God and has blessed us in all the heavenly places, right? And then we went on to explain that. Positionally, our true righteousness is in holiness and righteousness of Christ, through Christ And in the heavenly places, that's what we are. But we're not talking about heavenly places today. We're talking about earthly places. And that's the subject that Paul is speaking of here. And he speaks of it in terms of making a decision. He says you have to put off the old man and put on the new one. And do you see that that's a decision? He's not saying it just happens automatically. It's a conscious choice. It's a deliberate action. Now, what are we looking at here? It's a decision that has to come from the heart, from a desire to be righteous and holy. This choice means that we deliberately reject the ways of the world because we see them for what they are. Deliberately corrupt and deceitful. Look at verse 22, as it says in verse 22. Now, why should I fall prey, for example, and looking at this world over here, why should I fall prey to the anger? that I see evidence in the world around me today. Why should I look at the way they look at the world and measure success? Personal success in terms of how I am elevated above others, and that my advancement is all too often at others' expense. Why must I think that it's more manly to stubbornly cling to decisions that were formed more out of pride than from Christian principles? Why do I find it hard to turn the other cheek? When I see the blessings of Christ's kingdom standing over and against those things, especially in the church, when I see there How a better way of life, a life of true righteousness and holiness, adds a whole different existential flavor to life. It's a life that people who are experiencing don't want to give up. They actually like being righteous. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine people who are joyful about being holy? And don't consider it a burden. Because your heart is not broken with shame. And you don't wake up four o'clock in the morning Terrified at your life and wondering what's waiting for you after you die Because you know what has happened for you in and through Jesus Christ. And you know that your sins are forgiven. And you know that therefore you can choose to live in accordance with who you are. And putting then that quality of life over and against that stuff that the world offers basically means it's a no-brainer. It really is the choice. We are to walk in such a way as to show that we're a new man. Created according to God. The idea of being a new creation is fundamental to Paul's work. It permeates every aspect of it And what it fundamentally means is this. However you divide up the number the different classes of people in the world, however you divide them up, you can do it by race, you can do it by ethnicity. You can do it by you know color skin, you can do it by education, you can do it like Marx did in terms of class warfare. You can you can do it in any way you want. You can divide up the world. However, you divide up the world in different types of people, according to Paul, you come up with that, and then there's got to be Christians. They're going to be a different class of people. They're going to stand over and against all the other people whose self-identification is according to some worldly term. And then Christians are going to stand alone as a new thing in this world. It wasn't there before Christ, but it is now. That's his new creation. He's a new man created according to God. And therefore, he says that that new man He walks in the way of true righteousness and holiness. Now, brothers and sisters, I challenge you here today. I want you to ask yourself this question Do you really believe you can live in such a way as to reflect true righteousness and holiness? Do you really believe that? I'm not talking about Wesleyan perfectionism here, all you theologians just quieting down. No, I'm not saying that we can live without sin perfectly in this world. But I do say we can live in true righteousness and holiness. Why? Because God's Word says so. And if He says so, then it should be the goal of my life. In other words, true enough, there will be continuing fall on us And there will always be a relative aspect of our holiness and righteousness compared to others. But the Bible would have to be a lie. For us to say that we cannot make significant progress in true righteousness and holiness God could point to Job, and he could tell Satan, there 's none so righteous on earth as my servant Job. If Job could do it, can have that said of him, then why not we? Sin no longer has dominion over us. The same Paul taught that. And therefore we can choose to pursue true righteousness and holiness. And in doing so, we choose the right path I'm going to close by just giving you a few brief overviews. How should we respond to this? Yeah, it's all good in theory, Arch. What do I do now? First , what I challenge you to do is to recognize the futility of living as the world does. You have to open your eyes. We have to consciously open our eyes to see the world around us. Oftentimes for people we love walking in it. And we have to see them for what that life is. Now, I'm not just talking about what we see on the nightly news. Quite frankly, the national news, how much, no matter how often we get really worked up about it, doesn't change our lives very much. much. We don't really live that much in accordance with what National News says. What really influences us in how we live are the people around us. the people who are close at hand, the people we encounter. And what we have to see is we have to have a conscious assessment of how are those folks around us living And how do we see the futility of the choices they are making? Secondly, what I call upon you today to do in the light of this is to undergo a thorough-growing self- Appraisal. Honestly ask yourself. Perhaps one of the most important questions a Christian could ask himself as they pursue life. Am I really different from the folks around me? How does the truth of Christ organize my life and influence my daily actions? How far removed am I From being this new man that Paul is talking about. What's the distance? What are the things that that cause me not to readily see myself as a new creature? Now, if we recognize that and think about that, then we can see what putting on the new man in Christ means. We see the gap, we see where we're going, then we need to see how we're to put it on in those specific areas, very specific areas. That we need to improve and to be moving towards true righteousness and holiness. Last, we have to depend on the means of grace. Now, means of grace, if that's new words for you, is what the Bible says is the means by which grace is poured into our lives. We don't believe, like the Roman Catholics do, that grace is infused into us, that God just kind of once again opens up the top of our head and pours some grace in there. Well, that's not what we believe. We believe that grace comes into our life through the things that the Bible identifies as the means of grace. And so we have to trust those things as being how God's grace becomes operative in our world in our life. I have learned through hard experience that I will bore you with someday, that changing who I am Has to depend on something beyond my willpower and my strengths. I have to face it that I need God to change who I am, or else I'll be the same jerk I've always been. Okay, so you're saying I haven't progressed that much, okay. All right, I uh I'll go along with that. But the bottom line of it is, brothers and sisters, we all need grace, we need power, we need wisdom, we need courage from the Holy Spirit to attempt any of this stuff. How are we going to grow in sanctification without the Holy Spirit? And that means our lives have to revolve around, like planets around the sun, the means of grace. I'm sorry, but our lives have to become more spiritual. Oh no Our days must revolve around set periods of prayer. The appropriation of Scripture, not just reading it, but having God's word active in our lives through it. Our lives have to revolve around set periods and intentional praise. Every time, just count throughout the day the number of times you curse something, whether you use actual curse words or not. Count that up and then compare it to the amount of time during the day that you actually praise God. That can be a daunting thing. But we have to build our lives around praise. Why? Because God tells us that the act of praise is a means by which He brings grace to bear in our lives. And the other is fellowship. Brothers and sisters, there's no such thing as a Lone Ranger Christian. It's not just you and Jesus walking through life and to heck with the rest of the world. The means of grace are that we must have fellow Christians in our lives and we must actively pursue fellowship with them in a supernatural way, such that that fellowship becomes a means by which our lives are uplifted and edified, as Paul has spoken of. So Think of it. Think of small groups, even families who are seeking to build up their lives by dependence on the means of grace, as I've identified them, how they are bound together through mutual prayer, encouragement from Scripture, dedicated praise and fellowship. Doesn't that sound a lot like what Paul just described the church to be? An organism with every part contributing to the whole. Doesn't that see how the church grows and builds itself up in love? It doesn't take a rocket scientist to see it. But brothers and sisters, it requires a decision to do it. Each and every one of us on both sides of this pulpit. And the question that hangs in the air today that I will leave you with is What will be your decision? Let's pray. Our Lord and God, I thank you that you have granted us insight into how you want us to live. Lord, if it were left up to us, we'd come up with all kinds of stuff and probably righteousness and holiness wouldn't amount to our top priorities. But by opening our eyes to how you desire us to live and holding before us the possibility of a new humanity that does live in righteousness and holiness, you awaken desire in us. We want to be like that. And so, Lord and God, help us to understand it. And more than anything else, through your Holy Spirit, work a fire in us A desire, Lord God, to be that kind of people crowded in that narrow way traicing down it through the difficulties that we as a people of God face, helping each other through it. and then showing forth to the world what true righteousness and holiness consist of, even if it is not perfect Grant us, Lord and God, that goal and aspiration, and then give us the strength that we need through your means of grace to move down that road. Pray this in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.