And so I would ask if you would please stand and as I read our sermon passage for today from Ephesians 1 down through chapter 2, verse 10. Therefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, do not cease to give thanks to you, making mention of you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of his glory, of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe? according to the workings of his mighty power, which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. And you, he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we once we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath just as the others. But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of the riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Our title for today is The Gift of Faith. Please be seated. I have endeavored throughout my life to try to elevate my mind. Didn't start off very well being in the backwoods of Mississippi, and so I felt a deficiency and felt like I needed to study and to pursue enlightenment. by exposing myself to great works of literature and of art. So naturally I would watch movies that would elevate my consciousness and lift me up to better understand my world. and how it goes on how things go in it. Great classic movies like Princess Bride. In that movie, Inigo Montoya It was the guy who said, My name is Inigo Matoya, you kill my father, prepare to die. And that is his most famous line. But there's another line that I really like in it. There's this other fellow in the movie called Vincini Vicini, and he keeps using the word inconceivable. And Inigo Montoya looks at him and says, you keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means. I find that to be the case among many conservatives today, many conversations today. Some people just throw words around because it makes them sound smart. More than one pastor is guilty of that. I hope I am not. But often it doesn't mean what people think it means. The word faith. Is and may be one of those words. Especially when non-Christians use it. And the worst of all, those who are academics and are basically just sneering at faith Not having a clear idea of what it means, then they contrast it with reason and therefore declare it to be irrational. But we Christians also use that word a lot, a lot, and perhaps for many Christians it may or may not mean what they think it means. But it's an absolutely essential word for us to nail down. And we must know what the Bible teaches about it. And that is what our topic is for today. As we look at this passage, I I kind of tried to emphasize it in the reading, you'll notice that the word faith constitutes kind of bookends. It starts at the top of the pay of the passage and comes up again at the end. It starts in verse 15 where Paul gives Thanks for the faith of the Ephesians. And in verse 19, he says, God's exceedingly great power is extended toward us who believe. In other words, have faith In verse 2, he contrasts those who believe with the sons of disobedience, drawing a clear distinction between them and the rest of the world who are laboring under the beast and servants of Satan. And then in chapter 2, verses 4 and 8, he says that we stand as ones who have been saved by the grace of God. Now, we stand as those who have been saved. In other words, the evidence of our salvation is present in us. And the way that we stand as being those who have been saved by God is by faith. The cause of our salvation, the prime cause, the original cause of our salvation is the grace of God. And when we look at that, we see that I just lost my place. The prime cause is God's grace, that the manner by which a person is identified as being a recipient of God's grace is that they are among those who live by faith. It is through faith. Faith is the gift God gives to them as a result of Jesus' saving work on the cross and therefore saving them from the wrath of hell. Faith is not the mechanism of our salvation, it is the proof of it. Now, therefore, if that's the case, can there be any word that comes across the top of our mind right away that should be more important for us to nail down? And so I'm going to attempt to give you a biblical definition of faith, and in order to approach that definition, I'm going to have to go all the way to Hebrews. Hebrews 10, starting with verse 35. Therefore, do not cast away your confidence, which has great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that after you have done the will of God, you may receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he who is coming will come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by or in faith. But if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him. For we are not of those who draw back to perdition, but of those who believe to the saving of the soul. Now, faith, here's the words. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. I'll mention this verse again when I speak of how the just live by faith or in faith. But the definition purposes, consider this. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Now, here faith is described as a substance. It is in fact a substance which can be pointed to as evidence. Faith in this way can be thought of as a thing, something recognizable, something even substantial, something that is capable of description. It is not merely an attitude of the mind. It's more than that. And the presence of this thing called faith in God's people is evidence That the invisible things are true. They're real. So faith itself, being a gift of God, I'll build on this, but being a gift of God Points to and says, this means that everything you're hoping for is real and true Its substantial presence points us away from the corporeal world, toward the unseen world, where things that are hoped for are found. Now, this is just the beginning, and we need to put meat on the bones of what I've just said. So let's focus on this idea that faith is the evidence of things not seen. Paul here speaks of those things as an emphasis in this passage. He calls them stuff that is in the heavenly places. Back in verse 3, he says that God has blessed us in those very heavenly places, unseen places. Unseen places. And further on, he says that we have been made alive in Christ And God has given Christ as head over all things to the church, and that we have been raised from death to life, and sin no longer has dominion over us. And we are so united to Christ that God has made us sit together with Him in the heavenly places. I submit to you, brothers and sisters, is that unseen? Of course it is. But Paul speaks of them as facts, not as things that might be true. Now, whatever faith is, it in itself is evident that those things are true. And they're true for us. Faith is the substance of those things. Hope for the evidence of them. And that alone should ratchet up our thoughts about what this thing called faith is. That should begin to move us away from a simplistic understanding of faith, sometimes almost a childish uh uh uh definition of it. We need to see that this is something crucially important And that it is something that we need to recognize. We're not talking about some mere verbal testimony here We are talking about, okay, gird up your socks. We are talking about what some people call an existential reality or an existential condition. I know that's the twenty cent word. But the point of it is that it expresses what I mean. I'll develop this a little bit more as we start talking about the condition of life. That is in fact itself faith. And so when we are in here talking , that's what we live by, and those who live in this condition called faith. are those who are justified. The just shall live by or in faith. The word, the phrase there in this is can be interpreted both ways. It is not an instrument in my estimation, but rather a sphere in faith. The just shall live in faith Faith is not only believing Christ died for our sins, we must start there, absolutely, but we must go further. We must not stop at the milk stage, as Paul talks about. We must move on into strong meat. And Paul helps us do that. Colossians 3, 1 through 4, which you've already heard. Paul speaks to the same things that he speaks of in this passage when he says, if you were raised in Christ, and you have been Seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth For you died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you will also appear with him. He starts with the same point about having been raised with Christ that he mentions in this passage And then he says that we are to seek those things above, as Paul says, the unseen things of Christ sitting at the right hand of God. And that this seeking That we are supposed to be doing is a deliberate shift, having our minds set on the things away from having our minds set on the things of the earth. He says that this new life that Paul mentions in our passage is really Christ who is our life. Now here's where we get to that existential reality I was talking about. This existential sphere in which we are to live Think of a bubble, if you will. The sphere in which we are to consciously live is the life of Christ, with Christ and for Christ. Christ, in other words, is a living reality in our lives, a day-to-day presence with us. Now that's a big deal. It's a life-transforming deal. And what we must take to heart is that this transformed life Is faith. It's a way of life, a manner of life of which all manner of fruit is born. It stands in sharp contrast to the world. As Jesus himself stood in sharp contrast to all the other Jews, so living Jesus living in us and with us in our lives. As we grow more and more into his image in living this life of faith, this life which is faith, as we do that more and more, then we separate from the world. to himself. So you see, faith is more than just a bare hope for salvation. Faith is the present reality of our lives that ensures we will be saved. Let's explore this mode of existence of our new life in Christ a bit. I depend heavily on a theologian here that you've probably never heard of called Hermann Ritterboss. I'm partial to Dutch theologians. So I depend heavily on this and have over the years. I've been teaching and preaching this concept and reading him for 30 years or so. But I depend heavily on him for his formulation. Let's start with trusting Christ for our salvation. Faith certainly is that, as I have said, but it's more than that. Trusting Christ for our salvation is the door through which we pass and enter into the life of faith, or better enter into the life which is faith. A life that has been transformed by the Holy Spirit. Let's focus more closely on the teaching that the just shall live by or in faith. Now, this is clearly taught throughout our scripture. Sabbak starts it out in the Old Testament. As we have mentioned, the writer of Hebrews quotes him, and Paul drives it home in the book of Romans. Galatians 2, however, 19 through 20 is where he explains it most clearly. For I through the law died to the law that I might live to God. Okay, live to God. Take that and put it away in your heart. I have been crucified with Christ, and it's no longer I who live. But Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by or in faith in the Son of God. who loved me and gave himself for me. Now, he says that he's been crucified with Christ, and the life he now lives is Christ living in him. And that life in the flesh, as he says here, is lived by or in faith in the Spirit, in the Son of God. Now that's worth developing The phrase Paul uses here is living by or in faith, is very powerful. It describes Paul as living inside, as I said before, a bubble or a sphere or a box. And this sphere or box is faith. You know, this is where the original languages get really important. There's, you know, it could be something that live by or for could be used in an instrumental sense or that it makes things happen, but that's not what's used here. The whole descrip it is a description of a category. And therefore, it is this sphere or this box that he the just live in is called faith. A space is the outworking of the expression of our lives in Christ. As Christ is with us and we're walking with him, that whole business then is living in faith, by faith, or living a faith life. That's why Paul talks so much about the new life that we've been given. In chapter 2, verses 1 through 8 that's before us today. It says we've been made alive for the dead. We have been transformed from the sons of disobedience to obedience, and now we walk by the Spirit rather than the flesh. Can you not see that those are two different existential conditions? The world does not walk by the Spirit. The world walks by the flesh. And that's not us anymore. Do you see that that's a description of an entirely new life or a different life? And then he says that in Christ we are spiritually seated with him in the heavenly places. Do you see the grand scale of this teaching? The magnificence of that concept Think about waking up every morning and addressing your life, securing the knowledge that you are in Christ, seated with him in the heavenly places. Can that not help but make a difference in the quality and texture of the life that we live? You see, faith, and here's the definition I'm offering to you, faith is a transformed worldview that transforms our lives. Faith is understanding the entire universe and everything in it, including ourselves In terms of the covenant-making, covenant-keeping triune God. It's a way of looking at all things And seeing all things, including ourselves, in terms of the triune God. is viewed through the lens of our God, who loves us with such a great love as it says in verse 4. that he sent his son to do all that was necessary to make us alive. Alive to God the Father in our daily lives. Alive to Jesus Christ as our sovereign Lord who is governing our lives, and alive through the indwelling Spirit who is working change in us. Brothers and sisters, if we think of faith as something that we add to our lives Who am I? I'm an engineer and I'm a Christian. I got my engineering and I got my Christian. No Faith is not a dimension that we add to our lives It's what faith is more closely, it's the cherry on top of the ice cream that we have been given to eat. It is the whole, if I could say on the food metaphor, the whole enchilada. It is the encompassing reality of our lives as seen through Christ and seen through God the Father. And God the Holy Spirit. But if we think of it as only something that we add to our lives and that we express in our lives when we do something spiritual. Then we've got it all wrong. And we really have to ask ourselves if we're a believer at all. Faith is waking up every day to a life that is lived in Christ Jesus, where our activities, our families, our vocations, our conversations are all understood in terms of Christ. He is what makes sense of our lives because as we grow in this faith condition, we understand more and more how he's working in our lives. We see it With the spiritual eyes he's given us, we're alive to it because of the life he has given us. And Paul says that he asks that we be. Given knowledge, greater knowledge of the God, this is what I'm talking about. This life then becomes so important to us, it sinks into us and and transforms how we live. So that we can then say, as Paul says in Philippians 3, that all things we previously had that we thought was most important to us Our family heritage, our economic status , our vocational success Those things are as nothing. In fact, they count as loss. They count as a step backwards from What is really good compared to the surpassing privilege of gaining Christ. In fact, Paul says that those things which the world counts as good and the greatest goods often They're not just a step backward. The word he uses is very emphatic. He says it's rubbish, but more accurately we ought to translate it as dog -dog. Filthy rubbish. That is the continuous reality of life in Christ. It is so much better than all those other things we used to put as being the most important thing in the world. That those things now can be seen as relatively insignificant. And as far as they kept us from understanding Christ, a positive hindrance. Now this is the life that Paul points to and which he is praying for the Ephesians and for us. Paul prays in verse 19 that we should know the exceeding greatness of God's power toward us who believe. Who's going to see the exceeding greatness of God's power? Those who believe. Okay. All right. I know I shouldn't ask questions from the It causes everybody to suddenly stop and shock, yeah? What's what if I get the wrong answer No, it's just straightforward. It's not rocket science. He prays for God's exceeding power to be made known to those who believe And it is in this life, this life that constitutes faith, is where we learn that. It's where we see it. It's where we grow to know his exceeding power more and more as we see the hand of God working in our lives. You know, several people here who are older than I am, as hard as that is to believe. And if you talk with all of those folks and their their long history of of walking in faith, Uniformly, they will talk about how they've seen the hand of God guiding them, and how they've come to trust him more and more by having that consciousness of his incredible power working in them. They see the power of prayer working in the day-to-day outworking of life. They more and more see meaning and purpose and joy and comfort coming from the fruits of obedience You know, the the lie the world tells us is that you want to be happy, you need to do all this stuff. So we go out and we do all that stuff. And it doesn't make us happy. It makes us miserable. What we discover is that the fruits of obedience to God become the most joyful ground of our lives. It's seldom that I start prayer with my brother elders without thanking God for having brother elders and having the fellowship of brother elders and the extreme joy of being companions in ministry with each other. That is a deep joy in my life. And that's the power of God bringing us together. The result of that, of these fruits of obedience in this life sphere that we're walking in , is a sense of flourishing or shalom. of new beauty and of hope. This becomes the distinguishing character of our life and it separates us from the sons of disobedience because all of these Things that begin to flourish in us uh causes us to be separate from the world. You've heard me speak of radical Christianity. Well, this is it. And as a result of that, it becomes recognizable and distinguishable in us, and it becomes the foundation for outreach and evangelism. I'll remind you of 1 Peter 3. That where Peter says we have always got to be ready to give reason for the hope that we have within us. Why should we have to be ready to give hope for the reason uh for a reason for the hope that we have in us? What what what could be the reason for that? Somebody's gonna ask us Why in the world do you have hope? Look at this world around us. We're going to hell in a handbasket. How can you people be acting as if there's joy in this world and hope in this world and reason for optimism in this world? Why don't you just join the internet for the rest of us and yell at all those guys who disagree with us and say the world's going to hell in a handbasket? I mean that we like doing that. Why don't you do it too? Well, we don't do that because that's not who we are. And that's where we're getting to here. This is the kind of Christianity, this demonstrable different lifestyle, that empowered the early church to transform the Roman Empire is the kind of Christianity that is the only hope for our world now as it plunges further and further into depravity, darkness, and even death. It is a life of faith, a life which is faith, and there are those around us who are desperately longing for whatever it is that we have that has the result, the fruit of this flourishing of hope and prosperity, spiritual prosperity. So I hope you see that faith in God's people is a primary means by which the kingdom of God is built. Christ has given life to his church so that he lives among them. He lives among them in the faith that they commonly possess. And fellowship with him, knowledge of his presence, is entirely a product. of that corporate life of faith, a life of faith which unifies us to Him and with each other. So I think as we move to the conclusion that it's clear that faith, this thing called faith, is a wondrous thing, it is a supernatural thing. It is a transformed life, which we call faith. In fact, it's so wondrous that Paul here calls it the gift of God. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God This verse is well known because it is so powerful. Even Christians lose sight of the gracious character of faith often, the Arminian error, which is so pervasive and appealing to us. is that somehow faith means that we choose to believe. Now we do decide. Absolutely. To follow Christ. Matter of fact, it's a better phrase, we recognize Christ at some point, and we see that He is the one to be followed. From there is a movement of the will for us to believe, and behind that movement of the will is our Lord Christ and His Holy Spirit moving us. But that movement is only present through regeneration. We must be moved by the Holy Spirit to see our need for Christ, and even more importantly , It is the Holy Spirit working in us and through us that makes that happen. What is true As a result of his work is that we cannot do otherwise but believe and enter into the life of faith. That's what it means, that it's a gift of the Holy Spirit. It's a wondrous teaching. Notice how in verse 7, Paul says the purpose of this gift of faith is unto the end. That God may show his exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. God gives us this wonderful gift of faith. so that he may create a separate, distinct people on the earth, a people who are characterized by that faith, this life of faith And it is through this people that he will show the riches of his grace. We are the instruments through which God will make known his power and might Because as it says in verse 10, we are his workmanship. And the outworkings of our faith will be registered in good works. And that's the topic I'll take up next week. But this point today is this. This transformed worldview that I have described, in which God awakens us to see the entire universe and all things in it, including ourselves, in terms of our covenant-making triune God is a gift of God. It is real And it constitutes the substance of things hoped for. And in itself is evidence that the unseen things are true. We have much to celebrate today. Okay. Good news about our coming pastor. That's good news, and we need to celebrate it. Well, brothers and sisters, I call on you today to celebrate the gift of faith that you have, if you have it. If you don't have it, talk to me. Or one of the elders. Or somebody who does have it that you trust The point of it is simply this. The gift of faith is a gift we should know we possess, and one through which our life is transformed. Let's pray. Our Lord and our God, I thank you for this gift of faith, and I thank you for the gift of a community of believers in which faith is displayed. I thank you for the way that it unites us together and gives us joy in all things, how it how it gives us a common purpose in life, a great way forward. How it unites to help us so that the world stops being frightening. Because we see all things in terms of your triune power and and Lord, you are on top of all things. In Christ, Christ is for whom and unto whom are all things. And so therefore, we can calm our fears, strengthen our weak duties. And go about the business that you have given us of representing you to the world through the transformed life that is faith. the warm and vital consciousness of your presence in our life. Well Lord God, seal this to us. And help us to understand it. And then, Lord, bring us up from our knees. Give us direction for our walk And let us be about the good works that you have put in place from all eternity for us to walk in. I pray this in the name of our blessed Savior.