Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. The sermon title is Having Done All, Stand. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from His Word. Please be seated. You simply cannot separate the military influence that is present in this passage. Ephesus, as our study in the revelation given to John, as we talked about it there, was a strategically important city, and that's what is now called Turkey. It was a proud Roman colony, and its people admired all things Rome, and above all else. If there's anything that the Romans did find unity and pride in, it was in their army. Because of this strategic importance, this importance There was a lot of military history that occurred in and around Ephesus. It goes all the way back to Alexander the Great, and all things then there was lots of battles occurring near or around it. And even during this period when it was written, soldiers were a very common sight throughout the empire, and especially in Ephesus, or in Ephesus, as we said. And so as a result of that, It may very well have been the case that some of the people to whom this letter is written were either retired military, which is not was not all that in common in those days, or else they perhaps participated in the local militia from which on short notice the Roman army could call up, kind of like our National Guard. So Paul uses this term, full armor, in verse 11, and the people there would very well identify with what he was talking about. They would know the specifics. that that was there. The English word full armor that is there translates a single Greek word, panoply. And it stands for the entire suite of weapons and, in fact, defensive dress, combat dress, the soldier. It would in those days include the Roman sword called the Gratius, a short stabbing sword that was different from uh what had preceded it, and it would have included the Roman spear, which I've always thought was a masterpiece of engineering. I just forgive me for a minute as I describe it. Uh the Roman spear was a short handled spear, but it had a long single iron uh a uh point that came out of it with a uh uh hook on the end, so down like this. And what they would do is that prior just prior to engaging in hand-to-hand combat, the soldiers would throw the spear, and the spear would arc up over them, come down, and of course the enemy would raise their shields And that's exactly what it was designed for. The point would go into the into the uh shield, and because it was um just a long uh thin strip of metal, it would bend And so that heavy handle would hang down and it would drag the shield down so that the other guys with their short sword could stab through it. I just I just found that to be fascinating But then, you know, those guys are really smart. They knew what they were doing. But it was a unique weapon, and as a result of it, though it's not specifically called out here , I think that the idea that both offensive and defensive weapons are included in the word panoply makes something that provides a point that we should consider. We might be prone to think there that it's only for defense. However, the purpose of armor in those days was not so that they could just stand there and get beaten upon. You know, the idea of wearing a helmet and carrying a shield like that, yes, it was to defend you, but it was to defend you while you were doing what Attacking, exactly. So the idea of the full armor of God, even on the defensive side, had underneath it the intent that there was going to be mortal combat and in spiritual warfare to which this is alluding, it employ rema it reminds us that not everyone's going to survive. And so what we're looking for is to enable the people who are putting on the armor to win the battle. And that's the hope, that's how we should understand this passage, that it's not just aimed at us in spiritual warfare. sitting around being beat up on by everybody that comes around. But rather we do absorb the blows by the use of our armor, but we also move on attack. The first point I'd like us to bring out, well, actually this is still in the transition or introduction. But as we begin to consider this passage in its specific teaching, one thing that we've got to get clear in our mind is that Paul is teaching us here that spiritual warfare is the normal condition for Christians. Paul's teaching here is again military, and it's how Christians should prepare to fight The point he's trying to make here is that he wants us to get prepared for the fight that we are going to be in. Fighting, he is assuming, is inevitable. So think of this as being a training manual for your normal conduct of military troops This is the stuff that they had to do when they were in camp. They had to not only polish up their armor, but they had to practice fighting while wearing it. keeping their equipment ready, but making sure that they could fight the good fight when they put it on. And so that's what he means there when he says having done all to stand. To stand not only in the heat of the battle, defending themselves and their fallen soldiers, their fellow soldiers, but also to stand in victory after the battle. When victory over their fallen foe And that's what is implied when all else is done to stand. So let's move into the main teaching. Notice the main point he makes in these verses. As you prepare for battle, make yourself strong. Now a soldier would practice with the sword and spear in full armored gear, full battle gear. He had to fight, he had to train as he would fight And in the hand-to-hand combat, then and now, it requires great strength and skill. Strength and skill in order to fight. So what does Paul start with? Be strong in the Lord. Be strong in the Lord, because that's what you gotta be. A Christian, in order to stand in battle, must seek strength from the Lord. Now I'm assuming that you've already bought in for yourself that spiritual battle is the reality of your life. What I said earlier. I didn't dwell on it too much. The point is, we're in a battle. It's not a fight that we can choose not to get her into. If you're a Christian, you can assume and you should recognize that you're under attack. And as a church, a Christian church We have to assume and understand that we are under attack. And so therefore, if we're under attack, we have to train in order to be able to fight that battle, but also we must be strong. And so Paul teaching here is that we must be strong in the Lord. Paul is saying that if we seek to be strong in our own strengths, we're not only at a disadvantage, we will suffer loss, and perhaps even catastrophic loss. We have to have the Lord's strength working in and through us, both individually and as a church, because, as Paul says here, our battle is against strategically spiritual forces. And not just a few of them. Read the verses. A whole host of them. Now that's a powerful metaphor. Think about it. You, your family, your wider family, your church. You're in a battle. And I'm not just here and there, but rather standing with a whole host. of spiritual forces gathered against you. What are these? It's a powerful metaphor And it requires serious meditation, more than what we can go into today. But I would commend it to you to think of your life in terms of a spiritual battle, and in order to do so, seek to recognize where that battle is showing up. What Paul says here is that that's the first step in understanding what's going on, because our wrestling here is not against flesh and blood. What both means is that we don't fight only against flesh and blood. We have to change our perspective about our lives. And brothers and sisters, I will point this out particularly, we have to change our perspective about actual conflicts that may be occurring in our lives actual specific issues that may be occurring in our lives. And we must see through those specific issues, those specific people, whoever it is that we're dealing with, in order to see the spiritual forces. that are behind them. Whatever we are facing, whatever challenges that are there There are spiritual forces in play. Now, it is exactly in our physical circumstances that the confrontation occurs. I'm not trying to tell you that the person who's out to do you harm is not really trying to do you harm. And you just say, okay, I know you're not really here. It's really a a spirit behind you. No, there are things that you have to do in the physical also. But the Ephesians weren't being directly attacked by Satan. They were not, you know, they were not out there having to fight out some fantasy thing that you might see on TV where there's some uh supernatural being out there hurling fiery bolts at them. They knew better than that. What they were facing were Satan's soldiers. And they were following his devious strategy. We're fighting against, as Paul says here in verse 11, the wiles of the devil. Satan is the father of lies, his most direct and A fruitful bat uh thing is deception of cunning stratagems And the powerful, deadly attacks that the Ephesians were suffering, which very definitely had physical impacts on them very definitely was facing the possibility of death in the flesh, but those powerful things that were coming at them, the howling mobs , that wanted to protect the temple of their God in Ephesus, the Jews who were seeking to kill them because they treated them as or they considered them heretics, they were all acting out of deception. And depending upon Satan's stoking up of their passions. Now, Paul's not minimizing the physical threat. He was telling the Ephesians they had to see it in the right light. They were facing the beast of Revelation. You didn't think I would get away from that too soon, did you? They were facing the beast of revelation with the harlots on his back. And to win, they must not only do what they had to do physically to survive. But they had to know how to fight in order to win. So that was the battle. And they Paul is calling them that when the battle is done, if you do it right, you will continue, having done all, to stand. Now let's build on that to see how it applies to our lives. Let's talk about true nature of spiritual warfare as we encounter it. And I'm asking you to take this very personally. We start with a battle in ourselves, as Satan attempts to deceive us. That means we have to take hold of the truth, brothers and sisters. And we have to embrace the idea, though we don't like it at all, that we're in a battle. And that we're in a battle every day. Spiritual warfare is the fact of our life, not the only fact, but it is a fact of our life. It is a condition of being a Christian. And the first step to prepare for it is to believe that and to understand our lives in terms of it. We have to see our lives, as I've said earlier, as being surrounded by spiritual hosts of wickedness. Now that poses a challenge to us. And that challenge it poses to us is integral to Satan's strategy. Here's how We start acting and talking in accordance with this And we have to see ourselves as being surrounded by a spiritual host of wickedness, and we start mentioning, we start bringing that out in our conversation. And that means that one, we have to believe that these spiritual beings are real, and in our scientific materialistic world, people will consider us crazy. And perhaps we may think it's kind of crazy to think this way also. It may make us uncomfortable To adopt in our own lives the idea that I'm surrounded by malevolent beings who want to bring me harm. After all, in our time and in our place in history, certainly not in previous eons. Today, people who believe in devils and demons are usually considered as being in need of psychiatric help. You see, we are taught, demons don't exist. Satan, we hear, is a religious metaphor. He's the product of superstitious preachers and teachers. who only want to manipulate you and control your mind and control you by fear. Brothers and sisters, when Jesus rebuked the legion of devils in the Jeriseean demoniac. He talked to them, they talked back, they obeyed, and they drove a bunch of pigs into the sea I submit to you that wasn't a metaphor. If demons don't exist, then And demons don't exist now, then we have no reason to believe the Bible at all. So we begin Realizing that we must take this idea of spiritual warfare and we must embrace it as real. Now, then we need to recognize the tactics that Satan employs. And here again, Paul calls these the wiles of the devil. Satan's primary defense against us, as it has been throughout all of history, is deception of subtle manipulation. Now, that's exactly what he did with Eve back in Genesis 3. And it starts by introducing doubt and confusion into the lives of those under attack. Because as forces in our lives And our he he causes the forces to be brought to bear in our lives. And he these forces then introduce doubt in our mind as to what's going on. He makes us wonder if what we believe is really true. And he does this through complexity. Sin, brothers and sisters, brings complexity. You want to rid your life of complexity and having it so that confusion does not reign in your household. I'm speaking only to those who perhaps no longer have children in the house. Confusion and chaos is endemic in raising children, but uh but the the point I'm trying to get here is that in our lives uh we get confused Because sin brings confusion. Righteousness brings clarity. That's why we say that the Bible, God's law, is a lamp unto our feet. It helps us see through the complexity in the fog and understand which way we should go. So, we need to see through the complexity of ideas and actions that come to us that make us confused as to what's going on. And so we must be able to penetrate it and get through to the core issues of what's going on. It's more than just whatever bad guy is showing up in your life. It's more than that. We have to see through that to see which way that that is being brought upon us and what principles are at stake and what's going on. We have to be able to recognize the core issues, whether it's in small things, which in military metaphor you may use think of as skirmishes. Those things happen. That's what you see most often in our ordinary days. But in the big things, the big battles It's everywhere we look. And in the big battles, it's pretty clear that it's a spiritual warfare. Satan is pressing down on us to believe something that is not true. Now once again, remember, the way he does this is through confusion and doubt. That's his main tactic. So today I'm going to illustrate this big battle that we have to penetrate through in order to see the core issues at stake I'm going to illustrate that by a big battle you're all familiar with. But before I do that, do not leave here today thinking this is the only thing I'm talking about. Because the big battles are just that. It's where we can see the principle at stake. But the real application is in your everyday life and can be as mundane as how you balance your checkbook. It could be just as mundane as having to have some concerns about your neighbor. So that's what I want to make sure before I get into this, that you don't leave here today thinking that this sermon was only about this topic. So what am I going to start with? Well, I'm going to start with the LGBTQ attacks. that are happening right now. And I can hear everybody go sucking the air out of the room. I choose this because this is a prime example, a complete example, an obvious example of how Satan worked. First, we have to recognize that it's demonically inspired. I probably don't have to preach very much on that for you to understand it and to agree with it. But never doubt that there is a host of wicked beings coming at us that are pushing this particular agenda. We see it in our schools. We see it in the media. We see it in the government. And even some churches. And what is this agenda that they are preaching or they are pushing? What they are saying, brothers and sisters This agenda is saying, has God indeed said that LGBTQ Ideology is evil. Has God really said that? Does that sound familiar to you? Where did you hear that before? It's in Garden of Eden, right? It's a same tactic. I had one preacher, a very good preacher, who often said that He doesn't hate Satan. He feels sorry for him because he's so stupid. Just does the same thing over and over again. I couldn't I don't feel sorry for Satan. I didn't buy that part. But it is true that he's pretty predictable. So here's what we have to see That this push, is it really evil, is the main thrust. It's the hiss of the serpent. They point to people who have been caught up in this lifestyle, whether they're homosexuals, gay and lesbian. uh LG, bisexuals, B, transvestites, T, and queers, that is the LGBTQ, and they point to them, and they are The question is, are you really going to consider them as being demonically influenced? Can't we see, they urge on us, that they're just people? Like straight people. They were born differently than straight people were born. And the desires that they have motivating them and guiding them are natural desires for their birth circumstances. They ask Why shouldn't we just view them and accept them as God made them? And I submit to you that's that's a very subtle and powerful ploy. Parents and friends who face this situation in their families love the person who is so affected. And Satan plays on that love. He introduces doubt. None of us want to see people that we love and care about being unhappy. And so we find ourselves wavering. And Satan is using our love against us. Now do not for a moment think that I am saying we should not love them. We must love them. And parents and siblings, you must love those who are affected by this. What I am saying is that our love for them, that in our love for them, we must be strong in the Lord. We must see the issues at stake as God sees them, and our love for them must always be directed. to do whatever we can to help them see the lie that they have been embracing. They have to understand that they have been brainwashed. And secondly, since it is a spiritual battle when we are faced with these circumstances, We must employ spiritual weapons. Now what is the first weapon we need? We need wisdom. We need wisdom from above. We need strength from the Lord. Brothers and sisters, the LGBTQ agenda will not be defeated. by physical means. It will not be defeated by seeking to only change governmental policies It's not going to be defeated only by being able to get it out of our public school system. It's not going to happen. The government was behind the attacks on the Ephesians. And Christianity did not triumph ultimately by changing the government. The government was changed after the church had won the spiritual battle. At the Council of Nicaea, when the Nicae Creed was written, many of the men who attended that council came in on crutches or were brought in on litters. They were still bearing the marks of their persecution. But the Roman Empire became Christian. Under Constantine at that time. Why? Because Constantine was a politician. Christians had won the majority or the near majority of population in the empire, and he, as a politician, faced that fact and adapted to it. The same will be true in our battle today. We have to rely on spiritual weapons, and therefore we must put on the entire panoply, the whole armor of God That's the only way we will have hope for victory. Wisdom from above will be our greatest strength. Now what does that mean? Wisdom from above is supernatural strength. It starts with the sword of truth, which is the Bible. That's our starting point. And in the Revelation, we remember again how Jesus is slaying nations with the sword of battle, the sword of truth coming out of his mouth. He uses that to break down walls of doubt. But wisdom does not consist in just simply throwing Bible passages at someone caught up in this situation. It is not and should not ever be thought of as blind faith. Faith is never blind. Wisdom is understanding of how to use biblical teaching. How to use it in specific situations with specific people. It has to be used in a manner appropriate for the enemy that is standing in our face. The Bible calls this discernment. And it comes from training. It is being able to discern what the particular issue is before us And therefore to apply the Bible for that specific situation. And that means we have to think biblically and act righteously Telling someone that they are demon-possessed might not be our first line of attack. Neither will, quoting Scripture, while we hold the other person in contempt. Neither will quoting Scripture while we hold the other person in contempt. We have to use the Scripture as Jesus used it. Perhaps to confront the Pharisees, the teachers of false ideas, in one way in which he certainly had some biting attacks against them. But treating those who have been influenced by them is, he treated that in another. We must show compassion to those who are truly struggling, and we must stand boldly against those who are leading them astray. Now all the while scripture teaches us that we have to guard against being burned ourselves. We have to see through the confusion to see how we're to handle each situation. Now I imagine you're thinking, okay, that sounds pretty complex. Where do I get such wisdom Not only to deal with the LGBTQ agenda, which is fairly well defined, but in my daily life, where the issues that I face and the attacks are coming in such a way that I might not recognize them. And that's a really good question, and I'm glad you asked it. My last major point is that we must seek wisdom where it can be found. James is very instructive here, and this is a passage I use a lot. My brethren countered all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. In other words, the full planet. You got everything you need. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it shall be given to him. Now if we have to face a spiritual battle in every day, what should we every day what should we be doing every day? Seeking wisdom. Seeking wisdom. Where it can be found. It has to be part of our disciplined life, our disciplined Christian life. James was writing in the same context the Ephesians faced. He called on the people he was writing to to see their lives in terms of spiritual battle. He said, this testing of your faith, you must be patient. Then he says, if you lack wisdom, let him ask God, and it will be given here. Now the question we have to face here today is this, simply. In this room. Most times this bullfit. Do we believe it? I like that. Do we believe it The battles we're fighting today are just as confusing as they were back then. How do we fight back? The spiritual weapons James says we need to be patient and have wisdom. Brothers and sisters, I can't tell you how often in my everyday life I cry out to God for wisdom. And patience. I am not by nature patient. And God knows I lack wisdom, often when situations are difficult. But the testimony of my experience is that when sincerely and often crying out to God for both of these , It's amazing how things work out. It's all a coincidence, of course. But things were due, concrete circumstances work out Brothers and sisters, we must pursue the whole counsel of God in all things. I could quote you a hundred verses today. about the demonic nature of the LGBTQ agenda. But when I am faced with a concrete circumstances of how to deal with a person or a family who is dealing with that pressing issue. I need wisdom from above. Wisdom is how. Wisdom is knowing how. And how we do things is just as important as what we do. To grow in wisdom, we must, as a church and as individuals, renew our dependence on the means of grace. In Scripture, the book of Acts, the means of grace are given to us as first doctrine. That's the understanding of what the Bible teaches and how it is to be used in our lives. Next, the means of grace is fellowship, the pursuit of and dependence upon a holy community in which we encourage and strengthen each other in our mutual love. Then there's worship and the Lord's Supper, where we acknowledge the truth of the glory of our God in Christ. And then lastly, the means of grace of prayer, which is a staple of our daily life and the life of our community fellowship. Brothers and sisters, that's what God is calling us to. He's calling us to those means of grace to rely on them and to use them to be trained for battle The battle is here. The battle is present. It's in your life. And the way we deal with it as individuals and as a church. will be through dependence upon these means of grace for being able to stand and to know how to face them. What was true of the past, good and bad, will be true of us today. The LGBTQ agenda is just the visible top of an iceberg. The battle is far wider. The forces are more widely deployed. And what Paul and our Lord Jesus Christ is calling us to do is having all, having done all, to stand. To stand in victory and to see our enemies defeated. Does that sound like a good thing? Okay. I don't say it's a whole great upswelling of enthusiasm. But let's hope that the Lord gives us some. Pray with me. Our Lord and God, thank you for this day. Thank you for the possibility of this day. And thank you, Lord, for the opportunity of worship and together with my brothers and sisters. And to deal with the teachings that you put before us, Lord, let the meditations of my heart be entirely consistent with what your word calls for us to take and to embrace. And I ask, Lord God, that you will cause us as a community to understand what it means to stand and how to prepare ourselves to stand. For I ask this in the name of our blessed Savior.