Now uh you'll remember we've just read, uh Mark has just recounted for us. the Mount of Olives discourse in chapter 13 when Jesus described what was going to happen to the great temple of Jerusalem. Now we read chapter 14, verse 1. After two days it was the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread. And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. And being in Bethany at the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table A woman came having an alabaster flask of very costly oil of spikenart. Then she broke the flask and poured it on his head But there were some who were indignant among themselves, and said, Why was this fragrant oil wasted? For it might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they criticized her sharply. But Jesus said, Let her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish, you may do them good. But me, you do not have always. She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial. Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. So he sought how he might conveniently betray him. May God bless this portion of his holy word. Let's pray. Father, please help us now. Speak to us through your word. Focus our minds and our hearts upon your truth. We ask in Jesus' name for his sake, for his glory. Amen. Jesus, as you know, had entered Jerusalem to the acclamation of the multitude of his disciples who had Come to the city along with thousands of other pilgrims to celebrate the Passover feast He had, of course, cleansed the temple of the money changers and the other profiteers. He had avoided the traps that were laid for him by the scribes and the Pharisees, assisted by the Herodians. The followers of the king and the Sadducees. And he had turned the tables on the scribes and Pharisees, he had taken the offensive, rebuking their hypocrisy and their pride. Seated with his disciples on the Mount of Olives, just east of the glorious temple, he had warned of the destruction that was about to happen in the city. Now look at verses 1 and 2. After two days it was the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread. And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by trickery. and put him to death. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. Now Mark tells us that the chief priests and scribes, having been thwarted in their efforts to trap Jesus in his speech, sought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death. Now the Greek word here is dalos, treachery, deceit, cunning, stealth. The Apostle Paul used the word to rebuke Elamas, the sorcerer. Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him and said, Oh, full of all deceit. and all fraud, you son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease perverting the straight way of the Lord? Same word used here, translated deceit, oh full of all deceit and all fraud. The religious leaders had failed to catch Jesus in a speech. Now they resorted to treachery and deceit In other words, they were willing to lie to have Jesus executed. They could do this, for example, by testifying before the Roman authorities that Jesus was an insurrectionist, that he was a threat to Caesar. But they had no intention of doing this during the Passover feast, when Jerusalem was full of supporters of Jesus, many of whom had come from Galilee for the feast. Now, regarding the Passover, Dr. Sproul notes, New Testament accounts of the Passover can get a bit confusing. The Passover celebration was observed for an entire week. The feast of unleavened bread took place over a long weekend, not for the entire seven days. The Passover meal itself took place in one afternoon and evening. So sometimes the mention of the Passover of the Passover refers to that one day, and other times it refers to the entire week. Now, this was, as far as the chief priests and scribes, the Sanhedrin, the 70 religious leaders of Israel, this was the worst time to have Jesus arrested. It might well lead to an uproar of the people. One of the very things they were seeking to avoid by getting Jesus out of the way. But in the providence of God, the crucifixion of Jesus took place when Jerusalem was full of people. Now, before moving on to tell of the betrayal, which is the next logical thing, Right, because he's already told us that the chief priests and scribes are now conspiring together, willing to commit deceit. Mark sandwiches in here an account of an incident that the Apostle John tells us happened a few days before. It's helpful for us to remember that the Gospel writers, just like writers today, Do not always follow events chronologically. That might throw you sometimes. You're reading the New Testament. You say, well, wait a minute, I thought that happened earlier. Luke refers to it happening some days before, etc. Well, in this case, Mark juxtaposes an incident demonstrating an extravagant love of Christ with an incident demonstrating exorbitant love of money. Look at verse 3. And being in Bethany, at the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster flask of very costly oil of Spike. Then she broke the flask and poured it on his head. Mark tells us this was Bethany. That town immediately reminds us. of uh the home of Lazarus and his sister Mary and other sister Martha. Bethany was only about two miles away from Jerusalem, and it appears that Jesus and his disciples stayed there often. if not all the time when they came to visit Jerusalem. John suggests that it was not long before this that the dramatic event described in chapter 11 of his gospel took place. The raising of Lazarus had quite an impact upon the people. On Christ's return visit to Bethany after raising Lazarus, we read this. Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, and they came Not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. But the chief priests plotted to put Lazarus to death also. Because on account of him, many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. John chapter 12 This dinner took place in the house of Simon the Leper. Presumably Mark gave his name because he was known in the early church. And New Testament scholars suggest Mark may have spoken to Simon when preparing to write his account. The gospel writers would seek to get first-hand information from eyewitnesses before putting pen to paper. When hosting this dinner, of course, Simon would have been, to be more exact, Simon the former leper, right Or perhaps Simon the leper who had been healed by Jesus. I think that's probably a f a safe assumption, because it was of course a violation of the Jewish ceremonial law to dine with a leper. And even if it were not a violation. Few, if any, would accept an invitation to dine with someone who had an active case of leprosy. When we compare this passage to John 12 It seems clear that Mark is describing the very same dinner that John describes there, taking place in Bethany before the triumphant entrance to Jerusalem. The incident is also recorded for us in Matthew 26, but let's listen to John's account, John chapter 12, what I believe to be an account of the very same incident. Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him. Then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of spikenart , anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil. But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who would betray him, said Why was this fragrant oil not sold for 300 denari and given to the poor? This he said not that he cared for the poor. But because he was a thief and had the money box and he used he used to take what was put in it. But Jesus said, let her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial. For the poor you have with you always, but me you do not have always. Now John points out that she poured the ointment on Christ's feet. Mark noted that she poured it upon his head. Apparently there was so much of this precious oil that there was enough to anoint both his head and perhaps his whole body as well as his feet, which she wiped with her hair. John reveals, not surprisingly, to us, that it was Judas who first objected to the extravagance of the anointing. He said the precious Spike nerd might have been sold for 300 denarii. That's about a year's wages for a laborer. Think about it, a year's wages for a laborer. Some of the other disciples evidently chimed in when Judas got the ball rolling. This example shows, quote, what danger arises from malignant and venomous tongues for even those who are naturally reasonable and candid and modest If they do not exercise prudence and caution, they are easily deceived by unfavorable speeches and led to adopt false judgments. John Calvin wrote that almost 400 years before his words were tragically illustrated when the malignant and venomous tongue of a German politician deceived millions by his speeches and brought misery to multitudes. Judas, for his own sinful reasons, slandered this woman's extravagance, and some of the other disciples were easily persuaded to join in. But the other thing that stands out in John's account, not mentioned by Mark, is the name of the woman who anointed Jesus That woman was Mary, the sister of Martha, the sister of Lazarus. Now, if you wonder why Mark would not have pointed this out, I think the answer is a simple one. Mark's gospel does not introduce us to Lazarus or to Mary or to Martha. He doesn't recount the uh incident recorded by Luke of Jesus dining in their home. You remember when Martha was cumbered with uh distracted with much serving. She was miffed at her sister Mary, who was sitting at Jesus' feet, learning of him, listening to him. She came to Jesus and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore tell her to help me. And Jesus responded, Martha, Martha, you're worried and troubled about many things, but one thing is needed. And Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. Mark does not recount the raising of Lazarus, that's recounted for us only in the Gospel of John New Testament scholars believe Mark was Mark's gospel was the first gospel to be written. So Mark would have just utterly confused his readers by naming Mary. W what Mary? Which Mary? Mary Magdalene? Mary the mother of Jesus? Because you may have noticed how many Marys there are. Uh uh reading a book recently Dave Trot loaned me uh or gave me, I guess it was a gift. He wrote in it, so it's mine now. And uh uh about how uh Miriam was the most common name in the of the day. In fact I think something like thirty or forty percent of all women had the name Mary in their name somewhere. It was as the second name or whatever Uh so that's why there's so many Marys. And had had Mark just said, Oh, this was this was her name was Mary, well that would have confused everybody. And he couldn't very well get into the whole story of Mary and Martha and Lazarus. So he simply says he describes her as a woman. Matthew does the very same in chapter 26. But uh with John's account of what appears to be the same incident, We now know that this was Mary, Lazarus' sister, and we know that the anointing took place not long after her brother Lazarus had been raised from the dead. This dinner may have been planned as something of a celebration of the raising of Lazarus. We don't know why it was held at Simon's home. For some reason it was, perhaps because it could accommodate more people, who knows? But Mary brought a flask of oil of Spikenard, described as very costly. Now, if the estimate of Judas and others is anywhere near correct If this ointment might have been sold for about a year's wages of a laborer, think about it, six days a week they would labor, 52 weeks, that's 310 denarii. 310, we might call it a well just call it a coin. 310 coins, each coin worth about a day's wage. Then this was precious oil indeed, right? If a flask of it was worth a whole year's wages to a laborer, this is exceedingly precious ointment. Spreich nerd was also simply called nard. It's an aromatic oil, amber-colored, derived from a flowering plant which grows in the Himalayas of India, China, and Nepal. What are today India, China, and Nepal? So it would have been, it was, and I guess still is, particularly prized. It was particularly prized in ancient times, we're told. It was preserved in alabaster, that's a translucent, often white type of gypsum, or for you scientists, calcium sulfate. You may recall a song about a land where alabaster cities gleam undimmed by human tears. That's alabaster. Sproul notes, in all probability, the overwhelming majority of women who lived in that day did not make enough money to buy such a quantity of precious perfume. Likely this flask was owned by the family. Perhaps it was even a family heirloom. Clearly, this was a great extravagance. To break a flask of precious perfume and pour not a portion of it, but the entire amount. Worth a year's wages upon the head and feet of Jesus would seem excessive to many. Judas, John says, got the ball rolling and some others joined in, and they were indignant. Verse 4. Why was this fragrant oil wasted? They criticized her sharply. They were angry. What are you thinking? What are you doing? Are you mad? That's the idea. Look at uh verse six. Back in Mark 14. But Jesus said, let her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish you may do them good, but me you do not have always. It's interesting to me that Jesus did not say, as we might have imagined that he would This is none of your business. This was Mary's perfume to do with as she pleased. You have nothing to do with it Remember the parable of the workers in the vineyard hired at different hours of the day, each one receiving a denarius, a day's wage, even though some had only worked an hour or so, right? The owner of the vineyard said, Am I not free to do what I will with my own? He gave to every worker what he promised to give him. Surely Jesus might have responded that way. He might have said, how Mary chooses to use what belongs to Mary is entirely up to Mary. There's Mary right there. I'm looking at Mary now. I don't know whether that's a subconscious thing or not. By not answering uh the way uh he acknowledges it seems to me by by not answering that way, I meant to say That it's Mary, she should be able to do whatever she wants. He seems to me to be acknowledging that, yes, under normal circumstances, such extravagance Might be considered wasteful or exorbitant. In other words, think about it. Yes, followers of mine do have a responsibility to use what the Father gives them with wisdom. with discernment to ask what is the best use of these funds that God has given me. To put it in today's terms, the Christian might reason, yeah, maybe I can't afford a $40,000 car. Maybe I can afford a $400,000 home, but I could buy a reliable car for much less. I could buy a comfortable home for much less, and maybe do some good with the money I save. Even $500 can provide a child in a developing country with a year of education in a Christian school. Jesus' response suggests that yes, under normal circumstances, such an extravagance might be considered unwise or wasteful, but his point was these are not normal circumstances. You will always have opportunity to be a blessing to the poor. The poor will be with you always, and you may do them good whenever you wish. But I will not be with you always. Not physically, of course. He would be with them through his spirit. Verse 8, she has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial. If, as I believe, the woman who anointed Jesus was none other than Mary, the sister of Lazarus and Martha, in other words, what I'm saying is if the anointing described by Mark is the very same one described by John, and not another anointing by another woman, then it should not surprise us that Mary perceived something that most of Jesus' disciples, including the twelve, did not perceive The Mary who sat at Jesus' feet learning of him. The Mary who, like Lazarus and Martha, was a dear friend of Jesus and who presumably hosted him and his disciples numerous times on their visits to Jerusalem. Mary, who agreed with Martha, that, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Mary who believed that Jesus had the power to save her brother from death. Mary who had that kind of faith, it's not surprising that she discerned That Jesus was going to go to Jerusalem to die. Apparently she believed that when Jesus said he was going to be betrayed and killed, betrayed into the hands of the chief priests and scribes and the Gentiles She believed that he was going to be betrayed and killed. She took him at his word Perhaps she sensed something in his manner that even his closest apostles evidently did not sense. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial. There he goes again. Speaking of uh speaking cryptically, we've already determined he's the Messiah. He's already acknowledged that to us. He 's the one who's come to reign on David's throne. Why does he insist on this talk about death and burial? What in the world is he talking about? I mean, that's the way I think the disciples were responding to every reference to death. and and and uh his subsequent resurrection. Look at verse 9. Assuredly I say to you Wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. Far from being a foolish action demanding reproach, this selfless extravagance in my honor, Jesus says, will be told throughout the world, wherever the good news goes. Now contrast this act of selfless love with the following act of selfish wicked betrayal, motivated, as far as we can tell, by greed. By greed. By love of money. We don't know much about Judas other than the fact that he was a thief. He was what we would call the treasurer of the apostolic band. Knowing what we know about human nature from interacting with one another on this planet and from insight into our own hearts. Uh many have tried to understand what could have possibly motivated Judas to arrange to have Jesus arrested. Some have supposed that he simply wanted to bring matters to a head. He thought Jesus before the Sanhedrin would reveal himself to be the Messiah. The seventy elders of Israel would embrace him as such. This was, by the way, the motivation of Judas that was suggested in the 1961 film King of Kings, that some of you will remember. I first saw that as a child of about nine or ten at vacation Bible school. So this is well well over twenty years ago now. Well, well over Others others have tried to explain what Judas did in other ways. But I think J. C. Ryle put it well. He said And how can this amazing conduct of Judas be accounted for? There is only one answer to that question, the love of money. That was the cause of this unhappy man's ruin. That same groveling covetousness which enslaved the heart of Balaam and brought on Gehazi a leprosy was the destruction of Iscariot's soul. No other explanation of his behavior will satisfy the plain statements of Scripture. His act was an act of mean covetousness without a redeeming feature about it. The Holy Ghost declares plainly he was a thief. John 12, 6. And his case stands before the world as an eternal comment on the solemn words, the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. 1 Timothy 6. 10. Whatever other motivation Judas may have had, his heart had become corrupted by the love of money. He had already betrayed Jesus and his band of brothers by stealing from them, right? These men had left their vocations. Whether it was a fishing boat or tax collection, these men had left their vocations and they were now dependent upon the charity and generosity of those to whom they ministered for the support of their families left back home. Judas, by stealing from his brothers, was in effect stealing from their wives and presumably children, all those they left behind to follow Jesus. Perhaps Judas perceived that the anger and hatred of the religious leaders was reaching a boiling point, and it was only a matter of time before they would take Jesus. And for Judas, that would mean the money train would grind to a screeching halt. The outlook for more easy money was not very promising. But there was one more way for Judas to pad his pockets. Verse 10. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priest to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money, so he sought how he might conveniently betray him What a contrast. Mary's extravagant love for Jesus, not counting the cost , Judas's exorbitant love of money Now, let's drive home some truths from this passage. First of all, let us be warned from both the treachery of the scribes and Pharisees. They had already decided they were going to, through deceit, have Jesus arrested and hopefully put to death. They were willing to deceive. They were willing to exercise treachery And also from the wicked betrayal conceived and perpetrated by Judas, let's see here how insidious and vile is the love of money and the love of position and power. The scribes and priests feared their loss of position and authority. Judas had an inordinate love of money The love of money is so dangerous, so vile , it's actually hard to enumerate all the other sins that it can lead to. Think about it. Deceit. Theft, jealousy, kidnapping, tax evasion, burglary, drug dealing, human trafficking, embezzling, bank robbery, carjacking, identity theft, insurance fraud. Forgery, blackmail, counterfeiting, shoplifting, insider trading, predatory lending, mugging, murder, taking God's name in vain on the loss of money, warfare. And here we see that it was a factor in the most wicked act ever perpetrated by man. The betrayal, arrest, torture, and execution of the Son of God. Truly, the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. No wonder Jesus put it so bluntly. He said, You cannot serve God and money. That's what mammon is. You can't serve God and money, so make your choice. You can't serve both What do your finances reveal about your love of money? What do your finances reveal about your love of Christ? Secondly, here we see the overruling providence of God over even evil acts of men. The most evil act of man, right? The vilest act of humankind. The late Anglican Bishop J. C. Ryle put it well in reference to the conniving of the religious leaders. They had decided, you remember, to not to take any action against Christ during the Passover. Yet, as Ryle points out, the betrayal of our Lord took place at an earlier time than the chief priests had expected. The death of our Lord took place on the very day when Jerusalem was most full of people. And the Passover feast was at its height. In every way, the counsel of these wicked men was turned to foolishness. They thought they were going to put an end forever to Christ's spiritual kingdom, and in reality, they were helping to establish it. They thought to have made him vile and contemptible by crucifixion, and in reality they made him glorious. They thought to have put him to death privately, privily, without observation, and instead they were compelled to crucify him publicly. And before the whole nation of the Jews, they thought to have silenced his disciples and stopped their teaching, and instead they supplied them with a text and a subject forevermore. So easy it is for God to cause the wrath of man to praise him. Psalm 76 verse 10. And of course, Judas did not know that his callous attempt to enrich himself by telling the chief priests where and how they might secretly apprehend Jesus was a part of the plan of God from all eternity. A plan for the redemption of his church, of his bride, of his sheep, of his elect. As one of the believers prayed after Christ's glorious resurrection, for truly against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, Both Herod and Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before it to be done Acts 4, 27, 28. The chief priest describes Judas and others meant it for evil. But God, of course, meant it for good. It will never be fully comprehended by us here, but we can be confident that God does work all things according to the counsel of his own will. Ephesians 1. 11 Thirdly, let's think for a moment of Mary's uh extravagant uh expression of love for Christ Clearly, she viewed what she had as valuable only in so far as she could use it to serve the Lord. She viewed what she had as valuable only insofar as she could use it to serve the Lord For us, what does that mean? That includes our homes, our cars, our jobs, our opportunities. They're valuable only insofar as they can be used to serve the Lord. He will soon be leaving us. He will soon be killed. What can I do for him? How can I express my love and devotions to the one who's done so much for me? Who's done so much for our family? Who's done so much for our nation? I know I can anoint him with precious oil. I can anoint him in a sense for his burial She was criticized for her extravagance. Love for Christ is fine, but in its place , you've gone overboard. Okay, son, you you follow Jesus, that's fine. But talking about Jesus to your friends, talking about Jesus to your strangers, handing out books, handing out CDs, handing out gospel tracts. And now you tell us you're thinking about going on a mission trip? Now you say you're thinking about full-time ministry? Son, you're going too far. You're carrying this way too far. There's a fine line, you see, between being a fan and being a fanatic. The money you're spending on Christian school parents that could help send your children to college one day. What are you thinking? You can depend upon it. If you express your love for Christ in some extravagant way, you will be criticized for it. Perhaps even by believers. Jesus said fourthly, wherever this gospel is preached, what this woman has done will be told as a memorial to her. One sacrificial extravagance act One sacrificial extravagant expression of love for Christ, honored and remembered for all time. I wouldn't be surprised to discover that some of you, perhaps many of you, have offered some service to Christ, some expression of love that some would call exorbitant. That will be forever remembered in heaven. Some of you, without regard to the material or emotional cost, have opened your hearts and homes to children who might not otherwise have had The blessing of a loving, nurturing environment. Others of you are attempting to do it even now Some of you, many of you, regularly give sacrificially to Liberty Church to support the preaching of the gospel here and around the world. Some of you are supporting children in far-off places. Children who can hear the gospel and receive a Christian education because of your monthly giving. I was in a home, uh I don't see the couple here this today, which is fine, but I was in a home recently. where the pictures of seven children from around the world were were posted so they could remember to pray for them. These are ch oops children that they support. with their monthly giving. Children who were able to go to Christian school, children who would otherwise not receive a Christian education. Let me uh encourage you, Christian, as we close. If what Mary did will never be forgotten, If even a cup of cold water given in honor of Christ will be rewarded, then it's safe to say that your humble, faithful service is noted. And will be honored in glory. She has done what she could. She has done what she could. May each of us do the same. Let's pray. Father, that is our desire that our service for Christ would be selfless, would be, yes, even extravagant would be glorifying to you. And perhaps even one day Remembered in glory. Lord, I pray for this flock. I pray that you will inspire them, each one. To so fervently serve you, so extravagantly express love, that you will be glorified through each of their lives. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.