Thank you, choir, and uh thank you, Sue and Ron, for all the special music which you helped arrange and lead. through this Christmas season. And to all those who sang and played to make our Christmas services so special, again, thank you. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn to the Gospel of Matthew to chapter 1. We'll be reading the first 17 verses. Which is the genealogy of Jesus. Let's hear God's Word. Matthew one, verse one. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers. Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram. Ram begot Ambinadab, and Ambinadab begot Nashan, and Nashon begot Salman. Solmon begot Boaz by Rahab, Boaz begot Obed by Ruth. Obed begot Jesse, and Jesse begot David the king. David the king begot Solomon by her, who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon begot Rehoboam, Rehoboam begot Abiah, and Abiah begot Asah Asa begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah. Uzziah begot Jotham, Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah. Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah. Josiah begot Jacob, Jacobiah begot Jaconiah and his brothers about the time that they were carried away to Babylon. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jaconiah begot Sheel Tul, and Sheel Tul begot Zerub So Rubable begot Abayud, and Abayud begot Elaikim, and Elikim begot Azor. Azor begot Zadok, Zedok begot Akim. and Achim begot Eliud. Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar begot Matan, Matan begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was Is born Jesus who is called Christ. So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations. From David until the captivity in Babylon are 14 generations. generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are 14 generations. Let's pray together. O Father God, we know that apart from your spirit, that we can do nothing Nothing, that we need your Spirit to teach us your word. So we pray, Father, for now, pouring of your Spirit upon me as I proclaim it, and upon your hearers, your children. as they receive it. Be with us now, instruct us, strengthen us, and help us to see the wonder of your grace through Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen Years ago, I was going through some of my father's papers after he passed away. And I came across an article from a local paper in Tennessee near Knoxville where my father's family farm was. It was written by my great aunt. And in the article, she details our family tree. It made the newspapers. This article was written years before the internet, so I was impressed and how she managed to go through all this extensive research. And to trace our family's heritage back to our first settlers in America. What she found was that my ancestors came to America in 1685. And they settled in Pennsylvania as part of William Penn's charter. My ancestors who came from England were Richard Curtain along with his wife Margaret. It gets even better. They sailed on the ship Rebecca. They set out from Liverpool and they came with their two children. Jane and William. And what also is interesting is that they settled in Marion, which is not far from where I grew up in suburban Philadelphia. And from these descendants, and from their descendants, they traveled and settled in Georgia and Tennessee, where my father grew up on his family farm. And in thinking that all of all that they must have gone through with all their struggles and how they had to deal with a new world, how they have must have struggled to come to a new world and to attain A wildland, it gave me such a sense of pride in my family's heritage. Genealogies are important as they helped to give us a sense of identity. They inform us of our past and they help us to understand our present. For much of who we are is carried from one generation to the other. to the next and the past is present. So it's no wonder that there are a flurry of websites like ancestry. com Which have taken off, because we want to know our roots, especially when times are shaky, because our roots give us a sense of stability when the winds of change are blowing. Well, genealogies were important to the Israelites as well, but for different reasons. First of all, when the Israelites entered the Promised Land, Their ancestry determined where they would reside in the land, as the land was divided up according to the family tribes, going all the way back to Jacob's sons. And as we can see in this passage in Matthew, genealogies were carefully kept in regards to David's descendants, because God's people knew from the prophets that the Messiah would come. From the line of David. So one of the first questions that any Israelite, any Hebrew would ask regarding a claim of messiahship would be. Is this man from the royal line of David? Is he from the right family tree? While writing to a Jewish audience, Matthew wants to answer this fundamental question, is Jesus of the right family tree? And they would want to know if he was a child of Abraham and if he was of the line of David. Because if he wasn't, there was no point in going any further. There was the case was closed. But these 17 verses are more than just an exhibit A of Matthew's evidence that Jesus is the Messiah. This passage contains for us certain truths about Christ and about his mission that we'll look more closely as we look at, first of all, the structure of the genealogy And then we'll look at the scope of the genealogy. And then finally the substance of the genealogy. Let's first consider the structure of Matthew's genealogy. We've got to briefly cover this point, but it's clear from verse 17 that Matthew was extremely intentional to divide Jesus' genealogy into three groups. The first group starts in verse 2 with Abraham and goes to David. This group represents the rise of the Davidic kingdom. The second group goes from Solomon. to Jaconiah, who was carried away in captivity in Babylon. This group represents the decline of the Davidic kingdom due to the sins of the king And of the people of Judah. And then we have in the third group, again it starts with Jaconia, who was the first king in captivity, and then finds its completion. in Jesus. The third and last group reflects the re-emergence and the rise of the Davidic kingdom following the Babylonian captivity. In this third group, all that is left of the once great kingdom of David is merely a stump, a shoot. The king has no power Other nations occupy Israel. Yet from this stump of Jesse has risen the final king, the promised messianic king, Jesus Christ. As Pastor Russ mentioned in the sermon several weeks ago, Jesus means God saves, and Christ means the Anointed One. The Lord's name conveys his messianic mission, and his credentials as a Messiah are given to us by Matthew in the form of a genealogy. But we have to wonder why Matthew decided to use this threefold division of 14 generations to list the ancestry of Jesus. After all, he omitted some names in the list of kings to make it fit three groups of fourteen. But Matthew here is conveying a sense of symmetry. He's conveying a sense of symmetry here in the rise of David's kingdom, and then its fall, and then its rise again, which suggests a sense of beginning a middle and an end. And it is this sense of completeness that Matthew is seeking God's plan of salvation has reached its climax, its pinnacle in the birth of Jesus. After many centuries, and many kings, the long-awaited Messiah, has finally arrived. This sense of completeness may also be conveyed by the fact that there are three divisions. As three is a significant number in the Bible used to express fullness or completeness After all, God Himself is triune, three persons in one, who in himself is complete and full, the fullness of the Godhead in three. And he is thrice holy, as Isaiah 6 makes clear. Again, a sign of completeness of God. Well, some commentators see in Matthew's grouping of three divisions in this genealogy, they see that he is trying to suggest a sense of completeness. A sense of fullness in the coming of Christ by dividing the groups into three. The end for waiting for the Messiah has come, he said. There are no more kings to come. All the promises of the Messiah that were in the Old Testament have been fulfilled in Christ once and for all. There can be no more, no other Messiah. You know, need no longer to look any further. Because Christ is the focal point of history. All God's dealing with mankind in history past point uh point past in the past point to this moment in time to Jesus' first coming as the son of Abraham and as the son of David. And all of history which flows from this event of Jesus' first coming coming points to him. His coming has ended the wait, and it began a new dimension of God's plan of salvation. So this threefold structure of Matthew's genealogy reflects the completeness, the fullness of Christ. Christ's coming as Messiah. In that way he reflects what Paul wrote in Galatians 4, verses 4 and 5. But when the fullness of time had come God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law, so that they might receive adoption as sons. Well, we can see here that the significance of Matthew's genealogy it has significance. We also see that it starts with a miraculous birth. The birth of Isaac, who was born to Abraham and Sarah, with through normal conception, but way past their years of childbearing. And it ends, Matthew makes very clear with another supernatural birth even more amazing in the virgin birth of Jesus because he says Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was Was born Jesus, who is called Christ. There is no mention of Joseph begatting Jesus. Well, let's move on. Let's move on and consider the scope of this. genealogy and what it means for us. Matthew's genealogy is somewhat out of the norm because it includes the name of of four women. Verse three mentions Tamar, the mother of Perez. Verse five mentions Rahab and Ruth. And verse six alludes to Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah the Hedgehog. Hittite. Now it was uncommon for Old Testament Old Testament genealogies to mention the name of the mother. When they did, the mother's name was sometimes added to dis to distinguish which son came from what mother if a man had sons from different wives. But Matthew seems to have a different purpose in mind in highlighting these four mothers. The purpose isn't to clarify which mom was the mother or which son. Matthew's intention is to highlight the broad scope of the Messiah's reign. And he does it by mentioning the name of these women. What do I mean by that? How is that evident? Where do we see this? Well, let's consider this. At least Two, at least two of the four women are Gentiles. They're foreigners who came to be part of the covenant community of faith. The Rahab mentioned in verse 5 is presumably the same woman from Jericho who gave shelter to the Israelite men who came to spy on the land. And we know that Ruth, the mother of Obed, was a Moabite, not a Hebrew. Now the Jewish readers of Matthew's gospel would have certainly known this. They were well acquainted with Israelite with Israel's history. But what Matthew is doing here is he is stressing it. He could have simply not mentioned the names of these two Gentiles. Gentile mothers. He could have simply said, Judah begot Berez, and Perez begot Hezron, and Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jesse. Yet he includes the names of these two Gentile women who are part of David's royal lineage. Now, why is that important? It's important because it's a reminder, it's a reminder of God's promises to the Gentile nations which would be fulfilled by the Messiah. And such a reminder would have really shaken up the pride and prejudice of his Jewish readers, it would have been like a cold slap in the face. Because in Matthew's day, Jews despised Gentiles And they saw them as a corrupting influence on their faith and on their land. To be labeled a Gentile by a Jew was a scorn of intense scorn, akin to be calling a tax collector. The historian Tacitus spoke of their exclusive attitude when he wrote They regard the rest of mankind with all the hatred of enemies. And their view of the Messiah would be one of a deliverer. From the Gentiles, that he would free them from the oppression of the Romans. One who would rid them of these accursed people from their land And yet the lineage of David included Gentiles, the very Gentiles, whom they despised. Well, even more, the Jews were so blinded by prejudice that they did not see the Old Testament prophecies concerning the Gentiles that the Messiah's coming would fulfill. The Old Testament prophecies were clear. The Messiah would not come just to deliver the children of Abraham. But he would come also to save the Gentiles as well. Is this not what the Lord promised to their father Abraham when he made a covenant with him in Genesis 12? That through Abraham's son, all the nations of the earth would be blessed. And as more prophecy concerning the Messiah unfolded, it became clear that he was not just for the Jews. But the Messiah would also deliver the Gentiles. In Isaiah 42, verse 6, the Lord speaks of his anointed one. Who will come? And he says, I the Lord have called you in righteousness, and I will hold your hand. I will keep you and give you a covenant to the people. To be what? To be the deliverer of the Jews? To free them from oppression? No, I will call you to, as a covenant to the people, to be a light to the Gentiles. And what will he do for them? He will open the blind eyes of the Gentiles and He will bring prisoners from prison. And then Isaiah chapter 11, verse 10, it prophesies that the Gentiles will seek after the Messiah, the son of David. And Malachi 1, verse 11, predicts that the Messiah's reign will be a universal one, that from the rising of the sun even to its going down, my name will be great. Among who? The Jews? No. The Gentiles. Who will worship him? For the Lord's name will be great among the nations. just Israel. And in Isaiah 49, 6, the Lord says of his servant, the Messiah, that he will be a light to the Gentiles and that he will bring salvation throughout all the earth So, could anything be more clear that the Messiah's reign will extend beyond the geographical boundaries of Israel and encompass all nations? That he will not just deliver the Jews. But he will deliver the Gentile as well. The grace of God is so immense, so wide that it knows no geographical boundaries. It is not limited to a certain ethnic group or tribe, but his grace extends to all nations. Amen? And Matthew in his genealogy reminds his Jewish readers of that very point by highlighting the Gentile roots of the Messiah through Tamar and Ruth. For just as Jesus' ancestors, Ruth and Rahab, came to faith in the covenant God, in the true God, so too would future Gentiles come to salvation. Through the Messiah's coming. And Matthew even gives us a foretaste of this. In chapter 2 of his gospel, what do we see? See, but the account of the Magi who were Gentiles from the east, who bring gifts to the Christ child, and what do they do? They worship him Is this not just a glimmer of what Isaiah 60 foretold, that the Gentiles shall come to your light and kings to the brightness of your rising? You might be wondering, well, this is all very interesting. This is certainly fascinating to see that the inclusion of Gentile ancestors in Matthew's genealogy of Jesus ties in with his future universal reign, that's really something to write home about. But what earthly importance does it have for me? Two thousand years later. Well, Paul answers that question for us, does he not? It has great significance for Us here and now today. Christ's universal kingship means, first of all, that He is the great equalizer In Philippians 2, Paul describes Christ's reign over every aspect of the universe, and that one day every knee shall bow, those in heaven, those on the earth, and those under the earth and all will acknowledge Christ's rightful reign over them. All people, from all of every walk of life, every race, every nation, every religion. The atheist will bow to Christ. The agnostic will bow to Christ. So will the Hindu, the Buddhist, and the Muslim will bow to Christ. All will bow to the supremacy of Christ. All humanity will acknowledge him as king, either those saved by faith in this life or in judgment for those who do not. But all will recognize his reign over their lives. So the question for us is this. Will we do so in faith? Or will we do so Will we give Christ his due? Will we recognize his authority over us as a supreme king? King right now in our lives? Or will we deny him in this life only to bow before him in judgment in the next? You know, in a sense, the world already acknowledges his reign over the earth. We do it every Every single time we look at a calendar, every time we write a check, every time we book a reservation or sign a contract, we'll do it in a few days from now as the whole world has a 24-hour party ringing in the new year? For what is the reference point for 2015? What is the reference point? But that Christ, the Messiah, came to earth over 2,000 years ago. And we might try to wipe out that reference to Christ by changing AD to C E, the Common Era. But you cannot wipe out the reality that Christ the Messiah has come and that he reigns over the whole world. And his lordship has changed cultures and communities and countries wherever his gospel takes root and grows. Well, if Christ is the great equalizer who reigns over all, for the Christian, for the Christian, the Lord is the great universe. fire. As Paul writes in Colossians 3 11, for those who acknowledge Christ as their Lord, there is neither Jew nor nor Greek, circumcised, nor uncircumcised, but Christ is in is all and in all. Having Christ as King of God over your life means that he supersedes all cultural, ethnic, and racial differences that normally separate people. He brings unity in the midst of diversity and he unites those who are once opposed to each other due to differences over color and culture. Christ's supreme reign means that as believers, we have more in common than what separates us. That through his shed blood we have a bond with each other which can never be broken. A bond which color our culture can never be broken separate. And at a time when we see a world and our nation torn over racial lines and ethnic divisions We as believers have a oneness in Christ who breaks down barriers and who unites us as his people. As Paul writes in Galatians 3. 28, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. So we see In these brief 17 verses of Jesus' genealogy, we have seen how it highlights the whole world as his lineage points to his universal realm. His lineage is like his kingdom. It contains both a Jew and Gentile. Let's move on. And let's consider now the substance of Jesus, his lineage, the substance of his lineage. Who are these people What are they like? We don't need to read far to see. And what strikes us is the substance of Jesus' lineage is totally sordid. Once again, Matthew uses the reference of the Moms to highlight that the Messiah's ancestors were far from having a stellar reputation. Rahab was a prostitute, and Tamar posed as one in order to deceive her father-in-law Judah and seduce him so that she could bear a child. And the men in Jesus' lineage were no better. For example, notice how Matthew mentions David in verse 6. Now we know that David was a great leader. That he was an inspired psalmist, that he was a valiant conqueror and a tender king who cared for his people like sheep And the scriptures tell us that David was also a loyal friend and a man after God's own heart. Yet what are we reminded of? In verse 6, in this genealogy, his accomplishments? No. Matthew points to his greatest failure Matthew could have simply written, to David was born Solomon, but instead Matthew points to his sin by Bathsheba by adding Solomon. whose mother was the wife of Uriah. And just that little addition, in just that little phrase, we are reminded of David's adultery with Bathsheba. and his engineering of her husband's death. So what flows from this family tree? People of no Noble character, lies of self-sacrifice and moral integrity? No. Prostitutes, adulterers, deceivers, murderers We have to wonder why Matthew seeks to expose these people's foibles and their failures. He could have simply just glossed over them. And it would seem natural to him that he would, based on other histories of kings and rulers, which usually record only their good accomplishments and never Their failings. And yet he didn't. He could have been like the court artists when painting royalty touch up their portraits, making them them look a little better, you know, fix the nose there, erase a blemish there. Yet in this genealogy of the Son of God, the Son of David, Matthew doesn't hide the skeletons in Jesus' family history. In fact, he parades them for all the world to see. The failures glare at us like a flashing neon sign. And as George Bernard Shaw once said, if you can't get rid of a family skeleton, you might as well make it dance. Well, Matthew makes the skeletons dance. Dance. And they don't just do a simple two-step, no, they're doing a high kick and chorus line. For in this genealogy, what we see is the astounding, gracious providence of God. Of all the families, of all the possible ways to enter the world, the Lord chose this particular family tree, a tree full of twists Branches. Why? Why would Matthew highlight the shameful, dark past of Jesus' ancestors? What would be his purpose in doing that? That? Well, I believe it was to highlight something of Jesus' mission as the Messiah, that he would willingly identify himself with the worst of sinners. Just like some of the people who were in his family tree. And it was certainly true in his earthly ministry. He associated with the outcasts of society, the dregs of humanity. And he was criticized for it by the self-righteous Pharisees. The word on the street was that he was a friend of tax collectors. Sinners. And it was as if the Pharisees were saying, you know, Jesus, you ought to be more careful who you hang out with. It doesn't do well for your reputation as a rabbi. And isn't that what the Pharisees were implying when they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? And what was his response? He was undaunted. He told the Pharisees, those who are well have no need of a physical. But rather those who are sick. For I did not come to call the righteous, but those who are sick to repentance. What kind of physician was Jesus? What kind of healer was he? We're going back to our genealogy. Matthew gives us a hint right in the verse one Right there. When he describes Jesus as the son of David. Now in Matthew saying that Jesus is the son of David, he isn't just giving us the necessary credentials that Jesus needs What Matthew is pointing out is more than just that Jesus is a descendant of David. For the son of David is a messianic term which his Jewish readers would pick up The son of David is a term used to describe the Messiah's mission. The messianic term, the son of David, is one of hope Which looks back to the promise that the Lord made to David in 2 Samuel 712 and 13, and which the Lord promised that David would have a descendant One of his descendants would have an everlasting kingdom. And attached to that term, son of David, was the people's expectation that the Messiah would be a healer. The son of David would be a healer. He would heal the land from the oppression of the Romans, and he would also heal his people individually. So there was an expectation that this mission of the Messiah would be one of healing as the son of David. And this belief is demonstrated throughout Matthew's gospel. Three times people cry out to Jesus asking for healing And what do they say? They say, have mercy on me, who? Son of David. And Jesus did. Healed him. And he healed their diseases. And when he did, it caused the people to wonder: this man cannot be the son of David. Can he? In other words, this man can't be the Messiah, is he? But even though they thought he might be the Messiah, the Son of God Of David. , Eventually they rejected him because he didn't live up to their expectations of the Messiah as the son of David. He didn't overthrow the Romans. And yet there's an irony here that in their rejection of him as the Messiah, the son of David, he brought about a greater healing that they could ever imagine. For he came not just to heal their bodies, but he came to do a greater work and heal their souls of those who trust in him. And as the messianic king, his mission was like no other king. As a king, he did not wear a crown of gold, but one of thorns. And as a king, he did not sit on a marble throne, but his body was nailed to a tree. And on the cross, the Son of David brought healing not just to the Jews, but to the nations, as his blood washed away the sin that separates us. us from a holy God. And as the Son of David, he came to identify with people like his ancestors. People who cheat, people who lie, commit adultery, people who murder, people who needed healing in their souls, burdened with a heavy conscience and a weary heart. Heart. And he identified with them by bearing their sin upon his sinless body, facing the judgment that was due to them for their sin. And so with his resurrection he now lives and he reigns and offers all those who are weary and heavy laden to come to him and find peace for their souls. and freedom from guilt. Some of you may be thinking, oh, that might be true. But if Jesus could really see my life. He wouldn't want to associate with me. If he had known what I have done in my past, what I've thought, if he knew the darkness in my life, he wouldn't want to have anything to do with me. I know the shame that I carry around with me. I feel such guilt for what I've done. And there's no way that he would want to associate with me. You may have come here this morning, laden down with guilt, like you are walking in darkness. But the good news of Christmas is that Jesus came to dispel that darkness. And to bring you light, and to bring you life. He came to identify himself with us. And in identifying himself with us, he saved us from all of our guilt. And all of our shame and all of our sin, the very people in his family line, prostitutes, adulterers, murderers, are all the very same kind of people he came to save. Some of you might be thinking , I really don't need saving. After all, I'm a pretty good person. I never did any of those things that Jesus' ancestors did. I never committed adultery. I never murdered like David. I was never a prostitute like Rahab or a deceiver like Tamar. In fact, I'm quite all right. And I'm a morally guided person with a strong sense of values. And I do my best to live by them. So I really don't need your Jesus. I don't need a son of David or Messiah. I am perfectly all right as I am. And if you live a morally upright life, that may be commendable. But the truth is it's not adequate to give you eternal life. Eternal life. Consider just some of those in Jesus' lineage. Some might say that they were decent people. Morally upright folk, trying to do their best, trying to live right, but even their best wasn't good enough. Each one failed Take for example Hezekiah. Hezekiah and Two Kings 18, 3. What does it say about Hezekiah? Good stuff. He was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to all that his father David had done. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him there was none like him among all the kings of Judah Judah, nor who were before him. Hezekiah was a good king. He was one of the best. And yet his best wasn't good enough. He failed. 2 Kings 20 gives the account of how Hezekiah, out of pride or for whatever reason, he gives the Babylonians a grand tour of the riches of his kingdom, and so opened his kingdom to the A threat of attack. riches. And Solomon, Solomon David's son. He may have loved the Lord, but he also loved foreign women who led him into idolatrous practice. Not one of those good kings of Judah could stand before God and say, Lord, I am totally innocent. I am not guilty. No one could say I deserve heaven because of the good I did. Because each, in their own way, failed to measure up to God's perfect standard. Standard of righteousness. All fell short of the glory of God, and all were in need of a savior. ancest their descendant, Jesus, to rescue them from their failings. For the Lord is no respecter of persons. He judges each fairly, and even just one moral slip-up disqualifies us from being in the presence of a perfect perfect God, and so we all would fall under the just judgment of God and deserve his condemnation. Both the same shame-filled sinner and the self-righteous would fall under his condemnation. Condemnation, and if the truth be known, in our heart of hearts, we are capable of being both sinner and And self-righteous at any given moment. So all of us are in need of cleansing from sin. We all need the Son of David to heal us from the sin And sickness of our souls. So, what do we need to do? But to acknowledge our need and to cry out and say, Son of David, have mercy upon me. And to put our trust in Christ and what He has done as the Messiah who cleanses us from sin. Today we have seen in these seven Verses. Not just a list of Jesus' ancestors, but a history centered in God's amazing grace, how He brought to pass through a family tree Assorded sinners, the one who would bring salvation to the world, the Messiah, the Son of David, who would identify with his people. even to the point of dying as a substitute for their sins. Have you acknowledged him as your Have you embraced him as your Messiah who is willing to brace our humanity? Let's pray. Oh Father God, as we look at Jesus' ancestors We see ourselves sordid sinners in need of your grace. And we thank you that you do not leave us in our sin, but that you provide us. That all of history past led up to that great moment in history of Christ's coming to earth to die for us, and all of history since we see Oh Lord, your grace is astounding. It's amazing. We cannot comprehend it. Would love us sordid Gentiles so. Father God, help us to reflect on these truths. Lord, that we are one in Christ And Lord, that nothing can separate us. And thankfully, nothing can separate us from you. And so we praise you, help asking your blessing upon us that we Would indeed proclaim your truth to the nations. And it's in his name we pray. Amen