If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and I would invite you to stand if you are physically able. for the reading of God's holy word. We're going to be looking at verses 14 through 22 this morning. First Corinthians chapter 10, verses 14. to 22. Pay careful attention. This is God's word for us this morning. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No. I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants of demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time before God in His Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we pray, O Lord, that you would take your word and that you would put it on our minds and write it on our hearts. What do we think of the promises of the new covenant, and that was the substance of that promise, that covenant, you will take your word and put it on our minds and write it on our hearts. Lord, in other words, you're promising to transform us from the inside out through the power of your word and through the power of your Spirit. Lord, it is that that we ask you to do and accomplish this morning. Lord, we believe in your Holy Spirit And in his power to work in our lives. And so we ask, O Lord, that you would do that during this time. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we are picking up this morning in this passage very closely on the heels of the previous passage in verses 1 through 13 that we saw last week. And last week we looked at the history of Israel and their history with idolatry throughout the Old Testament, and we saw that Paul argued that past blessing does not secure a present relationship with the Lord. In fact, Israel had experienced many past blessings that were akin to what we would call sacraments in the New Covenant. uh the Lord's Supper and Baptism. Uh they had their corresponding uh blessings in the old covenant, and yet even though they partook of those things That did not mean that they could do whatever they wanted, that didn't give them permission to pursue idolatry without consequence. There were consequences for Israel for idolatry back then, and in the New Testament there are consequences for those of us today who continue to pursue idolatry. And Paul continues unpacking the implications of this for the Corinthians in his day and for us today. He does so by warning us of the danger of idolatry, which, as you can see in the bulletin, is the title of the message. Flee the dangers of idolatry. And he does this within the context of warning which we find in our big idea this morning. Our big idea is this. We must flee from idolatry because we have fellowship with God through Christ and because God is a jealous God. Now if you're visiting with us this morning or you're new to us, you can see on the bottom of page four, right after the liturgy there. The sermon idea is printed out for you to remember and to keep in your mind. Because that's the idea we want to unpack this morning. We must flee from idolatry because we have fellowship with God through Christ and because God is a jealous God. Now if you look at that idea carefully, you can see the word because happens twice, doesn't it? That tells us that our our idea is going to unfold into two sub-points that make up this complete idea. And I want to look at the first subpoint of the first point in verses 14 and 15, and then verse 22. Our first point is idolatry and the jealousy of God. Idolatry and the jealousy of God. We see in verses 14 through 15 the exhortation to flee from idolatry Now what I'm doing there, you can see very clearly, I'm putting 14 and 15 on the front end of this point and verse 22 on the back end. I'm putting this together because it tells us very directly what to do and why. What to do and why. So let's look at this. We see in verse 14 an exhortation, which I believe continues to have relevance for today. He writes this: Therefore, my beloved. Flee from idolatry. Period. Now, the basic exhortation is summarized in that one verb: flee Now I don't know about you, but when I think of needing to flee something, you think of getting away from something that you want nothing to have to do with. A silly example of that would be like a criminal who's on the run and he crashes into a car, the car he's driving crashes into another one. He's not going to stick around and exchange information like insurance. He's got to flee the scene of the crime. He wants nothing to do with it. That's the idea of idolatry for us. We want nothing to do with it. We have to flee. Now Paul uses here a present tense active verb with this command. And I realize that that may sound very technical, that may sound very trivial of a detail. to focus on, but it highlights the fact that this command to flee carries two important nuances for the Corinthians to pay attention to. One, as a present tense, it is something that is ongoing. It continues to apply to them as time goes on. And we know that because of their context of having a ton of pagan temples and idols around them in the city that would be tempting for them to take part in worshiping or to eat the meat of the sacrifices. And that's the context, isn't it? In chapter 8, verse 1, all the way through chapter 11, verse 1, Paul is answering this one question in the most roundabout way possible. Is it okay for the Corinthians to eat meat sacrificed to idols? And so he's saying, no, flee. In an ongoing continuous way from idolatry. The other part of that that was technical, but I think is really important is it is an active verb. In other words, it is an active command. Don't be passive about fleeing from idolatry, Corinthians. Be active about it. Don't wait for it to to be presented in front of you, take steps to make sure that you are nowhere near it John Calvin is famed to have said once, he actually wrote this in his Institutes of the Christian Religion, um, in book one, uh, he says, our our our our hearts are idol factories. In other words, part of our sinful nature is to come up with idols and then to pursue those idols, thinking that those idols will satisfy our deepest desires. And Paul is telling the Corinthians here. who have that same sinful heart that we share today, flee from idolatry. You know, this is present tense, this is active, not passive. But we also see in verse 14 an exhortation to separation. So yes, there's an exhortation that continues to have relevance in this It's active in this um present tense verb, but there's an exhortation to separation. Where do I get that from? Well, look what it says. It says, flee what? From idolatry. That carries the nuance of being separate from the things that are associated with idolatry. We're called to be separated from the presence and the influence of idols in our lives, just as the Corinthians were And again, think about their context. Living in the Greco-Roman world in this city of Corinth, there's all these pagan temples all around them with various deities to all of these Greek gods. like Zeus and Poseidon and Apollos and Aphrodite, and you can go on and on. Paul is telling them in a very clear statement, keep yourselves separate from these things, their presence and their influence in your lives. That's what it means to flee. You're fleeing in a direction away from Don't go near them. Now remember, again, this would have had the impact on the discussion of whether or not they had the freedom to eat meat sacrificed to idols. Paul's beginning to answer that question very directly here. No. You are not allowed to do that. Stay separate. And notice in verse 15, his exhortation, who it's to It's to the wise. Look what he says. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. Now, I suppose you could read that in a little bit of a snarky way, as if Paul was saying, look, come on, man, I'm saying this to you who are supposedly wise. I don't think he's actually trying to get snarky with them. In fact, I think he's appealing to something he had said earlier in the letter about them. Remember in chapters 1 and 2, he's talking to them because they've prided themselves in their knowledge and in their wisdom and in their understanding. As part of their spiritual gifts. In fact, he tells them in chapter 2, verse 16: but we have the mind of Christ And so as he writes this in verse 15, as he's telling them to be separate and to flee from idolatry, he's speaking to them as people who are supposed to be spiritually mature. He's giving them the benefit of the doubt. He's appealing to them as those who have the mind of Christ. But he's also speaking to them and appealing to them as he spoke about them in verse chapter 8. Excuse me. Not verse, chapter 8. They were using their knowledge and their understanding to form arguments that would justify their use of Christian freedom. To eat these meats sacrificed to idols. Now he's appealing to them to do the opposite, and he's appealing to their knowledge and their wisdom and their maturity and their discernment. To discern what he is saying is true. Again, I don't think he's he's placating them. I don't think he's mocking them either. I think he's appealing to them uh as He would to a brother or a sister in Christ. He's showing a high degree of confidence in them that hey I'm going to lay out this argument for you and I believe that you are mature enough that you are spiritual enough that at the end of this argument you are going to agree with me. Saying. But he gives us the motive as well in verse 22. Now we have this exhortation in verses 14 and 15 to flee idolatry. But this exhortation is based on the jealousy of the Lord as the thing that motivates us to flee idolatry in the first place. Look what he says in verse 22 at the end of this passage. And notice I'm kind of creating bookends here. Verse 22 says, Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Question mark. Are we stronger than he? Question mark mark By the way, it asks two questions that really kind of assume a negative answer, doesn't it? We see that idolatry motivates jealousy. Now that that idea should not surprise us. And it shouldn't have surprised the Corinthians, although it may have. When you go back to the Old Testament, he's been using Israel's experience all this time in his argument. Think about what the Second Commandment tells us. Right? You know, you shall not make for yourself any graven image or any likeness of anything that is in the heaven heavens above, or on the earth below, or in in the waters under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor worship them. Why? For I, the Lord, your God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my My commandments. But the idea of God being a jealous God is not new to the Scriptures, it's not new to the Corinthians. or it shouldn't have been, it was part and parcel of God's character as he reveals himself in the old testament. By the way, you see that over and over again in God's dealings with Israel. Think about the book of Judges, how many times they fell into idolatry, and it says they provoked the Lord to jealousy. Or one example that I think of that's repeated over and over again in the later historical books is Jeroboam, the son of Nebot, the first king of the northern Kingdom of Israel, who created those golden calves and put one in in Dan way in the north and and then the other one in Bethel in the southern part of his kingdom And what does it say over and over and over again? He provoked the Lord by leading Israel into idolatry. It repeats it over and over again. Every king that follows him followed in his train. And every king's legacy in the northern kingdom, it says that phrase, you read it. He provoked the Lord to jealousy. Now some of you may be sitting here wondering, well, is this a righteous thing? Or is it is it good for God to be jealous? I mean after all, when we talk about like us getting jealous today as human beings, usually we don't mean it in a morally good way. Don't be so jealous of somebody else's blessing, right? Is it okay for God to be jealous? Well, the answer is yes, it is okay, and it's good for God to be jealous. Let me illustrate why. Think of those of you who are married, husbands and wives. You let me speak to men. I'm a man, so let me just speak to men, but women you'll get the idea because the same thing applies to women to you. Like, let's say you take your wife out to eat for dinner. Maybe it's a special occasion, maybe it's just your your weekly or monthly date night, but you you take your wife out to eat Nice restaurant, you're spending a lot of money, you're not pulling anything, you're you're you really want your wife to know that you love her Now imagine if you're sitting at the table with your wife and some other man, I was going to call him a gentleman, but a gentleman wouldn't do this A man comes up and let's say he starts hitting on your wife right in front of you. Or he propositions your wife, and he's trying to seduce her away from you because he wants to go home with her. Men, would you be okay with that? The answer is no. In fact, any man who sits there passively and allows it, there's a moral problem with that man. He's a coward. And a man who doesn't do anything in a situation where his marriage and his relationship is being threatened or compromised by the advances of another man Any man who does nothing is not going to do anything to make his wife feel secure that he actually loves her. She's not going to feel protected. That's jealousy. That's the jealousy that God has for his people because he is in covenant relationship with them. And so in that case, the jealousy is not only morally right on God's part, as it would be on a husband's, it is necessary. Why? Because for a husband, his wife's love belongs to no one but him, and vice versa. The worship that God's people offer belong to Him and Him alone This is what it means in the Old Testament when God says, my glory I will not share with another. We should understand that. Because a husband should be able to look at his wife and say, My wife I will share with no other. And a wife would have the same feelings for her husband. And so for the Corinthians to claim, brothers and sisters, to be in this covenant relationship with God in Christ, and then to go and participate in the worship of idols through them by means of eating the meat. sacrifice to these idols would be nothing less than making God jealous because you are giving what belongs to him alone to another idol or to someone else So we come to a roundabout way to this qu answer to this question: should the Corinthians eat meat sacrificed to idols? The answer is no. And the question makes them wrestle with where their hearts really are with the Lord. I mean they are not stronger than the Lord. That's a pretty obvious answer to that second question. If they continue to entertain idolatry and practices of idolatry. They will not escape God's righteous and his fatherly discipline over them. So what does this do for us by way of application? Well, the command to flee idolatry is a constant reminder that we all need today And the concern for how the Lord feels about idolatry should motivate us appropriately. Think about this. The consistent need to flee idolatry in the Christian life. This is where that those details of that verb come in very handy. Present, active, and that nuance of separation, right? We need this constantly As I already quoted John Calvin's thing, you know, the heart is a factory of idols in our lives. We must presently, brothers and sisters, be on guard against the idols that so easily ensnare us today. We can't be passive about this. We have to be active, or proactive, if you will, in the pursuit of getting rid of these things from our lives. We must have a separation. From certain things in our lives that will ensnare us. Now, what are some examples of idolatry today? Well, I could multiply examples. I'll give just a few. We've been talking about in this, well, we spent several weeks in chapters 5 through 7 looking at With the issue of sexual immorality, there are all manner of examples of that that we can multiply that are going on in our society around us today. I'll give you one that very few people talk about openly in Christian circles, but is a huge problem, both for men and women. What about things like internet pornography? Right? Idolatry. That's what it is. Idolatry. Let's presently, actively separate ourselves from these things What about the way we use entertainment? Do we put entertainment or things like sports above our affections for the Lord and our worship for Him Believe me, I like sports just like the next guy. But these can't be the chief affections and pursuits in our lives. How many of us are willing to sacrifice our children, so to speak, on the altar of Molech by ignoring public worship on the Lord's Day because our children might have a sports game? I I've used this example before from this pulpit a long time ago, but I did. There was a family in a church that I served at years ago when I was in assistant pastor and I remember this family, they were all members of our church, but there we wouldn't see them for months on end. And I remember one time I'm talking to the father one Sunday, so hey, you know, I I haven't seen you guys in a while. Where have you guys been? Oh, my son, he's got this, you know, he plays soccer for this his school and he had a game here and there and a tournament there and over there and it's like these tournaments and games always happen on Sunday and this is really important for us because if he doesn't do this we can't get a scholarship for college Do you really put a scholarship and sports and college above the Lord and serving him? And presenting yourself before Him on the Lord's Day when you're called to? Those are just examples of idolatry. We need to be vigilant in our lives, brothers and sisters, in identifying these things and rooting them out so that we can give the Lord the first fruits of the crop of our hearts. That are redeemed in Christ. 1 John 5, verse 21 says this. It ends, this is the last verse of that epistle. And it almost comes out of left field when you read that whole epistle. It just says, little children, keep yourselves from idols. Look, look, I don't care what the idol is in your heart or life, and believe me, there are many idols that we can pursue in this world. But the the the matter the moment the point is the moment that we think that we are so mature in our knowledge and wisdom in the Christian life that we are beyond idolatry is the moment we need to be careful. And much like the Corinthians, who prided themselves in wisdom and knowledge and understanding of particularly those of us in the Reformed tradition of the church, who really value theological truth and precision, which we should, the temptation can be to easily fall into the same pride the Corinthians had, and to think that because of our theological understanding, we are somehow beyond temptation to idolatry. And the moment we think that way is the moment we are in trouble and in danger of falling into something that is so subtle and yet deceptive that will ensnare us. And how do we begin to work through dealing with idolatry? What should motivate us to flee from it is our concern for how the Lord feels about it. That just simply takes what what Paul says in verse 22 as a question and puts it into a statement Our concern for how the Lord feels about it. Is this something in my life that is going to usurp the Lord in his place and therefore make him jealous? What would it say about our hearts towards the Lord if we consistently pursue with unrepentance the idols in our lives, knowing that the Lord hates them? It's one thing to come to church on Sunday, isn't it? And we can praise the Lord with our words and our songs in public. But then our actions say something very different. There's a word for that that Jesus uses a lot in the Gospels and is called hypocrisy. And we're someone to do that? We're someone to say to someone close to them, I love them, but their actions telling a different story. We would see a problem with that. So the question we have to ask ourselves this morning is whether our hearts are in line with the Lord's heart when it comes to things that we might fall into using in an idolatrous way. Let me ask two questions. To help you diagnose where your heart's at with this this morning. One, do you love the things that the Lord loves That's a good question to ask. Or the second, which really just flips that question on its head. Do you hate the things the Lord hates? Because, brothers and sisters, the world right now is full of things that the Lord hates and the world is celebrating them. And the world takes the things that the Lord loves and chastises them, at least verbally, if nothing else. But what this calls us to is to have our affection set on the Lord through Christ. And that brings us to our second point this morning in verses 66. And this is really the middle of the passage. My second point is idolatry in fellowship with God through Christ. In other words, how do these two things relate? Idolatry and fellowship with God through Christ. Let's look at verses 16 and 17. We see fellowship with God in the Lord's Supper. By the way, it takes an experience that the Corinthians have had, they've, as Christians, have partaken of the Lord's Supper, and it expounds on the meaning of that experience, and then it applies it to the question at hand. Verses 16 and 17, what do they say? They say this. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Okay, this is so profound. We really don't have time to unpack everything. Let me try to summarize this. We see in verse 16, fellowship in the body and the blood, because the word that Paul uses over and over again throughout this section is the word participation. When you read this, you see that word come up over and over again. Participation. Well, what does that mean? Well, it's the Greek word that you've probably heard before, koinonia, which means fellowship. That's the word that Paul's using here. And so the idea of having fellowship with the the body and the blood of Christ, in this case comes in the Lord's Supper. We know that because he talks about the cup, he talks about the bread that we break. You know that when we do the Lord's Supper here once a month on Sunday, you know, during the bread, usually I or Pastor Jared will hold up the little little bread and break it, right? This is my body broken for you, and we hold up the cup. This is what he's talking about here. Now the implication of all of this. particularly with fellowship and participation in the body and the blood of Christ, is that we have a spiritual union with Jesus Christ. That is signified or signed and sealed when we come to the table of the Lord's Supper This union with Christ, Paul is going to turn around and he's going to apply this concept in a very pointed and I think probably convicting for them manner when he talks about eating meat sacrificed. to idols. And so in verse 16, this idea of participating in the body and the blood of Christ highlights this this vertical union that we have with God through Jesus Christ through the means of this Lord's Supper Now, verse 17 hits on the horizontal union that we have with believers, with one another, that results from this vertical union that we have with one with Christ in verse 16. another. Why is this important? Why is he is important to highlight this vertical union we have with Christ In the Lord's Supper and this this horizontal union we have with each other in the Lord's Supper, why is it important to this question that he's getting at about eating meat to idols? Well I'll tell you why. Because some of them were doing it based on their knowledge and their understanding of Christian freedom in chapter eight, but it in the in doing so they're violating the consciences. Of weaker brothers and sisters in Christ who didn't think it was okay because God had just saved them out of that type of lifestyle. And so the violating their consciences was tearing at the unity of the body of Christ in the church. And Paul, in the early chapters of this book, if you remember, is calling them not to be divided, but to be united. And so this is one more reason that Paul gives as to why they should not be eating meat sacrificed to idols, why they should not be participating in idolatry. It tears at the unity that they're called to have as God's people, which is expressed when they come together to partake of the Lord's Supper. and to partake of the one loaf that signifies their one body union with one another as a church. Now he begins with that experience of the Lord's Supper that they participate in with believers, but he expands the principle. probably in ways that you wouldn't guess if you were a Corinthian. Look at verses 18 through 21. He expands this by showing this principle of participating or fellowship by participating in the altar. Now he goes back to the Old Testament because what do you build the understanding of the word supper on? Well there's There's corresponding realities in the Old Testament that lay the foundation and the groundwork for that so we understand what we're doing in the New Testament. Look what he says in verse 18. We see this idea of participating in the altar in the Old Testament. He says, consider the people of Israel. He's been arguing, building his case from their experience all this time. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? Now we already saw this in in chapter 9, particularly verse 13, when Paul's arguing for his rights to be supported with material provision. from the church. He argued that look, even the priests who sacrifice at the altar, they participate by eating the things in the altar. God gave that to them as their payment, so to speak. But he goes further here, not just priests, but all believers who are God's people in the Old Testament. In fact, Leviticus 7:15 and following. Um, give the laws on the peace offerings. And boy, I realize we read Leviticus and our minds just glaze over half the time because it's so foreign to us. But there's some important concepts there. And when it came to the peace offering that was offered at the tabernacle and then the temple. Well most people fail to realize today is that the average believer was encouraged to participate in that so that once they offer the sacrifice You know, the animal is slayed and then and then put on the altar and it's burned. Um the average worshiper, not just the priest. Was given part of that animal that was sacrificed to participate in and have a meal afterwards and to eat the meat that came from the altar. And think about what that signified. That signified that this offering that was intended to bring peace between God and the worshipper by partaking of the meat that worshiper is having fellowship and participating in union with the God with whom they are in covenant with. It's incredible. Incredible. And Paul is saying, look, if this is true back then, it's certainly true today in the new covenant when we come to the table of the Lord's Supper. But it goes even further. Because what are they doing? They're going to temples Where they are participating in the idolatry by eating the meat that's sacrificed to those idols, whether it's Zeus or Apollo or whoever. And so he applies it in that situation in verses 19 through 20. Take a look at that. What do I imply then, he writes? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No. I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants or have fellowship with demons. By the way, that would have been a surprising point to the Corinthians. I think in their original context. Because you remember back in chapter 8, verse 4, as they're trying to justify through this argument from knowledge that they can do this with their Christian freedom. They're arguing that, look, an idol really doesn't exist. It's nothing. Therefore, it doesn't really matter if we eat the meat sacrificed to nothing. And Paul says, look, while these idols certainly don't exist the way that the pagans imagine them to exist, there are spiritual realities behind these idols. And these spiritual realities are demonic in nature. This is what he's saying. These pagans aren't worshiping nothing, they're worshiping demons. And we see that again , you see the groundwork for that idea in the Old Testament. Deuteronomy 32, 17, talking about Israel's experience in the wilderness, once again, they sacrificed to demons that were not God's. To gods that they had never known, to new gods that have come recently whom your fathers never dreaded. Again, talking about the wilderness wanderings, Psalm 106, 37, much later, makes the same point. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons. Wow. So when Paul says that he doesn't want the Corinthians to participate with demons, he's essentially saying that to participate in the table of demons is to have fellowship and even have union with those demons. Let me illustrate this. Again, from Israel's history in the Old Testament. Numbers 25. Near the end of the wilderness wanderings, Israel begins to sacrifice and participate in the worship of Baal of Paor with the Moabites. And Numbers 25, 3 says this. So Israel yoked himself to Baal of Paor, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. There's that jealousy thing again. But isn't that iron isn't that's that's gotta be more than ironic verbiage. Israel yokes themselves when you think of yoking yourself to something, you are uniting with that thing that you are being yoked with. The implication of this for the Corinthians would be that when they participate in eating meat sacrificed to idols, they're essentially fellowshipping and being yoked with demonic spirits. And that leads to a conundrum in verse 25. Look what Paul says. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. When the Corinthians try to do this, they're trying to have it both ways. They want the benefits that come with worshiping the Lord, but they also want to do whatever they want to do worshiping idols. Paul's point is that you can't associate and have union with God in Christ at the table of the Lord's Supper on the one hand, and then turn around and have union with a demon on the other hand through some kind of idolatrous practice. So wh what are we to do with this today? I don't know about you, but I'm not driving down to Eldersburg today and going to Zeus's temple. And eating meat sacrificed to Zeus there. What do we do with this today? Well, we need to think about how our fellowship and union with Christ helps us to flee. The idolatrous things I talked about under the first point. And again, those idolatrous things could be anything, right? They could be anything from like as as obscene as drugs or pornography to anything that's How does fellowship and union with Christ help us to flee idolatry? Well I think what Paul is trying to get us to see is the reason that is that we have you because we have union with Jesus Christ. Which is expressed in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, which is a common experience for those of us believers, that union is intended to strengthen us. to build our affections and our desires for Jesus Christ so that we have the strength to walk away from the idols that so easily ensnare people. Well, how does this bring us back to the gospel? How do we see the power of the gospel in this? Well, think of it like this: our union with Christ comes from our peace offering with God. that we see at the cross of Jesus Christ. That's going back and applying the Leviticus chapter 7 idea. When we look at the cross of Jesus Christ, that is where we see the offering that brings peace between us and God And what that points us to is the fact that before Christ we were previously under the wrath of God, we were previously at war with God, we were previously at enmity with him while we were in our sin and our unbelief. I love the way Peter says this in First Peter chapter one. Let me start in verse 17. If you address as Father him who judges, judges what? He judges without respect to partiality. Who judges impartially? Our deeds. Then conduct yourselves with fear during the time of your exile. Why? Verse eighteen. Knowing that you are ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. There's idolatry. Verse 19, not by perishable things like silver or gold, but by the Precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb, without blemish or spot. That's your peace offering, brothers and sisters Some of you are sitting here this morning. You may be at war with the Lord. You are clinging to an idol of something in your life that is unrepented of. And you're wondering, every time you fail, can I possibly have peace with God and in my conscience? Look to your peace offering at the cross. Paul writes this in Romans chapter 5, verse 1, and then I'll skip to verse 10 and 11. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, in other words, declared righteous by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 10. For while if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, how much more now that we have been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we now have what? Reconciliation, the fruit of peace. Peace with God. And because we have peace with God, we have union with Jesus Christ. Now, again, I'm not going to go over everything that Paul says here. He spends a lot of time in this passage looking at the table of the Lord's Supper and how that impacts how we flee idolatry because the Lord's Supper strengthens and signifies and seals our union with Christ, whom we have peace. But I do I did mention how the Old Testament, the worshipper had peace. with God through the peace offering on the altar that enabled him to have fellowship with God. In the New Testament, we see something very similar. This is a profound concept. Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 27, 2. Talking about sacraments in general says this. There is in every sacrament a spiritual relation, or what they call a sacramental union. between the thing or between the sign and the thing signified, where it comes to pass that the names and effects of one of the one are attributed to the other. What do we do with that? Why does it matter today? I'll tell you When we come to the table of the Lord's Supper, there is a spiritual union between the bread and the wine that are on the table and the body and the blood of Christ. It's not a physical presence, like what Rome would say, or maybe even our Lutheran friends might say. There is a spiritual relationship so that when we come to the table of the Lord's Supper, Jesus Christ himself is spiritually present as the host offering himself that we might spiritually eat and drink and feed and be nourished on to find strength So that as we participate in this sacrament of the Lord's Supper, our fellowship with Christ, our union with him is signified, is sealed That strengthens us to flee from the idolatry of the things that tend to bind us into a pretzel. Okay, here's what we do by way of application today. Fellowship of Christ and preparing for the Lord's Supper next week By the way, this is the beauty of expository preaching. When you preach through a book of the Bible, sometimes you can't make this stuff up in terms of I did not plan on my own genius to preach this the week before we come to the Lord's Supper, but that's how the Lord works, isn't it? It's wonderful. Next Sunday, we will be celebrating the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper here at Liberty Church. So here's one thing you can do in preparation this week to apply this sermon, this Passage. Take a look at your life and examine yourself this week in your heart to see are there any idols in your life that need to be repented of? What does the Apostle Paul say? Well we'll get there eventually, but 1 Corinthians 11, 28. This is part of the warning section. about the Lord's Supper. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. As you prepare yourself for next week, this week, take a look at your life. And ask the Lord, Lord. Is there anything in my life that I have that is making you jealous that I need to repent of? Lord, I don't want to make you jealous. I want my heart and my affections to be yours. Show me what I need to repair. Of this week. And when I fail, Lord, teach me to fix my eyes on Jesus and to cling to Him as the one who brings me peace. with you in peace in my conscience. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we are idolatrous people We are like the Corinthians, O Lord. Every one of us. From the pastor in the pulpit to the smallest child. We ask, O Lord, that you would take your word by the power of your spirit. You would apply it to our very affections. That we would learn, Lord, to hate the things that you hate and to love the things that you love. And to cling to you and your Son Jesus this week in all things. Strengthen us today, O Lord, for the journey this week until we return here next week. Week. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen