Nice to be with you today on this beautiful day and especially graced by the presence of the Lord's table. And I thought that since you and I were virtual strangers We might just come together on the thing that the Lord gave to us and gives to us from all around the world, the unity unifying power of the Spirit through His communion service. You've heard the portion in 1 Corinthians 11 read already about the uh institution of the supper. And I want us to spend some time this morning thinking about it because communion is one of the most misunderstood doctrines in the church. It's misunderstood outside the church by people who wonder what's going on and ever since the first few centuries have said, are they cannibals? Do they really, are they really eating and drinking the flesh and blood of their leader? Down to today when people look and see the communion of the Lord's people and wonder what is going on here We have, of course, the help of the scriptures to help us here with this, and so I want us to go back, if you would, to 1 Corinthians 11, and we'll look at some of the main points that Jesus wants us to see. What I want you to see first of all is that this is a love letter from him to you. Direct communication through the Spirit, through His Word. He is, though gone, though in heaven, that is to say, physically. He is still speaking to you and me today, in part, through this table. He has not entirely left us as long as we still have this table and his spirit. It is not a magical table. It's not a table that does uh things that uh would be considered um miraculo uh uh Yeah, magical, but it is nevertheless a table which is very rich and intended for our benefit For many people who observe from a distance the Lord's table and sometimes too from within the church, there's a sense that this is just a ritual. That we're doing something religious, that we're carrying on a tradition, and that's it. We're doing what Christians have always done and nothing more. But the scriptures teach us that the Bible is full of much better and richer things than that. And first of all, it begins with what I've already told you. This is a communication to us. It's a communication that was given to the Apostle Paul. It says there in 1 Corinthians 11. For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you. In the upper room, Jesus said, I want you to do this again until I come back. And now he sends through his chief missionary and apostle, the Apostle Paul, this communication. This is what happened. This is what it means. And this morning we're going to look at four things that the Lord's Supper means to the Christian. When we truly enter into the Lord's table as we will in a few moments, we should not be thinking just in terms of tradition and ritual. We should not be thinking just in terms of what we're familiar with, even though the words are well known to us. We should see that as the Lord is seeking to communicate with us certain very vital things, at least four of them that I would lift up for your consideration this morning. He says there in verse 25, In the same way after supper he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. There is no richer word than covenant in all of Scripture. It's filled with the meaning in the context of God's care for his people in relationship through the centuries. Though we have often failed him, he has not failed us. Though we have often broken the covenant, he has not broken it with us. He continues to keep it. And this is a renewal, as Jeremiah says in chapter 31, this is a renewal of the covenant. It's not a beginning again in the sense of starting over, but it is a fortification. I am your God, and you will be my people. And this fortification is now re-emphasized in 1 Corinthians 11. This cup is the new covenant in my blood. I'm not talking now about someone else, even about the Apostle Paul. Jesus says, I'm talking about me. And whenever you do it, do it in remembrance of me. This meal is a promise. It's a pledge of his faithfulness to his promises and of his love. He wants it to be renewed often. Some do it weekly, at least monthly. We see the importance of being reminded of what he has promised to us. As we partake of the Lord's Supper, we recognize that this was done as a fulfillment of his promise. The covenant of Abraham Isaac, Jacob, David, Noah, down through the centuries, now renewed and finalized and secured By Jesus Christ. So this table is not a going through the motions. It's a heartfelt expression of His grace to His people. As they again see his covenant at work. He promised he would be a redeemer and send a redeemer. And he was. And he did. Also in verse 25 it says, whenever you do drink it, do this in remembrance of me, as in verse 24, whenever you this body that is given to you is in remembrance of me. Jesus knows something very basic about us. We forget. We need to be reminded. We need to hear again and again and again. Inadequate is the husband's testimony who says, I told you on our wedding day I loved you. What do you what else do you need? Of course we need to hear it again. And we need to see it again. And Jesus knows that. He knew that he would be gone, he would send his spirit, and he would give us the table as a regular reminder because we forget. Life is hard and separates us from confidence in his promises sometimes. We fear what will happen to us, and we need to know again that he loves us and that he will care for us always. We're weak. We might as well admit it. This is here as a weekly or monthly reminder because we need it. If we were strong in ourselves, and if our faith was all that was necessary in terms of content and strength, then we wouldn't need the communion of the Lord stable. But it is a memorial and a reminder of that. Just as the rainbow is a reminder of the covenant with Noah, and circumcision of the covenant of Abraham. So the supper like Passover is a sign of God's sovereign act of redemption and bringing his people out of Egypt. I told you I would. 430 years went by, and I did. I kept my promises. All of his promises have been kept, we learn from the scriptures. And we need to be reminded of that. This table, this morning, says to you and me, I keep my word. I do as I promise. I will never leave you nor forsake you. Be encouraged. Be built up. Be edified. Be strengthened by this beautiful table and what it represents and what it calls to mind. In Exodus 12, the family gathered around for the Passover meal. In the upper room, Jesus gathered around with his disciples. And today we gather around with our Christian friends. to be reminded of his love for us because we need it In 1 Corinthians 10, we have another phrase that I want to point to now. The first two dimensions of the Lord's Supper are the covenant, which he has kept and promised, and will keep every other promise. And the memorial aspect of reminding us of his faithfulness now and always. Thirdly, it is a communion. As I've already hinted at a bit already, but I want to fortify again today, as Paul writes, is not the cup of thanksgiving for which we give thanks a communion, 1 Corinthians 10? Yes, it is. We are not just recipients of his grace in isolation. We are a part of a community. We commune with him. We hear his word. We rejoice in his grace. And we commune with one another. Private communions are discouraged. Just personal, private celebration of the Lord's Supper is not what's encouraged. As he met in the upper room with his disciples As the people of Israel met for the Passover meal, and as we are called together in his name today, we are one body in Christ. And this table reminds us, for we all come forward to the same one central place to receive what we need. In a few moments you'll be coming physically forward. But even if we were to distribute the elements the other way and bring them out to you, notice the architecture of the room, which is built upon these passages. Everyone seated more or less in the same fashion. No one higher than anyone else, no one stronger or better than anyone else. The pews are a leveling testimony. The chair is a leveling testimony to the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with this for all. And our focus is not upon ourselves, but we look forward and our ears face forward to hear from the Word of God from the table of the Lord. We are brought together, regardless of age, strength, capacity, or whatever, to come to this one place, to commune together with Him. We are united to Christ, the Bible says in in the crucifixion and resurrection. Now we commune with Him and the Father and the Spirit, and we are fortified. The reformers emphasize this point, again, mentioning that this is not just a ritual of any kind, but it is a fortification of our faith. We need to be reminded and we need our faith to be strengthened. And we see it displayed here when we see the body and blood of Christ broken and shed for us. So the table teaches us of the covenant between God and his people, that it's a relationship over the centuries, that even though we fail, he will never break. Secondly, we learn it's a memorial. Despite our forgetfulness and our weakness, he strengthens and reminds us of who he is. And wants us to know again and again and again that he will never leave us nor forsake us, and that he will sustain us all throughout life. It is thirdly a communion, an active real spiritual presence between the Lord and his people. We are not just going through the motions. If we sincerely seek to worship the Lord, he will come and commune with us, as he says. And this table is a reminder of that. Finally, whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death. So far I've spoken mostly about we what we get, what we receive, His Spirit, His presence, His promises, reminders of His grace. But also this table is a proclamation. It's a testimony to the world that we believe in something that you can't see, but that is very real. This is a symbol. A symbol of the present meal between God and his people and his work in their lives. The result is tremendous concentration and statement. And testimony, a fact. Usually when we come to the Lord's table, we think of what we will receive, the blessing and the encouragement that it brings. But it is also a proclamation. It has been much ridiculed and misunderstood Many people think it's unnecessary that faith is all we need. But the Lord gave us the table until he comes, so that we may use it as a means of proclamation. Yes, the world doesn't understand, and yes, at times we have ourselves been confused, but it is intended to be a big help to us and it is. When you come to church When you sit before the Word of God, when you listen to the Lord and come to the Lord's table, you are saying, this I believe. This is central to me. The very act of participating in the Lord's Supper is a profession of faith for all nations. For all people. No matter what we've done, we come again to this table and we receive forgiveness and blessing. So in summation, these four dimensions covenant, communion Memorial. Proclamation. And it is summed all up together in one word. Wisdom. This is how he wants it done. We may have lots of questions about why, but there can be no mistaking that he intends for us to meet with him at this table by faith on a regular basis. to have our faith secured and encouraged, to give us a means for proclamation. But all of it comes up in some summarizes under one concept. This is the wisdom of God. This is not man's idea. The church did not, by committee, invent the idea of a communion table. or the meaning of the communion that we have in passages like 1 Corinthians 11. These were given to us because if we will submit to it As we're seeking to do this morning, on a regular basis, we will see the wisdom of God. What kind of wisdom? Wisdom is sending his son to die on the cross for our sins. Wisdom that means that sacrifice was necessary for there to be redemption and he provided it. Wisdom that says that he is trying to build a people. Weak though we are and failing though we are, he's building a people together to serve him here. This is great wisdom, marvelous grace. And we pray that this day will be open your eyes to that wisdom. I know growing up I often thought that communion was unimportant. Seemed like the same thing over and over again. But I was a child. I felt like a child. I acted like a child, and I I was wrong. This is the richest thing we can enjoy in this world. Baptism has its blessing, but it's not renewable. This is something that the church will provide for you until the end of your days. And it is really our greatest work. I mean the world has many needs, but its chief need is a Bible-preaching church administering the sacraments faithfully to its own generation. People won't understand. They will ridicule and scoff, just as they did with Jesus. But there's immediacy here. There's his presence here. And it reminds us of what he said to the thief on the cross. Today you will be with me in paradise. This table is the presence of the Lord by his Spirit working in and through us as we participate in faith. Again, it's not magic. It's not intended to be some magical hocus pocus. This is reality. This is the blessedness of being a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ and one of the great privileges that anyone could ever have. It is our privilege now, just a moment or two, to come to that table. Let us pray