If you are physically able to stand, I would invite you to do so for the reading of God's Holy Word. We're going to be looking at Genesis chapter 29. Versus beginning in verses 31 and reading through chapter 30, verse 24. Beginning in Genesis 29, verse 31. When the Lord saw that Leo was hated, he opened her womb. But Rachel was barren. Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuben, for she said, Because the Lord has looked upon my affliction, for now my husband will love me. She conceived again and bore a son and said, Because the Lord has heard that I am hated, he has given me this son also. And she called his name Simeon. And again she conceived and bore a son, and said, Now this time my husband will be attached to me, because I have borne him three sons. Therefore his name was called Levi. She conceived again and bore a son, and said, This time I will praise the Lord. Therefore she called his name Judah. Then she ceased bearing. When Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, she envied her sister. She said to Jacob, Give me children, or I shall die. Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel, and he said, Am I in the place of God who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb? Then she said, Here is my servant Bilha. Go into her, so that she may give birth on my behalf, and even I may have children through her. So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife, and Jacob went into her, and Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son Then Rachel said, God has judged me and has also heard my voice and given me a son. Therefore she called his name Dan Rachel's servant Bilha conceived again, and bore Jacob a second son. Then Rachel said, With mighty wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister and have prevailed. So she called his name Naphtali. When Leah saw that she had ceased bearing children, she took her servant Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife. Then Leah's servant Zilpah bore Jacob a son. And Leah said, Good fortune has come. So she called his name Gad. Leah's servant Zilpah bore Jacob a second son, and Leah said, Happy am I, for women have called me happy. So she called his name Asher. In the days of the wheat harvest, Reuben went and found mandrakes in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Please give me some of your son's mandrakes. But she said to her, Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? Would you take away my son's mandrakes also? Rachel said, Then he may lie with you tonight in exchange for your son's mandrakes. When Jacob came in from the field in the evening Leah went out to meet him and said, You must come into me, for I have hired you with my son's mandrakes. So he lay with her that night. And God listened to Leah, and she conceived, and bore Jacob a fifth son. Leah said, God has given me my wages because I gave my servants to my husband. So she called his name Isakar. And Leah conceived again. And she bore Jacob a sixth son. Then Leah said, God has endowed me with a good endowment. Now my husband will honor me, because I have borne him six sons. So she called his name Zebalun. Afterwards, she bore a daughter and called her name Dinah. Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb. She conceived and bore a son and said, God has taken away my reproach. And she called his name Joseph, saying, May the Lord add to me another son. Well this is the reading. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with the word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with a passage like this in front of us. A passage where it details the birth. Of twelve children, eleven sons, and one daughter, you would think, Lord, that this would be a time of happy occasion, and yet we see clearly the strife In the midst of the passage, O Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes to see what it is that you are doing in a circumstance like this. Oh Lord, and then open our eyes as well and our ears to see and hear how this applies to us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. When I was just a kid on the playground, uh anyone who grows up uh in the public school system would probably know that Uh kids can be really rough with one another. Kids can be really mean and nasty to one another and make fun of one another for all manner of things. I think one of the things that was probably most embarrassing for most boys my age is if your friends found out that you had an interest And one of the girls on the playground, they would tease you mercilessly and relentlessly. They would sing songs, citing your name and hers, and making fun of you. Some of you have heard the old song, First comes love, then comes marriage, then comes the baby in the baby carriage. Well, that's exactly what we see in this particular passage. First came love. Jacob loved Rachel, and we saw that in our passage last week. Then came marriage, and we saw the whole debacle of what happened to Jacob. When he was deceived by his father-in-law Laban, we looked at that last week. The deceiver himself gets deceived and played. And now we see the natural result of marriage in children in the passage before us. And you have to wonder, from a bird's eye view, from a 30,000-foot perspective, What is God doing in the life of Jacob? I mean, no one can read this and walk away not thinking, boy, that sounds pretty messy. In fact, in chapters 29 through 32, we see if we read through those chapters systematically that the Lord is in the process of breaking down Jacob's deceitful character. He's breaking down his cunning self-reliance. He's breaking down Jacob's self-righteousness. And the purpose of breaking Jacob down systematically is to bring him to a place where he can fully And finally submit to the Lord, which we will see at the end of chapter 32 when we finally get there. But at this point, God is in the midst of bringing his promises to pass while he does this in Jacob's life. It's kind of an interesting Interesting background. God is still working in Jacob's life despite the fact that Jacob is being worked over and systematically broke broken down. In fact, in our passage, we'll see that God is beginning to fulfill the promise to multiply the seed of Abraham, the seed of Isaac, and as he reiterated in the last passage, the seed of Jacob. He said, I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the dust of the earth. But he does this, as we read just a moment ago, in a way that Jacob would not have expected or probably would not have asked for. And it is an incredibly messy process. But the whole point of our passage this morning is very clear. God fulfills his promises to us in acting on our behalf. in working despite our sinfulness and by removing our reproach in the process By the way, if you're visiting with us this morning, you will notice at the bottom of the order of service, we do print the sermon idea there. for you to follow along with. But that's the idea we're unpacking this morning. God fulfills his promises to us in acting on our behalf, working despite our sinfulness, and removing our reproach. We're gonna not tackle this exactly in the order you see it in the the passage itself. I want to break it down kind of uh thematically here. And I want to look first at verses thirty-one to thirty-five of chapter twenty-nine, and then we'll skip forward in our first point. to chapter 30, verses 14 to 21. And I want you to see this first point. The Lord acts on behalf of those who are unloved. That's the first point there. The Lord acts on behalf of the unloved. And we have to really unpack this first in verse 31 of chapter 29, seeing the marital conditions that Leah and Rachel find themselves in. Looking at verse 31 again it says, When the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. Now I want to look at both sisters here. First, the sad estate of Leah in this marriage. It says very clearly, Leah was hated. When the Lord saw that Leah was hated, what does it mean for Leah to be hated? I mean, does it mean what we normally would think it means in our modern 21st century context? I mean, in this case, the obvious implication is the one doing the hating is Jacob, her own husband. But I want you to take a step back and put yourself in Jacob's shoes first for just a moment. Think about why would Jacob be tempted or succumbed to hating his wife, Leah? Well, if you remember, back in chapter 29, verse 18, it was very clear that we saw that he loved Rachel. Rachel was the one who came out to the well. Rachel was the one he fell in love with. And He worked seven years to marry her, which you can imagine is a long time to earn a dowry for a wife. And yet, as we saw last time, his own father-in-law deceived him. And if you remember, on the wedding nights, switched out Rachel and put Leah in her place. And Jacob woke up to quite a shock. So in this case, Leah is the constant reminder, day in, day out, for Jacob, of his deception. She represents the obstacle in his way to having the marriage that he wanted, the marriage that he desires with Rachel. She's the obstacle. And that's likely how Jacob saw her day in, day out. In fact, to illustrate this principle of his hatred for her versus his love for Rachel You can look at uh a prophet, a passage like the prophet Malachi, chapter 1, verses 2 and 3. It uses the same words where the Lord is talking about uh Jacob and Esau. God says to the prophet Malachi, yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. It's the exact same language that we find here. And in this sense, the idea of love and hate, while maybe including the emotional component, go far beyond that It doesn't begin with the emotions. The emotions follow those those words. In fact, when God says I love Jacob and Esau I hated, it's not that God had some kind of, you know, overly emotional, sentimental, lovey-dovey, fuzzy love for Jacob. I mean, we know Jacob didn't deserve that. He mean he's a he's a deceiver, he's a scoundrel. It's the idea that God chose Jacob. He elected him. He did not choose and elect Esau. That's all that the prophet is getting across. And so when you apply that same logic to our narrative here, it's the idea that Jacob chose to marry Rachel. He did not choose to marry Leah, but he ends up marrying to her against his will, as he was forced to marry her too. In other words, this love is a choice. Again, the emotions will follow the choice. But Jacob had chosen in this case to withhold love from Leah. Which then of course included the emotional response of being in a cold marriage. Now you when you take a step back and you look at that bigger picture and you put yourself in Jacob's shoes for just a moment. You might understand, but you might not sympathize with him, right? Because this is not a good place for Leah to find herself in. And the Lord sees this in verse 31. The Lord sees the one who's unloved. But it's not just Leah that has a problem here. We also see in verse 31 the sad state of Rachel in this marriage. Things are not always just sunshine and roses for her, even though she has the love of her husband. Despite having his love, she is barren. We've already seen this twice before, haven't we? We saw this with Sarah, the wife of Abraham. We saw this with Rebekah, Jacob's own mother, the wife of Isaac. Both women were barren. And you've got to remember that at least on the surface level, this is a day and age where a woman's worth, a woman's value in that culture, in that society uh with their values and their mores that they had back then. A woman's status uh was related to how many children she had But I want you to go a little deeper than just the culture here. It's not just culture that weighs into probably how Rachel is feeling and where she's struggling. It goes deeper than that. You've got to remember what God had promised to Abraham and to Isaac and also to Jacob. I will multiply your children more than the stars of heaven. That is the covenant promise. And Rachel is barren. You've got to imagine the struggle that she's got to be wrestling with and dealing with internally. As she she's got to be, in my opinion, I think she's probably struggling with thoughts and feelings. Like, am I under the curse of God? Is God refusing to bless me? Have I done something to earn his displeasure because he's closed my womb and the promises of the covenant are not being realized through me? Again, this is not a good place for Rachel to be in this marriage, and I think anyone who has struggled with infertility, probably knows the pain of Rachel's struggle and can really uh sympathize or empathize with her. And yet it's in the middle of this kind of double problem that 's plaguing Jacob's life and his two marriages here that God begins to act. In fact, when you look at Genesis 29, verses 32 through 35, you see very clearly that the Lord opens Leah's womb. Now what I find interesting about the way that that's worded in verse 31, you know, it does not present uh Leah as being barren. Uh Rachel's barren. But speaking of Leah, even though she's not barren, the fact that she starts bearing children shows that this is still the work of the Lord. He opened her womb. And what a gift. She gets four children. In verses 32 through 35, you can see the names of the sons. The first is Reuben, the second is Simeon, the third is Levi, and the fourth is Judah. You'll probably recognize those as names of tribes in Israel. These are the fathers, the first fathers of the first four tribes in Israel. Now again, we've mentioned this before many times throughout Genesis. Oftentimes, the meaning of these names are given with some kind of explanation. And we see that very clearly here. Now I'm not going to go into all of the explanation. You can see some of that for yourself She calls Reuben Reuben because the Lord has looked upon my affliction, for now my husband will love me. The name Reuben is just tied to the Hebrew verb for to see or to look. Which is what she says. Simeon, his name. Notice the description there, because the Lord has heard that I am hated. He has given me this son also. Simeon's name, related to the Hebrew verb to hear or to listen. Again, she says that right there. Levi. Now this time my husband will be attached to me because I have borne him three sons. Levi is the related to the Hebrew verb to attach. And then Judah, this time I will praise the Lord. Judah's name means praise or praising. And so you see the meaning of these names given. Four sons are given to Leah, the one who is hated. Now what I want to want to draw your attention to is not only the meaning of their names, but w the reason why Leah gives these names. And the reason I want to do that is it's going to tell you something about where Leah is at, not just emotionally but spiritually as well. Again, with Reuben, notice she expresses her affliction. That's a strong word. Her affliction due to the fact that her husband does not love her. When s when she mentions Simeon's name, she she highlights the fact that um God hears That she is hated. Those are by the way two sides of the same coin, right? Husband doesn't love her and he hates her. It's almost an intensification, right? And it's interesting that God sees and hears this. And by the way, who could blame her for feeling the way that she does? Levi 's name expresses the longing that is deep in her heart as she desires to be attached to or bound. to her her husband. And it's interesting that with Judah she praises the Lord. Now notice that in each of those descriptions, each of those names, and the reasons why she gives those names, she references The name of the Lord using that covenant name, every one of them. She mentions the Lord. In the Hebrew text, that's the name Yahweh, which in our English Bibles is translated Lord with all capital letters She references his covenant name in each of these explanations. And what's fascinating to me is even as Jacob is failing as a husband, and you better believe he is failing as a husband here, if he does not love his wife, as Scripture calls us to. Even if he fails, she leans into the covenant God of Jacob as her refuge and her comfort, even as she longs for the comfort of her husband She wants the comfort from her husband that she rightfully deserves, and yet he's not giving that to her. So look where she turns. She turns to the covenant God of Jacob, in whom she takes refuge and finds comfort. that is lacking from her husband. That tells you a lot about Leah 's spiritual condition, doesn't it? Shows a place of faithfulness And then you jump to chapter 30, verses 14 through 21. You see kind of the next episode of Leah bearing children. And this is in the midst of her struggling with her sister, which we'll look at in just a moment. But picking up in verses 14 through 24 After an interval of some time, I want to highlight verse 17 in that section. Look at verse 17. This is Just as the Lord opened Leah's womb initially, back in chapter 29, verse 31, here in chapter 30, verse 17, you have the overarching theme here, and God listened to Leah. And she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son, and then a sixth son, right? But all of this, even if she continues to bear again, God gets the credit. The Lord is the one acting on her behalf, as again as the unloved wife. He listens to her, she conceives. Now the background of that is actually really fascinating. We won't go into all the details, but the word that comes up over and over and over and over again is the word mandrakes. What's the story? Well her oldest son, Ruben, goes out into the field. I don't know how old he must have been. I'll take a guess. Maybe six, five or six, I don't know. He's out playing in the field and he finds a bunch of mandrakes and he brings them to his mother. Kind of a sweet and innocent gift, I suppose, from a son. To the mother. But what's really fascinating is in the ancient Near East, this is true both in the Bible. You see it mentioned in the Song of Solomon, which we know is about love and marital relations between a husband and a wife. You also see it in ancient Near Eastern literature. Mandrakes were thought to be helpful for bearing children. They were seen and understood as an aphrodisiac in the ancient Near East. And so it's interesting that when Rachel asks for some of the mandrakes, one wonders, because she's not bearing children at this point. Maybe she thinks in the back of her mind, if I eat these mandrakes, maybe I can bear some children. That'd be kind of a cunning plot, wouldn't it? Except for it doesn't quite work her way. Because what does she do? She strikes up a bargain and a deal with her sister. Which is a bargain that is couched in hostility. She asks Leah, can you give me some of your son's mandrakes? And again, you see in verse 15 what Leah says And again, this shows a little more of her heart, her attitude, in this case towards her sister. Is it a small matter that you've taken away my husband? Will you take my man my son's mandrakes away also? Boy, that really shows the high intensity of the emotional climate there, doesn't it? You go from taking away a husband to taking away mandrakes As if the two are somehow equated. There's some irrationality in there, but again, not without warrant. They strike up a deal. Rachel gets the mandrakes. Leah spends the night with Jacob. And as we saw, she has a fifth and a sixth son. The fifth son, Issachar. Believe it or not, whose name means wages. Isn't that interesting? Isakar is the wages of this deal that she has made. And then she bears a sixth son in Zeblun, whose name sounds like two different Hebrew words, which means endow endowed with, and then honor. Put them together, and that's what Zeblun's name means. Endowed with honor. And lastly, she gave a daughter named Dinah. So that's Leah, kind of in a nutshell, and her situation and the children that she has born, but we need to ask ourselves What are we to make of Jacob's marital conditions at this point in the passage? And what are we to make of Leah's children by way of application? Well, I think this reveals the problems of polygamy. Number one, it's kind of on the surface there. And it shows that even in the worst conditions of life, which we would never ask for, we are called to lean into the covenant Lord who acts on our behalf. Again, let me begin with polygamy. That is kind of like the low-hanging fruit of application here. One of the Biggest moral objections I hear to the Bible or to faith in the Bible in general, in the Old Testament in particular, is the charge that the Bible celebrates polygamy and therefore endorses the abuse of women. And therefore, it's not worth believing. What do you do with that charge? Well I'm going to just say very pointedly, the Bible never presents polygamy as the ideal. I think the problem with this objection is the Bible never explicitly celebrates polygamy. And believe me, there is a big difference between describing something that happens historically And celebrating or morally endorsing something. You could I could write a book if I was a historian. I could write a book Explaining and detailing all the atrocities that Hitler accomplished and perpetrated on the Jewish people and the gypsies and all the other people that were, you know uh the unwanted in European societ Germans European society at that time and what they did in the concentration. I can write about all that, and that doesn't mean that I am morally endorsing it. Right? We need to understand that objection. That describing something is not the same as morally endorsing it. In fact If you look at Scripture from the beginning, Genesis 1, 27, chapter 2, verse 24 and 25, monogamy between a man and a woman within the covenant of marriage is presented as the norm. That is the moral normative in Scripture. And you look at every instance of polygamy. I know I've said this before when we looked at Lameca all the way back in chapter 4. You look at every instance of polygamy in the scriptures, I I I challenge you, I dare you, point to me one example where the Bible holds it up as an example to follow, number one, and number two, where it ends well. It doesn't. Really kind of showing you if you read between the lines and you're a prayerful reader that this is not what the Bible is telling us to do. I mean you look at Lamech. He's not the ideal character in chapter 4 as coming from the line of Cain, taking two wives, and then murdering somebody in their community. You look at Abraham in chapter 16 when when Sarah gives Hagar to Abraham as a wife, does that end up well? No. Ishmael ends up persecuting Isaac and then Abraham has to send them away. You look at 1 Samuel chapter 1. Elkinah has two wives, Penina, who has many children, Hannah who has none, because she's also barren. Tell me that worked out really well for Elkinah. And then you look at David. His children murdered one another, and then one of them turns on his father and rebels against him. Or what about Solomon and his many wives, who were the spiritual downfall of all of God's people culminating in the exile? Polygamy is never endorsed. And you look at Jacob's life in this passage and the mess. Now the application of polygamy to today is we don't necessarily have polygamy being practiced in the legal sense in our society, but we do have something called polyamory today. And I'm not going to go into too much detail, but it's it's the same principle against polygamy applies to what we call polyamory or the idea that you have many lovers at one time. And ironically today it's not just men who do this, it's also women who do this. The point is a man or a woman being made in the image of God is not designed to have divided affections between lovers or spouses. And so let's do away with this objection to the scriptures that somehow God is in favor of abusing women. by using them as objects of pleasure, like having multiple wives. The Bible does not teach that. But Jacob finds himself, as we see, in this really unideal situation that is loaded with sin, and we see the principle of trusting the Lord who acts on our behalf. You know, I think Leah 's situation mirrors the situation that many of us, whether a man or a woman in this room, may find ourselves, where we go through trials in life where, you know, we have expectations of how things are supposed to work. Whether it's marriage, whether it's family, whether it's parenting, whether it's career, so on and so forth. Maybe it's church related and things are not working out the way you expected. What do you do? When the marriage you thought you would one day have turns out to fill your life with bitterness? What do you do when you put all of your hopes And all the eggs of your hopes in one basket that you call your career. And then you get into that career and you find out, oh, it's not what you thought it would be Or parenting, or you fill in the blanks of anything you had expectations for, where real life hits And it fails to meet your expectations, and you start going through hard times, what do you do? Where do you go for comfort? Where do you go? For refuge. Brothers and sisters, Leah is a prime example this morning for all of us who go through tough times. To show that, you know, it is possible to walk through those times. It is possible to trust in the Lord through those circumstances and those trials. And to still receive the blessing of the Lord, even when certain things and desires in our hearts are left unfulfilled. And that leads us really to our second point this morning in verses 1 through 13 of chapter 30. We see the Lord working despite our sinfulness. And this is kind of where we we turn away from Leah to look a little bit at Rachel. And you see in verses 1 through 8, Rachel attempts to fulfill God's promises herself. This is where the sinfulness comes out. Take a look at chapter 30, verse 1. You see the real key problem in Rachel right here. When Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, what did she do? She envied her sister. Now, okay, well, what does she do with that envy? Well, she goes to the wrong party to solve the problem. Notice who she runs to. She runs to Jacob. And she she kind of presents with him this kind of almost do-or-die scenario that really is not in his power to give. Give me children, or else I die. That's a strong statement. And I I I really do, as a man, I understand the ire or the anger or the wrath of Jacob here who corrects her that he is not in the place of God who has withheld children from her. But here's what I want you to see. I want you to draw the contrast between how Jacob and Rachel are handling this problem versus how Jacob's parents, Isaac and Rebekah, previously handled the problem. Because Rebecca had the same problem, didn't she, as Rachel? She was barren. And for 20 years. By the way, Rachel is not barren for 20 years here. Rebecca was, which is, in my opinion, a greater trial. But Rebecca And Isaac, particularly Isaac, turns to the Lord in chapter 25, verse 21. And he prayed for his wife to the Lord, who then answered and opened Rebekah's womb. You don't read of Rebecca coming to Isaac and essentially blaming him and saying, you give me children or else. You see that with Rachel? You because Rebecca didn't do that to Isaac, you don't see Isaac chastising and giving a verbal lashing to his wife. I mean, that is a harsh thing to say to your wife. Am I in the place of God who's withheld from you the fruit of the womb? I mean You say that to your wife and tell me you're not going to be sleeping on the couch for a little while. And yet that's exactly what Jacob did. And when we see Isaac turning to the Lord, faithfully trusting him and praying about this , You don't see Jacob do that. You don't see Jacob doing that at all. And because Both of them are handling this the right way, or the I'm sorry, the wrong way. Rachel then turns and does something that is familiar to us from back in chapter 16. Rachel attempts to do in verse 3 the same thing that Sarah did uh with Abraham. She gives her maidservant Bilha to Jacob as a a wife. Which by the way, now you know, he already is a polygamist or a bigamist having two wives. Now he's got three. And what does she say? Go into her that she may give birth on my behalf. By the way, literally that translates that she may give birth on my knees. In the ancient Near East, that's kind of a legal. Statement to say that I will adopt whatever children come from her as legally my own And then she says again that I may have children through her. That's a good interpretive gloss. It literally, again, means that I may be built up through her. And there's a play on words there in Hebrew. The word sun and the word to build are uh sound alike. It's almost like a poetic play. And then in verses 4 through 8, Jacob follows suit. He obeys the voice of his wife, and what happens? Bilha has two sons. And again, look at the names of these two sons. They tell you something about the heart of Rachel, Dan, whose name means to judge. God has judged me. And she's not talking about in a negative sense. She's talking about God has now judged me worthy to have sons. I was formerly under the curse. And he has judged in my favor. That's the idea that's behind that name. Again, I think it's a false notion that she was under the curse. The second is Naphtali, whose name means my wrestling. And again, notice notice again the heart of Rachel in the midst of having these children. The idea of my wrestlings, you know, my I've been wrestling with my sister. Her focus is on the problem and the envy and and the bitterness and the competition uh and the manipulation in this case. that she's trying to effectuate against her sister. When her focus is on her sister, her focus cannot be on God. That's her problem. As Rachel does this, she's not trusting in God to fulfill the promises that he made to Jacob and her participation of that as his wife. She has to take these matters into her own hands. But you know what's really sad? You look at verses 9 through 13. Leah attempts to fulfill God's promises for herself as well. You know what? Okay, Rachel, you want to play this game, too can play that game. Here, Jacob, take my servant Zilpa. Do the same thing. And now this complicates things even further because now Jacob doesn't have just two. He doesn't have just three. Now he's got four wives to deal with and to support. Now I'm not going to go into all the details, but notice she has two children as well, Gad and Asher. Gad means good fortune, and Asher means happy. You know what's noticeably absent in those names? Is there any reference to God? Leah, who was once faithful, has now succumbed and and down to Rachel's level and playing the same game and It's really sad. It's interesting to me that the way that this competition plays out, Rachel has Jacob's love, but not his children. Huh. Leah has Jacob's children, but not his love. What is envy all about? Well, you see it here in the sisters. Each sister wants what the other longs for so deeply. And it's that envy that causes them to fall into a spirit of bitter competition with one another, leading them to take matters into their own hands, leading them effectually to manipulate Jacob into their little uh competition with one another. And now Jacob has all these children. The question by way of application is, what do their hearts and attitudes teach us and warn us about that we might struggle with today? Well, when we envy other believers, we can easily fall into a spirit of competition with them that leads to taking matters into our own hands, which fundamentally reveals a heart of unbelief. You know, the whole context of this passage takes place within the backdrop of Jacob's domestic life, and yet God fulfilling The promises that he made despite the fleshly and sinful means that these women have employed Now, I do not for a minute want to exonerate these women for their behavior and their actions. I don't want to exonerate Jacob from taking two more wives and ending up with four of them. There is a lot of sin to go around in this passage. You can point the finger at one person or the other, but it goes around, doesn't it? But what we have to look at is as the sin works its way around the family, we have to look at the root of it, we have to look at the means of it. And really, I'm just putting before you the root of it is the unbelief that God can faithfully fulfill his own promises. And with that unbelief in God is the false belief, or the false notion, that we can then fulfill God's promises on our own behalf by taking matters into our own hands. And related to all of that, the expression that comes out is envy. And how does envy work itself out? Competition and bitterness. Now again, not all competition is bad. I mean, there's good competitions like you play a sport like football or wrestling to use Neftali 's name. You know, there are sports that you can play and compete in, and that's a good thing that tests your physical abilities. The competition in mind here is the competition that comes at the expense of someone's person, someone's character, and someone's life. And how does competition work itself out? Usually through some form of manipulation. All to do what? Secure the promises of God by your own fleshly means. You know what I stand in awe of as I look at that mess? And often as I look at the mess of my own life, and maybe you can think the same thing when you look at the mess of your life, What is fascinating to me is despite my sins and my failures, I can still take a step back and see God work out his promises. Despite me, not because of me. And while there's a call to repentance here for things like envy and bitterness and competition and manipulation, there's also a call to put our trust and our faith in the Lord because despite our failures, he still saves us by faith. Well that leads us to our last point here in verses 22 through 24. The Lord removes reproach. Now this is where it gets really, really good for Rachel. You see in verse 22, the Lord now acts on her behalf. And you can imagine despite the fact that she's made a lot of mistakes, she's sinned a lot in this passage, and she's manipulated and been envious. that, you know, that still doesn't negate the fact that she's got to be feeling pretty low about the fact that she still never brought children out of her own flesh for Jacob, despite the fact that God had promised that God would give Jacob that. There's still got to be despair over the fact that Leah has outdone her every step of the way. But look at verse 22. Look at what it says. Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb. This is where you see even more of the grace of God despite failures, like we just said in the second point. Why do I say that? Well, I think what's really interesting, an interesting connection to make here is the idea of God remembering and God listening is the same exact wording that we find only in reverse. In Exodus chapter 2, verse 24. You know what was going on there? Israel was enslaved in Egypt. They were crying out and groaning to God under the burdens of their slavery. And when it says that God listened to their crying out to him, he remembered his covenant promises to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Those two words put together, listen and remember, or remember and listen, whatever order you want to put those in, imply that God is about to act in a redemptive way. And just as God moved to redeem Israel from the house of slavery in that awesome Old Testament redemption that culminated in the Exodus. When God opens Rachel's womb, and that's what it says at the end of verse 22, we are to understand this as a redemptive act on Rachel's behalf. This is good news for Rachel. And this is a redemption that is going to echo many years into the future in Jacob's family. Well, what do I mean? Well, if you look at verses 23 and 24, she gives birth to a son, and what does she name him? Joseph. Joseph. What a beautiful name actually for a boy. I've always admired the name of Joseph and If you actually look at, she gives kind of two explanations here as to what this means and why she's naming him Joseph. Look at verse 23. God has taken away my reproach. Hmm. The name Joseph sounds like the Hebrew verb asaf, which means to take away. But she also says in verse 24, may the Lord add to me another son. And that word add in Hebrew is also sounds very similar to Joseph's name. You know it's really fascinating when you look at Joseph and boy I can't wait to get to preach through Joseph's life, the end of this book. Um If you look at Joseph's life and everything that he does, Joseph is the instrument that God uses to save the household and the family of Jacob in the book of Genesis. Genesis. Remember what he says in chapter 50? Uh the verse escapes me at the moment, but his brothers are afraid of him and how he's going to repay them after Jacob dies, and he says, Don't be afraid. What you guys meant for evil, God meant for good to save many lives. That's the far echo here, the the implication of the birth of this child, whose name means to take away, and whose name means to add. And so the question I want to ask and wrestle with lastly here by way of application is how does the birth of Joseph point us forward to the message of the gospel? Well, the manner of Joseph's birth and the meaning of his name points us forward to the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ who takes away our reproach from sin. How about that? Let's break this down into three quick points. First, as we look at that idea, the redemptive nature of God's work, just as God remembered and listened to Rachel. That points forward very subtly, as we saw, to the work that he would do in redeeming Israel in the Exodus, but it also points us forward to a greater redemption than the Exodus that we have in Jesus Christ. Why Because Christ was born of someone more unlikely than Rachel, who was barren. Rachel was at least married at the time, engaging in marital activities, which would normally bring forth a child. But the Virgin Mary is more Incredible! Which we're about to start celebrating, aren't we, when we talk about the birth of Christ at Advent. We see a greater redemptive work in the coming of Christ when he is born of the Virgin Mary. It is more impossible for a virgin to give birth to a son than it is for a barren woman to give birth to a son. So what we see is God outdoing himself in Christ. Second thing here is the redemption of Christ removes our reproach, just as God removed the reproach of Rachel here. who, by the way, she previously did not trust in his promises. She previously sought to accomplish only what God could accomplish, and she sought to do that through the means of the flesh. And so also God removes the reproach through the birth of his only eternally begotten Son, Jesus Christ. And as I said a minute ago, just as Joseph will be the instrument of God's redemption and salvation of the immediate family and household of Jacob in the rest of the book of Genesis. So also is Jesus Christ, the greater Joseph, who through his cross and his resurrection will take away the reproach of sin that sticks so closely to us. But it gets even better than that. That just really touches on the meaning of Joseph's name as it means to take away reproach. What did she say in verse 24? May God add to me also another son. The redemption of Christ comes in the adding to us of the blessing of Abraham. Okay, that was probably bad grammar. But you get what I'm trying to say here. The work of Christ is not completed by only removing the stain of sin that we all bear through Adam. That would only leave us at square one, wouldn't it? But anyone who knows anything about the gospel, anyone who's ever read the the letter of Paul to the Romans or or the letter to the Galatians knows that when we are justified or when we are declared righteous By faith, what that means is our guilt, our sin, our condemnation is put on Christ at the cross, so that what? By faith we can receive his righteousness added to us. And so he adds even further to us the righteousness of Christ that was not ours. When he justifies us, and it is only because God has freely added to us by faith this righteousness that we stand to inherit all of the promises of God that Jacob received. Through Jesus Christ, and that comes through repentance of sin when we sin in the ways that Leah sinned, when we sin in the ways that Rachel sinned in unbelief. We repent of those sins and we put our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now some of you have never done that before. The call here, if that's you, is to put your faith and trust in Christ. The call for the rest of us in this room who have done that before and have been saved is to re-examine our hearts again. And to continue day in, day out, to preach the gospel to ourselves and to put our trust on a daily basis in Christ. Because we sin every day. We need redemption every day. And it brings us back to our main idea, doesn't it? God fulfills his promises to us in acting on our behalf, which he did in Christ. Working despite our sinfulness, which he continues to show us grace, and removing our reproach when he gives us the righteousness of Christ as a free gift by faith. Boys, God fulfills these promises in Jacob's life, as painful as they may be. There is a glorious end that he has in view. The same is true of you and I. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you knowing and acknowledging. It doesn't take Scripture, Lord, to tell us that life is not easy. And yet, Lord, we come before you trusting in the promises that you have given us. That despite the fact that we go through trials, we go through through things that we don't expect. We struggle with sin like envy and bitterness and competition among others in in a way to maybe seemingly earn your favor, Lord. We come before you laying those things down at the foot of the cross, O Lord, and just acknowledging that despite those things, we know you are working in our lives to bring us, O Lord, to our heavenly inheritance where we will one day. See you, Lord Jesus, face to face. Lord, that is our great desire, and we pray that as we go from here, that you would even impress that desire more deeply and more profoundly into our hearts. that it may change the way we live when we leave this place today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.