If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis chapter fifteen, and let's stand together for the reading of God's Word. Genesis chapter fifteen, verses one through twenty-one. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abraham in a vision. Fear not, Abraham, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. But Abraham said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus And Abraham said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him. This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look towards heaven, and number the stars if you are able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. But he said, O Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? And he said to him, Bring me a heifer, three years old A female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he brought him all these. Cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other. But he did not cut the birds in half. And when the birds of prey came down, on the carcasses, Abraham drove them away. As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abraham. And behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. Then the Lord said to Abraham, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterwards they shall come out with great possessions. As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace, and you shall be buried in a good old age. And they shall come back here in the fourth generation For the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold a smoking firepot, and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abraham, saying, To your offspring I will give this land. From the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates, the land of the Kenites, the Kenesites, the Cadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the G Burgessites And the Jebuzites. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come this morning to this time of our worship where we sit at your feet and we hear from you, from your word. Oh Lord, we pray that you would work in our hearts and give us a teachable disposition this morning. Lord, open our eyes to see the things that you want us to see. Lord, because many of us have walked into this sanctuary this morning with different things going on in our lives, some things that distract us. Lord, we pray that you would help us to see our lives through the lens of your word this morning. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we live in a day and age where many people make promises and then for one reason or another do not end up keeping those promises. They end up breaking those promises. Many people people make promises for example one example when they enter into the covenant of marriage And sadly, when we look around us and we look at the high statistics of divorce in our country, and that's true of both Christians as well as non-Christians alike, it shows that these promises are broken. I remember years ago when I was in seminary I had a uh a friend who was a young lady and she was getting married uh to a man who she had met when she was working in another country and he they had gotten engaged and He was coming over here, and I remember a conversation that she had with our pastor's wife. And I remember she asked our pastor's wife this, what if it doesn't work? What if he ends up cheating on me and we end up getting divorced? I remember sitting there thinking, I don't know how this pastor's wife is going to answer that, but wisely she answered She said, marriage is a covenant that is best entered into by faith that your husband will keep his promises. And you leave the results to the Lord. Well, what was my friend's concern based on? Well, it was based on the statistics that she knew about and the circumstances that she had seen in people's lives close to her. Another example is some people enter into the covenant community of the church taking membership vows, and sometimes they break those vows when leadership holds them accountable for sin in their life. Or on the flip side, congregants have seen in many cases the fall into sin of of many an elder, a deacon, or a pastor. promises that are made when we enter into covenants only to be broken. And we because we live in a day and age like this Deep down, we tend to bring the same skepticism towards God and His faithfulness to his promises to us But that really connects to where this passage is driving us this morning. Our main point is very simply this. We know that God is faithful to his promises. because of his character, which is demonstrated by the nature of the covenant that he established. That's what this passage is getting at this morning. We know that God is faithful to his promises because of his character, which is demonstrated by the nature of the covenant that he established. And so that breaks us down into two different points to make this morning. And the first one in verses 1 through 11 is the faith and the promises of God. And I'm going to begin looking at verses 1 through 6 with you. You see the promise of an error. Now there's a pattern here between verses 1 through 11. What we see is Abraham asking two different questions and God responding to those questions And what's interesting is those questions are are where Abraham's heart is really at. As we unpack those questions, we're going to see Where Abraham's heart is really at. And maybe this morning you're sitting here and you're thinking to yourself, I can resonate with where Abraham is at with those questions. They show a measure of fear in Abraham. They show a measure of doubt on his part. Which by the way is kind of shocking because if you remember last week In chapter 14, when Abraham by faith went and conquered an army. And not just an army, an army led by four powerful kings. And it's interesting that a man who can do such great things by faith can still wrestle with fears and doubts. Let's jump into this in verse 1. We see the vision of this promise. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abraham in a vision. Fear not, Abraham, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. Now this is interesting because he mentions fear, fear not, but then there's also doubt that we see in this as well. Why would Abraham fear? Why do you think Abraham would fear in this particular point in time in his life? Well, if you remember last week he just went to battle against four kings. And when kings, you see this all throughout scripture, when kings often lose a battle, they usually don't just live and let be. They end up coming back and trying to fight again. And so Abraham is probably thinking, I just defeated these four kings with three hundred and eighteen men. It is very likely that because of public shame and and embarrassment and humiliation, they're going to come back and they're going to take vengeance. on what I did to them. And notice how God addresses that fear. Fear not Abraham. What does he say to him? In verse 1, I am your shield. I'm the one that will protect you. When you fear most, I am your shield. But then he says, goes on to say, your reward shall be very great. And if you think about it and remember the consequence of this battle when the king of Sodom came out and told Abraham, Go ahead, you take all of the riches, just give me the people. And Abraham gave him the riches and said, I'm not taking anything from you lest you say that I made Abraham rich. He knew that his blessing was going to come from the Lord. But you can almost imagine the maybe regret or the doubt lingering in the back of his heart, did I really make the right decision by letting all those riches go? I mean, I really had the right to take all of those riches and I gave it to this wicked guy. And God enters into that doubt and that second guessing himself and says Your reward shall be very great. In fact, you could actually literally translate that Hebrew phrase, I am your great reward. What an interesting thing for Abraham to see. God speaks directly here to his fears and his doubts. But that gives way in verses 2 and 3 to the question about the heir of promise. And it's interesting that despite this amazing revelation from God that he is his shield and his great reward, Abraham still continues to wrestle with doubts, even though he's being spoken to by the Lord. Look at verse 2. He asks the question, O Lord God, what will you give me for I continue childless? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. Now you might be tempted to look at that and just think, okay, God just gave you a reassurance and you sound like a petty child. Oh Lord, what will you give me? But it's not selfishness here. It's not selfishness that drives that question, even though it may sound that way on the surface. You remember the promise that God made back in chapter 12, verses 1 through 3. I'm going to multiply you into a multitude. Into a great nation. Or at the end of chapter 13, I'm going to give you offspring that will inherit this land. And Abraham is looking around and his circumstances do not match the promises of God. And that's an interesting thing we need to take note of. When God's promises do not match the circumstances in life that we see. That's what Abraham's dealing with here. He says, I continue childless. And the heir of my house is Eliasar of Damascus. Now what's interesting here is that phrase in Hebrew that we translate the heir literally is means the son of acquisition. That's what it means in Hebrew. The son of acquisition is Eleazar of Damascus, and it kind of rhymes with the word Damascus. Acquisition and Damascus rhyme It draws your attention to something in the Hebrew text that we should pay attention to. In the ancient Near East, when a couple lacked children of their own, They would oftentimes adopt an indirect heir who would inherit their estate in return for taking care of them in their old age and giving them finally an honorable burial. Oftentimes, single people or people who remain childless wonder as they get older who's going to take care of me when I can't take care of myself. That's what he has in mind. That's what he's got in mind. And in order to emphasize the legitimacy of his doubt, you can look at verses 2 and 3. And in verse 3, he basically repeats the same thing he says in verse 2. That emphasis shows that this is a matter that weighs very heavy on the heart of Abraham. God has promised to give him a child, give him a son and seed and offspring And he doesn't see that promise fulfilled despite the fact that at this point he's probably been in the Holy Land for ten years. He's had a promise that is made to him, and he's been waiting for ten years, and he's not seeing that promise realized. Boy, that takes a lot of patience. That takes a lot of perseverance, as you can imagine. And we see the response to this promise in verses four through six. God answers in verse four. To assure him that Eliezer is not going to be the heir, despite what the circumstances might presently look like. And then he gives him an object lesson in verse 5. If you look at verse 5, it says He brought him outside and he said, look towards heaven. Number the stars if you are able to number them. Now this is before modern pollution that created, you know, some kind of obstacle where at night, you know, close to the city, you just can't see the stars anymore like you used to But if you if you've ever been to a national park that's out in the middle of nowhere, I remember being in Mexico when I was a little boy visiting family at nighttime in the middle of the desert. You can look up into the sky sky and you can see more than I ever thought was out there. That's what Abraham is is seeing here. And what does God say in verse 5? The implication is you can't number them. Then he said to him, so shall your offspring be. And look at the response in verse 6. This is amazing. Verse 6 is very clear and straight to the point. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. First, what we see here is when this passage says that Abraham believed the Lord, the faith of Abraham is rooted in the person of the Lord. The Lord is the focus. In other words, why could he believe what the Lord is saying? Because Abraham knew a person's promises are only as good as their character is that backs up the promise. Have you ever had someone make a promise to you or just say, just trust me? And you're looking at them, you're thinking, based on what? Right? You've done this. You violated this. You know, I know you better than that. I'm not trusting you. Abraham knew in this case he could trust the Lord Why did he know that? Well, just look at the last couple chapters. In chapter twelve, when he went down to Egypt and his wife was taken into the harem of Pharaoh, God was faithful to bring his wife out. of the harem of Pharaoh and to restore her to him. In chapter 13, God protected his promises Even when Lot separated from him and he gave Lot the choice to say, Okay, if you go right, I go left. If you go left, I go right. Take your pick. He trusted the Lord, and the Lord upheld his promise. To give him the land of Canaan. In chapter 14, God was faithful to use Abraham to redeem Lot, his kinsman. God has proven himself over and over and over again in his dealings with this patriarch. And let me just add, just because God has been faithful to Abraham does not mean that Abraham has had an easy life, and it doesn't mean that Abraham has had a cakewalk since God walked into his life. In fact, quite the opposite. To have your wife taken away in a foreign country and brought into the harem of someone else, that's a trial. That's a test. That's not easy to watch that happen. To give away your right and to give your nephew the opportunity to take what you know is rightfully yours is not easy. To have to go to a battle against four armies of major empires with 318 men is not easy. And yet God has come through over and over and over and over and over again. God's been faithful. And so Abraham believes the Lord despite how impossible this promise sounds. Why? Because Abraham could not justify doubting the Lord And doubting his track record of faithfulness. And secondly, here when it says that he counted this to him as righteousness, the term counted is a legalized, is a specialized legal term. In other words, God is making a legal judgment about Abraham. Abraham for his faith is righteous. Now one of the things we have to understand, if you remember what we just saw in Galatians 3, when we heard that read this morning, this verse is one of the linchpins, not just of this passage. But one of the linchpins of the entire Bible. If you're one to memorize Scripture or not one to memorize Scripture, I would encourage you either way, memorize that verse. And Abraham believed in the Lord, and he credited to him as righteousness But then this this gives way to verses seven through eleven. We see not just the promise of an heir, we see the promise of the land. Now you would think that that faith that we just saw in verse six would erase all doubts, but He just believes in the Lord. He just gets credited to him as righteousness. And what is the very next thing he does in verse 7? Verse 7 continues. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur the Chaldeans to give you this land. to possess. But verse 8, he says, Oh Lord, how am I to know that I shall possess it? You know when God says to him in verse 7 that I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur the Chaldees to give you this land to possess, that sounds a lot like what God tells Israel later on in their history. If you remember, after bringing them out of Egypt, out of slavery, what does God say to them at Mount Sinai in the very beginning of the Ten Commandments? I am the Lord your God who brought you out from the land of Egypt out of the house of. In other words, the focus is more on how God is revealing himself here, just like he did in verse 1, and that self-revelation leads to a question. And the question is in verse 8. Oh Lord, how am I to know that I shall possess it? By the way, that's a valid question. Not only does he not yet have an heir, so he doesn't see the promise realized. Anyone who knows anyone about ancient Near Eastern history knows that the nations of the Canaanites were stronger than Israel even when Israel went into the land. They were more sophisticated, they were militarily powerful, they had a strong economy of trade and commerce. with with the kingdoms to the north of them and Egypt to the south? This would be like a foreigner coming from any part of the world to the United States today. Which the United States today has a measure of strength economically, militarily, and God's saying to that foreigner today, living in the United States You see all this land and despite all these people and all the power and riches that they have, one day I'm going to give it to you and to your descendants. You would probably look at them and think, but Really? How's that going to happen? That's how strange and crazy this promise sounds. It doesn't look very likely. And then notice God's response in verses 9 through 11 to this particular question. How will I know that I will possess it? What does God say? Well, look at verse Verse 9. 9. He said to him, Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old. By the way, that just means the mark of maturity in those animals. A turtle dove and a young pigeon. Now what does he do in verse 10? He brought him all these, cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other, but he did not cut the birds in half. Let's stop there. Now, for us, this response that God is calling him to have, it sounds very strange. Cutting up animals. I mean if somebody is doing that in your neighborhood, you're likely to call like animal control or the police, right? But to Abraham, this was not a strange thing. Because in the ancient Near East Well, what would often happen is when when two people, when two parties make a covenant, what they would often do is they would take animals like this. They would cut them in half and they would arrange them so that each half of the animal is on each side of the other half, creating an aisle in the middle. It sheds blood, but it's meant to communicate something because each of these animals in the ceremony is a substitute for those who make the covenant. And what it communicates that if those who make this covenant violate the promises of that covenant, violate the terms of that covenant, then what they are doing is they are invoking the curse upon themselves. As if to say, if I violate the terms of this covenant, may these messed up, cut to pieces animals, may that happen to me. That's how serious this was. Abraham knew that. He knew what it meant. And so what he does is he obeys what God is telling him to do. But let's stop here before we continue and ask ourselves the question, what is the result of faith that our passage highlights that applies to us today? We've got Abraham dealing with fear and doubts. We've got him asking questions of God. We've got God giving him some semblance of answers. What does all that have to do with us today? Well, the answer is the result of faith is justification by God, whereby we are declared righteous by receiving the gifts of righteousness. This is a doctrinal answer. This is a doctrinal application. Now, if we take a look at ourselves today, if we're honest, every one of us wrestles with fears. and doubts of various kinds as it relates to God and His promises. And to make things more confusing, or sometimes maybe worse It's also hard to tell whether your fears give rise to your doubts or your doubts give rise to your fears. And if you spend enough time in introspection trying to figure and untangle that knot out, you might you might go crazy. I'm not inviting you to do that this morning. But regardless, we all wrestle with fears, and we also wrestle, we all wrestle with doubts. Now, aside from human nature, have you ever wondered why we tend to think this way, particularly in our modern day? There was a philosopher in the 1600s by the name of René Descartes. He was a French philosopher, and he championed a philosophical method of getting at the truth, and this method was this: doubt everything. Just doubt everything. Someone makes a truth claim to you. Doubt that claim until you have nothing left to doubt. Until you reach the fundamental rock bottom principle that you can no longer rationally doubt, then you've begun to know something. That was his point. In fact, he's known for the phrase, it's a Latin phrase, cogito ergo sum, which is translated, I think, therefore I am. Many of you have heard this before. He concluded that his own existence was the only thing that he could not doubt because he was thinking. Think about that. Thinking presupposes the existence of the one doing the thinking. Now you're thinking to yourself, well, I didn't realize I walked into a philosophy course this morning. Pastor Lear, what does that have to do with anything to do with Abraham? What has everything to do with Abraham? It has everything to do with us. Well, it sounds theoretical. It's more practical than you realize. Because all of our doubts. and fears about God and his promises come from a posture of doubting everything. And the way our whole educational system is set up in the United States of America, it is on this rationalistic principle. Doubt everything. Be critical. Now there's nothing wrong with thinking critically, but we often jump from thinking critically to thinking cynically, don't we? And that's where we're at. But I want to submit to you something this morning. If you're going to doubt God, if you're going to doubt His promises. If you're going to doubt the truth of his word, I'm going to challenge you that you first have to argue to justify the legitimacy of your doubts. I want you to hear something very clearly. Doubting God's promises is not a morally ambiguous or neutral exercise. It always comes from a disposition of the heart. And one of the one of the difficult truths of scripture for sinful human beings like us to hear is that we do not implicitly have the right to doubt God without justification. Just like we see in this passage in verse 6 that faith justifies, doubt has to justify as well. And if you cannot justify your doubts without presupposing that you have the right to stand over God and judge him and his word, which you never can. I would encourage you to seriously consider that the most reasonable thing you can do this morning is to put your faith in God and his promises as they're fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Like Abraham, you can probably look back and you can see the hand of God in providing for you abundantly and protecting you all this time in your life And again, like Abraham, that does not mean that you I'm not assuming you've had an easy life. Some of you in here have gone through some very terrible things in your life, whether it was caused by your sin or the sin of someone else done to you Or circumstances outside of your control that you've had to wrestle with. I'm not saying that trusting God is easy all the time But even through the difficult times like Abraham, you should be able to trace back the hand of God if you really look at your life through the lens of the scriptures that are given to you. You should be able to trace God's faithfulness through even the difficulties. And even though you may not have an answer to a problem or something you're going through, You know that God is still present with you. He still walks with you. How can you possibly doubt his goodness? I remember when I was in in the hospital in 2001, or sorry, 2001, 2021, with COVID pneumonia, and I was on oxygen. 38 years old, no ha no history of health issues. I have no idea how it hit me that hard, but it did. And I remember thinking, how could this happen to me? And talking to a family member on the phone in the hospital. I remember this family member who's a believer saying, Aaron, it could always be worse. You're not dead yet. That's not worth Okay. Thank you. I n clearly know who to run to when I need comfort, right? But the point is is all the same. If we're going to doubt, that doubt better be justified. And when we're talking about God and his promises, there is no justifiable reason to doubt him. And that leads us to this point in verse 6 I mentioned a second ago. about justification by faith that verse six is one of the central linchpins in all of Scripture. So if we have no room to doubt God and we have every reason to come to Him in faith We have everything to gain from that. That's what Paul gets at in Romans chapter 3 and 4. In Galatians chapter 3, particularly verse 6, where Paul is arguing for the doctrine of justification. All of us are sinful beyond measure, beyond our own comprehension. How is it that a sinner can be just and righteous and stand before God? Paul argues his very case from this passage in Genesis 15. Just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteous, So is it true with us? Why? Because the promises that God made to Abraham to give him an heir, to give him a son, were not only fulfilled ultimately or uh immediately in Isaac They were ultimately fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the son of Abraham, who fulfilled the promises of God for us. This is the central heart of the gospel message. That we are saved, we enter into relationship with God, not because of our works, but only because of faith in His promises. In fact, so strong is Paul on that point that in Galatians chapter 1, verses 8 and 9, he says, if we or an angel from heaven should come to you, preaching ye to you a different gospel than justification by grace through faith, let him be accursed. That word accursed in Athema in Greek means cut off from Christ. We must understand and grasp that our relationship with God is based solely on faith in His promise. And that leads us really to our second point this morning. The faith and the strength of the covenant Look at me in verses 12 through 16. We see the prophetic history of the covenant. Now after after giving him that strange command to cut these animals in pieces and put them opposite each other. Verse 12 tells us that God put Abraham into a deep sleep. Now what's interesting is this is the first time since Genesis chapter 2 that we've seen this word deep sleep. The last time we saw it was with Adam. when God put him to sleep, opened up his side, probably on this side, opened up his side, and made a woman Well, he's going to do something a little different here. He's going to make a prophecy, and it's interesting that it says, deep sleep fell on Abraham. And then what does it say? Dread and great darkness was falling upon him. In other words, this was not a pleasant experience. This was terrifying. Look what God does in verses 13 through 16. He gives them essentially three prophecies. In verse 13, the Lord prophesies Israel's slavery in Egypt. Verse 13. The Lord said to Abraham, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. Okay , this is not sounding like good news right away. In verse 8, Abraham asked the question, how will I know that I'll possess this land? God's answering him, you will certainly know. Or know for certain this is what's going to happen. Now he doesn't tell Abraham the details, but he gives them the gist of what's going to happen. We know today, thousands of years later, that Israel went down to Egypt in Genesis 46 and 47. We know in Exodus 1 that they were multiplied into a great nation there. We know that they were enslaved by the Egyptians in Exodus chapter 1 and Exodus chapter 2. And we also know that from Exodus chapter 12 verses 40 and 41, that when they left Egypt, they were in the land of Egypt for 430 years to the day. And so, aside from this being a round number, this prophecy is perfectly fulfilled Now looking back on that, that should build our confidence. The second prophecy that God gives in verses 14 through 15 has to do with Israel's exodus from Egypt. In fact, you can look there in verses 14. I will bring judgment on the nation that they will serve, and afterwards they shall come out with great possessions. Stop there. You go back to the book of Exodus. God did that through the ten plagues. In fact, in the last plague in Exodus 12, 12, God says to Moses, For I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and on all the gods of Egypt, I will execute Judgment. I am the Lord. Verse 14 was fulfilled. God judged the nation. And he brought them out with great riches. You remember what Exodus says? They asked their neighbors on the way out for gold and silver and clothing, and what they do is they plunder the Egyptians. That's what happened. The third thing here is the Lord prophesies Israel's conquest of Canaan in verse 16. Look there what he said, and they will come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites has not yet complete. That's exactly what happened. When Israel came back to the promised land with Joshua, if you remember what got what God told them to do, wipe out All the inhabitants of the land. What were they doing? They were executing God's judgment for the sin of those people. Brothers and sisters, don't ever question the fact that God uses means in this world, oftentimes other people, to bring his judgment on sinful people. That's what happened there. But what's important for us to realize as we understand that all of these three prophecies were fulfilled to the letter in the Old Testament. All these details are part of God's redemptive work in which he would accomplish his promises rather than Abraham accomplishing it. And that's a truth we need to grasp onto this morning. God is the one who fulfills his promises for us. He doesn't do it through us and our good works. And so these should really build our confidence. But it leads to, we have all these promises. It leads to the very last couple verses in 17 through 21. God's made these promises. Now he's going to establish the covenant. Now again, take a look at what's going on here. God is strengthening these promises by putting the force, the weight, the gravity of a covenant binding himself to fulfill these promises. Take a look at verse 17 and the beginning of verse 18. When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking firepot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. On that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abraham. Now that imagery of a smoking fire pot, a flaming torch. This would have reminded the Jews or the Israelites who read this for the first time or heard Moses read it. It would have reminded them of their experience at Mount Sinai. If you remember The whole mountaintop was aflame. And what did God do when he manifested himself that way? He entered into covenant with them in Exodus 24. Well, that's what he's doing here. He manifests himself in a way that demonstrates fire, which is a picture of God's holiness, and he enters into covenant. And what is unexpected is something that God does. God passes through these pieces. In verse 17. Now that's different. Because in the ancient Near East, when two parties would make these covenants, it was usually two kings It was usually a greater king called a suzerain and a lesser king called the vassal. What they would often do, these two kings, they would go in the middle of these that little aisle I told you about, in the middle of these pieces, they would hold hands and walk down that aisle. And the whole significance of the holding hands and both of them walking down the aisle is they are both taking the covenant on themselves. To fulfill their end of the promises, their end of the bargain. What does God do here? He does it himself. He defies the custom God walks through the pieces and he invokes the curses upon himself. In other words, God is saying, if I violate my own promises and this these are not fulfilled to you, Abraham, may what happened to these animals happen to me. That's quite a statement for the eternal God to make. And so we have to ask ourselves again, what is the significance of the Lord taking the covenant upon himself? What does that mean for us today? Well, the significance of the Lord taking the covenant on himself means that the gospel is about what God has done to save us in Jesus Christ rather than what we bring to the table. Think about that. Redemption and the fulfillment of the covenant is the work of God alone. The first application is a call to faith in God and His promises. This application builds on that by pointing us to what we are called to have faith in. Because in the old and the new covenant there were two different redemptions, weren't there? The old covenant, as we saw fulfilled in Moses, was the covenant uh of God redeeming Israel out of the s out of slavery, out of Egypt. to call them to himself. Now anyone who knows anything about the Bible knows that that redemption in the Old Testament points forward to a greater redemption in the New Testament. When Jesus Christ going to the cross redeems us from the bondage and the slavery of sin so that we might be set free and be his as his own possession and people. Paul gets at this in Romans 8, verse 3, for God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. And for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. And so the promise that God makes here points forward to a greater redemption that we're called to put our faith in. But I want you to understand, lastly, here the curse of the covenant and the redemption and how that works out. Just as God invoked the covenant on himself. Do you understand that Jesus Christ did the same thing? He not only invoked the curse upon himself, he became the curse for us. That's what we saw in Galatians chapter 3, verses 13 and 14. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree, so that in Jesus Christ the blessing of Abraham, which is justification by faith, might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promise spirit through faith. Huh. It's interesting that picture you see of these animals being torn to shreds. It's really a picture of the cross that God Himself, who walked through those pieces in the person of His beloved Son, Did end up enduring on our behalf, so that we might be justified before God as a free gift through faith, not because of anything we have done But for his glory, in his glory alone. Brothers and sisters, this is grace upon grace. And so how can we doubt? How can we not come to faith in Christ? Because our main point this morning was we know That God is faithful to his promises because of his character, which is demonstrated by the nature of the covenant that he established, which he fulfilled in the person of his son, Jesus Christ. Are you a child of Abraham this morning? Having put your faith in Christ? Or are you still waiting on the outside? Doubting. Living in fear. And if you're living in fear and doubt. My question for you, what are you waiting for? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning. We are thankful, O Lord, for the promises that we have in Jesus Christ. The fact that they are fulfilled, they are secure. Lord Jesus, you did not die to make salvation possible. For some or all, you made Salvation secure for your people to whom you've made promises. Lord, I just pray that each person who walks out these doors today Would have the privilege of knowing that they are saved simply because of your grace through faith in Christ alone. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.