Well, brothers and sisters, if you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis chapter 14. And if you will, stand for the reading of God's holy word in Genesis 14 1 to 24. In the days of Amraphel, king of Shinar, Ariak, King of Elasser Kadro Leomar, king of Elam, and Tidal, king of Goim, these , kings made war with Berah, king of Sodom, Birshah, king of Gomorrah Shinab, king of Admah, Shameber, king of Zeboyim, and the king of Balah, that is Zoar. And all these joined in joined forces in the valley of Sidim, that is the Salt Sea. Twelve years they had served Kadraleomar But in the thirteenth year they rebelled. In the fourteenth year of Kedrileamar, and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Rephaim in Ashtaroth Kernayim, the Zuzim in Ham, the Enim in Shava Kirathayim and the Horites in their hill country of Sier as far as El Paran on the border of the wilderness Then they turned back and came to Angmeshpat, that is Kadesh, and defeated all the hill country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites who were dwelling in Hazazan Tamar. Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Adma, the king of Zeboim, and the king of Balah, that is Zoar. went out, and they joined battle in the valley of Sidim, with Tadrileomar, king of Elam, Tidal, king of Goyim, Amraphel, King of Shinar, and Ariak, king of Alessar. four kings against five. Now the valley of Sidim was full of bitumen pits, and as the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, some fell into them, and the rest fled to the hill country. So the enemy took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their provisions and they went their way. They also took Lot, son of Abraham's brother, who was dwelling in Sodom and his possessions, and went their way. Then one who had escaped came and told Abraham the Hebrew who was living by the oaks of Mamreh, the Amorite, brother of Eschol and of Ab Aner, these were allies of Abraham. When Abraham heard that his kinsmen had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men born in his house, three hundred and eighteen of them, and went in pursuit as far as Dan And he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and defeated them and pursued them to Hobah, north of Damascus. Then he brought back all the possessions, and also brought back his kinsman lot with his possessions and the women and the people. After his return from the defeat of Kedrleomar and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him in the valley of Shava, that is the king's valley. And Melchizedek, King of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God most high And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abraham by God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And Abraham gave him a tenth of everything. And the king of Sodom said to Abraham, Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself. But Abraham said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted my hand to the Lord, God most high, possessor of heaven and earth. that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abraham rich. I will take nothing but what the young men have eaten and the share of the men who went with me. Let Anor and Eskol and Mamreh take their share. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we thank you for this day that you've given us to spend in your presence, to hear from your word, O Lord. We pray that you would open our eyes. That Lord, you would open our ears, that we would see and hear and understand and perceive what it is that you have for us in this passage. What encouragement, Lord, how do we see the gospel in this? We pray that you would give us the eyes to see. And then to take it and by the power of the Spirit to apply it, Lord, to our lives today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, task number one is done. I got through all those names. It's harder than you think. There is an international scope to this passage, isn't there? And it's interesting when you look at this passage, which includes an international war, there's something about this that connects to us today. When I think of some of the conflicts that are going on in the world around us, we think of the invasion of Ukraine, which is, I believe, two years and running um and then the conflict with Israel and Gaza, it's almost natural for people to take a look at these conflicts and to Surmise and wonder what is going on, what is happening in the world, and as Christians to look at these conflicts and wonder, what could God be doing through these things? Well, I don't mean to disappoint you. I don't have that answer to those specific conflicts today, but what I do know is that God is working in the lives of his people. Whether in spite of or despite, however you want to word that, these conflicts in the world. The trials and the tribulations that happen in the world, oftentimes through war, have the power to bring out what is in our hearts and call us to a faith and a trust in the Lord that is meant to continue to sanctify us and continue to work to bring us closer to the Lord. And oftentimes, looking at these conflicts in the world can be a test of our own faith. In fact, that is the idea this morning. And if you are visiting with us or this is your first time, you can look at the bottom of the liturgy and you'll find that we tend to print the sermonic idea. right there for you to follow along with. And the sermonic idea of this passage in Genesis 14 is that our faith is tested by our response to the tribulation, or you could say captivity. of others and by whether we seek the blessing of God or the blessing of the world. That's what is going on in this passage. Abraham's faith is tested by his response to the captivity of Lot and by whether or not he will seek the blessing of God or the blessing that comes from the world. So that's the connection point. I want to begin our first point here. It's the faith that leads to redemption in verses 1 through 16. Now there's a lot of in this passage, a lot of verses that actually lay the setting and the groundwork, and we want to work slowly through that. I want to look first at verses 1 through 7. We see this redemption working itself out. from a context of warfare. Let's take a look at the players of the warfare in verses 1 and 2. If you look there again, I'm not going to read all those names, but you see all these names of these kings in a large swath of land that really goes from modern-day Iran all the way To Turkey, modern-day Turkey. All of these nations that spread there in Mesopotamia come down and they make war with five Canaanite kings. Now it is interesting looking at just a few of these names. We see Amraphel, king of Shinar. What that should remind us of is all the way back just a few chapters before in Genesis Chapter 10, verses 8 through 11, we had a long genealogy, and we saw that in those verses the genealogy of Ham and one particular person stood out. It was Nimrod, the son of Cush, who founded his empire, beginning in Babel and then working its way through Mesopotamia. That was the first empire in world history after the flood. And then we saw in Genesis chapter 11, verses 1 through 9, we saw Babel in the plain of Shinar. The people were building a a um well it was a temple, but building a tower that's top was meant to reach to heaven. And we talked about how that was a sign of rebellion against God and against his rule and reign over the nations. He had told them to spread out, they didn't listen. They camped out there in Shinar and decided we're going to make a name for ourselves and build this kingdom, a worldly kingdom. And so it's interesting that that's the first king from that area that is listed here. Ariak is a Babylonian name. We see that even in the book of Daniel. It's a name that must have been common in Babylonian times. But Kedrileomar, the king of Elam, is someone that we should take notice of here. And what's interesting about him is later on in the passage, he's the first king named. Which means he is the really the head of this coalition. And Elaam is really interesting because that's in modern day Persia. And we're going to come back to why that's important in just a minute in verses 3 through 4. But I want to introduce to you again the king of Sodom and the King of Gomorrah. Now the reason that is interesting and important for us to take notice of is we remember last week in Genesis chapter 13, Lot When he separated from Abraham, went and settled in the plain just outside of Sodom. That was where he chose to live. It was a fertile plain At that time, it looked good, and so he made his decision based on what he saw. But what's interesting here is we get the names of these kings, don't we? If you look particularly at verse 2, these kings made war with Bera, king of Sodom, and Beersha, king of Gomorrah. I'm not going to focus on the other three. I want to focus on the king of Sodom and Gomorrah. We learned something about their names and about their character, and because they're the kings of certain places, their character of these kings then extends to the character of these locations. We see Berah first. His name in Hebrew means evil. Isn't that interesting? And Birsha, his name means guilty, or it could be translated as injustice. Now, if if names tend to describe the character of the person that's being named, and the kings tend to describe the the or you know embody the character of the people they rule over. This gives you an interesting picture of Sodom and Gomorrah, which we're going to find later judged by the Lord in chapter 19. But for now, there's a war that's going on that has an international scope to it. And what that tells you is that this story of redemption is not some pie in the sky Story, some religious myth, this is something that is grounded in concrete history So what's the occasion of the warfare? Why are these players, these two sides, going to war against one another? Well look at verses 3 and 4. In verse 3, all these joined forces in the valley of Sidim, that is the Salt Sea. Verse 4 gives the occasion. Twelve years. They, being these five Canaanite kings, had served Kedroleomar, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. Now, again, this international conflict that is grounded in real history actually has a relation to the promises that God had made prior that we've already seen in the book of Genesis They rebel from serving Kedroleomar, the Elamite king. Why is that important? Well, if we go back again to the genealogy in Genesis chapter 10, Particularly verse 22, what you find is Elam was one of the sons of Shem Okay, you're thinking, what's the point? Well, keep drawing the promise back. Go back to Genesis chapter 9, verse 26 You remember the story when Noah got drunk in the tent? He wakes up, Ham mocks his father, and Noah knew what his son had done. And so what does he do? He essentially pronounces judgment on them. Cursed be Canaan. A servant of servants he shall be to his brothers. Verse 26, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. It's interesting that you see that that statement, which had a prophetic significance out of the mouth of Noah, starting to take root even in secular history, were these five Canaanite kings became the servants of one of the sons of Shem, and the king that ruled over them. And so it's interesting that this rebellion, which in in that time in history, meant that they were tributary vassals to this large king. They would have to likely pay an annual tax of probably a certain amount of gold and silver and maybe some other goods of camels and other cattle, things that counted for wealth in those days. And when they rebel, they simply stop paying their taxes, is what happened. And so this rebellion is actually a rebellion, believe it or not, of something that God had already said he was going to institute on them way back in Noah's time. So you see the players, you see the occasion for this warfare. There's a rebellion. It's at least a political and probably a financial rebellion. But now let's look at the destruction of this warfare in verses 5 through 7. In the fourteenth year of Kedraleomar and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Rephaim. Okay, that's interesting. Rephaim are in other places of Scripture identified as some of the giants. You you hear about these giants in the Old Testament that lived in certain areas. This is who they went to and attacked. In Ashiroth Karanayam. I'm not going to read through all of those place names, but what you need to know is this is on the eastern side of the Jordan River. This is outside of the land of Canaan. They came from the north and they attacked all of these people. These people that would end up living in the area of of where Ammon was going to end up living. where Moab was going to end up living, where the Edomites were going to end up living, and the southern part of the Holy Land. They attack all of these people, the Amalekites, the Amorites. People that really, if you stop and think about it and read the story carefully, have nothing to do with the rebellion of these five kings. They are just unfortunately caught in the crosshairs of this international conflict and pay the price. They get wiped out. And so they defeat several people groups en route to this war that they're going to engage in with these five kings. Isn't it an interesting principle that when war occurs, whether it's in the Bible or secular history, there are oftentimes collateral, we we would call just collateral damage. There are people who would seem to have no no role in this conflict that seem to pay the price. And that that's what you find here. But you begin to see this redemption also in the context of a great defeat. It's not just redemption in the context of warfare. When you get to verses 8 through 11, and all of this, by the way, is just laying the setting for the redemption. You see in verses eight through eleven that what happens is they finally go to war against these five kings. And you see all the names again in verses eight and nine, and it ends up being four kings against five. And where do they meet? Verse 10. In the valley of Sidim, which is full of bitumen pits. Now where's the Valley of Sidim? It's likely on the southern end of the Dead Sea, and there's all kinds of slimy bitumen pits there. And when I when you think of what does that even mean, think of like quicksand but a little messier. I mean if you've ever seen some seen a movie, even of someone going down into quicksand, the more you struggle to get out, the further you just seem to sink in. Now why did they go there? I mean, you would think that these five kings, knowing the environment that they lived in, knowing the terrain this was their home, they would have stru strategized that place. for a specific reason. Maybe they were hoping that these four kings who didn't know the terrain would get stuck in these pits. That would have been a genius ploy to win the war if they could have made it work, but they couldn't make it work. I mean look look very carefully at what it says in verse 10. And as the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, telling you they're losing the fight, some fell into them, and the rest fled to the hill country. Now there's a really interesting kind of illustration here. The verb of falling into these pits in Hebrew is actually passive reflexive And when you read the commentaries, it many of them paint this picture that the the the situation got so dire. So desperate that instead of facing the sword of these four invading kings, they were willing to throw themselves into the pit Better to die sinking in a pit of concrete, mortar, bitumen, slime than to face the sword of these enemies. Of course, some couldn't do that, and they fled to the hills. Now, when it seems like all is lost, you actually see the redemption come through in verses 12 through 16. Take a look at verse 12. It summarizes and then the end of verse 11 summarizes what happened. So the enemy took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their provisions and they went their way. They won. They also took Lot, the son of Abraham's brother, who was dwelling in Sodom, and his possessions, and they went their way with his possessions as well. Okay, you should stop there for just a moment when you look at verse 12 and you should be asking yourself, wait, what? How did Locke get taken away? Last time we left Lot back in chapter 13 verse 12, he went down as far as Sodom, but he he pitched his tents outside of the city. You would think that uh if he was aware that there were these kings coming and and the army went out to fight which he would have seen happen. If he's if he's camping outside of the city, he would have ample time to run and flee and take up everything he had and maybe go back to Abraham. He was outside of the city. Where's he at now? He's in the city. You see that in verse 12? He's dwelling in Sodom. Boy, this makes things look a lot worse for Lot. It really does You know, not only did he go and live kind of in the vicinity of these wicked people, now he's one of them, living among them. Doesn't speak highly for him. But verse 12 calls him Abraham's brother, and then verse 14 actually escalates it when Abraham heard that his kinsman, by the way, in Hebrew the word there is his brother. When he heard that his brother had been taken captive. Now I want you to put yourself in Abraham's shoes for just a moment here, particularly with the context of chapter 13. You just had this conflict with him and his herdsmen. It wasn't fair for you You kind of gave up your right and your stake and your claim in the land and gave him the f the primary option of where he's going to go live. You take the responsibility and all the blame for the conflict on yourself. And how does he repay you? He seems to take the best land for himself. Selfishly. Now if you heard that , and you were sinned against like that, you might be tempted to just say, well, you know what? You made your bed, go lie in it. You chose to live there. That's your fault. You're taken captive? Why should I bother? What business is that of mine? Abraham could have held a grudge. I mean to actually go and do something about this is a tremendous inconvenience and requires a lot of sacrifice on his part. But isn't it interesting that in verses 13 through 16, Abraham does something about it? I mean look look what he does in verse 14. When he heard that his kinsmen, that his brother had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house. 318 of them and went in pursuit as far as Dan. That's like the northern part of the Holy Land. Now think about that. You've got basically kings that represent an empire, a coalition, bringing an army that just wiped out five kings, and Abraham takes 318. But trained men. And what does he do with them? Verse 15, divides his forces by night. And he defeats them, and he pursues them as far as Damascus. And basically, as we read in, as Jared read for us earlier in Hebrews chapter 7, he slaughtered those kings and their army by night. What does he do? Well, he takes the role of being the redeemer of his kinsman of his brother. And even though things look dire, with 318 men against an army. God is with him. They get the job done. Lot is redeemed. All of his possessions are redeemed. The women and the people are redeemed. And Abraham returns as a as a victorious. in a sense, king. I mean that's what a king does. A king goes to war against other kings And so what I want to ask you this morning, based on this very simple story of redemption, is in what ways does Abraham's actions point us to the gospel and give us a pattern for responding to the the captivity or the tribulation of others around us. How do we see the gospel? Well Abraham's redemption of Lot points us to our own redemption from our captivity to sin and shows us that responding to the tribulation, the captivity, the issues that other people have requires a sacrifice on our own part. I want you to think about how we see the gospel in this. The gospel gives us, and this is the principle, the gospel gives us freedom from captivity to sin. It shows us that with every test of faith that Abraham goes through, every one of these tests in Genesis points forward to the gospel, points forward to Jesus Christ in some way, shape, or form. I want you to think about this for with me. First, Abraham had every right to not come to Lot's aid, as I said. He didn't have to do it. Their separation, the selfish nature in which Lot demonstrated in Genesis 13 when they separated. should have, from a worldly human perspective, given Abraham every right to just say, forget it. I'm not doing this But have you ever thought about likewise us in our own sin? We were separate from God and in our own sin and selfishness that we've all done in our own lives? God did not have to save us. He was under no obligation to save anybody under sin. It was purely by his grace. We see Abraham , who will later be called the friend of God. Why would he be called the friend of God? Because he knows the heart of God. Just as God is a God who shows grace to sinners, Abraham shows grace to someone who sinned against him. We see Christ in Abraham here. Secondly, just as Lot was taken captive by four powerful Mesopotamian kings, each of us at one point was held captive under the power of sin. And by nature, a captive cannot free himself. When someone is in slavery, they are not able to free themselves. Just like us. When we're in bondage to Satan and sin and Satan's kingdom, we are unable to save ourselves. This is why Jesus says in John 8, 34-36, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. There's our captivity. The slave does not remain in the house forever, the son remains forever. So, if the son sets you free, you will be free indeed. Now in a day and age when we don't have modern slavery, at least in our outwardly speaking in our country, that's politically or or economically recognized. This can become very hard for us in the West to understand, but every one of us before Christ were a slave. We might have the attitude of the Jews talking to Jesus in that passage right before he says that when they say, you know, we are we're the seed of Abraham. We've never been enslaved to anyone. How is it you can say you will become free? Slaves to sin. Thirdly, just as Abraham was Lot's family or kinsman, so also did we need a kinsman according to the flesh to come and redeem us. Maybe you wonder why Jesus had to come in the flesh. Why did God have to become man? St. Anselm wrote a book in the Middle Ages by that title. Why God Man? Why did He Have to Become a Man? Well, the eternal Son of God came in the likeness of human flesh to redeem those of us who were slaves to the flesh from the captivity of our sin. In Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 through 16, it says this. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, In other words, our nature, he himself likewise partook of the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. And deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. Slavery to what? Sin and death. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. We're in the position of Lot. We were the ones who were taken captive by someone far more powerful than four Mesopotamian kings. But Christ has redeemed us. Could Christ have left us in our sins? Could he have told us, well, you did this. This is the consequence. Deal with it. He could have, but he didn't. So how does that influence or give us the pattern for how we need to respond to others who need redemption? Well, it's very simple. The gospel empowers us to sacrificially respond to others who need redemption Have you ever looked at like criminals or f pe you know you hear the news and you hear all these horrible things that just happen in the world around us or war crimes and you just think, oh my goodness, I wish wish somebody would just put this person out of their misery for what they done. Have you ever thought that before? Have you ever dared to think that? I mean it could be for war crimes, it could be for political manipulation and maneuvering. It could just be local street gangs and how they handle themselves in the streets and make life miserable and unsafe for everybody else. The list could go on and on. But brothers and sisters, we need to take a step back and just remember we ourselves have done horrible things. Every one of us in this room, none of us are perfect. Every one of us was shown grace. And that should really influence and leaven our souls in a way that we desire to show grace to those who are in sin and perishing. Our attitudes really should not be just give them what they deserve. Because we didn't get what we deserved. We should have a heart for the lost. One of the implications of the gospel this morning in this passage that it's drawn out is that we are called to minister to those who are in need of redemption around us today. We are called to be like Abraham and go be inconvenienced and seek the lost Many of you in your jobs or in if you're younger and still in school are in tremendous situations where God has put you around very broken people. People that might be broken because of a drug addiction, or people who have suffered in domestic violence situations, people who who have been sexually promiscuous The list can go on and on. Maybe they're a violent person. And God has put you strategically near that person to show them mercy and grace. This is what it means to put feet to your faith. The Apostle James In James 2, 15-17 says this: if a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled. Without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also, faith by itself, if it does not have works, Is dead. I remember the moment in my life as a young man when that was really powerfully driven home into my heart. Through a failure kind of. I remember I was walking down, I was in Bible college and I was walking down the street. I don't remember where I was going. I was on Michigan Avenue somewhere and there's a poor guy homeless guy with a little cup asking for money And I stopped. I shouldn't have stopped, and I'll tell you why. I didn't have any money. What was I really going to do? How was I gonna meet the need that he had when I didn't have any money? And I for some reason I stopped and um started talking to him and and he finally got around to asking, Look, do you do you have anything to help me? And I said, You know, I'm really sorry, I don't. Um I can pray for you. And I remember him saying to me, Have you ever read the book of James? I said, Yeah. Well, if you remember what it says in chapter two. And actually I didn't at the time. I said, No, what does it say? Well, it says, you know, if you see a brother who's in need or hungry or in need of clothing, you know, and you you just tell him, oh, be warm and and this and that, but you don't help them, what good is that? And I stood there so embarrassed that I thought, oh, checkmate, he got me. Faith without works is dead. That's what Abraham's faith did in this passage. He was willing to model Christ, to redeem his brother, and be inconvenienced, to give us a pattern. And a picture of what faith with works is meant to be. And that leads us to our second point this morning in verses seventeen through twenty-four, the faith that grabs hold of blessing. Now there's a contrast here in these last verses between two people, and Abraham's in the middle of them. You got the king of Sodom. and the king of Salem. I want to begin by looking first at the blessing of Melchizedek in verses 17 through 20. Let's take a look at verses uh seven verse 17 first. It says, after his return from the defeat of Kedraomar, and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom, went out to meet him at the valley of Shava, that is the king's valley. Okay, take a look at verse beginning of verse 18. And Melchizedek, king of Salem, comes out. He brings out bread and wine. He was the priest of God. Most high. Now before we get to verse 19, let's stop there. I want to focus first on Melchizedek. We'll come back to the King of Sodom in just a minute, the other side of the contrast. But for now, Melchizedek. Who is Melchizedek? In verse 18, who is this man who shows up out of nowhere? Now there are all kinds of theories and ideas that commentators and scholars have come up with of who Melchizedek is. Some say he was an angel, some say he was a pre-incarnate, you know, epiphany of Christ. I'm not going to go into all the details of every viewpoint, which you'll probably thank me for later. Let's just look at the details we find here. Who is Melchizedek? Well, we know his name, Melchizedek. What does his name mean? Well, we saw in Hebrews chapter 7 this morning. His name is a compound of two Hebrew words that together mean the king of righteousness. Well, what else do we know about him from this passage? Well, we know, again, from verse 18 that he is the king of Salem. Salem. If you've ever heard or have Jewish friends, they tend to greet one another if they're religious. Shalom. Right? By the way, Muslim people have a very similar greeting, don't they? Salaam Laikum. It's really just the Arabic equivalent of the Hebrew word shalom. Peace. So the city he's king over is called or named peace. Where is that? Well Most people, and I don't see a reason to not believe this, believe that Salem is the ancient name for Jerusalem. And so he is the king of righteousness who's reigning over peace in Jerusalem. You put all that together, and then we find also he's the priest of God most high. That's the other thing you read in verse 18. He was priest of God most high. I think the well we can safely say Believe it or not, this is a Canaanite individual, probably a Jebuzite, because Jerusalem was an ancient Jebuzite city. The Jebuzites were sons of Canaan. He was a Canaanite man who somehow or another didn't succumb to all the idolatry of the Canaanites in his time, but knew and understood that there was one God. You have a monotheistic Canaanite here. And what's interesting is in all a lot of the ancient Near Eastern literature that we've been able to dig up out of the sand over the last hundred and fifty years or so And some of the Canaanite literature that we have found, we've actually found that this phrase, God most high, was, believe it or not, a common term among the Canaanites. They had a pantheon of multiple gods like the Romans or the Greeks or any other pagan society, but the term God most high in their minds related to to the chief god of the whole pantheon of gods, the God of gods, the Lord of Lords. And this this king, this king priest Is priest of that God. But what's fascinating here is you find the the joining of king and priest. Kinghood and priesthood in one individual. That does not happen for the kings of Israel. So we have an interesting guy here. What does he say? He gives a blessing in verses 18 through 20. He blessed Abraham and said, take a look at verse 19, blessed be Abraham by God most high. Another Canaanite phrase here, possessor of heaven and earth. And blessed be God most high who has delivered your enemies into your hands Now going back to verse 17, he gives this blessing in the valley of Shava, which most commentators believe is the Kidron Valley on the eastern side of Jerusalem, right before you go up to the Mount of Olives. Abraham, the king of Sodom, Melchizedek, they're all there, and he gives this blessing in that location. And as he gives this blessing, if you go back to verse 18, it is fascinating that he brings out bread and wine as a priest. Wow. You have this amazing redemption in the first 16 verses of this chapter. Abraham Looking like Christ, modeling Christ, redeeming his brother and kinsman Lot, who was taken captive, and then what does this priest king come out and present? As a token, as a picture of this redemption, bread and wine. Maybe you should be looking right there right now. What's under that? What do you call that thing? It's not a tarp. This cover. Women, you can correct me later. But it is an interesting picture. And the blessing highlights the redemption that it doesn't really belong to Abraham ultimately. It's a redemption that belongs to God. And Abraham's response of receiving this blessing and that offering, it says a tenth here At the end of verse 20, Abraham gave him a tenth of everything. That's tithing language. That's what Hebrews chapter 7 was getting on about earlier when Jared read that. Abraham receives this blessing as a legitimate blessing from the Lord. He acknowledges that Melchizedek is superior to Abraham, as Hebrews 7 says, the superior always blesses the inferior. And by receiving that blessing, Abraham understands this is a king, and this is a priest with a real relationship with God, and has the right to bless me. Now that's the blessing of Melchizedek. Let's look at the count the counterfeit blessing of the king of Sodom in verses 21 through 24. And this is sick on so many levels, really. Verse 21, the king of Sodom said to Abraham, Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself. Well, that's a counterfeit offer. It's an interesting offer. How would you respond if you were in Abraham's shoes? And he says, hey, take, take. Take all the riches for yourself. Just give me the people. Why would he say that? Well, I think there's probably two nefarious things going on here. Number one, Abraham will get to it later. I don't want you to say later on that I'm the one who made Abraham rich. So maybe this is a manipulative ploy to somehow make it so that Abraham owes him something down the line. But secondly, it's really disgusting that he says, Give me the people, you take the riches. You know why he wants the people. You just read in in chapters eighteen and nineteen and all the sexual perversion that was going on in Sodom and Gomorrah. You know why he wants the people to use them for his own pleasure and base ends. It's disgusting. But what makes it even worse is that if you remember, he's the king that went to war and got beat. He lost. He has no claim to Tell Abraham what he can and can't do. This is presumptuous. He said it's presuming that he's in the position to be able to give Abraham anything he wants. No, he's not And Abraham responds appropriately in verses 22 through 24 to this counterfeit blessing. He doesn't bite the bait. In fact, he makes an oath not to take anything from him When he says in verse 22, I have lifted up my hand to the Lord, God most high, possessor of heaven and earth. That idea of lifting the hand is like is like you lift your hand to take an oath, right? What do you do when you go to court? Tell you to put your hand on the Bible, raise your right hand. And you take an oath. That's what he's doing. He's taking an oath by whom? By the Lord God. That he's not going to take anything. He realizes that his blessing comes from the Lord, not the King of Sodom. And so we have to step back again. In what ways do we experience the same priestly blessing as Abraham does? And how does this affect our attitude to the counterfeit offers of blessing? that come from the world. Well, I think what this passage drives us to see is that Christ now serves as our great high priest who blesses us. In ways that reveal the world's counterfeit offer if we have eyes to see. Please understand, Jesus Christ is the priest according to the order of Melchizedek. Now Melchizedek is one of the most enigmatic figures of the whole Old Testament because this is the only time in the history of the Old Testament that we see him mentioned in what he's doing. It's not the only time his name is mentioned, but it's the only time we see him historically. And it's interesting, he comes out of nowhere and he disappears. Into thin air. You d you don't know where he came from really, and you don't know what happened to him. Right? But David picks up on his importance in Psalm 110, and as we saw, Hebrews chapter 7 shows the fulfillment of his significance. in Christ. Let's take a look at Psalm 110. If you have your Bible, you can turn there if you want. Psalm 110 and then verses 1 through 4. This is what David wrote. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. By the way, this is kingly language, isn't it? Sit on the throne until there's a conquest. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter Rule in the midst of your enemies, your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. From the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours. And then this is after the conquest, this is what God says. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You were a priest forever, after the order. Melchizedek. This is what's called a messianic psalm, and believe it or not, this passage is the most quoted passage from the Old Testament in all of the New Testament. Now, if I had to if I had to stake my claim and take a guess on what God's favored Bible verse is , We all have our favorite Bible verses. Some of us, it's something very comforting like John 3. 16. I think this is God's favorite Bible verse. We are asking, well, how in the world do you speculate that? Because he seemed to want it quoted most often throughout the New Testament. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Who is this talking to? This is talking to David or the son of David. the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the one who's going to sit at the right hand of God as king, and yet he is a priest. Forever. Just as Melchizedek was both a king and a priest, you see the same pattern fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. Just as Abraham and his conquest of these four invading kings was a picture of our redemption from captivity to sin, you see Christ's context or a conquest over sin at the cross and in the resurrection, which leads to his ascension, which leads to him sitting at the right hand of God. fulfilling that psalm, and then he becomes a priest after the order of Melchizedek. Think about that for just a moment. If you come out of a Roman Catholic context, or those of us in in the reformed tradition tend to oftentimes historically uh look at ourselves in relation to where we came from, which was Rome, we understand we don't have priests anymore in our local church. I am not a priest In the sense that I'm not offering sacrifices for you. When we take the Lord's Supper, I'm not consecrating this as a re sacrifice. of Christ in the literal sense. That's not what we do. But our temptation is to think because of that that there are no longer any need for priests or a priests that we have. And that's not true. We all have a need of a priest. That priest is not me, but that priest is the Lord Jesus Christ. Right And that brings us secondly to Hebrews chapter 7, which quotes this psalm at length. That Christ is the priest, not like a Levite priest, but a priest. after the order of Melchizedek. He's fulfilled that role by offering himself as the once-for-all sacrifice. For sins on the cross, which the Lord's Supper of bread and wine signifies and seals those promises But Hebrews 7. 25 concludes the whole argument that Jared read earlier, and it says this, consequently He, being Christ, is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. That is the truth that I want you to grasp onto this morning. Notice the wording of that passage there. It says very clearly he is able to save to the uttermost. Some of you this week maybe have fallen into some kind of sin. You just sometimes think, oh, I fell into this sin again. How could God possibly love someone who fails so much like me? I can't believe how deep the sin seems to just Flow in me will take this take this promise to the bank spiritually. He is able to save to the uttermost. He knows the sin that is still present deep down in you. And yet look what he continues to say. Those who draw near to God through Christ. The encouragement for you this morning is to continue to draw near to Christ. If you're a believer and you struggle with sin, draw near to Christ. If you have never put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the encouragement is draw near to Christ. Why? Because you are the high priest, as it says here, he always lives, he never dies. Because he's been resurrected. He always lives to make intercession for them. That word intercession means he prays for sinners. When you woke up this morning, did you dare to think that Jesus Christ prays for you today? He's your priest. To use the good shepherd language in John chapter 10, you know, he knows his sheep and his sheep know him. He knows them all by name. He prays and intercedes for you. And so what's the greatest blessing you could have? A high priest who's worth everything, who knows you. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. You want something very practical to do this week? Do this. Read and meditate on two passages. Hebrews chapter 7, which talks about Christ as your high priest in Ephesians chapter 1, which talks about those spiritual blessings that you have in the heavenly places. That blessing in Genesis 14 that Melchizedek pronounces upon Abraham is a blessing that Christ blessed. And boy, what does it help us to do? It helps us to understand the counterfeit offers. When we understand the blessing of Christ and what it means to be in relationship to him, to be set free from sin, to no longer be a captive to the things that once enslaved us. Look, the counterfeit blessings that come our way in the flesh become easier to see, but it doesn't always mean that they don't look good at the same time. Let's just be honest about that. Sin can sometimes look really good, really tempting, really enticing. But the problem is that like the king of Sodom, the world is in no position Or the flesh or the devil are in no position to offer us the blessings that will truly satisfy us because the world does not have those things to give in the first place. In the first place. And so for those of you who received these blessings already by faith in Christ, Here's what you can do right now. I want to encourage you to prepare your minds and your hearts to come before the table of the Lord's Supper, where we're going to take, partake of the bread and the wine, like Abraham. Offered to us by our high priest, Jesus Christ, the priest, according to the order of Melchizedek. And when we do this, we have the promise. That all of God's promises and blessings are not only going to be signified in that, but they will be sealed to our hearts and lives to strengthen us for this next week. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today and we are grateful for the fact that you, O Lord Jesus, have Gone to war with our sin at the cross. You have defeated sin at the cross in the flesh, as Paul says in Romans 8. 3. And Lord, you live evermore to intercede for us at the Father's right hand. Lord, we thank you for the access that we have to God through you, our beautiful. And our wonderful high priest. Lord, we ask that as we prepare ourselves to come to the table of the Lord's Supper, Lord, that you would prepare us to receive the blessing from you this morning. We ask in you. Jesus name, Amen