I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's Holy Word. Beginning in verse one Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's camp. So he called the name of that place Machanayam And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau, his brother, in the land of Seir, the country of Edom, instructing them, Thus you shall say to my lord Esau, Thus says your servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed with him until now. I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my Lord, in order that I may find favor in your sight. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, and he is coming to meet you, and there are four hundred men with him. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels into two camps, thinking If Esau comes to the one camp and attacks it, then the camp that is left will escape. And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham! And God of my father Isaac, O Lord, who said to me, return to your country and to your kindred, that I may do you good. I am not worthy of the least of all the deeds of steadfast love and all the faithfulness that you have shown to your servant. For with only my staff I cross this Jordan, and now I have become two camps. Please Deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, that he may come and attack me, the mothers with the children. But you said, I will surely do you good, and make your offspring as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. So, he stayed there that night, and from what he had with him, he took a present for his brother Esau. 200 female goats and 20 male goats, 200 ewes and 20 rams, 30 milking camels and their calves. Forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys. These he handed over to his servants. Every drove by itself, and said to his servants, Pass on ahead of me, and put space between Drove and Drove. He instructed the first. When Esau my brother meets you, and asks you, To whom do you belong? Where are you going? And who whose are these ahead of you? Then you shall say, They belong to your servant Jacob. They are a present sent to my lord Esau. And moreover, he is behind us. He likewise instructed the second and the third and all who followed the droves. You shall say the same thing to Esau when you find him. And you shall say, moreover, your servant Jacob is behind us. For he thought, I may appease him with the present that goes ahead of me, and afterwards I shall see his face, perhaps He will accept me. So the present passed on ahead of him, and he himself stayed that night in the camp. The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabak. He took them and sent them across the stream and everything else. that he had. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, and for some, this is a very familiar passage, and for others, maybe not so familiar, but Lord, we pray that as we come into your word this morning, that you would, as we always ask every week, you would open our eyes that we might see. Open our ears that we might hear. Open our minds that we might understand in our hearts, O Lord, that we might receive. what this passage says and how it points us, O Lord, to the call to receive your grace in Christ Jesus. Lord, we ask this in your precious name. Amen. Many of you have heard the phrase before, out of the frying pan and into the fire. That is exactly what this passage is about In fact, you may have noticed, if you really look at the rest of the chapter, chapter 32 is really one event that I've broken down for the sake of getting through it adequately into two sermons that I will take two sermons to work through this. But that's exactly what we find. We find Jacob fleeing back to Canaan. If you remember last week, he fled from his father-in-law Laban. who presented enough danger in and of itself and now the stakes are much higher. He's coming to meet Esau If you thought Laban was going to do him harm, you can imagine what Esau was likely to do. But one thing we see about Jacob here, we see a little bit of kind of a divided heart, a double mind. On the one hand, he is looking for grace and he seems to be trusting in the Lord and his promises. And on the other hand, at the same time, he doesn't quite trust fully and adequately what the Lord has in store for him. And how do we know that? Because he continues, as he always does, to come up with some scheme to manipulate and work the situation out in a way that will be favorable to him. A double mind, trusting God and yet not trusting him. In fact, the main point of our sermon is very clear. Many of us Put our trust in our own schemes to save ourselves, while at the same time crying out to God for deliverance. Isn't that interesting? We tend to share that same double-mindedness that we see in Jacob here. And so I want to break down this passage. We're not going to work through it in the exact order. I'm going to kind of organize some of the things here. I want to look first for our first point, which is grace and seeking to earn favor. We're going to look at verses 3 through 8 as well as 13 through 21. To unpack that. I want to look at verses 3 through 8 first. The messengers seek Esau's favor for Jacob. And I want to look at this because in verse 3 and following, you see this kind of Jacob sending these messengers to his brother, and then he receives them back with kind of a message. Look at verses 3 through 5. Verse 3 begins by saying, He sent those messengers to the land of Edom. That's really interesting because at that point what you see is Esau has already left Isaac, his father, and Rebekah, his mother, and has departed and gone to Edom. We saw in verses or excuse me chapter 27, he didn't inherit the land of Canaan, and so he has to Leave. And so he's already left. And Jacob sends messengers there. But I want to focus our attention on verses 4 through 5 because there you see the instruction that Jacob gives to the messengers. And that's what I want to pay attention to. He says, Thus you shall say to my lord Esau, thus says your servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed with him until now. I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, male servants, female servants, and I've sent to tell my Lord in order that I may find favor in your sight. Now notice the way he ends that. That's really the key here that I want to focus on, and we'll unpack the rest of it from there. When he says that I may find favor in your sight , That's the key to Jacob's heart. That's what he wants. In fact, I've said this before, I'll say it again now. That word in Hebrew that's translated favor there could legitimately be translated as well as grace. And so what is Jacob looking for here? Jacob is looking for grace in his brother's eyes. And you see that unfold because look at the way he addresses uh Esau, and look at the way he refers to himself. It makes that point very clear. He calls Esau my Lord, and he calls himself your servant Jacob. I mean, he realizes he needs his brother's grace. And that may be a little bit of a shock to you that he's referring to Esau as my Lord and himself as your servant. Why would that be shocking? Why would you not expect that? Well, when you go back to Genesis 28, when he's in the process of uh deceiving and manipulating his own father to get the blessing from Esau given to him. Do you remember what his father said? Back in chapter 28, verse 29, he made Jacob Lord over his brothers. And then when Esau pleads with his father, do you have one blessing left for me? Remember what his father said in chapter 28, verse 40? I have made your brother Lord over you. I have made you his servant. You go back to chapter 26, when Rebecca was inquiring of the Lord as to what was going on in her womb as the children struggled within her, wondering what this might mean. What did the Lord say? The older will serve the younger. And yet Jacob completely reverses that. He calls Esau my Lord. Esau, I am your servant. The reason he does that is because he realizes he needs the grace that only his brother can give him if he's going to live in peace in the land of Canaan. And let's face it, the one who gives grace is the one who is offended by definition. And that person who is offended, who is in a position to give grace in that situation, is superior to the one who has a debt And in need of grace. And so that's where Jacob stands. He knows his need. He knows he's violated and offended his brother. 20 years ago. And he knows that he needs grace. And so he sends these messengers. That's what he tells them. They come back in verses 6 through 8. They return. This is where the stakes get really high. Because if you look in verse 6, they said, they tell Jacob, we came here brother Esau, and he's coming to meet you, and there are 400 men with him. I want you to think about that for just a moment. What would you do if you were in Jacob's situation? You're tired. You just escaped from Laban by the skin of your teeth. You just made a covenant of peace with him that you never thought was possible after being after twenty long years of manipulation and hostility between you two. You know what you've done to your brother before you had to flee in the first place. And the anger that he had. But now it's not just you fleeing on your own where you could possibly get away if you're just worrying about yourself. You've got all these flocks that have young that you can't drive too hard because you'll kill them. You've got wives. You've got children. What would you do? I mean, this is really bad. Verse 7 tells us the obvious. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. I've said before that Hebrew is such a colorful language. That word distressed in Hebrew is actually the same word that's used in other contexts when an army lays siege to a city. Jacob in his heart is distressed. The fear of his brother lays siege to his heart in this particular situation. And it's this fear that drives a lot of his immediate response here, which doesn't look tremendously great. He's clearly distressed. He knows his brother wants to kill him, so that that's obvious. And so what does he do here? It leads him to dividing his family and his flocks into two camps. And he gives like what his mindset is in verse 8. Well, if I Divide him into two camps. If Esau comes and attacks one, at least one of the camps will escape. And so I want to look at verses 13 through 21. We'll come back to verses 9 through 12. in just a few minutes, but I want to go first to verses nine through twelve. I'm sorry, uh thirteen through twenty-one because I want to see what Jacob does further. to strategize, to earn the grace and the favor of his brother Esau, which he knows he needs. So look at verses 13 to 21. We see a present to seek Esau's favor. So this is where he takes the idea of securing grace into his own hands. And we see in verses 13 through 15 the substance of the presence that he organizes. Verse 13 is pretty clear and kind of summarizes the point. He stayed that night There and from what he had with him, he took a present for his brother Esau. Look at the substance of that present for just a moment in verses 14 through 15. This is kind of interesting, I think. 200 female goats, 20 male goats. 200 ewes and 20 rams, 30 milking camels and their calves, 40 cows, Ten bulls, twenty female donkeys, and ten male donkeys. Notice how each one, the animals come in pairs, and he he announces those. What's really interesting about this gift, first, obviously a large part of Jacob's wealth is made up in cattle, in herds, in animals. That's how people counted wealth back then. It wasn't just gold and silver. It was also your assets and these were assets. Second, notice the number of animals that he gives. That is no small number in terms of a gift. He is giving very liberally, very sacrificially here. And third, this is really interesting to me at least. Notice that for each of these pair of animal species that are listed, there are a lot more females than males that he gives. Now I scratched my head over that for a while. I'm like, what in the world? Why would he do that? And To be fair and honest before you, I actually couldn't find an answer to that in the commentaries that I had to comb through. But I actually have an idea as to what he probably had in mind. And this is just looking at the context of what he just did to Laban in the breeding of the animals in that episode. He's likely giving his brother more of the females than the males for breeding purposes so that the present that he gives would multiply exponentially under Esau's hand if he bred them properly and that would only secure him more and more favor in his brother's eyes. Notice again the strategy and how he is really seeking with his dog Gondis to secure his brother's grace. And that really is the purpose of the present, which we see in verses 16 through 21. We see that he divides his family into four different groups, which we'll find later. are just four different groups headed by the four wives, the two wives, and then the two servants that had children as well. With each one of these, he gives a present, but notice what he says in verse 20. That's what I want to focus on, because that's where you see the purpose and the intent of Jacob's heart and why he's doing this. Verse 20 For he thought, I may appease him with the present that goes ahead of me, and afterwards I shall see his face. Perhaps he will accept me. Now with that, I want to highlight to you in that one verse three things that are on his mind. First, he wants to appease Esau. By the way, it's interesting that that word here for appease is often used in Leviticus and in other parts of the Old Testament. to um be rendered as to atone for, to cover over, as if to cover over my sin. He knows he needs grace from Esau because he stole the blessing. He knows Esau wants to kill him. Maybe, just maybe, these animals will suffice as the substitute for his life that Esau wants to take. And maybe these will cover over his transgression and atone for him before his brother whom he has sinned against and offended. So that's the first thing. He wants to appease. Or find atonement before his brother. Secondly, here, he hopes to see Esau's face. That would of course be the result of appeasing his brother. When his transgression is covered over, he would then have access to his brother's face before his presence. By the way, you get the same idea in Exodus chapter 30, verse 20. If you remember the context, Israel has is about to Uh well actually, yeah, they're about to um sin with the golden calf, but Moses is up in the mountain And he asks God something very unique, Lord, if you're going to really make me carry these people through the wilderness and bear this burden. I need you to show me your grace. Show me your goodness. And do you remember what God says in Exodus? Actually it's chapter 33, verse 20. And by the way, they had just sinned as well with the golden calf, chapter before. God says to Moses , I'm going to put you in the cleft of the rock. I'm going to cover you. I'm going to walk past you. And then when I walk past you, I'm going to take my hand away from you. And you can see the back of me. But you cannot see my face. Why? For no man shall see me and live Why can a man not see the face of God and live, at least this side of eternity and this side of the fall? Because of sin. We've offended God, and there is something between us and God. That stands in the way of us having unhindered fellowship with him and in a sense seeing his face. And so Jacob, knowing he his sin needs to be taken care of with his brother Esau, which is why he's presenting this gift in the first place. wants to atone for himself so that he has fellowship with his brother again. Lastly and thirdly in verse 20 here, Jacob hopes Esau will accept him. Again, that's a really good translation that gets at the meaning of what the literal Hebrew says, which says, maybe, perhaps, he will lift my face. Those of you who have had children or have done any manner of teaching before with kids know that when your kid does something wrong, they often don't want to look at you in the eye. I remember when I was a kid, every time I knew I did something wrong, and my mother would confront me, and you better believe she would , I would not want to look her that lady in the eyes I would look down, usually put my hands in my pocket and shuffle my feet a little bit. Why? Because I had shame But when the shame was taken care of, I had no hesitation to look up and raise my face. And that's the idea here. Jacob is looking for the sin to be forgiven him, that his brother would lift his face and therefore accept him. That Esau would see him as essentially righteous and giving him grace. Now at this point, I want to take a step back from the story and ask ourselves What are the ways that we see in Jacob's schemes here that shine a light or a mirror on our own hearts on the ways that we fail to understand grace today? How do we fail to understand grace today and to receive it? And how do we see that in Jacob? Well, I think the answer here is we try to earn grace. because of fear that we will not be accepted, which then leads us to trying to secure that grace from God by our own resources. Come on, if you look at your own heart, you know you do this. How do I know that? Because I do it. We're we're not that different from each other. Look, at the end of the day, we need to fundamentally understand what grace is. And I think one of, if we're honest, one of the things that we see in this passage Is that like Jacob, we often misunderstand the very nature of grace. And you know, it is some grace is something that is so difficult, I think, for people to truly grasp. In a way that they receive. And mark this well. Grace understood is grace received. If you really understand grace, you receive it. When you don't receive it, it's because you don't truly understand it. In fact, talking about Abraham Jacob's grandfather, the Apostle Paul says in Romans 4, 4 through 5, and he's talking about justification in context. Now to the one who works , His wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due, or what is owed him, right? And to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness. Now believe me, it is easy to to memorize what the say the Westminster short of catechism says about justification and how it defines it. Is it easy to memorize that? It's easy to have an intellectual understanding up here of what justification by grace through faith is all about. It is a whole nother issue to let that sink down into your heart and truly receive it. I remember a couple years ago, um two years ago actually, I was uh in Lancaster, downtown Lancaster in Pennsylvania, with some pastor friends of mine, and we were doing street evangelism right there in the the s you know. know, I don't know what they call it. The the little square of the the city. You know, they had the old commons there. It was lunchtime. And I got into this conversation with this this man who was probably not but a few years older than me and And I actually spent about a good half hour with this guy, me and a friend of mine, and we were sharing the gospel with him, and we got him to the point where he understood what we were saying. And when we finally asked them, so what stands in your way of actually receiving Christ? And he said, you know, okay, I understand what you're telling me. But I'm telling you guys right now, I've done things in my life that God cannot possibly forgive We were thinking a half an hour. We've been making this as clear as we can to you for a half an hour. And then at the end of this, at the end of this, you're telling me you understand what you're saying, but you cannot receive it. Guys, it's easy to understand it here, but you don't really understand it until you receive it here. Why? Because grace understood is grace received. Like Jacob, we can certainly acknowledge our need for grace and favor in the eyes of the Lord, and then turn around and rely on things like our own wealth, our own intelligence. our own righteousness, our own morality, our own schemes, or whatever else we think we it is that we're bringing to the table to earn that grace. And what that leads to is not just a fundamental misunderstanding of grace, but a fundamental denial of what God offers us in Jesus Christ. And so the further question that we have to ask that we see in this passage here is if we fundamentally misunderstand grace and can't receive it, what are some of the things that that fuel that, that undergird that? Well I think what we see here is that there is fear that undercuts the proper receiving of grace. Fear. Now in Jacob's case, it's fear of Esau. And it's that fear that clouds his understanding and reception of grace. And part of the problem with Jacob is that he The way in which he was measuring grace or understanding grace was mediated through the character of Esau. Isn't that interesting? Very subtly, Jacob's understanding of grace was being dictated by the very character of Esau, and that character led to him fearing because he knew Esau wanted to kill him. Hmm. We tend to do the same thing. I want to go a little further than just Esau. We tend to size up God's grace, and we tend to fear that God is like the people around us. I remember one of my systematic theology professors in seminary, and this is embarrassing, but I'll admit I don't remember the context of what he was talking about. I just remember what he said here. He made the comment about there are people out there in the church today that have a really difficult time uh seeing God as Father. As a loving father. And the reason they have a hard time with that is because their father was either not loving enough, not encouraging enough to them when they were growing up. Maybe overly harsh, maybe beat them up or disciplined them with a heavy hand. And so they tend to see God in the way that they see their father. Right? Well if I do this, see I just I might get hit. Well if I do this God is just you know he's this cosmic guy up there with a uh rolled up magazine ready to just whack me for messing up. Right And so we have these ideas of who we think God is, and because we think in faulty ways, because we're you know we're mediating his character through the people that we know. Tend to misunderstand what he's like, and then that leads to not understanding his grace. It's a fear that he's actually like them. And let's let's face it, in the world today there are people oftentimes who are reluctant to or refuse to show grace to others when they've been wronged. Other time oftentimes they need to be placated before they were willing to forgive. And because people that we know around us are made in the image of God, we instinctually and very subtly believe in the deep recesses of our hearts that God must be the same way. And so what does that lead to? It leads to fear that somehow God will not or can not be gracious to us because of things that we've done. It doesn't matter what it is, whether it's you go out and commit adultery or you tell a white lie. God cannot forgive because you fear. But you know, the Apostle John in 1 John chapter 4, particularly verses 7 through 11, really highlights what the love of God is all about in sending his son to be the propitiation for our sins. In other words, to turn the wrath of God away from us by the power and the blood of his cross. And he goes on in verse, in 1 John 4, 18, he says, there is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. And so what is the call here at this point? It shows us that our passage is a gentle but subtle rebuke. To our hearts in believing that God is not gracious. Too many of us are like Jacob. We filter our view of God through our view of others. And it stands in the way, leads to fear and standing in the way of receiving grace. But the gospel, the grace of the gospel is the remedy. And this is how I want to highlight something here for you I want to highlight, if you remember in Jacob's um what he said in verse twenty, I want to highlight by way of contrast how that anticipates the gospel as the true remedy for this not understanding grace and this fear. That's what I want to highlight. First, just as Jacob was uh seeking to appease Esau, I want to highlight the fact of what it means to appease God. I mentioned how that word is the word for atone in in Leviticus and other parts of the Old Testament But oh, here's the connection I want to make to you. Just as Jacob is the covenant representative and head here, provides the gifts to atone his brother's wrath. So also does the Lord Jesus Christ, as the covenant representative, provide the gift and the offering to atone for the Lord's wrath against us because of our sin. Now while I say that I want to be very careful here, and I've said this before, we want to be careful drawing one-to-one correlations or connections. Between some Old Testament events and gospel truths. Right? We're looking at the principle, not always the details. Why? Because Jacob's trying to earn grace for himself. But like Jacob, we cannot earn grace by giving a gift to God as an offended party. But what we can do is we can look to Christ. Christ does earn grace on our behalf, specifically by his gift offering of himself on the cross to appease God's wrath, to atone for our sins before the Father And what does that lead to? Well, that leads to the second thing we saw in verse 20. Just as Jacob wanted to see Esau's face, have reconciliation with him and access to him This presents to us the gospel truth of seeing God's face. We will also see God's face in Christ due to his atoning gift. I want you to think about that. What did Christ do when he was on the cross? He took care of our sin. He didn't stay dead. He rose again from the dead, but then he didn't just stay walking around the earth as a a glorified human being. He then ascended into heaven. If you remember. And what does he do when he gets to heaven? He sits at the right hand of God And to use the language of Hebrews chapters 7, 8, 9, and 10, he stands as our mediator, as our high priest. in God's presence interceding for us. And if Christ is in God's presence, what does that tell you? That tells you, and it presupposes , that he sees God. Do you remember John 1. 18? No one has ever seen God at any time, except for God, the only Son, who is in the Father's bosom, he has made him known. And because of that, the good news for us, because of what Christ has done on the cross That we will be with him one day. 1 John chapter 3, verse 2 says this very clearly. Behold, we are God's children now. Because of what Christ did. And what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. Wow. And what does that lead to? Well, it leads to what Jacob was looking for lastly in verse 20, acceptance with God. When our sin has been atoned for at the cross, when we now have access to God through Christ Jesus, our great and powerful high priest who stands in God's presence for us with the hope that we will one day see Christ because we will be like him. That leads to the fact that we have acceptance with God. This is really the heart of grace, isn't it? Having acceptance with God. Too often people talk about coming, when they come to Christ, they talk about accepting Jesus into their life. Now look, there's a place for that. I'm not going to say that's entirely wrong. But the other side of the coin of that is the real issue is whether or not is not whether or not you accept Christ, but whether or not he accepts you. I hear people today talk, use language all the time. I identify as a Christian. You know what my answer to that is? So? Who cares? The real question is: has Christ identified you as one of his? That's the heart of the issue. And it is because of the death, the burial, the resurrection of Christ, the ascension of Christ, which I just mentioned, that we are justified by God's grace when we come to faith in Jesus. That's what justification is all about. Simply put, it just means we are accepted by God by being declared righteous. where we know we were guilty. That is grace indeed. That's grace by definition. We've been given what we don't deserve. And if you fundamentally this morning deny grace and are secretly living in fear that God is like people around you and cannot or will not forgive you, the call of this passage this morning is to repent of that. And yes, that false view of God needs to be repented of. And trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and His love and His grace that you might be saved. And that leads us to our second point. So that we just looked at what Jacob did wrong. Let's look at what he did right. Okay? For this, I want to focus on verses 1 and 2, 9 through 12, and 22. Through 23. The second point is grace and crying out to the Lord. This is what Jacob did right. And for this, we can actually take this as an example. I want to begin with verses 1 and 2, the angels in the camp of the Lord. That's where the passage begins. Remember that? Jacob went on his way. From Laban. And the angels of God met him, and when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's camp. So he called the name of the place Machanayam. You gotta like that huh in Hebrew, right? Machanayam. Now here's what's interesting. If you remember back in chapter 28 when Jacob had to flee from Esau in the first place and go north to Mesopotamia. You remember in Bethel he had this vision of the angels on the ladder. Remember that they were ascending and descending, and the Lord was at the top of the Top of the ladder, and that was meant to bring him comfort, to remind Jacob from the Lord, making a promise to him, I will be with you. Everything I promised, I will fulfill. This is the other side of that. Well now he's not leaving, he's coming back from Mesopotamia. He's going to finally have to confront Esau, his brother. The tension is rising. The fear is boiling over within him, and God meets him in a camp of angels to again affirm his promises to him. In fact, that name, Machanayam, it's a dual form in Hebrew. It just simply means two camps. And I think it actually relates to verse 7 when Jacob, remember, divided his family and flocks into two camps. God is with Jacob. And I believe that that vision drove him to prayer, which is what we see in verses 9 through 12. Look at that prayer of Jacob here. He cries out to God, and by the way, I think we all understand this when we're at the end of ourselves and we have no resources left. What's the last thing a desperate man or woman does? They pray. That's what we see here. Look at verse 9. You see, I'm going to highlight four things. One, you see Jacob's invocation of God. If you look at your bulletin, we every week we have an invocation, right? What are we doing? We are calling upon God Look what he does in verse 9. Oh God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac. Stop there. That's actually really important that he invokes God, the God of his fathers, Abraham and Isaac. Why? Because Jacob is living in a pluralistic society in ancient Mesopotamia. In other words, different peoples around him had different gods. Sound familiar? Should. In fact, when he and Laban just made a covenant in the last passage. Each one invoked their own gods. Jacob is not talking to a generic God here. He's talking to a specific God. And you might remember back in Genesis 28, when he was fleeing, Jacob made a vow. If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come again to my father's house in peace. Then the Lord shall be my God. Then Yahweh will be my God. He's invoking the Lord here. Notice what in just a second. He recites God's promises in verse 9. O Lord, there's the covenant name there, who said to me, return to your country and your kindred that I may do you good Again, he's hearkening back to when God appeared to him in the beginning of Genesis 31 and told him, return home, get out from under Laban's hand. We also see this reciting of his promise here in verse 12 But you said, I will surely do you good and make your offspring as the sand of the sea which cannot be numbered for multitude. He's standing on God's promises that what he's going to ask in a moment is consistent with what God has already told him. Thirdly, and this is really new for Jacob, he confesses to the Lord in verse 10. Look what his confession says. I am not worthy. Of the least of all the deeds of steadfast love and all the faithfulness that you have shown to your servant, for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan, and now I've become two Notice what he does in his confession. He puts himself in relation to God. God, you are holy, you are loving, you are faithful, and I am unworthy. He knows why he's unworthy, and we know why he's unworthy, because we've been walking with him through all of these events in his life. And lastly, here, the fourth thing, he petitions the Lord. He knows who he's speaking to. He knows the promises that have been made. He knows that he is unworthy, and yet look what he does in his petition in verse 11. Please. Deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau. That's a repetition for emphasis. For I fear him. That he may come and attack me, the mothers with the children. This is not just a plea of selfishness. And selfish preservation, this is a fear. Or this is a fear based around God's covenant promises. What's he saying between the lines? Lord, if he wipes out the mothers and the children, what becomes of your promise? Deliver me. Save me. And again, it's interesting he acknowledges his fear of Esau to the Lord. By the way, it's okay to tell the Lord what you fear. He can handle that. And that leads to verses 22 through 23, the preparation to cry out to the Lord. Now it says that he sends everything he had across the river, he's left alone. For what purpose? I would dare say that the purpose of him sending everyone Except for himself across that river so that he's now alone, which is where it leaves off. Or where we left off this morning. The whole purpose is so that he can spend the night in prayer. Why would I say that? Well, because where this is going is he's about to have a wrestling match with an angel. With the angel of the Lord. But the prophet Hosea interprets that in chapter 12, Hosea 12, verses 3 through 4. Talking about Jacob, he says, in his manhood he strove with God. He strove with the angel and prevailed. He wept and sought his favor. That is the language, brothers and sisters, of prayer. What was the striving included? It wasn't just physical, although it was, included prayer. So at this point we need to ask, by way of application, what can we learn about prayer from the way that Jacob cries out? To God. Well, very simply, we can see the elements of invocation, recitation , confession, and petition. Those are the ways to respond to God's grace, which we highlighted so much in the first point. Now think about that, invocation. I've already said we include that in the bulletin every week, but the point is invoking God means that we address ourselves to the Lord and who he has specific. specifically revealed himself to be. By the way, this really sets us apart from other people, religious people who believe in other gods. I want you to think about this for just a moment with me. Like Jacob, we live in a pluralistic society. You can talk to a Hindu person, a Muslim person. A Jewish person? A Mormon person? A Jehovah's Witness? And do they believe in the same God necessarily that we believe in The the answer is no. I mean when you talk to a Muslim, I mean do they have a belief that there's a God? Yeah. Do they believe God is real? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the word Allah in Arabic is just the equivalent of the Hebrew El or Elohim. It's a generic term for God. But notice it's not the same thing necessarily as the specific covenant God who revealed himself to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And has revealed himself ultimately to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. What is interesting to me is when you talk to religious Jewish people, particularly of the Orthodox religious Jewish stripe, when they talk about God They don't use the divine name Yahweh. They'll say Hashem, which just is Hebrew that means the name. In other words, notice that they distance themselves even from the name of who God really is And kind of retreat back into a generic understanding of who he is. Is that the same exact thing as we're talking about as Christians when we address God? No. It's not. Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 through 2 makes something very clear. Long ago, and many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he also created the world. Again, Jesus himself in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life No one comes to the Father. Notice that's not just saying God. It's just, it's being very specific. The Father, except through me. Again, Acts chapter 4, verse 12. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Here's the point, brothers and sisters, when we pray, let's be specific in who we are addressing. We are addressing God the Father through the person and the name of the Son and in the Spirit. That's pretty darn specific. That is not a generic God. Let's be clear. Recitation, verse 9, ended with Jacob's. . This is the second thing, by the way. Jacob Repeating God's promises to him, brothers and sisters, it is so important for us today, as God's people, to know his word, because it is by his word that we've come to know the promises of God. The model of Jacob's prayer, which is actually repeated as well in the Lord's Prayer, if you make a comparison, shows Teaches us to cling to God's promise and to make those promises the foundation of what we are asking for. You ever heard that psalm that talks about delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart? Have you ever wondered what that meant? Boy, if I delight in the Lord, can I ask for a Ferrari and He'll give it to me? Or maybe a jet plane, right? Then my ministry can become international. No, that's not what he's talking about If you delight yourself in the Lord, Him giving you the desires of your heart means He promises to give you more of Himself. Why? Because the things you will delight in will become consistent with Him and His Word. Recitation. Confession. This is the idea. Jacob does this. He confesses his own unworthiness. By the way, that should be our own posture towards the Lord in prayer. By the way, that sense of unworthiness does not mean that you're walking around dejected all the time and depressed. That's not what it means, but it just means understanding that God loves you despite the fact that you don't deserve it. Simple as that. And because you don't deserve it, you tell the Lord some of the reasons why you don't deserve it and confess your sins, which is why we do this every week. On Sunday. And then petition. Notice that comes last. By the way, just be honest. How many of you, when you pray, just jump to telling the Lord what you want? Before you thank him or really invoke him and highlight his gracious promises to you and confess that even though you've sinned, he loves you. Enjoying that. Or maybe you treat him like a cosmic genie. I think Far too often we do that. But if we really understood who he was and what his promises are and how unworthy we we are and in need of grace, even though he's given us that grace. When we cry out to Him in our greatest times of need, then our petitions, I believe, will be properly framed. Brothers and sisters, what an interesting way to respond to grace, right? But it brings us back to the fundamental point. Many of us put our trust in our own schemes to save ourselves while at the same time crying out to God for deliverance. You see this almost spiritual schizophrenia in Jacob in this passage. And the question you have to ask yourself is this morning, are you really trusting in Christ this Advent season? Or are you still continuing to trust in your own schemes? That's what God's Word is bringing us to wrestle with face to face this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, what a question to ask ourselves as we come to the end of this passage. We pray, O Lord, that through shining the light of your word into our heart. Lord, I pray that you would Help us to see the things that stand in our lives and in our hearts that are kind of obstructing our ability to trust you more fully. And I pray, O Lord, that we would then take those things, seeing them through the clarity of your word, that we would confess them, bring them to you. And Lord, that we would learn to take up our cross daily, denying ourselves, and follow you, trusting you fully. Help us this morning, Lord, as we know we cannot do this on our own, but we know we need your spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.