Genesis forty-six one to thirty-four. So Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father, Isaac. And God spoke to Israel in visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here I am. Then he said, I am God, the God of your father. Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for there I will make you into a great nation. I myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also bring you up again. And Joseph's hand shall close your eyes. Then Jacob set out from Beersheba. The sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, their little ones, and their wives in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry him. They also took their livestock and their goods, which they had gained in the land of Canaan, and came to into Egypt. Jacob and all his offspring with him, his sons and his sons' sons with him, his daughters and his sons' daughters, all his offspring he brought with him into Egypt. Now these are the names of the descendants of Israel who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons, Reuben, Jacob's firstborn. And the sons of Reuben, Hanuk, Palu, Hezron, and Karmi, the sons of Simeon, Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jochin, Zouhar, and Shaol the son of a Canaanite woman, the sons of Levi, Gershin, Kohath, and Merare, the sons of Judah, Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah, But Aaron Onan died in the land of Canaan, and the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul, the sons of Isakar, Tola, Puva, Yov, and Shimron. The sons of Zeblun, Sared, Elon, and Jothel, these are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Padon Aram, together with his daughter Dinah. Altogether his sons and his daughters numbered thirty-three. The sons of Gad, Zipheon, Hagi, Shuni , Ezbon, Ari, Arodai, and Areli, the sons of Asher, Inma, Ishva, Ishvi, Beriah, with Sarah, their sister , And the sons of Bariah, Heber, and Malchel. These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob, sixteen persons. The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife, Joseph and Benjamin, and to Joseph in the land of Egypt, were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asnath, the daughter of Potipharah, the priest of An, bore to him. And the sons of Benjamin, Bala, Betcher, Ashbel, Gerah, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Mupim, Hupim, and Ard These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob, fourteen persons in all. The son of Dan, Hushim , The sons of Nathtali, Josil, Guni, Jezer, and Shilem, these are the sons of Bilha, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter. And these she bore to Jacob, seven persons in all. All the persons belonging to Jacob who came into Egypt, who were his own descendants, not including Jacob's sons' wives. were sixty-six persons in all. And the sons of Joseph who were born to him in Egypt were two. All the persons of the house of Jacob who came to Egypt were seventy. He had sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph to show the way before him in Goshen, and they came into the land of Goshen. Then Joseph prepared his chariot and went up to meet Israel his father in Goshen. He presented himself to him and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while. Israel said to Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive. Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, I will go up and tell Pharaoh and say to him, My brothers and my father's household who were in the land of Canaan have come to me. And the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock, and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have. When Pharaoh calls you and says, What is your occupation? You shall say, your servants have been keepers of livestock. From our youth even until now, both we and our fathers, in order that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we are thankful for this passage. Lord, such a resolution to so much turmoil, to so much sin, to so much conflict within one family. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes, that you would help us to see Jesus more clearly because of your word this morning That you would impress upon our hearts this morning, O Lord, the gospel. And as Peter already prayed for us, that you would excite us, Lord, by the gospel. That we would understand the freedom and the joy that is to be found in it. But we would also understand, O Lord , the call and our responsibilities as your people as a result of the gospel. So we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, last week we saw the dramatic revelation of Joseph to his brothers in chapter 45. And this week we see the reunion of Jacob and Joseph, of father and son. And while last week's passage focused more on Joseph and his role in the reunion with his brothers, this week's passage in Genesis 46 Focuses more on Jacob's role and Jacob's action as the father in this reunion. Now, if you remember, if we left off in chapter 45 with Jacob hearing that Joseph was alive and well and that he was ruler in Egypt. And again, if you look at the last verse of chapter 45, you can see what he says in verse 28. It is enough. Joseph, my son, is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. Now the reunion that's before us this morning reveals our main idea. And our main idea is this. God's faithfulness is seen in the fulfillment of his promises, by past faithfulness, and by protection from assimilation to the world. If you're visiting with us, you can see the main idea printed in the middle of the page on page 5 at the end of the liturgy, but it's It's a pretty simple idea, and that's what we want to unpack this morning. God's faithfulness is seen in the fulfillment of his promises, by past faithfulness, and by protection from assimilation to the world. Let's look at our first point and unpack that idea in verses 1 through 7, God's faithfulness to his promises. And we see in verses 1 through 4 God's the promises in Jacob actually going to Egypt. Again, Jacob at the end of chapter 45 says he's going to go and see his son, Joseph, after all these years. Now we see that journey in verse one picking up looking at sacrifices related to going to Egypt. Take a look at verse one. So Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. Now, coming to Beersheba would not have been, I mean, there's significance there. This is not surprising in the grand scope of the life of these patriarchs. It's no accident either. Because Abraham and Abimelech, back in chapter 21, if you remember, made a covenant between the two of them, to a covenant of peace, essentially. Uh this was after Abimelech had taken Sarah into his harem and God uh warned him in a dream that you are a dead man. If you remember. He gave Sarah back and they entered into a covenant of peace between them. Kind of interesting that that covenant of peace foreshadows the covenant of peace between God uh and Christ and the nations, which we are a part of today. Later Isaac and Abimelech also made a covenant in Beersheba as well in Genesis 26. You can go back and listen to that message if you haven't. I my take on that is Abimelech was a royal name that was passed on from father to son, whoever ascended to the throne. And so I think that this was a different Abimelech, but the point is the same. They make a covenant of peace between them. And so you see Jacob returning to Beersheba in the southern part of the land of Canaan. And he offers sacrifices to the same God of his fathers in the same place that his fathers offered sacrifices making those covenants. What's really interesting about this, there's a pattern that's established that gets picked up later in the scriptures. And the pattern is someone whom God is in covenant with. uh is in relationship with God, makes sacrifices, and then God reveals Himself as a result of those sacrifices to that person telling them what he's going to do through them. You have to see that same pattern come up in 1 Kings chapter 3. When Solomon, the son of David, the one who inherits the covenant from his father David, goes to Gibeah and makes sacrifices. uh worshiping the Lord there, and then that night in a dream God reveals himself to Solomon and essentially says, Ask whatever it is you want, and I will give it to you And you remember what Solomon asks for? He says to God in that dream, Lord, you have made me king over all of Israel, and yet I am young and inexperienced. Give me wisdom that I might rule this great people of yours And God gave him wisdom. Well, you see that same pattern here. Jacob offers sacrifice. God reveals himself in a dream, promising what is to come. And so what we see here is the sacrifices lead to that vision. Interesting, this is the third vision. Or encounter that Jacob has with God. The first one was Genesis 28. If you remember, Jacob's fleeing from Esau and he goes to Mesopotamia. God reveals himself in a dream in Bethel. The second time was on his way back from Mesopotamia in chapter 32. Jacob wrestles with the angel of the Lord who changes his name, gives him a new identity. and calls him Israel. Well, this is the third time. And so what does God reveal to him? Well take a look at verses 2 through 4. You see, there's promises in going down to Egypt. Verse 2 begins, in Israel, God spoke to Israel in visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here I am. Notice God uses the personal name Jacob, not Israel, but Moses narrates this saying that God spoke to Israel. That's kind of an interesting interplay with names there. What does he promise to Jacob and why is that important? Well, he begins identifying himself in verse 3, I'm the God of your father. So he's offering sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac, and God responds in kind, I am the God of your father. In other words, I'm answering your sacrifices. Second in verse 3 says, Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for there I will make you into a great nation. Now the question you have to ask yourself if you're a careful reader is why would Jacob be afraid to go down to Egypt? That's a valid question God is saying it for a reason. He knows his heart. Perhaps Jacob remembers what happened to Abraham and Sarah when they went down to Egypt and back in chapter 12, verses 10 through 20. You remember the story. So if the Pharaoh saw how beautiful Sarah was and took her into his harem, God afflicted the Pharaoh's house with plagues, kind of a uh portent of things to come. And he gives Sarah back and then kicks Abraham out. Or perhaps he remembers how back in Genesis 26, 2, maybe he heard the story from his father Isaac that he was going to go down to Egypt during a time of famine, and God said, Don't go down to Egypt. Egypt stay in the land. Maybe he remembers that. Or maybe he's just drawing on his own experience when he had to flee to Mesopotamia And God had to bring him safely back to Canaan and then promise to give him that land. And so maybe Jacob is afraid. Maybe he's thinking to himself, is it really consistent with God's promises that he made to me to give me this land and now I have to leave? That doesn't seem like a response of faith. Oh, so there's a famine in the land. Shouldn't I just man up and tough it out and trust God's promise that He's going to give me this land? Should I really go down to Egypt? You can imagine the fear, the uncertainty, the the wrestling, and some of you know what that's like. You've made had to make big or hard choices in life and Deep down in your heart or your mind, you're you're wrestling back and forth at the the pros and cons of something and what is God really calling me to do? And we see that here. And so the question really is, is going to Egypt acting in consistency with God's promise? And I would submit to you that I think it is consistent with God's promises. Why? Notice what he says there. Don't be afraid to go down to Egypt. Why? For there I will make you into a great nation. That should trigger a memory for us. We should remember Genesis chapter 12, verse 2. When God calls Abraham out of Ur of the Chaldees, which is modern-day southern Iraq, calls him out. Calls him to go to the promised land. And if you remember, one of the things he promised Abraham, I will make you into a great nation. And so what God is saying here is, yes, go leave the promised land. Go down to Egypt. I will still fulfill my promises to you and to your offspring. So it's interesting on the surface God's calling Jacob to do something that doesn't seem to make sense with being consistent with his promises, again on a surface level. But when you look deeper and you look at the larger context of what God has been doing in in Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob's life, you can see that what what God is calling Jacob to do in going to Egypt is entirely consistent. with his promises. Third, what is he promising? Look at verse 4. He says, I myself will go down with you to Egypt and I will also bring you up again. And Joseph's hands will close your eyes. Notice that language of going down and coming up again. In other words, God is promising to be present with Jacob in Egypt, just like he was present with Joseph back in chapters 39 and 40 when Joseph was in prison and in Potiphar's house and and all of that. But the interesting thing when he says Jacob or Joseph will close your eyes What he's alluding to is Jacob's death. I mean, many people know when not always, but sometimes when people die with their eyes open, someone has to come and Close their eyes. And in the ancient Near East, that was a role that was done specifically by either a very close loved one designated to do that or a very close intimate friend. In this case, what Jacob is being told is, Jacob, go down to Egypt, but for you, this is the last leg of your earthly journey. This is the last leg of your pilgrimage. To use a word that came up in Sunday school. Joseph, you will die in Egypt, but your very son Joseph, the one whom you thought lost, will be the one to close your eyes. This is entirely consistent with God's promises, despite, you know, these are not the way the promises Jacob probably didn't think these promises would be fulfilled in this way. But again, if you go back to Genesis 15, verses 12 through 16. When God made the covenant with Abraham, you might remember that it when he shows up in the vision, when Abraham cuts the animals in half He falls asleep. He has this vision of God. God promised that Abraham's descendants or his seed would be strangers and foreigners in a land that is not their own for four hundred years. He also promised that he would judge the nation that Abraham's descendants would serve. Well now we're getting the picture's becoming clearer Now we're seeing that that that nation that God will judge one day is going to be Egypt. But God will be faithful to his promises that despite the affliction that they will experience in Egypt, God will multiply Israel from being a family to a nation. In those 400 years. And not only that, even though Jacob is going to die in Egypt, God will still fulfill his promises by bringing his seed back up out of Egypt. after he dies and bring him to the promised land. He's still promising to bring his descendants out and give them the land So as Jacob leaves the promised land one last time, God still promises he's going to fulfill the promises and the covenant that he made. Just not the way that Jacob thought. And it's interesting, you see in verses four through five through seven, the promises and the focus on the seed. And so that I think that's a good segue. God promised to multiply the nations. I'm not going to read verses five through seven again. Um the point that I want to highlight comes at the end of verses six and seven. Verse 6 ends by saying, Jacob and all his offspring with him, referring to those are the ones that went to Egypt. The end of verse 7 says, All his offspring he brought with him into Egypt. And I just want to highlight for you that word offspring, or you can translate that seed from the original Hebrew. That is a key word. That we have seen over and over and over and over again in the book of Genesis, all the way back to Genesis 3. 15. When the serpent was judged by God in the garden right after the fall, God says he is going to put enmity between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent, and the seed of the woman will bruise or crush the head of the seed of the serpent. Two seeds. that run throughout all scripture, the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. And God is being faithful to Jacob's seed, which comes in the line of the seed of the woman. His faithfulness to the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So as we step back from the The narrative at this point to try to apply this to ourselves, we ask the question, how are the promises made to Jacob relevant to us today? Well, I think the short answer to that is we have to look at the way these promises are being applied in a context. And I want us to see that sometimes God fulfills his promises in ways that do not make sense to us. I think every single one of you in this room, if I were to sit you down and interview you for a half an hour, which forgive me, I don't have time to do all that But if I were to ask you, has God worked, always worked in ways that you would have expected? Has God fulfilled the promises in your life the way that you would expect? You would probably say no. No. This is probably one of the most jarring things that young people can wrestle with. Those of you who are younger, I would say maybe 30 and under. Listen very carefully. God does not always work in your life the way that you intend him to work. That has to do with things like marriage, that has things to do with like career or vocation or where you live There are all kinds of things. We're told from a very young age we can be anything we want to be and we can do anything we want to do. And in our cultural context, there's some truth to that in terms of career and all that. You have the freedom to pursue all kinds of things. But when we're young, if you're like me, when I was young, I thought that my life would unfold and fall into place in a certain order and a certain way. I'm up here to tell you, the first to admit it, it didn't happen the way I thought it would happen. God works in ways that often don't make sense to us. Jacob did not quite understand here They're leaving the promised land for Egypt. He didn't think that that was consistent with God's promises. And sometimes we go through seasons in life ourselves where where things do not seem consistent with the promises of God in our lives. And it is so tempting sometimes when that happens. For whatever reason, again, it could have to do with career, it could have to do with finances, it could have to do with relationships, it could have to do with where you live or your station in life as time goes on. Whatever the case may be, it could be very tempting. To get very jaded and very discouraged Because God did not work the way that you think he's going to work. And by the way, sometimes that jading Can manifest itself in uncertainty, insecurity, and fear. Which is why God has to tell Jacob, don't be afraid. To go down to Egypt. The question you have to ask yourself as you look at your life this morning , with some of the circumstances that you can't control Is one, seek the Lord and ask, Lord, what is it you're doing in this circumstance? And maybe two, taking a step back and asking, what is it the Lord is calling me not to be afraid of? Right now, as I follow him. Because in the midst of fear, in the midst of uncertainty, That comes from God working in ways that we don't expect, which can be quite frightening at times. God promises his presence in the midst of the uncertainty What is the greatest antidote to the fear of uncertainty as God works in your life in ways you would never guess or plan? The perfect antidote is the presence of God. There is a reason why God couples that that statement to Jacob, do not fear to go down to Egypt with, I will be with you. I will be with you. Sometimes the uncertainties that we experience when life happens in ways we don't expect, can leave us feeling alone or isolated and like, am I the only one going through this? And I want you to understand something. God does not always promise to make life easy for you. You probably won't hear a lot of pastors say that, but I I guess I'm not like other pastors. God is not here to make your life easy. But you know what he does promise? He promises his presence that makes those trials worthwhile. And it's in his presence that he begins to open our eyes to see what it is he's doing little by little by little as we are able to bear that. And so we see God's faithfulness there. We see God's faithfulness in the details, which is what we see in verses 8 through 27. Now, there's just a few things I'm going to highlight here. I want to start with the detail of Jacob's family structure. Now, this is the largest section of the chapter, and I'm going to spend the least amount of time in it. Why? Because you heard me painstakingly read through all those names. And I'm not going to do it again But there's a few things we can learn from this as we think about it. Verse 8 summarizes what that section is really all about. It says, Now these are the names of the descendants of Israel who came into Egypt. Jacob and his sons. And so that tells you there's going to be a list of names, right? But I just want to highlight for you one how the names are organized. They all have Jacob as their father. But the mothers who bore them. And so it's not necessarily always chronological. He does start with the ones that were born first, but he organizes them under the mothers. He he speaks first of Leah's children in verses 8 through 15. And I think they come first for a few reasons. One, they were born first. That sense is chronological, but there's six of them. And when Jacob has twelve sons and you do your simple math And six of them come from Leah. The broader part of Israel come from Leah. And so I think she comes first. There's another reason I'll highlight in just a moment. But secondly, you see the children of Leah 's maidservant Zilpah in verses 16-18, they come next. Thirdly, the children from Rachel in verses 19 to 22. And you know what's really fascinating, even though she's mentioned third. Notice what it says, how it describes Rachel. Rachel, Jacob's wife. It doesn't say that about Leah, even though she was his wife as well. It doesn't say that about Zilpah. It won't say that about the other maidservant, Bilhah, who we see her descendants in verses. 23 to 25, though she they come last. But with Rachel, it calls her Jacob's wife. Telling you that there's some prominence to her. But I just want you to see that structure there. These these tribes are organized according to the mothers who bore them. But I want to zero in in verse twelve on the detail of Judah's family drama. You know, verse 12 says, the sons of Judah It gives five of them. Air and Onan, Sheila, Perez, and Zerah. And then it in brackets it says, but Aaron Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamuel. Why do I focus on Judah's line? Well, for a few reasons. One, it comes in the section of the most prominent section , Leah 's descendants, the largest. But I want you to think about this for a moment. We get the backstory of the drama of Judah's family all the way back in chapter 38. And again, if if you missed that sermon, you can go back and listen to it. But the quick summary is, Jacob gives his son, Heir, the oldest one, a wife, whose name was Tamar. Heir was wicked. The Lord puts him to death. And so Onan marries his brother's wife to raise up offspring for his brother, refuses to do it. The Lord puts him to death, and Judah holds back Uh his third son, Shayla, from marrying this woman, thinking she's probably a black widow. Um, you know, every guy that she marries seems to die. And so I don't want to lose Sheila. You see this family drama and he gets caught up in this scandal of he then impregnates Tamar thinking she's a prostitute. I mean, this is like a Jerry Springer episode. It's really ch it's really shameful how it unfolds. We're aware of this family drama Secondly, we've seen that aside from that family drama and Judah's tremendous humbling, we see that Judah, as as his stories unfolded in Genesis Judah has been the one to take the leadership among the brothers in securing Benjamin and interceding with Joseph. And so the prominence of both Judah and Joseph here at the end of Genesis was intentional by Moses and ultimately intentional by the Holy Spirit who inspired him. to write it. And so I want to focus on Judah because his line becomes prominent in the history of Israel going forward. Thirdly, Judah is one of two in the whole list of Jacob's sons where the names of grandchildren are given. Just one of two. In this case, the grandchildren are the sons of Perez, the twin, one of the twin sons that he had with Tamar. And I'm going to tease out the significance of that detail in just a moment. But first, one last observation about the names in Jacob's family. The number, there's a detail in the number of Jacob's descendants that I think is very important. If you look at verses 26 and 27, it summarizes the results of all these names. All the persons belonging to Jacob who came into Egypt, who were his own descendants, not including Jacob's sons' wives, were 66 persons in all. And all of all the sons of Joseph who were born to him in Egypt were two. All the persons of the house of Jacob who came into Egypt were how many? 70. Hmm. That's a fascinating detail. Always kind of wondered, sometimes numbers are significant. You know, sometimes it's true to history, but there's also a significance there. What is the significance? Well John Salhammer, in his commentary on this passage, drew out something really interesting. He said, It's not an accident that seventy persons in Jacob's household go down to Egypt. What's the significance? We'll go back to Genesis chapter 10. The table of nations. The descendants of Noah's three sons amounted to seventy nations that spread over all the earth and populated it. Hmm. Well, because scripture interprets Scripture, we can look at uh Deuteronomy chapter 32 verse 8, which says this. When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, in other words, when they spread out, when he divided mankind, He fixed the borders of the peoples according to the number of the sons of God. But the Lord's portion is his people. Jacob is his allotted heritage. What's the connection, you ask? Well, Sailhammer draws out that connection and says what God is essentially doing In Jacob's family of 70 individuals who will then multiply into an entire nation in Egypt, a nation within the nations. God is in the process of creating a new redeemed humanity. Out of fallen humanity God is in the process of creating a new creation. So again, as we seek to apply this, how do we see God's faithfulness demonstrated in the details? Well, the details of Jacob's family structure and dynamic reveal that God is in the process of creating a new humanity from Jesus Christ. The seed of Jacob through Judah. That's why I highlighted Judah's family. Think about it. God's faithfulness in the coming seed of Judah through Perez. Now I highlighted Perez for a reason. Perez is in the line of Judah that the Lord Jesus Christ comes through. If you read the genealogies in the New Testament of Jesus, Matthew chapter 1, verse 3, Luke chapter 3, verse 33, Jesus is seen to have come from the line of Perez. And then because of that, the line of Judah. And just as Perez inherited the role of firstborn of Judah in terms of his preeminence, which is why his sons are named. So also did Jesus Christ inherit the role of firstborn among all of his brothers. Isn't that interesting? This is why Paul writes in in Romans chapter 8, verse 29, for those whom he foreknew, he also predestined. Why? So that he being Christ. might be the firstborn among many brothers. Jesus is the greater than Judah Jesus is the greater than Perez, through whom we are saved with a greater redemption than Jacob's family is soon to be redeemed here. And in Jesus, we're saved by faith in Christ in a greater redemption than the Exodus and that Jacob's family would experience 400 years after our passage takes place. So notice why I'm highlighting the details of Judah in the broader structure earlier on. Because it's through Judah that the ultimate redemption is going to come. And it is through that ultimate redemption, through Christ, that we can see God's faithfulness in a new humanity. In the case of this passage, the connection between the seventy nations in the table of nations in Genesis ten which make up all the nations of the world. And the seventy people that make up the foundation of what would become the nation of Israel leads us to draw the connection to how this is all fulfilled in Christ. Humanity had fallen into sin, enslaved to sin, subject to death, and the nations that emerged after the flood were no different than humanity before the flood. We've seen that. And yet it was out of those nations that God calls one family to begin constituting a new humanity. And the characteristic of this new humanity is that they would be redeemed by the grace of God in the Exodus. Likewise, brothers and sisters, as Christians who are born again through faith in Jesus Christ, we constitute a new humanity of first fruits of the new creation. Thank you, Amen. This is why Paul says in 2 Corinthians verses 5 Chapter 5, verse 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. What is the significance of that? We've seen over and over and over again how horrible Jacob's family seems to be In different scenarios that they find themselves in. They prove themselves to be sinners. They prove themselves to be scoundrels. They prove themselves to be untrustworthy. And yet God is saving them by grace. He's constituting a new humanity out of them by his grace. Why is it any different with us? Some of you sitting here this morning have done horrible things in your life. Done horrible things. Maybe you've used other people for your own base ends as I've said before. Maybe you're a manipulator. Maybe you've been abusive in your marriage. Maybe you've committed adultery in your life. Maybe you've done drugs. I don't know. The list can go on and on. The point of all this is to say is when you repent of your sins and you confess those and come to faith in Jesus Christ, you become a new creation where all those things that you've done Maybe some of them illegal. No longer characterize who you are. Those things no longer identify you. You are not bound and enslaved to that. You are a new creation set free by the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amen. That leads us to our third point in verses 28 through 34. God's faithfulness and spiritual protection. Notice in verses 28 through 30, the protection of the Son is completed. Now, we saw part of a crescendo last week when Joseph was reunited with his brothers. You see the real crescendo, the true crescendo in verses 20 to 30. The resolution that began from a problem in verse in chapter 37, where Jacob thought Joseph was dead and separated from him, they are now reunited. And again, Judah's leadership comes to the fore as Jacob sends him forward to lead the way to Goshen where Joseph would meet them. Look at verse 29. Oh, I love this. The reunion of the Father and the Son. Verse 20. It is so hard to read this and not be moved. Then Joseph prepared his chariot and went up to meet Israel, his father, and Goshen. Fascinating that he refers to him as Israel, not Judah, or not Jacob. He presented himself to him By the way, that is Joseph presenting himself to his father and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while You would think Jacob would be the one to present himself to Joseph since Joseph's in power. And is the Lord of the Lamb, but it's Joseph. And he responds the same way he did with his brother Benjamin. In Genesis forty-five, he falls on his neck and wept on him a good while. The sense of this passage is that that event was not rushed It was savored. Think about it. Twenty-two years on Joseph's part. Twenty-two years Of emotions of feeling like you've been thrown away by your family. Emotions of being separated and alone. Emotions Of longing for the safety and the familiarity of a father It all comes up right here. Look at verse thirty The response of a father to a son is significant. Now let me die. Since I've seen your face, and I know that you're still alive. There's symmetry there. Takes a careful reader to see it. But if you go back and you look at the very last verse of 45 , The last chapter. Jacob said, it is enough. Joseph, my son, is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. Three clauses. And the way that Jacob words it here in verse 30, he puts those three clauses in reverse. Again, it takes a very careful reader to notice that symmetry, but what's the point? There's a point. It has intellectual and emotional content to it. The point is that the longing that has been felt by father and son for one another here Is resolved. It's complete. And the case is closed. It is accomplished It's beautiful. We have to understand that. Jacob is completed. In this reconciliation, this reunion with his son. He's essentially saying, Now that I know that you're alive , I can die contented now. I can die in peace whenever the Lord calls me home. And you have to remember that when he says, Let me die He's been dying every day emotionally for 22 years thinking his son was dead Now he's alive. Now that he's alive, he can lay his life down whenever the Lord calls him. And you see at the end of this in verses 31 through 34 an interesting dynamic of God's protection in a way you wouldn't expect. God's protection of his people from assimilation. That's interesting. Having reunited with his father and all of his household, Joseph proceeds to instruct his family on what they should do. He essentially says, I'm going to go to Pharaoh and I'm going to tell Pharaoh. As the king of Egypt, my family and my father's household have come. They're shepherds, they've tended livestock. And he says at one point in verse 33, Pharaoh will ask you, what is your occupation? What are you to say? Well, one, they're to tell the truth that they are shepherds and keepers of livestock, that is true, but there's a reason why you tell them that. Look at the reason at the end of verse 34. For every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians. We've already seen this back in chapter 43, verse 32. Remember when Joseph brings his brothers into the house just before he reveals himself, and they're eating a meal and they're sitting sitting separate from the Egyptians. The Egyptians won't eat with the Hebrews because the Hebrews are an abomination to the Egyptians. Now, is that racism? Yeah. Let's just be honest. It's racism in the Bible. Is the Bible condoning racism? No, it's not saying giving people permission to be racist. But there is a redemptive purpose in this detail, and the purpose was to keep Israel separate from Egypt and to prevent them from assimilating within that broader culture. Why is that important? Well, because God had made covenantal promises to Israel that he already told Abraham that he would call Abraham's descendants out of a land that's not their own. 400 years later, and he would do that by judging the land. This separation would preserve God's uh the identity of God's people. As God 's people. It would have kept the seed of the woman distinct from the seed of the serpent. So again, how does this protection look today? I'm going to focus mostly on the protection from assimilation in this application. Protection from assimilation means that the church, as God's covenant people today, his new covenant people, must be holy and separate from the world around us. We talk about protection from spiritual assimilation has to do with spiritual identity. Now, I don't know about you. I was always taught in school growing up, you know, the whole history of America. America as the melting pot. People come here from all over the world. And they the point of being a melting pot is they assimilate. And the way that that worked historically, at least in the mid to late 1800s, it was mostly European and Western and Eastern. European cultures and peoples that were coming to this country and they were starting to blend in, and one of the things that just happened is In most cases, though not all, people would lose their association with the old country to fit in with this new country. They would cease to be, say, Slovenians or Irish, and they would become Americans, right? Today we have a little bit of a different viewpoint where diversity is valued and people come here, they tend to keep their ethnic identities rather than shedding them and however you look at the issue is not the point I'm making. I'm talking about identity and I we talk about it in the society is identity through nations and ethnicity. The passage this morning calls the lens that we use to look at identity into question. It does. This goes well beyond politics. It calls it into question because while the distinction between is Hebrews and Egyptians culturally was mediated through the lens of their ethnic identity. The overall testimony of Scripture teaches that it was not the ethnic consideration that God had most in mind, first and foremost, but spiritual identity. This comes out again 400 years later in Deuteronomy chapter 7. When God commands the Israelites going into Canaan, having come out of Egypt, don't intermarry with the Canaanite nations. Why? Was that racism? No, that wasn't God's primary concern. The primary concern was if you do these mixed marriages with these pagans, it is going to compromise your children and Israel spiritually. And they will lead your pe your sons and daughters away from following me to following other gods. That was the idea. That's what what's in mind here Now, living in a world that is so divided along ethnic lines, which, let's just face it, is often hijacked for political means and purposes today, we have to be reminded, as Christians in America. that our identity is not fundamentally bound up as Americans or as those who immigrated here from somewhere else. Like my family on my mom's side immigrated from Ireland, on my dad's side from Mexico, right? I am not primarily Mexican American. That is incidental. It's true. It's incidental. It's not ultimate. What is my identity? My fundamental identity, and your fundamental identity comes from being in covenant relationship with God through his son Jesus Christ. Think about how that builds on that second application. That in Christ we are a new humanity. We are the first fruits of a new creation. As important as identifying markers are tied to the old creation in the here and now, like ethnicity, as important as those things are for this world, the identifying marker of being in Christ. And clothed with his righteousness is the transcendent identifying marker that belongs to a new creation. Amen Amen. By the way, this is a side note. This is not in my notes, and I'll be very quick about this But in our in our day and age, it's not just ethnicity that people tend to say is their foundational identity marker. In our day and age, it's also sexuality. We have to understand, sexuality is tied to the covenant of marriage between a man and a woman, and that covenant of marriage is tied to this created order. In the new heavens of the new earth, we will not marry or be given in marriage, we will be like the angels in heaven. Right And so sexuality being tied to this created order, the old creation, also cannot be your foundational identity marker. Our foundational identity marker is in Christ. And in that sense, brothers and sisters. In Christ, we are called to be separate from the world while yet in the world. Right? And so we need to think about protection from spiritual assimilation and how that means that we must be separate and holy from the world. So the defining trait of our separation is in the way that we live and carry ourselves in the world as Christians I quote him a lot because he has a lot of good stuff in his commentary, but John Currid, in his commentary on this passage, writes this. Acculturation is as much a problem for the church today as it was for the church in the Old Testament. One can see no difference between the way people behave and think within the church from outside of it. Let me reread that. I read that wrong. Often one can see no difference between the way people behave and think within the church from outside of it. Recent studies, he writes, for example, indicate that sexual promiscuity and adultery occur often um as often among churchgoers as the unchurched Christians, however, are called to be set apart and holy. So the question you must ask yourself this morning. is whether you look more like Jesus Christ today as part of the new creation, or whether you look more like the world around us that is dying and passing away. When we cling to Jesus Christ, we have a living and saving faith. There's going to be inevitable results in our lives. And I want to end by looking at one result that is so important. Protection from spiritual assimilation with the world should foster unity. Among the church or among God's people. This is one area that history, church history has shown us we have a lot of work to do, don't we? As Christians. We have a lot of work to do. Sadly, many local churches of all denominational stripes bear the sad reality and the scars of infighting, which makes them vulnerable to the threat of assimilating to the world. Why do some people deconstruct and walk away from the faith and the Christian life? They look at some of us and they say, you're no different than anyone else out there. I'll take my chances out there. John Calvin writes of the result of Christian unity in his commentary in this passage, he writes this. For they had been For had they been mingled with the Egyptians, he's talking about Israel's family here, they might have been scattered far and wide. But now, seeing that they are the objects of detestation And are thought unworthy to be admitted to common society, they learn, in this state of separation from others, to cherish more fervently the mutual union between themselves And this, the body of the church, which God has set apart from the world, is not dispersed. So the Lord often permits us to be despised or rejected by the world. That being liberated and cleansed from its pollution, we may cultivate holiness. And I'll add to that as an appendage: Christian love and unity. Goes back and builds on the application from last week about reconciliation among brothers. Let's mark well that the results in the pursu of the pursuit of holiness and separation from the values and lifestyles of the world. should drive us to great fellowship and unity with one another as those who truly understand what the others are going through. And this brings us back to the main idea of our passage, doesn't it? God's faithfulness is seen in the fulfillment of his promises by his past faithfulness in our lives and how that's worked out. And by protection from assimilation to the world. Let's pray. Father, we are so thankful For this moving passage and all of the implications that come out of it that point us to Jesus. That call us to live like him in a dying, fallen, and broken world Lord, we pray that you would grant us the power to do this this week in the Holy Spirit and help us to cling to one another so tightly as brothers and sisters of the same family as we live in a world characterized like Egypt We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen