If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to open them to Genesis chapter 31. Genesis chapter 31. And if you are physically able to stand for this long passage , I invite you to do so in honor of the reading of God's Word. Genesis 31, verses 1 to 55. A very intense story. Now Jacob heard that the sons of Laban were saying, Jacob has taken all that was our father's, and from what was our fathers he hath gained all his wealth. And Jacob saw that Laban did not regard him with favor as before. Then the Lord said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your kindred, and I will be with you. So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah into the field where his flock was, and said to them, I see that your father does not regard me with favor as he did before. But the God of my father has been with me. You know that I've served your father with all my strength, yet your father has cheated me and changed my wages ten times. But God did not permit him to harm me. If he said, The spotted shall be your wages, then all the flocks bore spotted. And if he said, The striped shall be your wages, then all the flock bore striped. Thus God has taken away the livestock of your father and given them to me. In the breeding season of the flock I lifted up my eyes and saw in a dream that the goats that mated with the flock were striped, spotted, and mottled. Then the angel of the Lord said to me in the dream, Jacob, and I said, Here I am. And he said, Lift up your eyes and see all the goats that mate with the flocks. But with a flock are striped and spotted and mottled, for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you. I am the God of Bethel Where you anointed a pillar and made a vow to me. Now arise, go out from this land, and return to the land of your kindred Then Rachel Mia answered and said to him, Is there any portion or inheritance left to us in our father's house? Are we not regarded by him as foreigners? For as he has for he has sold us and has indeed devoured our money. All the wealth that God has taken away from our Father belongs to us and to our children. Now then, whatever God has said to you, do So Jacob arose and set his sons and his wives on camels, and he drove away all his livestock, all his property that he had gained, the livestock in his possession that he he had acquired in Padon Aram had to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac. Then Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole her father's household gods. Jacob tricked Laban the Aramean by not telling him that he had intended to flee. He fled with all that he had, and arose and crossed the Euphrates, and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead. But it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled, he took his kinsmen with him and pursued him for seven days and followed close after him into the hill country of Gilead. But God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream by night and said to him, Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, either good or bad. And Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his kinsmen pitched tents in the hill country of Gilead. And Laban said to Jacob, What have you done? That you have tricked me and have driven away my daughters like captives of the sword? Why did you flee secretly and trick me, and did not tell me, so that I might have sent you away with mirth and songs and tambourine and lyre? And why did you permit me to why did you not permit me to kiss my sons and my daughters farewell? Now you have done foolishly. It is in my power to do you harm. But the God of your fathers spoke to me last night saying, Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, either good or bad. And now you've gone away because you've longed greatly for your father's house. But why did you steal my gods? Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid. For I thought that you would take your daughters from from me by force Any one with whom you find your gods shall not live. In the presence of our kinsmen, point out what I have that is yours, and take it. Now Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them. So Laban went into Jacob's tent and into Leah's tent and into the tent of the two female servants, but he did not find them. And he went out of Leah's tent and entered Rachel's. Now Rachel had taken the household gods and put them in the camel's saddle and sat on them. Laban felt about all the tents, but he did not find them. And she said to her father, Let not my lord be angry that I cannot rise before you, for the way of woman is upon me. So he searched, but he did not find the household gods. Then Jacob became angry and berated Laban. Jacob said to Laban, What is my offense? What is my sin that you have hotly pursued me? For you have felt through all of my goods. What have you found of all of your household goods? Set it here before my kinsmen and your kinsmen that they may decide between us two. These twenty years I have been with you Your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried, and I have not eaten the rams of your flock. What was torn by wild beasts I did not bring to you, I bore the loss of it myself. From my hand you required it. Whatever, whether stolen by day or stolen by night. There I was. By day, the heat consumed me, and cold by night. and my sleep fled from my eyes. These twenty years I have been in your house. I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages ten times. If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac had not been on my side, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. God saw my affliction and the labor of my hands and rebuked you last night. Then Laban answered and said to Jacob, The daughters are mine. The children are my children. The flocks are my flocks. All that you see is mine. But what can I do this day for these my daughters, or for their children whom they have borne? Come now, let us make a covenant, you and I, and let it be a witness between you and me. So Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar. And Jacob said to his kinsmen, gather stones. And they took stones and made a a heap, and they ate there by the heap. Laban called it Yagar Sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galid. Laban said, This heap is a witness between you and me today. Therefore he named it Galeed and Mitzpah, for he said, the Lord, watch between you and me. When we are out of one another's sight. If you oppress my daughters, or if you take wives besides my daughters, although no one is with us to see, God is witness between you and me And Laban said to Jacob, See this heap and this pillar which I have set between you and me? This heap is a witness, and the pillar is a witness that I will not pass over this heap to you, and you will not pass over this heap. And this pillar to me to do harm. The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of their fathers, judge between us So Jacob swore by the fear of Isaac his father, and Jacob offered a sacrifice in the hill country, and called his kinsmen to eat bread. They ate bread and spent the night in the hill country. Early in the morning, Laban arose and kissed his grandchildren and his daughters and blessed them. Then Laban departed and returned home. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Father, we pray as we come to this passage, Lord. We ask, oh Lord, that you would help us to see more of your Son Jesus in this. Lord, we pray that you would give us eyes to see and ears to hear. Lord, that we would be discerning, that we would take from your word and that we would treasure it and hide it in our hearts And Lord, we pray by the power of your Holy Spirit that you would transform us individually and corporately as a church today because of the preaching of your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that's a tense passage. Have you ever gone through life, and I'm sure you have, if you're human? Life is full of situations in which in various relationships we find ourselves reaching for the boiling point. It could be a situation at work or a relationship at work. It could be something with your family, within your family It could be relationships in the church. The various things that we had already mentioned in our confession of sin, we have a tendency as human beings Struggling with a sinful nature, and selfish as we all are and self-centered, things can oftentimes reach to a boiling point. And that is exactly what we see in our passage before us. You know, I'm not going to go over every detail, but we have seen this relationship between Jacob and Laban unfold. We've seen Laban deceive Jacob. into marrying um both of his daughters and getting fourteen years out of labor. We've seen Jacob being deceived and almost manipulated and extorted out of his wages For six years as he uh shepherded Laban's flock, and after twenty years of this give and take, this cheating one another, manipulating one another, um Sinning against one another, things finally reached the boiling point in our passage. And yet all of this points to our Main idea this morning, divine protection and peace are the results of God's promises fulfilled in the lives of his people. That is what this all drives at. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning, you can see on page 4 of your bulletin, as we always print out, the sermon idea there for you to follow along. But the idea we're unpacking this morning is divine protection and peace are the results of God's promises fulfilled in the lives of his people. So protection and peace. This is a two-point sermon this morning. And our first point really covers the widest swath of this passage in verses 1 to 42, the promises of God and divine protection. Now, you remember last week I made mention of verses 4 through 16 where Jacob explains to his two wives, Rachel and Leah. about the Lord's involvement in the breeding of the sheep so that Jacob was not harmed by Laban. Because we already went through that, I'm going to skip all of those verses and talking about them this morning because we talked about them last week. I won't say much. I want to jump to verse 17 to 21 here as we see Jacob fleeing from harm. In fact, I know I just said 17 through 21, but actually go back to verses 1 through 3 before that. You see that Jacob both hears what Laban's sons are saying, and he sees with his own eyes that he is no longer in favor of Laban. uh has favor in Laban's eyes. He's not in his good graces anymore. And there's a reason for that, because the Lord had taken all of Laban's wealth and essentially transferred it to Jacob. We saw that again last week. So in verse 3, the Lord commands Jacob to return to the land of Canaan. In fact, if you look at verse 3 again, there's something really interesting about that. It simply says, straightforwardly, the Lord said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your kindred, and I will be with you. I want to highlight that promise that God is making to Jacob there. I will be with you. He's promising his presence, his divine presence with Jacob. As he has been for the last twenty years, so he will be as Jacob returns home. And this is exactly what God said he would do back in Genesis 28. 15. He is fulfilling his promise to Jacob here. But as we've seen as we read through this long passage, there's a problem. Even as Jacob obeys God's word to go back to the land of Canaan to his father, Jacob does so deceitfully. Even though he's technically obeying God's command in verse 3, he's at the same time not completely trusting the Lord. He has to continue to rely on deceit by not telling Laban. What his plans are. He just ups and goes, as we saw in 17 through 21. Now you can imagine, as we look at verses 22 to 24, that there has to be a divine incentive not to harm Jacob. Because in verse 22, it tells us Laban finally hears about this fleeing of Jacob three days after the event. Now I don't really mean to read too much into the details, but if you remember initially, six years before, when uh Jacob took Laban's flock and and they separated things out. Laban separated what he left with Jacob and what he gave to his sons by three days. You can imagine that they probably kept him separate over the long term. And now it's three days later. I mean, Jacob really has six days jump on Laban, most likely, and Laban hearing about this is furious. In fact, when we see in verse 23, if you look there again, it's very interesting how that is worded. Laban took his kinsmen with him and pursued him for seven days and followed close after him into the hill country of Gilead. Now it's hard to see in English the depth of this, but you can really see it in Hebrew, where the verbs illustrate Laban 's anger, the tension within his own heart. It's military language in nature. He's pursuing after Jacob. That's military language And the tension continues to build when it says that he followed closely after him. Because that verb followed closely after him, that's kind of like a I think I call it a translational gloss. And what I mean by that is You could literally translate that. He clung to him. It's believe it or not the same verb in Genesis chapter 2, when God creates the woman and brings her to the man. And it says that a man leaves his father and his mother and clings to his wife. It's the same verb used here. In other words, there's nothing Jacob can do to shake Laban. Laban is on him like stink on a monkey. And so he's following closely after him. Jacob has nowhere to go. And in his anger, you can imagine Laban is out for blood. Jacob's taking his wealth. He's taking his daughters. He's taking his granddaughters. And then he didn't tell them. And so God has to intervene in verse 24. Take a look at that. Look what God does. But God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream by night and said to him, Be careful. Not to say anything to Jacob, either good or bad. Now it's fascinating to me that it doesn't use the name, the divine name, the Lord. the covenant name there as it refers to Laban, because Laban is not in covenant relationship with God. This is the generic term for God in Hebrew Elohim. And what's fascinating to me is, you know, when he says, you shall not say anything either good or bad Again, the literal translation of that in Hebrew is from the good to the bad. In other words, there is a direction here that God is addressing. That reveals where Laban's heart is. Laban's heart started and essentially good in being gracious towards Jacob to some extent, although tainted as we know with sin. But he is moved from having Jacob in his good graces and his favor, as Jacob has already told his daughters, and it's moved in the direction of evil. And God is acknowledging that. He knows what Laban intends for Jacob, and so he warns Laban, providing protection for Jacob And so what we see is we see divine protection from harm in verses 17 to 24, but in verses 25 to 35, we see the divine protection from accusation. So how do we go from harm to accusation? Well, think about it. He intended to kill Jacob and harm him, obviously Well now that he can't do that, what's the next best thing he can do? He can try to accuse him to try to get his daughters and his wealth back from Jacob, and that's exactly what he tries to do. to do. He can't take what take back what he believes is his by force and violence, so he's going to do it through accusation and some form of legal process. And so in verses 25 through 32 You see an unlikely accusation. Take a look at me at verses 26 and 27 again. This is really interesting. What you what have you done that you have tricked me and driven away my daughters like captives of the sword? Let me pause there. Clearly his daughters didn't see it that way earlier when they were talking to Jacob. But he asks again, why did you flee secretly and trick me and did not tell me so that I have might have sent you away with mirth and songs, with tambourine and liar? He uses that word trick several times there, doesn't he? That's the injustice that Laban perceives that has been done to him. He has been tricked. Jump to verse 30 for a moment. Because he asks another question in which he really gets to the heart at what he's really after here. Why did you steal my gods? I'm not going to lie to you. To me, from a Western 21st century Christian perspective, that sounds absolutely pathetic. Your gods got taken away? Like boy, they don't seem that powerful. The word for steal that he used here, uses here, and the word for trick in this passage is actually the same exact word in Hebrew. Giving two striking meanings, showing there's an interplay here between being tricked and being robbed or stolen from. And it's interesting because back in verse 19, Rachel steals the household idols of Laban, and then in verse 20, Jacob tricks him by not saying he's leaving, and it uses the same word. And here's what's really interesting. Hebrew is just such an expressive and um illustrative language. Oftentimes in this passage, when it talks about being tricked, The literal translation is, you stole my heart. That's kind of an interesting way to describe that. It tells you something about Laban. He's not just tricked in having his household gods stolen. There's a sense in which Jacob unknowingly and Rachel knowingly have stolen his And that leads you to ask the question, because this is so foreign to us in 21st century America, what is the connection between Jacob taking his family and his flocks And Rachel stealing the household idols. What is the connection? Because that seems like a mystery and it seems very confusing. Why is that connection important to Laban? Well, I think we need to see the significance of Rachel, Leah, and the children of the flocks. When you skip to verse 43, Laban helps us understand the significance, at least in his mind. He says to Jacob, if you remember, the daughters are my daughters, the children are my children, those flocks are my flocks, all that you see is mine. But what can I do this day for these my daughters and for their children whom they have borne? Don mentioned this in a previous sermon, but in the ancient Near East, when when a man had a servant or a slave, and he gave that servant or his slave uh uh a wife and that wife bore children. When that servant finally went out free, the wife and the children were to stay with the master. They belonged to him. And we and I don't I don't that that doesn't sound fair to us in the twenty first century American context, but even Exodus twenty-one four in the Law of Moses acknowledges that that was the way things were supposed to be even in Israel. Laban, looking at things from that perspective, those your wives, your children, your flocks, they're all mine. If you wanted to go home, you should have just gone home yourself. That's his perspective. That's how he sees this. And so he's he's watching his wealth after watching his wealth diminish for six years. He's seeing everything that Jacob has as his own. And then from his perspective, Laban says, You have stolen from me my very heart. What's his heart? His wealth. His possessions. Because that's all he sees his daughters and his granddaughters as. They're just things to barter with. We've seen that already. And because he sees them as his own, he's trying to manipulate legally a means to get back what he believes is his. And that leads us to looking at the significance of the household gods. And this is this is again, all this is very foreign to us, but it's very interesting. Back in verses 14 through 16, Rachel and Leah agree with Jacob that their father had been unjust in his treatment of them. If you go back and you see that, they acknowledge that there is no longer any inheritance for them in Laban's household. They acknowledge that Laban had devoured their dowry, their wealth, according to verse 15. They acknowledge that God had transferred all that was their father's wealth to Jacob. And so here here's the point. I believe That this sense of being cheated out of their inheritance by their father, I believe that that sense led Rachel to steal the household idols of Laban in verse 19. And you're thinking, well, what does one have to do with the other? Here's what it has to do. One commentator, E. A. Spicer, wrote this. According to the Nuzi documents, Nuzi was just an area around Haran in Mesopotamia, which have been found to reflect the time and again the social customs of Haran. The possession of the household gods could signify legal title to a given estate, particularly in cases out of the ordinary involving daughters, sons-in-law, or adopted sons. He goes on to say the above technical detail would help explain why Laban was more concerned about the disappearance of the images than about anything else, pointing to verse 30. For under Hurrian law, or Haran's law, Jacob's status in Laban's household would normally be tantamount to self-enslavement. That position, however, would be altered if Jacob was recognized as an adopted son who married the master's daughter. Possession of the household gods might well have made the difference in this scenario. So here's what Laban is after, and this is why it is such a legal loophole that he's trying to use to get back and harm Jacob. If he can prove that his household gods were stolen, which would give Jacob the right to the inheritance. It would be tantamount to you have stolen my inheritance, and I have the right to put you through the ringer and take back what is mine. It's one last stab, one last attempt to cheat and manipulate Jacob out of what God has given him. That's really the point. I know that's a lot of detail, but that's really the point and what he's getting here. He can't take it back by force of violence because God warned him, and so he proceeds on legal grounds. And we see in verses 33 through 35, Jacob, there's a narrow escape from this accusation. He allows Laban to go and search for the gods. Now of course we know that through further deception on Rachel's part, he doesn't find the gods. That is a very narrow escape from this, albeit legal technical accusation. And that leads to verses 36 through 42, where we see the divine protection from injustice. It's not just divine protection from harm. It's not just divine protection from legal manipulation. It's divine protection from injustice. Now, once he can't find the gods, Jacob turns around in anger and starts berating Laban. Notice how he does it. In two times, there's two times, one in verse 38, one in verse 41, when Jacob mentions this phrase, these twenty years I have been with you. And in verses 38 through 40, Jacob highlights God's protection of him from Laban's manipulation, talking mostly about the flocks. And then in verse 41, Jacob talks about his protection, God's protection of him from Laban's extortion. You've changed my wages ten times. Really, Laban, you're gonna complain to me? Look what you have done yourself. And yet the Lord continued to prosper Jacob. And really, verse 42 in my opinion is the stinger because Jacob highlights the fact that his protection was from God being on his side. Notice what he says. If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac had not been on my side, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. God saw my affliction and the labor of my hands and rebuked you last night. Boy, that sends a message, doesn't it? It's like, Laban, we've had this problem for 20 years. This has come to a boil at this moment in time, and I'm here to tell you God is on my side, not yours. Haha. What do you do about that? This is essentially what is going on here. You can imagine how that must have hit Laban. Now, this is a very difficult passage to work through because of all these technical details. So as we think about applying this to ourselves today, we need to ask, what does God's protection look like for us today? Because that really is the theme. When God fulfills his promises to his people, there is protection involved. Well, I think the application point is this. The Lord's protection for his people relates to how we live as exiles on our way to the inheritance that God has promised us. Think about that for a moment. I mean, God's we need to have got we need to understand God's perspective or protection here from a certain perspective that this passage lays out. And as we lay out the application of this part of our passage this morning, I think we need to see Jacob's return from exile in Mesopotamia. And it says he's going back to the promised land. That is the paradigm for the Christian life today in this world Anyone who tells you life is easy is flat out lying to you. Anyone who tells you that the Christian life is easy in sunshine and roses all the time is lying to you. We all know that that's not the case. Just as Jacob has experienced in this passage, or prior to this, 20 years of bitter conflict with Laban that was characterized by deceit. by manipulation, by extortion. Brothers and sisters, we experience the same things as Christians living in the world today, particularly from unbelievers. You know, the Apostle Paul highlighted this very clearly in Acts chapter 14, verse 22, when they're on their way back to Antioch from after the first missionary journey. in what is now modern-day Turkey, and they're visiting the churches and they're strengthening them and they're encouraging them before they go home. This is what he said to them. Through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. And again he tells young Timothy in 2 Timothy 3:12: indeed, those who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. That's the big idea there. And yet at the same time, as we take a step back and we look at the challenges we face in this life, we face challenges sometimes of harm. Maybe that's not as overt in our context, but there are Christians around the world who face significant challenges and threats to their lives physically because of standing for the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. What might be more uh accustomed accustomed to us here in the West is being threatened with the challenge of accusations and false accusations and being run through the mill legally for standing for the name of Christ. Some of you may have to make make very hard decisions in jobs that you worked at, and careers that you've given many years of your life to, when you're asked to do something either dishonest or to champion and celebrate something that the Bible calls sin. I know I've said I've shared before and I will so I won't go into the details, but I've I've had friends who, particularly working in the financial industry, have had to make a decision. Are they going to to celebrate things like diversity quotas and championing the LGBTQ plus agenda as part of their job and taking a stand to say no, realizing that it will cost them advancement in their career, things like that. Or who could forget? the baker out in Colorado who is sued because they won't make a wedding cake for a gay couple. And what did that bring? Legal accusation. Right? But here's what we have to understand, and I want to make this very clear, that when we talk about God's protection , That does not always mean a life that is easy. And it may not always mean, brothers and sisters, physical safety. Why do I say that? Because Jacob's life was spared. Why do I say that? Because everything that Jacob deals with in this passage, the Lord Jesus Christ dealt with when he was on this earth Especially for three years. But you look at the Christmas story. You look at Herod trying to send soldiers to Bethlehem to wipe out the Lord Jesus as as all the two-year-old babies in Matthew chapter 2 were killed. uh in the vicinity of Bethlehem trying to stamp out the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ having to flee with his family to Egypt so that he can be safe and actually grow up so that he can fulfill the mission that God had given him. Or who could forget it was Capernaum when he's in the synagogue and he heals the man with the withered hand in Mark chapter 3? Verses 1 through 6. Mark has sixteen chapters to it. And in Mark chapter 3, verse 6, the Pharisees and the Herodians go out and seek how they might destroy Jesus. Right? And then who could forget all the little legal traps that Jesus uh had to to work his way through as he for he's he faced one accusation after another. Why do your disciples not keep the Sabbath? Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders and eat with unwashed hands? All these little legal traps, accusations. to trap him so that they might destroy him. Ultimately leading to the cross, right? False accusations. Brothers and sisters, if Jesus, like Jacob , had to take up his cross Why do you think do you think it's in vain that Jesus says in Mark 8, 34, Anyone who desires to follow me, let him deny himself daily, take up his cross and follow me? And yet at the same time, the divine protection that we are promised is that God will be with us, just as he promised with Jacob. And that leads to our second point this morning in verses 43 through 55, which is admittedly a much more manageable section to work with here. Our second point is the promises of God and the covenant of peace. We see the promises of God and divine protection. Now that divine protection leads to a covenant of peace. Look at verses 43 through 50. You see this establishing of the covenant. Okay, Laban has nowhere else to turn now. He's not going to get back his daughters, his grandchildren, or his wealth, because God had given all those things to Jacob. So what does he finally do? In verses 43 through 44, he requests a covenant with Jacob. Look what he says in verse 44. Come now. Let us make a covenant, you and I. And let it be a witness between you and me. You know, I find it so interesting. We've seen this before. We saw this with Abimelech and Isaac. Back in chapter 26, it was Abimelech, the Gentile king, who requested a covenant with Isaac. We see the same thing here. And what's interesting is that there are two ways to describe making a covenant in the Old Testament. This is literally establishing a covenant, or what is more appropriately translated, cutting a covenant. And cutting a covenant implies the idea of cutting or sacrificing animals and shedding blood to establish a covenant. And so when Laban says, let us make a covenant here, He's using that latter term. Let us cut a covenant with sacrifice some animals. Let's shed some blood Isn't it interesting? He was out for blood, out for Jacob's blood. He's not going to get Jacob's blood, so what's the next best thing? Well, let's make a covenant together that we're not going to hurt each other and let's shed some blood. That's what he's saying here. The idea here, I don't think it's too far of a stretch to say that the cutting and the sacrificing of these animals implies that The violence that previously characterized this relationship now falls on the animals as the substitute, and that that forms the basis of a peace that follows. When you get to verses 45 through 50, they talk about the witnesses of the covenant. This is, again, foreign to us, but fascinating. They would always have covenant witnesses. I guess the most modern example of this is like when you get married, you can't just go to some chapel somewhere in Vegas and or you can do this in Vegas, but they're not going to let you do it without witnesses. There's usually got to be two witnesses to a wedding ceremony, right? Why? Because it's a covenant. So they need witnesses here. And the witnesses in this case happen to be the stones. The stones Now, I I find it really interesting when Laban presents this option, let us make a covenant. Verse 45, so Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar. In verse 46, Jacob said to his kinsmen, gather stones, and they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap. Here's what's really fascinating to me. Aside from all those details, it's interesting that Jacob has been suffering under this man for 20 years. And oh and when Laban wants peace, what does Jacob do? He runs to make peace. He doesn't argue. Okay, let's let's make a covenant. They make a pillar. And notice the names that they give here. Laban's name is in Aramaic. Jacob's in verse 47 also is in Hebrew. It means the same thing, a heap of witness. And those stones become the witnesses of the covenant between Jacob and Laban in verse 48 Now in verse 50, it's not just the stones. The stones represent something. They represent God. Look at what he says in verse 50. God is witness between you and me. Seems that those stones then represent God's very presence, and his very presence is invoked in the covenant. And the significance of those names, if you look at verses 48 and 49 , This is really kind of fascinating. Therefore he named it Mitzpah, for he said, the Lord watch between you and me when we are out of one another's sight. They still don't trust each other. They're making peace, but they still do not trust each other. So they need this witness. And the meaning of the covenant in verses 51 through 53 is very clear. This heap is a witness, and the pillar is a witness. Why? That I will not pass over this heap to you. You will not pass over this heap and this pillar to me to do harm. What do they do? The pillars set up a boundary. The covenant sets up boundaries so that they will not violate the rights of the other, leading to the harm of one or the other. In other words, they both realize that each of them has their own legitimate space. I'm not crossing over to you. You don't cross over to me. We're all happy. It's the same idea that we have in the modern sense of good fences make for good neighbors. You've heard that before. So this is what's going on here. And then in verses 53 to 55, you see the peace of this covenant. The vows that underlie this peace in verse 53, they swear. They make an oath, the God of Abraham and the God of Nahor and the God of their fathers judge between us. Jacob swears by the fear of Isaac. That's just a phrase that means the God of his fathers. The covenant is undergirded by an oath. Verse 54, the sacrifices that make for peace. This is really fascinating again to me. Jacob offers the sacrifice in the hill country. It's important to me that Jacob made the sacrifice, not Laban, and it's not just because Jacob had all the cattle, and Laban didn't, he just had an army. It's because Jacob is the covenant representative in covenant relationship to God. Jacob, as the representative who stands there for God, has to be the one to offer the sacrifice to make for peace with the one he has hostility with. And it leads in verse 55 to a meal that makes for peace. And again, that was a common feature of ancient Near Eastern. Covenants. We saw this in Genesis 26 when Isaac and Abimelech shared a covenant meal after making a covenant with one another. And what's the result of this covenant? Laban goes home in peace Verse 55, whew, take a sigh of relief, that is a huge summary of this passage. So the question we want to ask ourselves by way of application this morning is, what does this covenant of peace have to do with the gospel? And what does it mean for the daily lives of Christians today? Well, I think the covenant of peace between Jacob and Laban here foreshadows the peace that we have with God through Jesus Christ. And this peace that we have with God through Jesus Christ should trickle down through peace between believers. No, I'm not gonna lie. I'll be forthright and honest with you The fact that we this just hit me. The fact that Jared and Kristen lit the coven the candle of peace this morning, that was not planned. That's just peace. Peace. The peace that comes through Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, I want you to see so clearly here. The peace, or the hostility rather, that existed between Laban and Jacob, each one making their various claims and counterclaims with one another, and for twenty long years It's easy to look at them and be like, man, you people are so dysfunctional. And yet at the same time, there was hostility between you and I on the one hand and the Lord on the other hand. There was enity between us and the Lord. And that was one of the greatest problems and the greatest needs that we had to have that resolved because of our sin. So, how does this point to the gospel in the details? I'll give you a few things to notice that we saw in our passage. First, Jesus, the better Jacob, stands as a covenant representative between God and his people. He stands in that position. Why? Because he is of the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And he was born of Israel in the flesh. Secondly, while we can try and justify ourselves in our own eyes, like Laban, like he did before Jacob, and we can try to come up with all these legal justifications for ourselves. Okay, I do this for you, but you Did this. But Lord, I was in this situation. Just like we try to do that, in the end, we find ourselves having fallen short of the glory of God in our sin as violators of God's perfect law. Like Laban, this leaves us all without excuse. This is why the Apostle Paul says in Romans 3. 20, for by the works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes the knowledge of sin, you skip forward just a few verses to 323, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Thirdly, just as Laban and Jacob set up a pillar of stones which represented the presence of the Lord himself as the witness of the covenant. The New Testament consistently refers to Jesus as a rock and a stone upon which our salvation and therefore peace with God is built. Think about it. In Matthew 16, 18, after Peter confesses, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. What does Jesus say to Peter? He says, and I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now again, this came up in Sunday school a few weeks ago. Now again, the rock is not Peter. It is a play on words with Peter's confession of who Jesus is. In other words, the idea that Jesus is the Son of the living God, he is the rock. He's the stone. He's the pillar of witness that stands between us and God. In 1 Peter 2, verse 4, and you is coming to him as a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. Fourthly, just as Jacob is the covenant head and mediator provided for and offered the sacrifices on which the covenant of peace with Laban was built So also did the Lord Jesus Himself, as the new covenant head and the new covenant mediator, provide for and offer himself as the sacrifice upon which the covenant of peace was built. Brothers and sisters, this is not the shedding of animals and blood, the blood of bulls and goats, which cannot cleanse and take away sin. This is the covenant established in the blood of the Son. Who takes away the sins of the world, cleanses the conscience, that we might stand at peace with God this advent. Amen. And what is the result practically when we come to faith in Christ and have peace with God? The peace between believers is the result. The peace between us. If we have peace with God where we previously had enmity and hostility, and now we have peace, then it should go without saying that the application of the gospel this morning for those who are in conflict with one another is that we are called to peace with one another. In my quiet time this morning, in 1 John, I was reminded all over again. How can I paraphrasing John here? How can you say that you love God, whom you cannot see, but you hate your brother, whom you can see? What's John's rhetorical point? One, you can't. Two, it's impossible. Three, so don't do it. Love your brother. The Lord Jesus Christ has already taken the greatest enmity between God and us upon himself. There's nothing, brothers and sisters, that another person can do to you as bad as some of those things are You can't deny people do bad things to each other, but as bad as some of those things are, it does not compare with the weight of your sin against a holy, just, and eternal God. And yet He found a way to bring peace between you and him. Can't you do the same for your brothers and sisters around you This is why 1 Peter 3, verses 9-11 tells us, don't repay evil for evil, or reviling for reviling. But on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life and see good days, Let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. And here it is. Let him seek peace and pursue it. Why can you do that? Because you have peace with God. Go and be at peace with those around you. It brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? Divine protection and peace are the results of God's fulfilling his promises in the lives of his people. This is the Advent season. Let's be characterized as people of peace. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today. That's a hard passage, O Lord, to work through because of all the Weird relational complexities, all the weird historical detail that is just so strange and foreign to us. But at the end of the day, Lord, we see you, Lord Jesus, and we cling to you. Lord, I pray that if there are people here in this sitting here who do not know you, Lord, I pray that they would cling to you, Lord Jesus, that they would trust in the finished work. of your perfect life lived for them, of your death on the cross and your resurrection, that they would trust, Lord, that they have peace with you. Especially if their consciences are gnawing at them. Bring them peace. And Lord help us to be at peace with one another this season. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.