And turn in your Bibles to Genesis 22. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 24 this morning. It's just a whole chapter. Genesis 22. Verses 1 to 24. This begins the reading of God's holy word. After these things, God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham. And he said, here I am. He said, take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love. And go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose, and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac, his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, my father. And he said, Here I am, my son. He said, Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So they went both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand, took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son. from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by its horns And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. as it is to this day, on the mount of which the Lord it shall be on the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord, because you have done this and have not withheld your son. your only son, I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and as the sand that is on the seashore, and your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies. And in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beersheba. And Abraham lived at Beersheba. Now after these things it was told to Abraham, Behold, Milkah also has borne children to your brother Nahor. Uz, his firstborn, Booz, his brother, Camuel, the father of Aram, Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaf, and Bethuel Bethuel fathered Rebecca. These eight Milkah bore to Nahor, Abraham 's brother. Moreover, his concubine, whose name was Reumah, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Ma'akah. This is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father. Many of us in this room come before you with very heavy burdens and weights upon their hearts. We try to check those things at the door, but it oftentimes doesn't work that way. Um we still carry these things. And Lord, as as we look at your word this morning, Lord, we pray that whatever people are going through this this morning. Whatever trials, temptations, whatever burdens they feel, O Lord, that you would take your word, that you would clarify a clear vision of your Son Jesus. and the gospel message to us this morning and how it relates to these burdens, these difficulties, and these tests, Lord, in life We ask that you would take your word and by your Holy Spirit, which only He can do, apply it to our lives by writing your word upon the tablet of our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, life is full of tests of all kinds, isn't it? And this is not the first time in Abraham's life that we have talked about tests. Now some of you in this room are maybe in school or if you're like me, you're beyond your school years. You can remember back to when you were in school where testing was just part and parcel, part of the deal You learn things in class, you've got to study the material, and then, Lord willing, hopefully you can pass the test with flying colors when the teacher gives you the assessment to see did you really learn what you were supposed to learn. I think one of the hardest tests I had to go through, aside from my ordination, was I remember when I worked in bank the banking industry just a few years ago between two calls I had to go through uh a banker certification. And that included a lot of different steps, which part of that was a hundred, you heard that, a little over a hundred. short online classes and each of those classes had a little test at the end which I had to print out a little certificate saying I passed the class. Imagine that. A little over a hundred online classes. That was just the first step. Then came I had to meet with my mentor, which was my branch manager, and I had to go through learning how to have a conversation with someone who came into the bank who wanted to sit down and open accounts And you can't just have a conversation anyway. You want in those situations. There were rules and things I had to learn how to ask and Diagnose what the need was that the person had so that I could make the proper recommendation of all of our products to their specific need. Then I had to go about learning all of the products we offered and all of the little details. And sometimes when the interest rates changed or the fees went up, I had to remember when and how that was assessed. And then you have to go through memorizing all of the little legal minutiae details that the federal and the state governments impose upon banks so that if people have questions, you can explain how things work. Then, when you go through all that, then you've got to go before a board, which was a panel of all these bank executives, and then you had to role play um what this looked like in real time. And I ended up having to do this with the guy who was the top guy in the whole Chicago market. Then once you do that, which takes about 45 minutes, then they tell you, leave the room. We're going to talk about you behind your back, and then we're going to bring you in, and then we're going to tell you all the things you did wrong and all the things you did right. You can imagine for most people that are going through this kind of certification, that was nerve-wracking. Now I'm not normal, so for me it was really fun. But There you go. Tests. It does not matter whether you're in school or in a career. Tests in marriage, test with family, test Tested relationships, life is full of tests of all kinds. And that's what we find in our passage this morning in Genesis chapter 22. We find Abraham going through the tenth You got that right? The tenth test in his life with God. Now this test seems to be the most enduring, the most grueling. the most emotionally involving test that he goes through. But there's something that I want to point out to you, and it's our main point this morning. Now if you're here this morning and you are visiting with us, You can turn the page over to the back part of your liturgy on page 6. You will notice that we print out the sermon idea in the bulletin and then what's called the fallen condition focus. is just a little summary, a blurb of what this is all about. But you'll notice the sermon idea listed there. When God tests our faith, It's designed to highlight his provision and his promises in the gospel. That is the idea that this that comes right out of this story, and we're going to unpack that. this morning. And I want to begin by looking first at the testing of faith that we see that is related to the gospel in verses 1 and 2. Take a look at me again at verses 1 and 2. After these things, God tested Abraham, there's that key word, and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. And he said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will show you. This is interesting. I just mentioned this is Abraham's tenth test. He's had nine before. Some he's failed, and some he's passed the flying colors. We want to know what is he going to do with this test. We see that the test in verse 1 comes from God comes from God. After these things, he just remember last week he just made a covenant treaty with Abimelech, which again highlighted the intricacies of the gospel. There was a violation that had to be atoned for before the covenant could be made with Abimelech. But Abraham institutes this covenant as kind of a First fruits, a down payment, a big picture of what is to come, of Abraham's being a blessing to the Gentiles. After these things, God gives him a test Now I find it interesting here. I don't, it's hard to tell this in English, but I suppose you can find it. It uses the generic term for God. It doesn't say the Lord using the divine name, which if your English Bible translates that properly, it should be Lord in all capital letters. It doesn't say that. It says God. Generic. God, in the generic sense, is testing Abraham. Now perhaps that's meant to communicate to the reader that God is taking a step back for a moment. I mean, when I was a teacher in a Christian high school for five years, every Time I gave a test, what's the point of giving a test? You don't help the student. You don't give the student the answer. You don't hold their hand. You take a step back and you give it to them and you see what they really know or how they do. Maybe it's using that generic name for God rather than the divine name Yahweh, which is the covenant name, to indicate that God is taking a step back from Abraham, and what is he going to do? Now the difficulty of the test is found in verse 2, and many of you who are parents can probably resonate with this very deeply. You probably feel this, maybe a little more than I do. It says, take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering. I'll stop there. Offer him as a burnt offering. Now I can only imagine the heart-wrenching nature of that test. In fact, I would venture to say most of you parents today probably don't even understand the depth of emotional weight and gravitas that Abraham must have felt. And the reason I say that is not that some of you have never lost a child and don't know what that's like. But remember, Abraham is living in a time where child sacrifice, at least culturally and religiously speaking, was part of you know, the religious landscape of the day. It was not unheard of for somebody to have to go and and sacrifice their child. And so for Abraham, he'd probably seen this happen, hoping that he would never have to do it, or never expecting that he would have to do it. And yet this is exactly what God calls him to today. Now notice again, there's some vagueness to this. There is some uncertainty. So the nature of this test, even though God tells them specifically, I want you to offer your child as a burnt offering, which, by the way, if you read Leviticus, you see very clearly a burnt offering implies slitting the throat of the offering. Imagine having to do that to your own child. There's still some uncertainty because he doesn't know where he's going. He's got a general idea. Go to the land of Moriah, but to one of the mountains that I will show you. Future tense. This is a lot like Genesis chapter 12 when he leaves Ur of the Chaldees. Go to a land that I will show you. Does he really know where he's going? No. He's walking by faith and not by sight And he's doing it again here. Go to this land. I'll show you. I'll reveal it when you get there. But go there and offer your son. Now that brings me to looking at kind of the emotional gravitas of this that I really want to unpack with you. It's a detail that may be easy to miss. But notice the three descriptions of what God is calling Abraham to sacrifice. And there are three. In Hebrew, each of these is marked by a little particle that designates, you know, this is the direct object And there's three of them. He says, first, your son. Now it's clear that this is Abraham's son he's talking about. We we know from walking through Genesis all this time that, you know, Abraham had waited at least twenty-five years. for the promise of his son to be fulfilled that God promised to give him all that waiting, all that anticipation, all those building hopes. And finally, in the beginning of chapter 21, he gets that son Sarah gives birth after all those years against all the odds, a hundred years old, and she's ninety. And then prior to that she was barren. Finally, God delivers. Now he's saying, take your son. He's God has finally given what He's promised in the last chapter, and now He's telling Abraham to take that son and offer him as a sacrifice, which obviously implies death. The very blessing that he promised to Abraham, he's now challenging him by saying, take that away. I'm requiring that blessing from you back. You can think, you can almost imagine, that test almost calls into question God's the veracity of God's word. Did God really say what he meant? Did he really mean his promise? If he promised this, gave it, now he's taking it back. It doesn't make any sense. Isn't that interesting? He goes on to describe not just your son, your only son Well that's really interesting because we know that Abraham had others. He had another, at least one of the son, right? Ishmael? Genesis chapter 16. Son of the slave woman, Hagar. We also know that God had Abraham and Sarah send Hagar and Ishmael away in Genesis 21, verses 8 to 20. This is years later. But the idea of being the only son of Abraham his father has to do with the fact that he's Talking about the son of promise. This isn't the natural son, this is the son of promise. He's calling Abraham to give up his only son of promise, that blessing. Again, as I mentioned, taking the blessing away. Third, in case you're still into the dark, you're still in the dark and you're just that thick-headed, he tells you who he is, Isaac. But the way that that's that's all worded, you can only imagine that this was just like one blow after another cascading down on Abraham. And crushing his heart, your son, your only son, Isaac, sacrifice him. Again, think about it, Isaac, your only son whom you love. Hmm Isaac, the one that God had said, through your son Isaac, your descendants will be named. Put him to death. The question that Abraham is confronted with, if you really feel the gravitas of this, Is this really what the test is about? Abraham, do you love your son Isaac, who's my blessing, more than me Do you love my blessings more than me And that leads us to take a step back and ask ourselves, how are tests of faith different from other tests of life? And the point is that the tests of faith always reveal where our hearts are in relation to the Lord our God. That's the difference. Most of our tests in life tend to deal with circumstantial and outward things in life. I gave that that Silly but also difficult example of going through all that testing with banking. But all of that at the end of the day was circumstantial. I mean, at best, it only tested my memory. It didn't test my heart. But this is what we see. The tests from God on our faith always goes straight to the heart. And God will normally test us with respect to what we love and what we value most in our lives. And oftentimes, the things that we value most and the things that we value and love in our lives are the things that God has chosen to bless us with. That's what we see here, and it's true of us. An example of this is in Deuteronomy chapter 8, right before God's people are going into the promised land. At the end of that 40 years of wilderness wandering, Moses is about to die. Joshua is about to take over leadership of the nation and bring them into their promised inheritance, their promised blessing. You go ahead and read Deuteronomy 8 again. God warns his people uh who are about to receive that blessing saying, do not forget the Lord your God who has given you the blessings that you're going to receive in that land. And then he goes and lists what those blessings are. You're going to receive land. You're going to receive cities that you didn't build. Houses that you didn't build You're going to receive vineyards and olive trees that you didn't plant and cultivate, flocks, and you're going to be able to mine wealth and gold and copper and silver out of the hills. Lest you say that my strength has gotten me this wealth and this power, do not forget the Lord your God. Isn't it interesting? We live in a day and age where we have been more blessed, historically speaking, than any other time in history. Right. I I saw this YouTube video recently and this I don't the guy wasn't even a Christian, but he was a historian and he was talking about like look if you have food on your if you have food every day to eat you know, that you didn't work for and have to kill. Um, if you have a roof over your head and you have clothes in your back, you are you are more wealthy than eighty percent of human the human population throughout history. Now, last time I checked, most of us in this room probably don't worry about what we're going to eat every day, right? Or where we're going to lay our head every day And the question we have to ask ourselves this morning in such a climate as that, having received tremendous blessing from the Lord, is whether or not we are willing to sacrifice those things for the sake of following Christ if that is what is required. Now that does not mean that God is going to command you this morning to give up all your blessings. But he's dealing with the disposition of your heart. And sometimes I have found, through personal experience, that sometimes the Lord may bless me in a certain way for a season, only for me to require or require to give for me to give that blessing back to him. I think one of the things that makes these tests of faith so difficult is that, like Abraham, we struggle to make sense out of how God can be glorified. When things don't seem to match what he has promised to us, maybe those blessings are consistent with his word. And yet you go through a difficulty that is very difficult to make sense of. Well, Lord, why would you give me this blessing only to take it back? Now one of the things I I think would help us maybe identify what kind of things can usurp God's place of authority in our affections, in our hearts. is to maybe ask a few questions. What's the first thing you think about when you wake up in the morning? What is the last thing you think about when you put your head on your pillow at night? What are some things that even God's blessings, even though they're God's blessings in your life, you might be in danger of placing over God in your affections? Could be your retirement account. Could be a car, your house. Your wife? Your husband? Your marriage in general? Your children? Maybe it's your reputation? Your career. Your success. What are the things that God has blessed you with that maybe usurping Him? in terms of your affections. Oftentimes those are the ways that we will find ourselves tested. And that leads us to our next point, the provision of the gospel. It's not just the tests that end up pointing us to the need for the gospel. We find, secondly, in verses 3 through 10, the provision of the gospel. And this is a very direct almost prophecy or typology here. Take a look at me at verses three through six again. We won't read everything, but if you scan it, you'll see the provision of the sacrifice and the provision of the place. In verse 3, Abraham gets up, he gets everything ready. Saddles the donkey, cuts the wood, gets the servants, takes the son, and they get going. And between verses three and then verse four, we find in verse four, on the third day, it took three days to get from Beersheba. To where Mount Moriah was at, on day three in verse four, he lifts up his eyes and he sees the place from afar. Verse 5, he tells his young men, stay here, we're gonna go over there, worship, come back. Abraham takes in verse 6 the wood for the burnt offering. He lays it on Isaac, his son, he takes the knife in his hand. the fire, they go together. And they're on their way. There's only two observations that I want to highlight here that And the first is that it took three days to get where they were going. That's interesting. Take note of that. We're going to pick pick up that in observation later. And then secondly Abraham lays the wood on Isaac to carry. Isn't it interesting that Isaac is made to carry the instrument that will soon be the means of Of taking his life for the glory of God. But we don't just see the provision of the sacrifice, Isaac being that sacrifice. We see the provision that comes, that will come from God in verses seven through ten. The drama is really gets really thick here in verses seven through ten, which is on that third day of the journey. You see in verses seven through eight, the question about provision, you've got to imagine the heart-wrenching nature. of this exchange between a father and a son. In verse 7, they're walking, and by the way, aside from this, there's really not any indication that there's any dialogue going on between This father and son, and you can imagine the weight on the heart of this father. And when Isaac asks, Father, behold the fire In the wood. But where is the lamb? For sacrifice. I mean, Isaac wasn't a dummy. He knew what a sacrifice was. He knew that when Abraham said, we're going to go over there and worship to the servants, he knew that there had to be some kind of offering given. What would you have said to him, knowing that God told you to sacrifice him? And the answer is pretty short in verse 8, very succinct. God will provide for himself the lamb for offering. My son. Kinda wonder if he made eye contact with him when he said that. Or if he just looked ahead. while walking. God will provide for Himself the Lamb for offering, my son. That ends the discussion. There's no no more dialogue. Do you see Isaac arguing with his father? No. Do you see him questioning his father? No. You see complete trust in his father, complete surrender to the will of what his father must do. I don't think Isaac has the inkling of an understanding of what is about to happen to him, but he demonstrates simple obedience. In reservation to his father's plan. And then you see in verses 9 through 10, the desperation that requires provision. It's not just a discussion. It's a leads to desperation. The drama ends in this really crescendo in verses 9 through 10, and you find no less than seven verbs that build the tension. Think about that. They come to Mount Moriah. Which, by the way, if you don't know, you get to 2 Chronicles chapter 3, verse 1, you find Mount Moriah is the place where Solomon built the temple. Well, what happened in the temple? Sacrifices. What happened near the temple in the New Testament? That tells you where this is going. But imagine, after a three-day journey. You've got a final ascent up a mountain. Abraham's got time to think. They come to the place. Number one. He builds the altar. That would have been no small task. What were those altars made of? Stone. I'm not talking about just pebbles. I'm talking about like big stones. He builds an altar. And Isaac, again, aside from carrying the wood, likely helped him build the altar. which he's about to experience. Then he had to arrange wood precisely and intentionally so that it would burn the longest. Any of you who have made a fire know you have to arrange the wood just precisely so you get the life of the fire going burning the longest. Then there's the binding of his son. I can't imagine the look on Isaac's face when that was happening. That would have meant binding his hands and his feet. Then he had to place Isaac on the altar. Then he has to stretch out his hand. And you you you can just see that the writer of of Genesis is by by putting all of these verbs one right after another very closely and densely packed in the text I mean, what he's telling you is that this pr this is a process that is being drawn out. Abraham is drawing this out as long as he possibly could to put off for as long as possible having to kill his son. Stretches out his hand, takes the knife. And what's the purpose? The last verb is actually an eighth verb, which is in a different It's an infinitive set tense, meaning his purpose is to slay his son. All of that to build to , I'm about to slice the throat. That's what that verb means. Slitting the throat. And just at the moment of truth, we stop. And this morning we have to ask ourselves, how does God's testing of Abraham's faith require us to look to the cross and the resurrection? I mean that really brings us back to our main idea, doesn't it? You know, the tests highlighting the provision and the promises of the gospel. Well, I want you to think about the cross of Jesus Christ as the paradigm for processing our test in faith. Because the very test of Abraham's faith led to one of the greatest pictures of the cross of Jesus Christ, and that needs to be our focus during times that we go through testing in our lives. When our hearts are sifted, we need to look to the cross. Now let's look closely at this and how the details work out. First, Abraham sacrificing his son Isaac anticipates. What God the Father will one day do in sacrificing his only begotten Son, Jesus, on that cross Remember in verse 2, Isaac was called, your only begotten. Your only son that's only begotten. Jesus is that ultimate son of Abraham. Secondly, God calls Abraham to sacrifice his son on Mount Moriah. That really roughly corresponds to the same geographical spot that the crucifixion happened. In the New Testament, just outside of Jerusalem. Third, verse 4 tells us that Abraham and Isaac arrived within sight of Mount Moriah three days after a three days' journey. I want you to think about how that anticipates the three-year ministry of Jesus on the earth. And you see that very clearly in the synoptic gospels, just like Abraham and and Isaac, takes three days to get from Beersheba in the south, which, by the way, was a Gentile territory. Remember chapter 21, you know, he lived there among the Gentiles in the land of Philistines. He goes from that Gentile territory three days up to Jerusalem. The synoptic gospels make it very clear, Jesus starting in Galilee of the Gentiles, north, not south, three years working his way slowly to Jerusalem to get to the cross. Fourth, Abraham puts the wood on his son and made him carry the wood that would be the implement, an instrument of his destruction in his offering. Think about Jesus on the way to the cross, going to Golgotha. Do you remember what he had to do? He had to bear his own cross. Now again the synoptic gospels kind of paint the picture that Simon of Cyrene certainly helped him and he did. But John, the Gospel writer of John, makes it very clear that he bore his own cross through Jerusalem. To Golgotha. Fifth, we have no record of Isaac protesting. What God had called Abraham to do. He even went willingly as Abraham bound him and put him on the wood. I want you to think about Jesus not protesting the cross, and you can see that in multiple ways. Remember what he said in the Garden of Gethsemane, Father, let this cup pass for me, but not my will, but your will be done? Think about what Isaiah 53, 7 says. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is before its shears is silent. Yet he opened not his mouth. Right. First Peter 2. 23 cites that about Jesus' submission to his father and going to the cross. Sixth, I'm almost done with these lists. Six. Abraham promised Isaac that God would provide for himself the lamb for burnt offering. Notice that language, God will provide for himself. Well Isaac is unaware of Exactly what that's gonna mean. But Abraham is speaking of a provisional substitute, a lamb that would take The place of Isaac? Well, Jesus Christ, John 1. 21, is the Lamb of God. You remember John the Baptist disciples and him standing there, at least two of them, Jesus walks by and he says, Behold, the Lamb of God. who takes away the sins of the world. Jesus is that provision. And seventh, lastly here, Abraham received Isaac back when God spoke to him from heaven, preventing him from actually killing his son, which We'll see in just a moment, but what I read in Hebrews um 11, 17 through 19, makes that very clear. We read that in our New Testament scripture. scripture reading this morning. Figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. There you go. A foreshadowing picture of the death. and the resurrection of Jesus Christ as the centerpiece of the gospel to which we are called to look to when we are going through our trials. Why? Because the cross is where we find the power to follow God in Christ in moments of testing. That is one of the true marks of a disciple. Do you remember what Jesus said in John in Mark chapter 8, verse 34? Ironically, right as he's giving the first prophecy of what's going to happen to him. when they get to Jerusalem of his cross. What does he say? He says, if anyone wishes to be my disciple, he must deny himself daily, pick up his cross, and follow me And this is where the purposes of the gospel and the way of the gospel is at crosshairs with the world around us. Why? Because if the world around us was alive during Abraham's day, you know what they would have told Abraham? Oh, don't listen to that. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Don't don't sacrifice yourself. You follow your heart. You do what you want. That's what the world often tells us. Listen to your heart Be true to your heart. Be true to you. If you do that, you're gonna be brave. You're gonna be heroic. That's the lie that the world tells us. The gospel tells us something different. It actually begins in Jeremiah 17, 9. The heart is deceitfully wicked. And desperately sick, who can trust it? No, if Abraham followed his heart, he would not have obeyed God. And that's often true of us. The beauty of the gospel is that when we lose our lives, we often find them Now for some that does mean literally losing their life in the service of the gospel. We call that martyrdom, but for others like Abraham it can mean losing things in life that we might want to cling to in order to find our lives given to us. Only to find that the opposite happens. By the way, after Jesus makes that statement about bearing the cross in Mark 8. 34, he talks about those who desire to save their lives. In this life will lose it. Those who lose their lives will save them. And that leads us to our final point this morning, which in verses 11 through 24, the promises of the gospel laid out clearly for us. We see the promise of provision realized in verses eleven through fourteen is you know I kind of hinted at it a minute ago you know it God steps in The angel of the Lord in verse 11 calls to him from heaven. By the way, you'll see that twice, verse 11 and 15. The first time he stops him from harming the boy. And notice what he says here, I know that you, for now I know you fear God. You do not withhold your son, your only son, from me. This is probably where Abraham realized, oh, this was all a test. And lo and behold, God gives the ram caught in the thicket behind him, which becomes the substitute for Isaac. So that's the provision is realized, at least immediately. In verses 15 through 19, you see the promise of blessing strengthened. This is where it gets really interesting, I think. And this is the heart of the passage and the heart of the gospel for us. Notice what God does. In verse 16, we find an unbreakable promise. God says, by myself I have sworn. Stop there. By myself I have sworn. This cannot be overstated. Why? Because if if you're really paying attention as a careful reader of the scriptures This should remind you back to Genesis chapter 15 when they made the covenant in the first place and they cut all those animals up Remember that? And they they put the animals on each side and normally, according to custom historically, the two parties would walk hand in hand through the middle of the the aisle of those animal pieces taking the covenant curse upon themselves. And God did it himself, essentially promising, this covenant is on me. I'm taking this on me. I'm swearing by myself. Now he verbally says it. He's doing the same thing, strengthening the promise by himself, by his character, and his faithfulness And what makes this even more powerful is that in the test of Abraham's faith, God called Abraham to give everything of himself in the form of his son. To God. Now God promises to give everything of himself, that he's going to give all of himself to Abraham, ultimately in Christ. And what's the promise of blessing in verses 17 through 18? He makes it very clear. And by the way, the way he words this matches the intensity of the test to begin with. Verse 17, for I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand of the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies, and take this one to the bank, and in your offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Let me just draw out two a few things here for you to take note of. When God says, I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply your offspring He uses a verbal construction in Hebrew that highlights the absolute certainty of the promises that he is making. It is the verbally speaking and grammatically speaking, it is the strongest way God could make his promise absolutely certain to Abraham. On top of the fact that he has just sworn by himself. That's incredible. And the last thing to focus on is that God says all the nations of the earth will be blessed in Abraham's seed. Again, this is the second time he mentioned it. Remember, back in Genesis chapter 12, verse 3. Those who bless you, I will bless. Those who curse you, I will curse. In you, in your seed, in your offspring, all the families of the earth will be blessed. Notice the extensive nature of this promise. All because he obeyed. And you even see you even see in verses 20 through 24 kind of like a a glimpse of this being fulfilled in Abraham's brother having a lot of children, and it highlights Rebecca The son of Bethuel. Why? Because in chapter 24, Rebecca and Isaac are going to get married. And remember, it is in Isaac, the one who just nearly got sacrificed and was received back by his father, picturing the gospel of Jesus, that all the nations of there 's all the promises of God are going to come through that son. So you you gotta mention the wife So the question becomes, how can we be more certain about the promises of God in our own lives as a result of having our faith tested? Brothers and sisters, we can be more certain of God's promises because he has fulfilled them in Jesus Christ already, past tense, and because he has promised on or sworn by himself. So I want you to think about this. There are uncertainties in the face of certain promises. That's what your fears are all about. That's what your anxieties are all about. That is how when you sit back and you wonder how is this test going to play itself out, that's what it's all about. You are uncertain in a context of certain promises. Does that make absolutely no sense? You better believe it makes no sense. That's the irrationality of fear in the face of God's promises Think about it. When most of us, when bad things happen to most of us, when we go through tests or trials or difficulties in life, we tend our natural modus operandi is to question the faithfulness of the promises of God. How is God letting this happen to me? I mean, I've been faithful all these years or months or whatever the case may be. Why is this happening to me? Is he even faithful? Isn't it interesting that this passage challenges our modus operandi by showing us that oftentimes it is in the trials when we look to the gospel it is actually meant to lead to more certain faith in Christ, in God and his faithfulness than the other way around. I mean, first, let me just look at we've already gotten the provision of the Lamb that God provided in the person of Jesus Christ. You know, from our 21st century Christian perspective, we have all the reason to believe that God will remain faithful to us because of his promises. Jesus Christ has already came. He's already died for our sins. He's already rose again from the dead. Everything that Isaac pictured has already happened in its wholeness. God has already given us everything that we truly need. This is why Paul harps on this in Romans 8. 32. He says, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also graciously give us all things? Take this promise of God to the bank, brothers and sisters. You have been given the most precious thing that God could give in Himself in the person of His Son Jesus. He's held nothing back from you It's like what Psalm 84 ends saying. You know, he will withhold no good thing from those who walk uprightly. How do you know that? Because he's already given you the best thing he could give in his son. And this is why the Apostle Paul can say in doxology, in 2 Corinthians 1. 20, for all the promises of God find their yes and their amen in him in Christ. The second thing we need to grasp onto this morning to strengthen our faith in these promises that are fulfilled by Christ is that God has sworn by Himself. Boy, the author of Hebrews makes a big deal about this in Hebrews chapter 6, doesn't he? You know, he says when he when he went to make his promise more sure, I'm paraphrasing this by the way. When he went to make his promise more sure, what did he do? He swore by himself. He gives an example. Look, when we make promises and we make oaths and we swear, we always swear by something higher than ourselves. You always hear people say something like, I swear to God. Why? Because God is higher than us. God cannot swear by anything higher than him because he is the highest. So what did he do? He swore by himself. Remember that. And thirdly, those promises are meant to extend to all of God's people who are the children of Abraham. It's interesting that Galatians chapter 3 verse 16 when it says, in your seed, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Paul interprets that for us very clearly. He doesn't say the plural and the seeds. He says singular to the seed that is Christ. It's in Christ that all the blessings of Abraham are given to us and are received by grace through faith. What test are you going through this morning, brother? Sister, what weighs heavy on your heart? Take the promises of God. God can bring life out of death. That's what happened. And it points us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? When God tests our faith, it is designed to highlight his provision and his promises in the gospel. Gospel. Take heart. He is with you. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we just pray, O Lord, that you never promise, O Lord, to give us an easy life. You never promise to take away all the difficulties, but you promise to make yourself known through those things. And Father, I don't know where every person in this room is in their life, but I do know that you make promises to be with them and to redeem them from those situations in a way that will change them and make them more like Christ and make them love you more through it. Because of your faithfulness. Lord, as we go from here into the trials and the difficulties and the tests of this week, the tests of our faith, we pray, O Lord, that you would refine our hearts. Lord, purify our desires and our affections to center them on you and who you've revealed yourself to be. In Christ, the better Isaac. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen