If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them as we stand together and turn to Genesis chapter 36. We're looking at verses 1 to 43 this morning as I test my prowess of pronunciation with a genealogy of Edomite and Horite names. But this is the word of the Lord, and so pay specific attention this morning. Beginning in verse 1, these are the generations of Esau, that is Edom. Esau took his wives from the Canaanites, Ada, the daughter of Elon the Hittite , Ohalibama, the daughter of Anna, the daughter of Zibion the Hivite And Basmith, Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nabioth. And Ada bore to Esau Eliphaz Basmoth bore Ruel, and Ohalibamah bore Jaush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan. Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, his livestock, and all his beasts, and all his property, that he had acquired in the land of Canaan. He went into a land away from his brother Jacob, for their possessions were too great for them to dwell together. The land of their sojournings could not support them because of their livestock. So Esau settled in the hill country of Seir. Esau is Edom. These are the generations of Esau, the father of the Edomites, in the hill country of Seir. These are their name the names of Esau's sons. Eliphaz, the son of Ada, the wife of Esau, Rahul , The son of Basemath, the wife of Esau, the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kanaz. Timnah was a concubine of Eliphaz, Esau's son. She bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Ada , Esau's wife. These are the sons of Ruel, Nahath, Zerah, Shamah, and Mitzah. These are the sons of Basmith, Esau's wife. These are the sons of Ohibamah, the daughter of Anna, the daughter of Zibbean, Esau's wife. She bore it to Esau, Jaush. Jalam and Korah. These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau, the sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn of Esau. The chiefs Taman, Omar, Zepho, Kanaz, Korah, Ghatam, and Amalek. These are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Ada. These are the sons of Raul, Esau's son, the chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shema, and Mitzah. These are the chiefs of Raul in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Basmuth, Esau's wife. These are the sons of Ohalibamah, Esau's wife, the chiefs Jayush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the chiefs born of Ohalibama, the daughter of Anna, Esau's wife. These are the sons of Esau, that is Edom, and these are their chiefs. These are the sons of Seir, the Horites, the inhabitants of the land. Lotan, Shobal, Zibion, Anna, Dishon, Edzer, and Dishon. These are the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir in the land of Edom. The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hamam, and Lotan's sister was Timnah. These are the sons of Shobal, Alvin , Mahatha , Maha Manahath, Ebal, Shapho, and Onam. These are the sons of Zibbean, Ayah and Anna. He is the Anna who found the hot springs in the wilderness as he pastured the donkeys of Zibion, his father. These are the children of Anna, Dishon and Oholibama, the daughter of Anna. These are the sons of Dishon, Hamdan, Eshban, Ithron, and Sharon. These are the sons of Ezir, Bilhan, Za 'avan. and Akan. These are the sons of Dishon, Uz, and Aran. These are the chiefs of the Horites, the chiefs Lotan. Shobal, Zibion, Anna, Dishon, Ezir, and Dishon. These are the chiefs of the Horites, chief by chief, in the land of Seir These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites. Bala, the son of Baor, reigned in Edom. The name of his city was Dinhaba. Bala died, and Jobab, the son of Zarah of Basrah, reigned in his place. Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temenites reigned in his place. Husham died, and Hadad, the son of Badad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place, the name of his city being Avith Hadad died, and Shamlah of Masrachah reigned in his place. Shamlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the Euphrates reigned in his place. Shaol died and Ben -Han-Baal-Hhanan, the son of Akbar, reigned in his place. Baal-Hanan, the son of Akbar, died, and Hadar reigned in his place. The name of his city being Pa'u. His wife's name was Mehetbel, the daughter of Maitred, daughter of Mezahab. These are the names of the chiefs of Esau according to their clans, their dwelling places, by their names, the chiefs Timnah, Alvah. Jepheth, Oholibama, Ela, Pinon, Kenaz, Taman, Mizbar, Magdil, and Eram. These are the chiefs of Edom. That is Esau. the father of Edom, according to their dwelling places in the land of their possession. Well, this is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, and that is quite a list of names. And you've revealed it, O Lord, for a reason. It may seem redundant, it may seem repetitive, it may seem monotonous to us today. But Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes to see the importance of these names and why it matters and what we can learn from these things as 21st century Christians. We are so dependent upon your Holy Spirit to come now and take this word and apply it, O Lord, to our hearts. So help us, we ask now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, genealogy to you may not be the most interesting thing to read through. In fact, if I were to ask you, how many of you in this room, and don't raise your hands by the way, but how many of you are familiar with your own genealogy and your own family lineage. Now I don't know about you But if I have to really think hard about it, on my mom's side, I can only actually give the names of my gr grandparents up to my great-grandparents. On my mom's side. On my dad's side, I only know the names up to my first grandparents. What is it about names and the passage of time that we forget those names? We forget who these people are and where we've come from It really shouldn't surprise you to give you an example. My father was one of nine siblings, my mother one of six. And on my father's side, all of those siblings had several children of their own. I had a lot of cousins on that side, and on my mom's side, I have a lot of cousins. Now, many of those cousins on each side of those families are both are married and have many children of their own. In fact I'm not going to lie, there are times when I go to certain family gatherings and I see children running around. I have no idea who these children are, who they belong to, or where I fit in the picture half the time. Well, such is the feeling you can get reading a genealogy like that. You wonder, well, what is the point of all of these names? Well the point is with all these names come stories, just like the the people in your own genealogy, if you were to sit down with them, if many of them were still alive, they could tell you stories. about your family and about where you came from and such stories you can learn things from. That's really, I believe, what is going on in this passage and why God has chosen to preserve these names. for the descendants of Jacob, Israel, and now the church. In fact, the main idea of this passage, I believe, is this the descent from spiritual blessing. is a result of separation from the godly and syncretism with the world This genealogy of Esau is really a sad story when you look at the grand scheme and the grand picture of God's dealings with his people in history. We see a spiritual descent going down, departure from blessing on Esau's part and on the part of his descendants So I want to unpack this with you this morning, and you'll be glad to know I'm not even going to try to read all of those names again. But I do want to point out a few things here. that are highlighted in this genealogy and in this list that I think form some lessons and some pictures that we can draw on and apply as Christians today in the 21st century. And our first point in verses 1 through 14 is this, the separation of the ungodly from the godly. Now, you'll notice here in verse 1, and then you'll see it again in verse 9. It begins the same way. These are the generations of Esau. Now that's a phrase that comes up over and over again throughout the book of Genesis, in fact twelve or eleven different times, forming twelve sections in the book. We saw these are the generations of the heavens and the earth. In Genesis chapter 2. We saw these are the generations of Adam, these are the generations of Noah, these are the generations of Terah, and so on and so forth. Well now we get to Esau's generations, and I'm putting these two sections together in verses 1 through 14 because that is the focus here. the generations of Esau. And what we see in verses 1 through 8 is the separation of Esau from Canaan. Now you can see in verses in one, and then I'll point out to verse five as well, you see the birth of a generation in Canaan. In fact, verses one through five give us the names. Of Esau's three wives. We've seen them before. And it gives the names of the immediate sons that they bear. And look at verse 5. It says, These are the sons of Esau who were born to him. in the land of Canaan. I want to highlight that phrase for you, in the land of Canaan. Now that's important. Because who was Esau living with when he was in the land of Canaan? We know he was living with his father Isaac. And then as Jacob returned later on, in a few chapters before this, he was living in close proximity to his brother Jacob, who had returned to his father Isaac as well. And you remember Jacob had received the covenant blessings from God because he stole the blessing from his brother Esau. Uh several chapters back in chapters 27 and then chapter 28 he had to flee. He comes back. But my point is they're living together in the land of Canaan. Why is that important? Well, again, if you go back, you know that uh Abraham had two sons, Ishmael and Isaac. Isaac was the heir of the covenant promises, and God had blessed Isaac tremendously back in chapter 25. when he's living um among the Philistines. God's presence had been with Isaac. Those pr that the presence and those blessings were evident to those living around Isaac and then Jacob. receives the blessing of God as well, and that was material as well as spiritual blessing. Here's the point. The point is that Esau was close to those blessings. both spiritual and material, while he lived near Isaac and Jacob. Now again, looking at the whole history of of this This family, you know, and we've seen before that Esau's character was one that we can describe as he was a man of the flesh. He was a man of the world. He was the kind of guy that you can look at and be like, that's a man's man, that's a leader's leader. He was a man of strength and prowess And yet, despite this character of being a man of the flesh, there was still enough common grace in Esau because of being close to the proximity of Isaac. who was in relationship and fellowship with God, and then Jacob, we know that Esau had some work of common grace in him. and outward covenantal blessings because we see his reconciliation with Jacob back in chapter 32. How many of you saw that coming that didn't know the story beforehand? You probably didn't see that coming. And yet you can still see some work in his life. And I I I'm submitting to you The reason that there was some work of common grace in Esau's life was because he lived in close proximity to those who were in covenant and in relationship with God. They had a residual effect. in Esau's life. But that proximity was not to last. And that's what you see in this genealogy. You see in verse 6. Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household His livestock and all his beasts and all his property that he had acquired in the land of Canaan. What does he do? He went into a land away from his brother Jacob. Now, we've seen this before. The separation must have happened, in my opinion, after Isaac's death. sometime. We don't know how much time had elapsed. The passage doesn't tell us, but verse 7 does give us the reason why this separation, and it was a practical reason, isn't it? Look at verse 7. For the possessions were too great for them to dwell together. The land of their sojournings could not support them because of their livestock. Now, if you're a careful reader of the book of Genesis, you know that we've seen this very thing before. We saw this with Abraham and Lot back in Genesis chapter 13, particularly verses 5 and 6. You remember when Abraham and Lot returned from Egypt, they go back to the promised land after the Pharaoh sends them away? They had a lot of cattle. They had a lot of livestock. And you remember there was a fight between Abraham's herdsman and Lot's herdsman, and Abraham gives them a choice and says, okay. Lot, you take a look at the land. If you go left, I go right. If you go right, I go left. And Lot chose an area near the Dead Sea that was near Sodom and Gomorrah. And the whole point of that was God providentially securing the promised inheritance for Abraham's posterity. Or let me word that a little differently for you. God was working to keep Abraham's seed or his spiritual descendants spiritually pure so that those promises will be uncontested. That is why God providentially removed Lot, who ended up being the father of the Moabites and the Ammonites. So that there would be no contest, no rival claim to the promises that God had given Abraham in the land of Canaan. We could say the same thing here for the departure of Esau. God is once again orchestrating this departure for the purpose of keeping Israel, Jacob's descendants. spiritually pure and separate as a people and a nation. What's the point? The point is for the preservation of God's promises to his people. And the point is ultimately for God's glory. And so what becomes of Esau's descendants? We see in verses 9 through 14, this separation leads them to the country of Seir. We see this summary kind of fleshed out in this passage in verses 9 through 14. Verse 9 gives the generations of Esau in the hill country of Seir. Now this is where Moses identifies Esau as the father of the Edomites, whom the Israelites would have known. Why would that have been important for the Israelites in Moses ' day to know this? Why? I mean, it's so easy to just read over a bunch of names and skip the meaning of why God's revealing this. Well, if you were to turn to Numbers chapter 20, at the end of the 40 years of wilderness wanderings, Israel is on the cusp of entering the land of promise, and they encounter a people group. They encounter their brothers, the Edomites. You might remember the story, Moses sends messengers to the king of Edom. basically asking permission to pass through their land on their way to Canaan. And you might remember the Edomites didn't let them In fact, the king of Edom sent out his whole army to oppose Israel so that they had to go around. They had to go into Moab eventually. But this is where Esau ends up. He ends up in the hill country of Seir, which is located in the southeast part of the Dead Sea. And anyone who's visited that part of the world, uh the Holy Land and its environs, knows that that is an arid land. It's full of craggy hills that make it very difficult to cultivate for crops. It's really interesting to me that it it really fits the description of what Isaac said when he blessed, and I put that in quotes, when he blessed his son Esau, away from the fatness of the earth and away from the dew of heaven will be your habitation. By your sword you will live. It's a hard place to live. And yet In this section, we don't just get the name of his sons, we get the name of his grandsons. And if you count them, there are twelve names in all. Which, in my opinion, and the opinion of many commentators, looks to parallel and correspond the twelve tribes of Israel. But there's a little bit of background here, particularly I'm going to point you to verse 12. There's some background here that gives Some insight into a painful incident that Israel experienced when they came out of Egypt. Again, this is one of the reasons God Reveals this to Israel to give them the background to explain some of their experiences as they come out of the land of Egypt. Look at verse 12 in our genealogy. We're getting these names. Timnah was the concubine of Eliphaz, Esau's son. Notice who she bears or gives birth to. She bore Amalek to Eliphaz. Now again, that may seem like an unimportant detail, but it shapes so much of Israel's history. Throughout the rest of the Old Testament. Let me explain. Very briefly. First you'll notice the mention of Amalek Well, he was the father of the Amalekites, and you're like, well, why is that important? Well, when Israel came out of Egypt in Exodus chapter 17. Verses 8 through 16. You might remember the incident where Moses struck the rock and the water came out. Well immediately after that event Something else happened. The Amalekites attacked the rear guard of Israel in the wilderness as they were going to Mount Sinai. Now imagine what who would be in the rear guard? Who would be moving the slowest? Probably women. and children and elderly people. And you see Amalek, the Amalekites, taking advantage of the weakness and desperation of a certain part of the population attacking them, mowing them down, and killing them as if they were an open war. You remember Joshua had to be sent out? That was the story where Moses had to hold his arms up, and then you can imagine having to hold your arms up for a long period of time. suddenly Aaron and her had to come and hold his arms up and then they got tired so they put rocks under Moses and he sat down and and he's his arms are hold being held up. And as long as Moses 's arms were raised, Israel was victorious over the Amalekites. But here's the point. After that event, God makes an important declaration about Amalek. The Lord Himself declares Perpetual war against the Amalekites for all time until their name is blotted out from under heaven. Boy, that's a place you don't want to be. Under God's judgment, to the point where he's like, my goal is to wipe you out and the memory of you out from under the heavens. That's how serious God took it. And you see that work itself out as hundreds of years went on and Israel settled in the land of Canaan again? And God establishes the kingdom through King Saul. In 1 Samuel 15, God commands Saul through Samuel the prophet, go and wipe out Amalek. As a judgment of mine for what they did to my people when they came out of Egypt. Now, from a 21st century American Western perspective, that sounds really unfair, but you have to just understand that this is the judgment of God on this people group for their hostility. to God's people. And because they're hostile to God's people, they're hostile to God himself. Now what you might remember is, did Saul actually fulfill that commandment? Nod your head like this. No, he did not. If you remember, he was told to wipe out everybody, including all of the animals and the cattle. as essentially an offering up entirely to the Lord for his judgment. Saul did not obey. In fact, not only did he not obey, he spared the king whose name was Agag, and he spared the best of the cattle. Saul failed the Lord. And you know where that came to bite Israel in the rear once again? Again, hundreds of years later. Fast forward to the book of Esther. You remember the story. Remember Haman? He's identified as Haman the Agagite I don't know if you've ever put that together, but Haman was a descendant of King Agag, whom Saul was supposed to kill but didn't, and then Samuel hacked him to pieces. You see this hostility growing and growing and growing, and you remember what Haman tried to do. He tried to wipe out all the Jews in the Persian Empire. Hostility against God 's people. Where does all that hostility come from? It goes right back to verse 12 in our genealogy. Amalek was born of Timnah, the concubine of Eliphaz, the son of Esau. Now that's the first thing, so much for the history lesson. Secondly, notice that Amalek is the son of a concubine. That's a fascinating detail. What that means is that even within Edom, even among the Edomites, Amalek had a second class legal status, which led to his becoming his own separate nation, apart from the Edomites, who themselves were wicked and hostile to Israel throughout their history together. And time does not g permit me this morning to go through all of the hostilities between the Edomites and the Israelites. Those w that I'm just going to tell you that hostility needs to be assumed. You can read the rest of the Old Testament to find that. But when you put all this together, what you can see is that Israel started out benefiting from the covenantal blessing of having fellowship. With Isaac and Jacob by being close to them, but when he separates from them, the net result, as time goes on, was hostility between his descendants And the descendants of Jacob are God's covenant people. That's the pattern I'm trying to get you to see. When he separates, it leads to hostility. And so how does the separation from the ungodly, from God's people, serve to protect God's people? Or asked another way, how does the separation of the ungodly from among the godly as they move away? How does that benefit God's people? Well, I think the application is this. The separation between the ungodly and the godly serves to keep the body of Christ, the covenant people today, spiritually pure for the fulfillment of God's promised blessing in their lives. If there's two words you want to put together for the sake of application this morning, it would be this. Separation and purity. Separation and purity. It was first and foremost for the purity of Jacob's line. And I don't mean like ethnic purity, okay? I I'm really focusing more on spiritual purity in this passage. Now we've already seen this principle before in Genesis 21. Abraham had to send out Ishmael because, to quote Genesis 21, to quote Sarah specifically, the son of the slave woman will not be an heir with Isaac, my son. And God tells Abraham, listen to the voice of your wife and send him out. Now that was in large measure because Ishmael is persecuting Isaac. In as Paul tells us in Galatians 4. But the separation was so that the line of God's people could continue without threat or interruption. And so we see the same thing again. Despite the fact that there had been a temporary reconciliation between Esau and Jacob in their past , Esau has continued to demonstrate hostility to Jacob in a way that will manifest in his descendants. And there's two things I want you to see that apply by way of spiritual purity. The first one is purity from the influence of sin and wickedness. Now, I think this is an application that, in my opinion, is really on the surface. And now, as I read through these commentaries preparing for this, I'm not alone in that opinion. There is an application here of separation of purity from the influence of sin and wickedness. Now I want you to think about that. Separation from sin is the means by which we do battle with the things that are hostile to our own spiritual health. and stability in the Christian life. What does the Apostle Paul say in in Galatians chapter 5, verse 17? For the desires of the flesh Which characterized Esau, right? The desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. These are opposed to one another to keep you from doing the things that you want to do If you are trying to walk with Christ, you will experience some kind of conflict within your own heart, within your own nature. And by the way, that conflict is actually a good thing if you've experienced that. It tells you that the Holy Spirit is working in you. So Paul is saying here. The Apostle Peter, to quote a different apostle in 1 Peter 2, verse 11. Beloved, he says, I urge you as sojourners and exiles. To abstain from the passions of the flesh. Why? Because they wage war against your soul. Now mark this and mark this well. In Jacob and Esau's time , do you think the Edomites really came across as a massive threat to Jacob and his family? Probably not. Especially when they all lived together. Those kids probably played together in the field. Didn't seem like a threat. But you fast forward in time, the threat becomes deadly. What's the point I'm trying to make? When we're called to pursue purity by separating from the things that lead to sin and wickedness, there are things in each and every one of your lives, and there are things in my life that in the moment don't seem like that big of a deal. It seems so small, it doesn't seem like a threat. But as time goes on, as those things remain unchecked in our hearts and our lives. They have the power to snowball into something that could become a major threat to your walk with Christ in your spiritual life. To quote a third apostle, the Apostle James in chapter 1. He talks about when you are tempted, let no one say, I am tempted from God. Why? Each one is tempted when he's carried away and enticed by his own lust. And then he uses the analogy essentially of conceiving and and you know giving birth. Right? When sin is conceived, it gives it brings forth death. And so there's an example of that here, this separation that must happen. There are things that don't look like they pose a threat, but they will grow to Threaten both your life, and dare I say, not just your spiritual life, but if your spiritual life individually, the life of the body of Christ here in as a congregation. And so we need to understand how this works. And one of the things I will say, and this is kind of a, I'll call it like a second-tier application. Doesn't directly come out of our passage, but it is tangentially related. I would also add to that not just purity from the influence of sin and wickedness, but purity in doctrine. Why do I connect doctrine to the way you live? Well, because what does Paul say in 1 Timothy 4. 16? He tells young Timothy, keep a close watch on yourself. There's your conduct, your sin and wickedness. Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching or the doctrine. Persist in this, for by doing this you will save both yourself and your hearers. Mark it well. What you believe about God will affect the way you live. Right? What you believe about God will affect the way you live. That leads us really to our second lesson here in verses 15 to 30. Intermixing with the world. Notice what he says in verses 15 through 19. He talks about this intermixing and how it begins with the chiefs. In Edom. Again, I'm not going to read all those names. You don't need that at this point. We read that from the beginning. But what's the next step? What is the result of separating from God's people? You will ultimately join something else. Nobody exists as an island among themselves. I don't care what Simon and Garfunkel said in that song, I am a rock. I am an island. Nobody is a rock or an island. Everybody is connected somewhere. In Esau's case, he joins with the nations around him. Now, before Moses gives us the details of who Esau joins, Um himself too, or at least for a time, he explains a little bit about the Edomites themselves. And notice in verse 15 he uses the word chiefs. At least I'm looking at the ESV. ESV uses the word chiefs. These are the chiefs of the sons. of Esau. Now, the word chiefs is largely applied here to leaders within Edom. And I want to read The commentary, Matthew Henry, to help us understand the significance of that word. Now he uses an old word, but he says that these sons and grandsons of grandsons of Esau are called, he calls them dukes. Remember he's British. Um called Dukes, verses 15 through 19, probably they were military commanders, dukes or captains. that had soldiers under them. For Esau and his family lived by the sword, referencing Isaac's blessing of him in chapter 2740. Note, titles of honor have been more ancient out of the church, outside of the church, than within it. Esau's sons were dukes, when Jacob's sons were but plain shepherds. That tells us that there was some organization in Edom that happened quickly. It helps us understand that this intermixing that we're going to look at in a second actually started from the top and then influenced its way down. to the common Edomite. But in verses 20 through 30, we see the intermixing with the sons of Seir. Now, once he gives us that rundown, he discusses the people that they eventually connect with, mix with, and then later on will dispossess. Look at verse 20. We see the sons of Seir were the inhabitants of the land. These are the sons of Seir, the Horites. the inhabitants of the land. Notice they're called Horites. You know, other literature in the ancient Near East doesn't call them Horites. They call them Hurrians. It's the same group of people. Here's what's fascinating to me. This is just a little bit of history. Technically they were not Canaanites. The Horites were not Canaanites. They also were not Semites or from Shem. So they weren't from Ham, they weren't from Shem. Their names do appear to be Indo-European, but they Regardless of where they came from originally in the genealogy of Noah's sons, they are the ones who live in the territory of Edom before Esau and his family arrived there. Deuteronomy 2. 22 tells us that the Edomites dispossessed them, but before they dispossessed them in a military sense, there appears to be some intermixing through, you guessed it, intermarriage. Now there's some a few details here that are easy to miss. I want to point two examples of intermarriage. in the details of this that I want us to pay attention to because there's implications for it. The first one we've already seen a little bit of, verse 22, gives us the name of Timnah, the daughter of Seir the Horite. By the way, this is the same Tim now that you saw in verse 12 that I already mentioned was the concubine of Eliphaz, the son of Esau, and the mother of Amalek. And again, it shows us that even among the Edomites, the Horites had a subservient legal status in Edom. Now, political correctness aside, this tells you when Esau's family arrived in Seir, their wealth, their possessions, their power would have been notable to those already living in the land. That would have allowed them to take power relatively quickly. But my point here is that however you look at that, it is Esau's sons that begin to quickly join themselves to the people of the land. And you have to ask yourself, well, where did that come from? Well, it comes from like father, like son. Because when you look at verses 24 and 25, it mentions the name of Ohalibama, the daughter of Anna, the son of Zibion. And again, you go back to verse 2 of this chapter, this is the same woman that Esau himself married. And so it's not just Esau's sons. Esau himself connects himself through intermarriage with the daughters of the land. Now there is a really fascinating Account here. Anna was the father-in-law, was Esau's father-in-law. He's the one in this passage that finds the hot springs. in the wilderness when he pastured the donkeys of Zibeon his father. Now think about it. This is an arid, dry land. Everybody wants water. He who has the water has the power. He who has the power owns the land. He who owns the land has influence among the people. I think the best way to understand this was that Ohilebama, Esau's wife, was the legal heir of her grandfather Zibbean, and therefore she is the one who inherits the springs of water, which then pass on to the Edomites. Now again, the implication of all of this is that the separation from Isaac And Jacob, as God's covenant people in general, led to joining and becoming one of the pagan nations. And as Esau does that, he surrenders and loses his identity of having any spiritual connection or proximity to God's people. And the results are devastating for his descendants as they move away from God's covenant people. As they join themselves to the people of the land, they lose any semblance of identity or connection with God. And so what is the lesson we learn from this part of Esau's genealogy? Well, intermixing with the world through marriages with unbelievers will often lead towards compromise and the loss Of identity as God's people as generations march forward This is not new. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this application. We've already seen this application in Genesis 6, with the godly line of Seth mixing with the ungodly line of Cain, and that leading to judgment and the flood. We saw it when Abraham warned his servant not to take a wife for Isaac from the daughters of the Canaanites back in Genesis 24. We saw it with Esau's Hittite wives back in chapter 26, verses 34 and 35, and then in chapter 27, Rebecca's concern that Jacob not follow the same pattern. as Esau. And now we're seeing it in the aftermath of Esau's line. And the aftermath is that he loses any semblance of covenant identity as he moves further and further and further away from Isaac and Jacob. The same warning is true of Israel As they entered the promised land in Gen in Deuteronomy chapter 7, God warns them, don't intermarry with the nations around you. Why? It has nothing to do with ethnic Purity is everything to do with spiritual purity. Because their daughters will lead your sons away from covenant faithfulness to me That's why. If we're honest, there are many of our families that have felt the sting of this reality. Mine just as well as yours. And it's something we need to really be praying over as we think about the future generation as we raise our children. And the spouses that they choose. Parents, I've said this before. I'll say it again. Are you praying for your children's future spouse? I hope so. That leads us to our final point this morning in verses 31 to 43. The success of the ungodly. Yeah, you heard that right. The success of the ungodly. Look at verses 31. We'll look at 31, 35, and 37. We see the success of Edomite kings. before any Israelite kings hit the scene. That's exactly what he begins that section saying, these are the kings who reigned, I'm looking at verse 31, reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites. Now I want you to think about that. The takeaway from that, the observation is that Edom had established a kingdom and had a royal line long before Israel did. Or to say it another way, when Israel was enslaved and humbled in Egypt, having that horrible status, Edom was already a kingdom and a national power on the world scene. From a worldly perspective, take a step back and just think about that for just a moment. It looks like Edom, who are not God's covenant people, because Israel is, it looks like Edom has the covenant blessing of God. They've got power, they've got wealth, they've got status on the world scene, they've got success. While Israel is a bunch of slaves in a foreign country I mean Moses recounts in Deuteronomy chapter two. He mentions how God gave Mount Seir to Edom and how Edom dispossessed the Horites. The fact that when Moses wanted to go through uh Edom with Israel to get to Canaan in Numbers chapter 20 at the end of the 40 years wilderness wanderings and Edom comes out with a massive army. And deters Israel, tells you that at that point they did have strength. And there's two examples again here of the success of these Edomite kings. Look at verse 35. You meet one king who defeated Midian in the country of Moab. In other words, when you defeat an enemy in the ancient world, you take their land. And when you take their land, you grow in power. And when you grow in power, you grow in influence. That's success. One example, the success of conquest. Verse 37, you see the success of far-reaching influence. You meet another king in verse 37 who reigned seemingly from the Euphrates River. Now anyone who knows their geography knows Edom is not anywhere close to the Euphrates River. Now I don't care how you look at it, I don't care if you explain it like this guy came from the Euphrates River. and came down to Edom and and reigned there, or he went from Edom up to the Euphrates River in some kind of conquest, like the last king in 35. And then you know, exercised influence there, the point is still the same. You have Edom exercising influence and power and strength on the world scene. All that to say, from the world's perspective, the ungodly looked really successful. However, that success is not always what you think it is. There's a fleetingness to this success in verses 32 through 39. And just to be really quick, there are seven kings mentioned, and I just want to highlight two observations about those kings. First, with the names of three kings, Moses gives us their royal cities. For the rest, it just says that they reigned in their place. But here's what that tells you. It tells you, number one. That each of these kings had a different royal city. In other words, when you live in a country where the capital city is changing, With every seeming king, that tells you there's not a lot of political stability there. Yeah, they may look strong on the outside, but underneath it's really fragile. Things aren't what they seem. Secondly, most commentators, and I would agree, have acknowledged that none of their sons seem to reign after them. You look at all the nations of the ancient Near East at that time in history, Egypt, Mesopotamia, uh even these city-state kings, I mean i the the kingdom and the throne passes on to the son, you know, and then to his son and so on and so forth. That's not the case in in Edom. And what that tells you again is that this power is temporary. Again, it leads to a lack of stability. In Edom, a lack of political stability, maybe a lack of economic stability. But all that goes to show that power and success of the ungodly is temporary. And that leads us to ask, by way of application, how do the Edomite kings and their fleeting success point us forward to the hope that we have in Christ? We have to end on Christ, don't we? If we don't, it's all in vain. Well, I think it's this. These things point us to the fact that our hope is not in the trappings of this world But in a kingdom that is yet to be revealed. Again, you've got to put yourself in the the the shoes of the original audience who would have heard this, and that would have been Israel going into the promised land, looking forward to receiving their inheritance. and looking forward to the establishment of a kingdom of their own under a king of their own. That's what they were looking forward to. Matthew Henry writes this as he looks to encapsulate the point that earthly triumph is not everything. He writes this. In external prosperity and honor, the children of the covenant are often cast behind. And those that are out of covenant get the start. In other words, they get ahead. The triumph of the wicked may be quick, but it is short. Soon ripe, and soon rotten But the products of the promise, though they are slow, are sure and lasting. Here's what I want you to grasp today by way of application, and this is kind of an application for the heart as well. The point for us to grasp is that all of our wealth that we accrue in this life throughout our careers and our lives, all of the things that we collect materially, all of the power All of the influence, all of the reputation that we might wield this side of eternity will only serve to do one thing, build our own kingdom. And the question we have to ask ourselves, every one of us in this room, are we building our own kingdom or are we looking to build the kingdom of Christ? Because one kingdom will fade, another will last forever Going back to the beginning of this message when I highlighted genealogy and whether or not any of you know the genealogy and the names of your descendants like the back of your hand, I don't. I want you to think about it for just a moment. Usually within two to three generations after us, our names are often forgotten. We can labor, we can stress, we can deal with anxiety, we can struggle with bitterness as we seek to build our own kingdoms and for what? For something that will just Fly away like the dust in the wind. And that's what happens when we turn away from the Lord, isn't it? We build our own kingdom. But there is one final thing that this passage points us towards, and it is the kingdom of Christ. The fact that Moses could write that Edom had kings before Israel had kings points us back to the promise that God made to Abraham and then reiterated to Jacob that kings would come from them Again, we know anyone who knows their Old Testament knows this eventually, you know, issued forth into David being established as king. By the way, David did conquer Edom and bring him under subjection, but before he did that, one chapter before, to be precise, in 2 Samuel chapter 7, God makes a covenant with David. That he's going to establish his kingdom, that he's going to raise up his son, and that son will sit on the throne of David's kingdom forever. Wow. Not to spoil the end of the story, but we know that that was fulfilled in Christ. Do you remember what he said before he gave the Great Commission? He gives the Great Commission, doesn't he, in Matthew chapter 28, verses 19 and 20. But what does he say in verse 18? All authority and power in heaven and on the earth has been given to me. Just like Israel, brothers and sisters, who received this scriptural passage in Genesis 36 , revealed to them from Moses. Just like them, we have God's word revealed to us in a greater measure as New Testament believers. This is the connection. Just like Israel, who wandered and lived in the wilderness for 40 years, we wander in the wilderness of this life in this world. Which is why Peter in 1 Peter often refers to us as exiles and sojourners. Just like Israel looked forward to receiving their inheritance in Canaan and to see the establishment of the kingdom under the king, we look forward to entering our eternal inheritance the eternal Canaan, and seeing the establishment of the kingdom of Christ, issued forth in the new heavens and the new earth in resurrected glory. And this is so relevant to where we are at today, isn't it? How so? Well, look at the power and the influence of secularism that stands opposed. to the people of God and Christ in whom we believe. Just like the Edomites, who appeared to be powerful, appeared to have influence. stood against Moses and Israel when they wanted to pass through on their way to the promised land in Numbers chapter 20. The encouragement, brothers and sisters, here In Christ is that the power of this world, whether we're talking political, economic, military, so on and so forth, such power is only temporary. It's only temporary. Nations and kingdoms will rise. Nations and kingdoms will fall. But what is this genealogy meant to point us forward to, ending on a list of kings that reign for a time and then are gone, whose names we know nothing about today, aside from the fact that they're in the Bible right there What does all that point to? The fact that Jesus Christ is the only name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved. And that this king has been seated on the throne for over 2,000 years now, and counting until he returns. Please don't miss the fact, brothers and sisters, that if you are in Christ this morning, you are a citizen of an eternal kingdom. And it is a kingdom that will last and will not fade. And it brings us right back, doesn't it, to our main point? The descent or the decline For spiritual blessing comes when we separate from the godly, when we join with the world. And it results in a glory that we might receive now, but fades very quickly. Let's cling to the godly Let's separate from the world and its ideologies. And let's stand fast in the authority of Jesus Christ as our King