If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them as we open to Genesis chapter 39, and let's stand together for the reading. God's holy word. Genesis thirty-nine, verses one to twenty-three Now Joseph had been brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, had bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought him down there. The Lord was with Joseph, and he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his Egyptian master His master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord caused all that he did to succeed in his hands. So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended him And he made him overseer of his house, and put him in charge of all that he had. From the time that he made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house. For Joseph's sake. The blessing of the Lord was on all that he had in house and field. So he left all that he had in Joseph's charge And because of him, he had no concern about anything but the food that he ate. Now, Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. And after a time, his master's wife cast her eyes on Joseph and said, Lie with me. But he refused And said to his master's wife, Behold, because of me my master has no concern about anything in the house, and he has put everything that he has in my charge He is not greater in this house than I am, nor has he kept back anything from me except you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And as she spoke to Joseph day after day, he would not listen to her to lie beside her or to be with her. But one day, when he was in the house, when he went into the house to do his work, And none of the men of the house was there in the house. She caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me But he left his garment in her hand and fled and got out of the house. And as soon as she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled out of the house, She called to the men of her household and said to them, See, he has brought among us a Hebrew to laugh at us. He came into me he came into me to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice. And as soon as he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried out, he left his garment beside me and fled and got out of the house. Then she laid up his garment beside her until his master came home, and she told him the same story, saying, The Hebrew servant, whom you have brought among us, came into me to laugh at me. But as soon as I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his garment beside me and fled out of the house. As soon as his master heard the words that his wife spoke to him, This is the way your servant treated me. His anger was kindled. And Joseph's master took him. And put him into the prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined. And he was there in prison. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him steadfast love and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison put Joseph in charge of all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever was done there, he was the one who did it. The keeper of the prison paid no attention to anything that was in Joseph's charge, because the Lord was with him. And whatever he did, the Lord made it succeed. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we are thankful for your word, which was just read over us and to us, and we pray, O Lord, that you would take it. By the power of the Spirit, you would help us understand and apply it to our hearts. Lord, as the new covenant As you promised in the new covenant, Lord, we pray that you would take your word, that it would be written on our hearts, that we might be transformed, and that we might live it out. consistently this week as we go forth from here. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Wow, what a story. Uh this is the kind of story that uh is the stuff that goes into uh telenovelas and daytime tv soap operas. It's scandalous and for good reason. Now what's interesting about this, if you remember last week, we we saw uh a very different story with uh Judah and Tamar in chapter 38. Uh it's no accident that this Story happens in chapter 39. In fact, the two stories side by side are meant to form a literary contrast. Of how to deal with sexual temptation. Judah, as we saw last week, failed miserably. Joseph, on the other hand, shows how it's done. Now I want to jump right into our story, and the way we'll do this is we'll work through the details and apply them and then get to the big idea. at the end. But jumping right into this story, we see in verses 1 through 3 that God makes Joseph successful in Egypt. We see that very clearly. In fact, when we see in verse 1, it kind of gives us the background here. Now, when Joseph had been brought down to Egypt , And Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, had bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought him down there. Now that goes beyond Chapter 38, all the way back to the end of Chapter 37, if you remember, several weeks ago. Joseph was sold into slavery in Egypt. We see what becomes of him here in verse 1. We see where he ends up He ends up as a household slave, and there's a man who buys him by the name of Potifar, a nice Egyptian name there. And there's three descriptions of him Just so we get an idea of where Joseph ends up. Notice those three descriptions very briefly. One, Potiphar is an officer of Pharaoh. Now, interestingly enough, that word officer in Hebrew, that Hebrew word officer in other places in the Old Testament is translated eunuch. Now we know that Potifar is not exactly a eunuch because he has a wife. He is an official and a high-ranking official. in Pharaoh 's court. That's the idea. Now, we know from history as time went on, uh people like the Persians, for instance would castrate their uh court officials so that they would not be a threat to the king's harem That is not the case here with Potiphar. He was a man intact, so to speak. He was married with a wife, as the story makes very clear. But he is uh uh uh an official in Pharaoh's court. He had that connection. And as an official, his capacity is as the captain of the guard, as we see, as the second descriptor that's given here. He is a a military man, so to speak, with connections to what we would say today is like the police. He's like the chief of police, the captain of the guard. And finally, as if there's any doubt in your mind because of where he's at, we find that he is an Egyptian, a man of Egypt. And this is a man that buys Joseph as a slave and puts him in his household. And what this does is this leaves Joseph, at least on the surface, in dire straits He was free, a child of the covenant, a child of the promise, and now he's been reduced to a common household slave of a man of power in Egypt. But this is not all because we see in verse 2 one of the most important things that we find in this story. We see this in verses 2 and 3. You see it also at the end in verses 21 and 23. The presence of the Lord with Joseph. Don't miss that phrase, because it is so important to this passage. Verse 2, the Lord was with Joseph. Notice verse 3 repeats it and it doesn't just repeat it in the same exact wording, it repeats it with context. Potiphar. Also understands. And believe it or not, as a pagan, that the Lord is with Joseph. He sees it evident in Joseph's character, in his actions. He sees that the Lord is with Joseph. Now, again, if you skip down to verses 21 and 23 at the end of the passage, you see the same thing repeated. when Joseph is thrown into prison, as we just read at the end. It's repeated there twice. Twice in the beginning, twice at the end. What's the point? Well, in telling a good story in in the Old Testament in Hebrew, the way they would often drive a point home is they would say it at the beginning and the end. And it's like a sandwich. You know, the two pieces of bread hold everything in the middle together. And so because that is what the two pieces of bread highlight, that is what really holds together this story. The presence. of God. It's like bookends. Well, what's the first implication of God's presence with Joseph In Potiphar's house. Well again, look at verses two and three. The Lord is the one who prospers Joseph. The way it's worded in verse 2 at the end, and he became, he being Joseph, became a successful man And he was in the house of his Egyptian master. So he is still a man under authority as a servant, yet the Lord is with him. And the Lord makes him prosperous. Verse 3 clarifies that in case you have any doubt. It says his master saw And then you jump down to the next clause, that the Lord had caused all that he, Joseph, did to succeed. Now in both of those cases that when it says he became a successful man and that he all that he did succeeded in his hands are what's called a participle. In other words, this is an ongoing ING word in English. Now it's causative in Hebrew. We don't really have that kind of a tense in English. But Hebrew does. It's causative and it really highlights the fact that this is the Lord's doing. This is not that Joseph was just industrious or a hard worker. I'm sure he was. Because Potiphar clearly saw that. But the highlight and the emphasis or the accent mark is not on Joseph per se. It is on the Lord prospering him, the Lord working through him. That's where the accent mark is on in that section. And we get an idea of what this prospering, what this succeeding of Joseph looked like in verses 4 through 6 God blesses all that he does. Notice in verses 4 and 5, God blesses Joseph through promotion and worldly success. I mean that's pretty clear. Joseph found favor in Potiphar's sight and attended him. By the way, that word attended him is not not the same word that you would normally expect in Hebrew when you would say he served him. It's it's actually got much more of an administrative focus than that. He attended him administratively. He ran the household affairs, which is why the next clause says and he made him overseer. of his house and put him in charge of all that he had. By the way, when it says and put him in charge of all that he had, the Hebrew literally says, he put everything into Joseph's hand. And that is another phrase that is repeated again. We see it in verse 5, from the time that he made him overseer in his house. And over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptians' house. Why? For Joseph's sake. The blessing of the Lord was on all that he had in house and field. Wow, that's pretty successful. He's got grace in his master's eyes, everything is put into his hand, and the Lord blesses the Egyptian's house. You know what's fascinating about that? When you connect that blessing of God on Joseph's work, which the Egyptian master then benefits from, by implication, you're starting to see a little bit of a picture of God's purposes and plans uh when out working themselves out when he Told Abraham back in Genesis chapter 12, through you or through your seed, to use the language in Genesis 22, 18 , All the nations of the earth will be blessed. You're seeing a little microcosmic picture of the covenant blessings coming. through the covenant seed to the nations through Potiphar. A little microcosmic picture of what that looks like. So that's verses 4 and 5, but in verse 6, you see God's blessing of Joseph in his physical attributes. Now, I know a lot of times we talk about God looks at the heart, he doesn't care about the outside, and so on and so forth, but the Bible is very clear here. Sometimes the Bible does describe people's physical appearances, and this is one of them. Another example might be David. Remember, King David was described as ruddy and handsome in appearance. Well, those details are not unimportant. When verse 6 here says now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance, there is a point. And the point of that uh observation, if you want to call it that, is going to drive the next section of this story. But it is important because this is the exact wording that Moses used to describe Joseph's mother, Rachel, back in Genesis 29, 17. You remember when Jacob was attracted to Rachel, his mother? It uses the exact same phrasing, only in the feminine form, in that passage, so it's like mother, like son. He's clearly gotten his good looks from his mother. Now that doesn't mean the joke uh that Jacob was ugly in any way. It's just the Bible never really, aside from saying that he's smooth and hairless, doesn't really describe his physical appearance, but we get he gets his beauty from his mother. Again You can definitely say, I think, with being faithful to the scriptures, that Joseph's physical attributes of being handsome in form and appearance is part of God's covenant blessing on him. However, you know what's really fascinating about the way that this beauty or this attractiveness on Joseph's part factors into the whole story, we see that like most blessings from the Lord, this one blessing of his physical attractiveness will come with a heavy a heavy responsibility for how it will be stewarded Now take a step back in the story and just look at what we've seen so far as we summarize before we jump to our application. Joseph has been, in a sense, humbled by becoming a common household slave. And yet, in this humiliation, if I could call it that, God has chosen to bless him. He is attractive. He is successful. Everything Joseph seems to do seems to prosper in his hands. And by the way, this is not the same thing as like Midas ' touch. You know, everything turns to gold and then that becomes a curse. That's not how this necessarily works. Joseph is the real deal and the whole package in this particular passage. And yet his character, as we will see, will mirror the exact opposite of the failings that we saw last week of Judah in chapter 38. So the question we ask ourselves is how should God's presence in this case with Joseph, affect the way that we understand our own success in the world today. Let's face it, Joseph was successful. What do we do with that? Well, success always comes from the Lord, and it may even be an occasion that leads to further spiritual testing. I want you to think about that for a moment. All success, and by the way, I'm I'm kind of thinking mostly here in terms of worldly success. All success is the work and the gift of the Lord in our lives You see, one of the things that the Protestant Reformation did back in the 16th century is it it kind of brought back this concept that work is honorable. Because prior to the Protestant Reformation, when the Roman Catholic Church permeated much of society and much of culture in Europe , There was a sharp divide between the sacred and the secular. In other words, things that were considered sacred, like going into the priesthood or Going into the monastery, which could be for men and women, was seen as a higher calling, a holier than thou state of life than just simply being a farmer Or working with animals or doing what or some working in the trades. In other words, if you worked out in the world, you were kind of looked down upon by the powers that be in society and and they were meant to feel like they were less. The Protestant Reformation kind of came in and looked at scripture as a whole and said, No God gives different callings to different kinds of people and all work is honorable. And so that should encourage us this morning. Some of you here this morning work for government agencies. Some work in finance and business. Some of you are in the arts, some of you are in education, some of you are homemakers. What's the point? The point is that wherever God has called you to be, however low that may appear, In society, when we you know look at society's values, however low that may be, God can be with you. When you are God's, when you are you are his through faith in Jesus Christ, God promises that he puts his spirit within you and that his presence is with you where he has called you to be. Now don't get me wrong, the body of Christ does need the members to help out and carry on the work of the ministry. But I want to make something very clear. You do not have to have a quote-unquote church position or church office in any way. for your work, your livelihood, your calling, your career, or your vocation to have meaning in God's sight. In fact, I would argue that many of you who work outside of a ministry kind of setting are the backbone, the bread and butter of how God uses means to spread his kingdom through this world. When you are working in your job, you are bringing the kingdom to that sphere of this world. Why? Because God is with you. And there are some of you in this city, in this congregation, who have been very successful in what God has called you to do. Mind you, success is not a bad thing. It actually is an indicator of God's blessing in your life. It's not something to be looked down on. And the point of application here is to see that the Lord has placed you where he has you in your worldly or family employment for the furtherance of his kingdom and his promises and mediating his blessing. to the world. That's what we see with Joseph. That's what God calls of you And this passage points out that the presence of the Lord in your life should impact the way that you carry out and steward the blessings and the successes that God has given you to enjoy. Now, the second part of this application of this first point is actually meant to be abridged to the following section in the story, in the narrative. But The Bible also speaks about success and blessing in another aspect, and it's this. Success can also be the Lord's testing the heart of his people. Don't miss that. While we are called to praise the Lord for the success he gives us in our worldly employment and the various things that God has called us to do. in the world for his glory and his kingdom, that success also has the same propensity to be the very context, the very soil of testing of your heart. What do I mean? Well, think about it. While many of us certainly have dreams and hopes that we shoot for with our families and our vocations and our careers. We don't oftentimes think of the pitfalls that could potentially happen. The first is that the Lord will often use success as the context in which our faith is tested. Now there's a myriad of examples that I could give, but I want you to think about it. Joseph is truly successful in this passage. But his success then turns around as the story goes on and becomes the context in which he experiences the greatest trial of his life. And the way he mediates that trial will be in the presence of God, who makes himself known to us in deeper ways in those trials. Some of us look at things we go through in life and we wonder, how in the world could God allow this to happen to me? Or why in the world would God call me to go through this? I'll tell you how or why. One, to reveal his own glory, and two, to reveal himself to you in ways that you never would have known him if you did not go through that trial. But it always comes out of the success that we experience. Think about Deuteronomy chapter 8, verses 11 through 20. Israel has gone through the trial of the wilderness. For forty years. Moses in that whole book of Deuteronomy is now kind of giving them the covenant constitution of this is what life needs to look like when you go into the land and experience my blessing. And and Moses warns In that passage in Deuteronomy 8. There's going to come a time when you go in there and you take land that God is giving to you. You didn't earn it. You didn't deserve it. God's giving it to you. You're gonna inhabit cities you didn't build, houses you didn't build. You're going to enjoy vineyards and fields that you did not plant And you're going to get wealth out of the skill that God has given you. But don't forget the Lord your God. Who has given you these things? What's the point? The point is the worldly success and blessing they were about to get Becomes the testing ground for are you going to forget the God who provided it? Because it's so easy, isn't it, to forget the Lord when life is easy. It's a whole lot easier to cry out to Him when life gets hard. And so we need to think about how God's presence affects our success. or relates to our success, and that really is the whole first point of verses 1 through 6, God's presence and success. We see it in Joseph. We see it in our own lives. But the story doesn't end on that high note of success. It kind of really goes downhill from there, doesn't it? Look at verses 7 through 10. We see the pattern of Joseph's temptation laid out for us in verses 7 through 10. It kind of gives us the summary of what this looks like before it gets very specific. Verse 7 lays out the problem that really flows out of Joseph being physically attractive. By the way, let me just say as a side Side note. You know, you hear people sometimes complain about how they're not as attractive as they would like to be. I mean the whole fashion industry is built on that insecurity. But then you talk to people who really are really, really, really attractive, and sometimes, if they're honest with you, they'll tell you that there are times when their attractiveness may feel like a curse. That's what we see here. After a time, verse seven, his master's wife cast her eyes on Joseph. By the way, the literal wording there is she lifted up her eyes on Joseph and she said, Lie with me. Boy, there's no mincing of words with this woman. This seduction is just so direct. Lie with me. It's two words in Hebrew, three in English, but it is to the point. Now, before I draw out Joseph's response here, as we'll see it, I want to draw your attention first to verse ten. We see You see it in verse 7, the proposition, verse 10, as she spoke to Joseph day by day, he would not listen to her to lie beside her or to be with her. In other words, this went on continually, day after day after day after day. My goodness, can you imagine what it's like to be in Joseph's shoes being this young, successful, attractive man who's had everything put in his hands in his twenties? He's gotten very successful, very young. And because he's in his twenties, he must have dealt with high-level drives As a young man, just thinking biologically and chemically, what happens in a young man's body. And yet he is resisting temptation. Man, this onslaught day after day after day of this no nonsense to the point direct seduction Let's look at more in detail in verses 8 and 9 how he handles it. We see the response of Joseph, but we also see his motives. Why does he respond the way he responds? We see that in verses 8 and 9. Verse 8, very clear, it's very plain and to the point as well. Joseph refused. He denied her request. He gives three basic reasons to her for not succumbing to this temptation and sleeping with her. First, he mentions his position in the house. Take a look at verse 8. Just starting with the dialogue there. Behold! Because of me, my master has no concern about anything in the house, and he's put everything that he has in my charge. In other words, in my hand. Don't miss that phrase. I'm highlighting that for a reason. In my hand. So, and it's interesting he goes on to say that he is not greater than I am in this house. By the way, to me, I I didn't really, you know, I've read this a million times. That little detail has always escaped me until this week when I was preparing this. He says that even He, in other words, his master is not higher than me in the house because of the authority that he's given me. In other words, I've got the status here. You think you're the one in control. You're not. I am. Why? Because my master has given me that status. That's the position in the house. I'm in charge, not you. Secondly, he appeals to the fact that she is, in fact, the master's wife. Notice what he says in verse 9. He is nor is he held back or kept anything from me except you. Why? Well, very simply, you are his wife. That should seem pretty self-explanatory, but I'm going to go ahead and delaver the point just to be clear. What's the point? Well, because she's his wife, she's one flesh with him. And I'm thinking through thinking through this biblically with you. Going back to Genesis 2, she's one flesh with him. And so this man, his master, does not share his flesh with anyone else without violation to him. If he does, it violates him, his integrity, his dignity, his authority. And so her suggestion of adultery is a blatant violation of her own husband. In fact, it really shows you what she really thinks of her husband. It shows that she despises him, his authority, and who she is in relation to him. Thirdly , Verse 9 ends with a question, which is really not a question. It's a rhetorical question for us making a statement. Sometimes people do that, don't they? They make a statement by asking a question. That's what he does here How can I then do this great wickedness and sin against God? By the way, that is the nail on the head and reveals That adultery is not ultimately an affront to his master, although it is, but not ultimately, it is ultimately a sin against God Think about that. Again, think about the logic of that from a biblical point of view. We are Christians. We reason biblically Genesis chapter 2, verses 24 and 25. Therefore a man will leave his father and mother and will cling to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. Verse 25. The man and his wife were naked, and they felt no shame. They're in a covenant relationship. And because the man and his wife were made in the image of God, each of them, male and female, he created them. That marriage is meant to be a picture of the glory and the magnificence of God's image in the man and the wife in covenant relationship together. Why is adultery, why would this adultery, if Joseph were to succumb, why would that be a sin and an affront ultimately to God? Because it would undermine a relationship, a one-flesh reality that is meant to put the glory of God on display, even in pagans, and Joseph knows that. How can I do this? And sin against God. By the way, it's a rhetorical question because there's no answer. There's no legitimate answer to that. And as we saw when we looked at verse 10. Reason really does not suffice in the eyes of one who is overcome with lust, is it? Reason is uh reason, you can't really reason with lust And so her advances continue daily, and perhaps she thought that maybe if I just you know prod him enough every day I can just wear down his resistance. until finally he will just cave in and give me what I want. That's how lust works. But look at verses 11 through 18. You see what I'm calling the final temptation of Joseph. You see the temptation through isolation in verses 11 through 12, and by the way, this is what lust does, doesn't it? Look at verse 11. Begins with the phrase, but one day. The Hebrew actually says, and it happened on this day. This day being the day that we're going to focus on. All of this comes down to this day. What does it say? She gets Joseph alone in the house. He goes in to do his work, like you normally would, I assume, but nobody's there. She caught him alone. He's isolated. Verse 12, she caught him by his garment. Again, saying, Fly with me. But he left his garment in her hand. How about that play on theme or word, right? Everything was once in his hand. Now this is in her hand. He fled and got out of the house. By the way, the word Moses uses there for she caught him by the garment is the same word used in Deuteronomy 22, verse 28, when describing a case law about rape. If a young man seizes or grabs a woman and lies with her. It describes the penalty then that this young man will experience. She's tired of the subtle games of temptation. And seeking, and here she seeks to force the issue with Joseph. She just grabs onto him. Now his response to fleeing away is important because of the result that it produces. Once again, by the way, this there's just so much irony to Joseph's life up to this point, and it's really sad irony. But you you remember when his brothers caught him and stripped him of his garment of many colors that his father had given him that was a picture of a royal robe and The robe of prominence. They stripped him of it. And by the way, that word stripping in Hebrew that's used in that other chapter is very similar in the consonants of the word here for caught and seized. And what do they do? They take his garment away. What happens here? His garment is taken away. Again, you know something really bad is going to happen. He lost his garment. But again, don't miss the irony of the fact that his master put everything in the house in his hand except for her. And now he finds himself situationally in her hand through the possession, through her possession of his garment. But it doesn't just end there. The tension continues to boil over. She has been scorned. What is she going to do? Well, she does what you would probably think she would do in verses thirteen through eighteen. This temptation leads to false testimony on her part The short answer to that question of how she responds, she responds vindictively. And notice she takes absolutely no responsibility for what just happened. Look at verse 14. First she says, when she calls all the men in of the household, see, he has brought among us a Hebrew to laugh at us. Who's he? The husband. Notice what she does. She blames her husband as being responsible for the whole incident in order to cover herself. So not only was she dishonoring him by tempting Joseph in the first place, but now all of this is his fault. And while the ESV is a wonderful translation of the verb for he has brought Uh the Hebrew is actually causative, again highlighting her husband's responsibility entirely The subtlety of nuance here highlights the depths of her depravity in spinning a web of lies to justify herself and cover her own guilt. But it gets worse Because the verb that's translated here to laugh at us, and that's exactly what she says, he brought uh Hebrew in among us, what? To laugh at us. There's a double entendre here, which means that there's a double accusation. The subtlety is rich. What do I mean by the double entendre? Well, one nuance of that verb, a laughing, uh to laugh at us here. would be to mock or to make sport of them while they are vulnerable. I mean that that seems kind of obvious. It's it's kind of the same idea, it's the same verb and it's the same nuance that you remember when Samson Got his hair cut and then they dragged him to Gaza and put him in the mill and then they were worshiping in the house of Dagon their God and then they brought him out to do what? To make sport of him. To mock him. It's the same word. In his weakness and vulnerability. The other nuance here, that verb, is that laughing has to do with the laughter associated with sexual activity. Between a man and a woman. And I'm not going to get into details there, but I will illustrate it by saying, you remember when Abimelech, the king of Gerar, saw Isaac? sporting or laughing with Rebecca, his wife, and therefore because of that he knew that Rebecca was Isaac's wife and not his sister. That's the double on Tandra that's used there. He's brought a Hebrew in to do all these things. Secondly, she says, He came in to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice. But you know what's really fascinating? The fact that in verse 14 she had to call the men of the house into the house. To tell them what happened implies that they didn't hear anyone screaming. She's the one who had to call them in. Now, that should have led them to question her narrative. It did not. But the detail is more important than you realize because in Deuteronomy 22, verses 23 through 24, it gives this case law scenario that if a man seizes a woman in the city to lie with her, to rape her, and she cries out for help. Then she's innocent. Even if she is raped, she's not guilty. She's not going to be punished because she cried out. But no one heard her here because she didn't cry out. The third thing is her brazenness in this lie escalates how she even blames her husband to his face when he comes home Because she just repeats the whole thing to him. The Hebrew servant whom you have brought among in among us has can has come in to laugh at me. Think about the social dynamic and manipulation going on there. She puts the husband now. On the defensive. Now he comes in and hears this and he's thinking, oh my gosh, I've got a safe face. I've got to respond or do something. Otherwise, if I don't, it's an implicit Admission that this is my fault. This is incredibly manipulative. By the way, the last thing I'll say about all of this is that this is completely contrary to the story with Judah in 38. Again, Judah was guilty, Joseph's innocent. In both cases, what is fascinating to me is the women in both stories retain the evidence in their hand that identifies each of the brothers. Isn't that interesting? She gets the cord, the signet ring, and the staff of Judah in the last chapter, but he was guilty. This lady gets the garment of Joseph in her hand, and yet he's innocent. But in both cases the brothers are found or presumed, in Joseph's case here, guilty. So the question is, how should God's presence affect the way that we handle temptation? What do we pull away from this by way of application? This reveals that we must ultimately see our sin in relation to who God is, and then only secondly in how it will affect others involved. Now, I really want to focus most of my time this morning in this application on that first part. Seeing our sin in relation to who God is. If you go back and look at verse 9, that Joseph's point in verse 9, what he ends saying, is really instructive for us today when we face temptation. How can I sin against God? Remember last week I talked about with Judah's quote unquote repentance. There was a difference between worldly repentance and godly repentance. Worldly repentance is more concerned about being found out and just facing the consequences. It's not really sorry for what you did. You're sorry you got caught Godly repentance is whether people find out about it or not, you are grieved in your heart because you have grieved the Lord. It's seeing our sin in relation to who God is and how He sees our sin rather than seeing our sin through the lens of our consequences. By the way, the same can be said for dealing with temptation. It's not just dealing with repentance after the fact. It relates to how you deal with temptation or sin before the sin actually occurs. as our passage illustrates for us. And I want to highlight the sexual temptation here because that's really the context of the passage. It's contrasting Judah and Joseph in that area of temptation. If we only think about the worldly consequences to sexual temptation or sexual sin, we're always going to succumb to it in the end because lust cannot be reasoned with. As I said earlier. You don't sit there and have a conversation with your lust in your heart and your head. Because you know what's going to happen? You're always going to make some kind of concession. You're always going to end up justifying why you should just to relieve the tension and the pressure that you're under in that moment So if you don't reason with sexual temptation, how do you respond to it? You kill it. If there's a time for violence in the Christian life, that's the time for violence. It's just not violence against other people, it's violence against your own nature. The Apostle Paul in Galatians chapter 5 contrasts two things: the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. You go ahead and read that. It starts in verse 19. I'll leave you to read that in your own time, but I'm just telling you it contrasts those two things. And he counsels us by wrapping up that contrast in Galatians 5. 24, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Here's the point. God does not just call us to crucify sinful actions. What does he call us to do? The battle begins far before then. He calls us to crucify the very desires, the very passions of the flesh that lead to those actions. This is why Jesus, when he talks about murder and adultery and the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, like you've heard that it's said. Oh, you start with anger and end with adultery. You've heard that it was said, you know, do you shall not murder, don't murder, don't kill someone. But I say to you, anyone who's angry with his brother without cause. Is already guilty of murder. You've heard that it was said, don't commit adultery. But I say to you, anyone who's looked on a woman to lust after her, in other words, with the purpose and intent in your heart of lusting after her, has already committed adultery in his heart. Why? Because the seeds of those things lead to the fruit of those things. That's why we're called to crucify. the flesh with its passions and desires. And because when you look to the cross of Jesus Christ, you see that he has dealt with sin at the cross of his Son. You don't see God reasoning with sin in that event. He deals with it by killing it. And so we must deal, brothers and sisters, with our own sinful actions and even desires. in the same way. And the question you have to ask yourself is, are you crucifying the flesh with its passions and desires? Have you done that this week? Are you doing that this morning? Will you do that this week? It's coming. This is part of the reason why I read from 1 Timothy chapter 2 earlier, Paul again counsels young Timothy. In 2 Timothy 2, 22, so flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. By the way, this was totally not planned, but when I was reading that, um as I was writing the sermon, I realized right before Paul says that um that council there, he's talking about um vessels in the house. Interesting, vessels in the house of dishonorable or honorable use, and Joseph was a vessel of honorable use in his master's house. Because of his purity. That's our second point, isn't it? In verses 7 through 18. It's not just God's presence in our successes, it's God's presence that makes all the difference is as we deal with temptation. And that leads to the final part of this passage, which admittedly is much shorter, in verses 19 through 20. Joseph is unjustly thrown into prison. I won't read verses 19 to 20, but you understand the master's anger. But Joseph being thrown into prison is not exactly what you would expect. You know what you would expect? You would expect the master to put him to death. That would have been common secular Egyptian law in the Middle Kingdom at that time in history, just like it would become Mosaic legislation centuries later. You'd expect Joseph to be put to death. He's not put to death. It's interesting, some commentators I read uh surmise that perhaps Um Potiphar went a little easy on him by throwing him into the the prison house rather than just immediately putting him to death because maybe he realized his wife was this kind of woman. And this may not have been the first time she tried to do something like this. That's speculation. Who knows? But we do know he went to the prison house. Now, what you may not expect is when he's thrown into the prison house, the passage does say where the king's prisoners were confined. You know, the king's prisoners were not just any prisoners. These were people who were essentially under the sentence of death. So while Joseph wasn't put to death immediately and maybe was shown some leniency, he was still likely here under the sentence of death. in that prison house. But again, something strange happens at the end of verses 21 to 23 Joseph's unjust suffering and being thrown into that prison house leads to further blessing. How about that? You just you you cannot you cannot beat this guy. Again, I'm not going to read verses 21 to 23, but there is a noticeable repeat of what happens to Joseph in the prison house as what happens to Joseph in the beginning of the passage when he's bought into slavery and put in Potiphar's house. He is again elevated and he is again put in charge. In fact, the wording in Hebrew is exactly the same repeated wording. And you know the irony of all this? The lower Joseph seems to go, he goes from like being free and a covenant child to a slave in a household, and he's elevated. And then he gets lowered again and humiliated again into being thrown into the prison house under the sentence of death. And under the sentence of death he gets elevated again. It seems to be that the way God works in his economy, that the lower and lower we get, the higher and higher he seems to elevate us. So again, what do we do? How should God's presence affect the way that we understand unjust suffering? through the lens of the gospel. We've considered how it affec how God's presence affects our success and the way we view success. We've seen how it affects the way we view temptation, two opposite poles of the spectrum, by the way. How do we w What about unjust suffering? How does the gospel change that? Well, I want you to see that Joseph's unjust suffering points to the suffering of Christ at the cross. as the paradigm for dealing with our own suffering. And by suffering here, I'm talking more in terms of persecution. I'm talking more in terms of that kind of suffering. But Christ is the paradigm for our own suffering. You know, like I just said, Joseph keeps going down further and further and further. But it's a picture of Christ. Just like Joseph went down further into going from free in the house of his father to being a slave in the house. of Potiphar. We can speak of the incarnation of Christ as being the first part of the humiliation of the Son of God. Unless you think I'm being unfair in that comparison or unjust, think about what Paul says in Philippians 2, 7. But he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. Or that Greek word for serving can also legitimately be translated taking the form of a slave, being born in the likeness of men. Just like Joseph continued to go even further down under the sentence of death in the house of the prison, being unjustly condemned , That points to the second part of Christ's humiliation when he was unjustly condemned to death on a cross. Why? For the sin of others, ultimately. In much the same way, Joseph was condemned for the sin essentially of his master's wife, even though the master didn't understand what was going on. And for Christ, now Joseph doesn't die because of this. It's just a picture. Christ actually died on the cross. And we need to understand Joseph's time in prison as pointing forward to the death of Christ. Because what we're going to see in the next passage at the end is that Joseph's time in prison. Amounts to about three years. Two full years and the third year he gets out. Well, how long was Christ in the tomb for? Three days. And sprung out in resurrected glory on the third day. But this becomes personal For the suffering of the Christian. And I just need to highlight the fact that the Christian life, if we're honest, includes suffering. Notice what the Apostle Paul said in Acts chapter 14 verse 22 when he's encouraging the Christians in Lystra and Iconium and Derby. By the way, after he was just stoned and left for dead himself, he encouraged them, saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. And likewise, once again, he tells his young protege Timothy in 2 Timothy 3. 12, indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. That should challenge the way we think of the Christian life today. And the other thing that I want to just Hammer home as we close up this story is that suffering does come prior to glorification in the gospel. It's interesting how you take people like Joel Osteen, who wrote a book called Your Best Life Now It's a non-biblical premise right in the title. Our best life is not now. We may have a good life now. Don't get me wrong. You may have a good life now. There's nothing wrong with that either. But it's nothing in comparison to how good it's going to get when we get to glory with Christ, when all tears are wiped away, all diseases are gone, death has been abolished And grief is banished. But the nature of discipleship today, here, this side of eternity, if we're going to follow Jesus, who is the greater Joseph means that we are going to suffer in some measure this side of eternity prior to our glorification. This is why Jesus says if anyone who wants to be a disciple of him, in Mark 834 If anyone wishes to follow me, let him deny himself daily, take up his cross, and follow me. Boy, what a summary of what we just saw Joseph go through in this whole chapter as a disciple, as a covenant child. Are you bearing your cross this week? Because that is the third point, isn't it? God's presence in the midst of unjust suffering. And that leads to the big idea. And by the way, if you're visiting with us, you can see the big idea on page five. printed in the bulletin for you to see. What's the big idea of this whole thing? God's presence impacts the way we respond to success, temptation, and suffering in the world today. The gospel makes the difference. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful for Joseph's faithfulness and how that faithfulness points forward to a greater faithfulness in your Son Jesus. Tempted three times by Satan didn't fall. Tempted many other ways, as the author of Hebrews tells us, in every way that we are, and yet without sin. And yet was faithful to you, Father, by being obedient, even obedient to the point of death on a cross. That we might be saved. Lord, we give you so much praise and thanks. And as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper, prepare our hearts now. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.