If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and open them to Genesis chapter 25. We're going to be in verses 19 through 34 this morning. Genesis 25. Verses 19 through 34. Actually stand, please, for the in honor of the reading of God's Word. Beginning in verse 19, Genesis 25. These are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham fathered Isaac, and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel, the Aramean, of Padon Aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean, to be his wife. And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife, because she was barren. And the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived. The children struggled within her, and she said, If it is thus, why is this happening to me? So she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other, the older shall serve the younger. When her days to give birth were completed, behold, there were twins in her womb. The first came out red, all his body like a hairy cloak, so they called his name Esau Afterward, his brother came out with his hand holding Esau's heel, so his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them. When the boys grew up, Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field, while Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents. Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. Once, when Jacob was cooking stew, Esau came in from the field and he was exhausted. And Esau said to Jacob, Let me eat some of that red stew, for I am exhausted. Therefore his name was called Edom. Jacob said, Sell me your birthright now. Esau said, I'm about to die. What use of what use is a birthright to me? Jacob said, Swear to me now. So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank and rose and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's go ahead and start our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you. We're thankful, O Lord, for this word, and we just pray, Lord, that as we come to these, for many of us, our familiar stories, we pray that you would open our eyes to see new things, to speak to us in a fresh way. Through something that is so familiar, O Lord. We ask that your Holy Spirit would take your word, write it on our hearts, because that is the promise of the new covenant, that we might live it out By the power of your spirit, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we are continuing our trek through the book of Genesis. Twenty-five chapters really is halfway through. And um we're still we got to the life of Abraham, the end of the life of Abraham last week. This week we are trekking on, as you notice verse 19 begins, these are the generations of Isaac. And so as as I've said before, when it the scripture says in Genesis, these are the generations of, we're entering into a new segment, a new era, and that is what we're coming to this morning. And we see Very clearly from the title, The Birth and the Birthright of God's people. In fact, in this whole um Confusing tale, and it really is confusing in some ways. We see the main idea here that God's sovereign election highlights the unconditional grace of God towards his people, which then influences their attitude towards their spiritual birthright. Now if you're visiting with us, you can see that same sermon idea in your bulletin right under the liturgy here. But let me go ahead and repeat that. That's the idea we want to unpack this morning in this passage. God's sovereign election highlights the unconditional grace of God towards his people, which then influences their attitude toward their spiritual birthright And so the passage naturally breaks down into two segments, the the birth of these two sons, and then this event that happens when they're clearly young adults. And so our first point in verses 19 through 26 is the grace given to covenant heirs. Covenant heirs are those who inherit The covenant promises. Let's look at verses 19 to 21. We see the grace offered in response to prayer. Now in verses 19-20, you see the beginning of this. Abraham fathered Isaac. Look at verse 20. Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel, the Aramean of Pad and Aram. the sister of Laban the Aramean to be his wife. Now actually I want you to skip down to verse 26, the the end of verse 26, the last sentence. Isaac was 60 years old when she bore them. That gives us the context here of this prayer that he's going to give in the next verse for the covenant heir. Now think of the timing and the challenging of the timing of the births here. Isaac's forty years old when he takes Rebekah to be his wife. And then verse 26 tells us very clearly at the end of this episode, he is 60 when his children are born. That leaves you 20 years before they have children. Now you can think about this. This is not a surprise because this is actually the same thing that happened to his father, Abraham, and his mother Sarah. If you remember, back in Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 through 3, God makes a promise to Abraham, he's going to multiply all of his descendants. And then in his descendants all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And we know from the chronology of Genesis that Abraham was 75 years old when he received that promise. Now that's interesting because we also know from Genesis 11 verse 30 that Sarah was barren as well, just like Rebekah. This is the same problem. From one generation to the next. Now I have no idea how old Abraham and Sarah were when they got married. The scriptures don't tell us. But when you think about how long they had to wait from receiving the promise to the fulfillment of that promise, we know that Abraham was 100. 100 minus 75 is, do your math, 25 years waiting. And then however long they had to wait before that promise when they first got married, where they didn't have children. Well, now you have the same problem here. Isaac and Rebecca married for 20 years. They knew the promises of God , and yet somehow the promises didn't match what they were experiencing in that moment. Twenty years. You can imagine how many of you would still step back and pray for something that was promised to you 20 years later, or would you have given up? Well, they clearly didn't give up. You see in verse 21, the prayer for Rebecca's barrenness. Now You look at verse 21, Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife because she was barren. I'm going to go ahead and stop there. Interestingly enough, the same problem as I've said, but here's what's different. Do you remember how Sarah and Abraham handled that problem after waiting a certain amount of time? I mean, they didn't wait 20 years. They they technically waited like 13 years. By the time you get to Genesis 16, remember they decided to take matters into their own hands? Remember what Sarah said? Here, take my maidservant, Hagar, go into her, and the children that you bear through her will be mine. They took matters into their own hands. They tried to fulfill God's promise by the power of their own flesh, their own cunning, their own devices, and we saw how that ended. It ended very tragically because at the end of the day, Abraham and Sarah sent Hagar and Ishmael away because of a conflict between the two boys once Isaac was born. Do Isaac and Rebecca do something similar? No, they they don't take matters into their own hands. They seem to have learned that lesson from his father's mistake. And what do they do? They go to prayer. They go to prayer. And I love the way that they handled it because they're not falling into this generational pattern of sin. By going to prayer, it's really interesting how the Hebrew is worded here. Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife By the way, that phrase for his wife in the original Hebrew could be translated a multitude of ways that would be faithful to that, the actual wording there It's actually a compound preposition that puts two prepositions together that you could translate. He prayed for his wife, who was in front of him. In fact, some commentators, more than one, as I found out, actually think that Isaac prayed with Rebekah, his wife. For her barrenness that God would give her children. What a completely contrastive way to present how Isaac and Rebecca handled things from Sarah and Abraham. One takes matters into their own hands. The other, they go right to the Lord, and this is not a man who just does this on his own. He does this alongside of his wife. They commit their prayer, they commit themselves, they commit their marriage, they commit the promises of God to him in faith. And we see in verses 22 through 24 the grace that is offered in the midst of hostility. Now we know that God answered that prayer at the end of verse 21. Which makes that very clear. It just says, and the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebecca his wife conceived. Now in that conception, you see the beginning of hostility here. Look at verses 22 and then 24. This is another challenge that just seems to escalate when the Lord finally answers their prayer and she conceives. Verse 22 elaborates, the children struggle together within her. And she said, if it is thus, why is this happening to me? So she went to inquire of the Lord. Let's stop there Jump down to verse 24. You know from this clarifying verse that she's got twins in her womb. Now that's an interesting phrase. They that they struggled within her. This is the idea that they were wrestling inside of her. I mean, they're they're really fighting with each other. They're clearly not getting along, and any woman who's been pregnant knows that when a baby moves you can feel it. Well, imagine two fighting. That's got to not feel good Look what God says in verse 23. He answers her inquiry, probably not in the way that she would expect. What does God say in verse 23? He tells her, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other, the older shall serve the younger Now I want to draw out a few particulars here to make our point. The first is simply the idea of struggle between these brothers is not a new idea in the book of Genesis. I mean you go back, this is a a constant pattern throughout God's Word up to this point In Genesis 4, 1 through 8, you see the struggle between Cain and Abel that ended with the death of one, namely the death of the younger at the hands of the older. Then you see in Genesis 5 and 6 with those two genealogies, you see this struggle between the wicked line of Cain on the one hand and the godly line of Seth on the other hand. And the struggle then continues after the fall, or excuse me, after the flood, you see this struggle between Ham on the one hand and his son Canaan, who was then cursed. Is going to be put into subjection to his brothers and their descendants, Shem and Japheth. Struggle between brothers. The more recent struggle we saw between Ishmael and Isaac back in Genesis 21, verses 8 through 21. You remember that? Isaac was laughing at Ishmael, and the Apostle Paul interprets that in terms of persecution. There 's struggle. A thirteen-year-old boy Pushing around a little boy that just got weaned. Very brave. But a struggle between brothers. You know, the idea between struggle has behind it enmity or hostility. That's what's really behind this. And all of this, if you really go back to even further behind Cain and Abel, is really the outworking of a fundamental principle from Genesis 3. 16, if you remember When God said, I will put enmity between you and the woman, he's saying this to the serpent, Satan, by the way, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. You remember what it said? He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel Now this struggle gets complicated because this isn't just a struggle between two brothers that were born from two different conceptions. And two different birthing events. This is two brothers in the womb together. And the question, if you remember from last week, when we looked at Abraham and all of his children from the wife of from his wife Keturah And then Ishmael, who is going to inherit the covenant promises? This becomes a very complicated mess when you've got two boys in the womb together. Who really lays claim to the covenant promises? Well, God gives us the answer. In verse 23, we see the sovereign election of God among these two hostile parties. God is the one who chooses who is going to be the covenant heir who inherits his promises. And this is probably what would have surprised Rebecca. It's not the older, it is the younger. The younger one will be stronger than the older one in time, which is going to be kind of strange because as you see both sons born and then you see them grow older, that's not what you would expect. as you watch them grow up. Their characteristics make that very unlikely from a human perspective, and yet God says the older will serve the younger. That is totally contrary to the prevailing custom of the day Dr. John Currid, um Old Testament professor at Reformed Theological Seminary, writes this in his commentary about God's decision. He says, This prophecy of Yahweh overturns the common practices of the ancient Near East. The firstborn normally would receive the greater share of the inheritance and leadership of the family. But in the case of Jacob and Esau It is God who predetermines that the situation will be different for the children of Rebecca. And put your thinking cast on for just a moment. When did God make that determination before the children were born? What you see here, this leads us to see the principle of divine sovereignty and election unfolding before our very eyes. It shows us that God's redemptive purposes do not work themselves out according to our human customs, our rules, our expectations. Rather, his redemptive purposes in who will receive the covenant blessings come down to his divine fundamental choice. And that choice is unconditional. This would have been very instructive, by the way, for the Israelites under Moses ' leadership who heard this for the first time, read to them. You might go back and you remember Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 7 through 8, right before Israel goes in to take the promised land and inherit the promises that God gave. It says this, God tells Israel this: it is not because you are more in number than any other people that the Lord your God set his love on you and chose you. For you are the fewest of all peoples. But it is because the Lord your God loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers, that the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. In other words, God didn't look at them and just say, oh, because you guys are mighty, I'm going to go ahead and choose you. You're the winning bet. No, it's exactly the opposite. If I had to choose you from a human perspective, you'd be the losing bet. But I'm going to choose you. Why? Because I've chosen to put my love upon you. That's it. That's all we get You fast forward. Uh to Deuteronomy chapter nine, he's verse five. He says, It's not because of your righteousness, or the uprightness of your heart, Israel, that you are going in to possess their land, being the Canaanites' land. But because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord your God is driving them out from before you, that he may confirm the word that the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. What is the point I'm driving at here? Whether it's the patriarchs or Israel, and we'll soon see us, God's choice is not based on any power. or righteousness or any other condition that would make Jacob or Israel corporately attractive to God and lead him to choose them based on that. God 's choice of Jacob in this passage is purely his sovereign and free grace that he chose to choose Jacob to be repetitive there. Now look at their birth. This is really interesting in verses 25 and 26. The time comes for her to bear these sons. Verse 25, the first came out red, all his body like a hairy cloak. So they named him Esau. I don't mean to be weird about this, but I'm sorry. That sounds kind of gross. I I can't even imagine what that looked like physically in front of him. And did he come out looking like a small like Bigfoot? I don't know. Covered in hair? But what I can tell you is that word hairy cloak in Hebrew and the name Esau seem to have some kind of similar alliteration or sound to them. It's like a play on words. And remember we've said this before. A lot of times in the Old Testament, names meant something or communicated something about the person or the place to which it is receiving the name. In this case Esau's name really just points out the fact that he is a hairy individual. Jacob, on the other hand, is a little different in verse 26. So afterwards his brother came out with his hand holding Esau's heel, so his name was called Jacob. Hmm. By the way, there is a word play. Jacob's name, Ya'a Kov, in Hebrew, means heel. And it's very clear why he's named heel. He is a heel grabber. And what's fascinating about that, that whole, the way he's born, that characterizes almost the rest of his life until God really breaks him down in Genesis 32, many years later. After he's had most of his children, God finally breaks him down. But this tells you something about his character. He is a supplanter. He looks at the advantage that other people have and somehow gets his way in and supplants himself and ends up as the one on top I remember having a conversation with over dinner once with a rabbi that I know back in Illinois. Um and we were we weren't talking about Jacob and Esau, but it illustrates the point. He was talking about the Jews' role in throughout history in the various places that they've ended up have have gone. And he's like, if you if you actually look at the history of God's people Israel, um what you find is they seem to always end up like on the top crust of society. And I said, what do you mean? He's like, well, think of the Old Testament. You know, you look at Jay you look at Joseph, he ended up like just under Pharaoh. You look at Daniel, he ended up second to Nebuchadnezzar. um in Babylon. And then in Persia he was on top as well. And then you just look throughout history, I mean, why why did the Nazis get jealous of the Jews? Well they were in They had control of all the banking industry and all the money and and where the money is the power, and so they were on top. And he's like, There's we always end up on top somehow. You can see it right there. Look at how their their forefather was born. Grabbing a heel and supplanting. And we're going to see that work itself out in the next episode here. But before we do that, we do need to take a step back. We have to ask, what are some of the implications of God's sovereign election and grace for Christian life today? What does God's sovereign election have to do with us today as Christians? The primary implication that we can take away from this is the fact that salvation And the fulfillment of God's promises are entirely dependent on Him and not us. And I'm going to capsize that statement by just saying, and this is good news. It is good news that God's promises depend on him to be fulfilled sovereignly and not us. The first thing I want to just highlight here is God's promises are secured only because He has acted to fulfill them in the first place. If you think about how the gospel plays out in the New Testament, particularly with the life of Christ, what are we presented with? Well in the Old Testament, we're presented with God's people failing over and over and over and over and over and over, and I can multiply that many times again. To fulfill his law. They constantly fail to keep his law. They constantly come under his judgment because of it. And his discipline and his wrath. And so God had to send his son Jesus to live that perfect life that you and I couldn't possibly live. So in in order to fulfill what his word had said, he had to send his son and essentially accomplish it himself. And then because all of us are born into sin and deserve God's wrath and his punishment because of our sin, Jesus had to take that punishment on the cross so he can fulfill God 's justice on our behalf. And then he rose again from the dead, as we know, on the third day, in order to give us eternal life. This is why the Apostle Paul says in 2 Corinthians 1. 20, for all the promises of God find their yes and their amen in Christ to the glory of God. But you know what's fascinating is when you when you look at how God's promises play out throughout biblical history and then even in your own lives. It's not always what you expect, is it? Just like Rebecca hearing these words, the older will serve the younger. Well, wait a minute, though. The older are supposed to get the double share of the inheritance. What are you talking about, God? God fulfills his promise oftentimes in ways we would not expect. In ways that are contrary to human wisdom and human custom. But the second thing I wanted to highlight for you here is God's sovereign and unconditional election of those who will inherit his covenant promises means that we have no room to boast today. When it comes to salvation, there is no room to boast. There is only one thing we bring to the table of salvation, and that is our sin, to which we must be saved from. But that's why we read from Romans chapter 9 earlier. And I'll just summarize verses 10 through 13 is a good summary of that. Not only so, but when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac, though they were not yet even born and had done nothing either good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works, but because of him who calls, she was told, the older will serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I loved. By the way, when you hear that word loved there, I think chosen. Esau, I hated. When you hear hated, don't think of this emotional temper tantrum. Just think of like he did not choose him. Passed them by. It was unconditional. This is the grace of God behind the gospel because it is God's work of salvation. How many of us today walk around, even if we don't say it out loud, we're thinking in our minds and we're living our lives in such a way as if God's promises depend upon us? And we essentially deny his sovereignty and his election of us. But here's the paradox of Scripture. We talk about unconditional election of those who inherit the covenant promises, those who are saved, but the third thing we see here by way of application is It is because of this that there is still a call to faith in the promises of God given in the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is where the paradox comes in. Yes, we are chosen by God's free and sovereign and divine and unconditional choice. an election. But there's still a call to faith. Just like Isaac and Rebecca had these promises given to them And they were going to be secured by God answering his promises. They still called out to God in faith. to answer the promises that he gave them. It's interesting to me that, you know, she's she's barren, it makes their experience run counter to the promises of God, and yet Their example of going to God in faith through prayer demonstrates that we are to come to God in faith despite not knowing how his promises are exactly going to work out in our lives. God knows what he's doing. And I take great comfort in the words of Jesus in John chapter 6, verse 37, as I think about coming to God in faith and claiming those promises. Jesus said this. By the way, in the context, he is talking about all those who God sovereignly chooses and gives to him. He says this. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. If you're sitting here this morning and you have never come and put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, what are you waiting for? Are you afraid that maybe you have sinned in some way? That you've done something that is beyond the reach of God's grace in your life? This passage tells you otherwise. What does Jesus say? Anyone who comes to me, I'm not going to cast him out. And so the application behind divine election is still come to faith in Jesus. And I I cannot help but say this before we move on to our second point. It is interesting to me that Jesus ends by saying, Whoever comes to me I will never cast out. He just he It's undefined. From a human perspective, I don't know who's going to come to Christ, and neither do you. The only thing you have to worry about is you. Are you coming to Christ? On the confidence that he will not cast you out, regardless of what you've done in your life. That leads us to our second point in verses 27 to 34. We see the grace that leads to this birth, but now there's a transfer of the birthright. That's our second point, the transfer of the birthright. Look at verses 27 and 28. You see the character of these two sons laid out. before you in these two verses. Let me just read them and then we'll unpack them. When the boys grew up, Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field, while Jacob was a quiet man dwelling in tents. Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebecca loved Jacob. Boy, what a snapshot here. You see the growth in the character of Esau in verse 27. He's a skillful hunter. He's a man of the field. Verse 28 talks about how Isaac loves him because he eats of his game. What a good snapshot. Now, if you're looking at these guys and you're trying to judge them just from what you see in front of you, Esau is the one you would put your money on to get the promises. I mean think about it. He's he's he's a man's man. He loves the outdoors. He's a man of the field. He's clearly got an athletic edge to him if he's hunting game. And being out in the field all the time. He's got to be physically gifted. And clearly he is assertive. In short, I think you can characterize him by saying he's a man of the flesh. Everything that speaks to his favor has to do with the flesh. And what is really interesting to me is Isaac loves him because of what he ate, because he ate what Esau hunted. It's interesting to me that Isaac's love is motivated by the stomach. Some of you women probably can laugh at that. You know the what's the easiest way to a man's heart? His stomach, right? Um But it's interesting to me that even Isaac relies and falls back on fleshly tendencies in how he sizes up his sons and values them. His measure is fleshly, not spiritual. Jacob is different as we saw. He's a quiet man. He's dwelling in tents in verse 28. Rebecca loves Jacob. That's completely contrary. He's not a man's man. He's not gruff. He's probably not athletic. Although when you think about it, he was wrestling with God when he was like six years old and then overcame him. years old That's a pretty strong 60-year-old. So maybe I'm wrong about that, but he's he's a man who's like he's a homebody. He's not this like aggressive go -getter. He's not the one you're going to think is going to come out on top. But that sets the context for this whole event of the birthright being sold. Because you look at Esa, I want to just look at Esau's role and attitude and then Jacob's. Let's do them separately. And Esau, let's just look through this once again. Once Jacob was cooking stew, I'm in verse 29. Esau came in from the field and he was exhausted. And Esau said to Jacob, Let me eat some of that red stew, for I'm exhausted. Therefore his name was called Edom. Jacob tells him, Sell me the birthright. Verse 32, Esau says, I'm about to die. Of what use is this to me? Jacob presses his right. Swear to me now. So he swore and he sold his birthright to Jacob, and Jacob gives him the food. Take a look at that again. I mean You have a situation that wouldn't be uncommon. Jacob being the homebody is inside cooking. Esau is out in the field somewhere doing whatever he's doing. Comes in, understandably tired. He's got to regather his strength, and he sees the stew that Jacob is making, and he says, that'll do, that'll do the trick, that'll give me, renew my strength. And you can really sense his desperation in his question when he says to him, let me eat some of that red stew, for I'm exhausted. Why can you sense desperation there? Well, because he repeats, it's repetitive. The way he says it is give me from that red this red. That's really bad English, by the way, isn't it? But in Hebrew it makes sense, and you know what's really weird, and you probably don't see this in English. says therefore his name was called Edom? Well the word for red is Edom. Edom is repeated three times in that one verse. Give me that Edom, Edom. Therefore he's called Edom. You know what's really kind of tragic about that? Not only has he got this horrible name because he's hairy. Um now he's being called by a piece of like stew. And I think it's really sad that the thing that describes him, the thing that names him The thing that characterizes him is related to his physical needs and his appetites. He's named for the very thing that he believes is going to revitalize what he perceives to be his greatest need. And that leads to the second thing that describes him in verse 32, when he says, I'm about to die. What use is my birthright to me? It only solidifies the mindset of what he values. He values his physical comfort. He values what is going to satisfy him in the here and the now. And when you think about what that birthright was all about, I mean the birthright was the blessing that that Abraham passed on to Isaac, that Isaac will one day pass on to his heir. It's the blessing of Being multiplied into a multitude of nations, it's the promise of the land and so on and so forth. This birthright had eternal value. It transcended the physical lives of these patriarchs. And yet look at what he does. The only thing Esau seems to care about In comparison to eternal promises and blessings, is a bowl of soup that will satisfy him for maybe half an hour That's a problem. And verse 34 explains his response when Jacob gives the soup. Did you see that? It's so easy to just run through that. He ate and drank and rose and went his way. You know, in in the in the Hebrew text, I mean those ver those four verbs are just piled on one another, one after the other, to get to the point that this was like wim-bam-boom, I'm eating, I'm done, I'm out. He gave no thought to this. He just satisfied his hunger. He did it quickly, and he sold his birthright to Jacob And you look at the last part of verse 34. Thus Esau despised his birthright. He thought nothing of it and the eternal value compared to a temporary bowl of soup. Jacob, on the other hand, is very different temperamentally. When you look at verse 29, we see this is consistent with the description of him being a homebody. He's in the tent making a stew. But secondly, when Jacob when Esau comes in, Jacob responds, Sell me your birthright. Remember when he was born? Heel grabber? Esau had the advantage. Jacob saw his opportunity right here in a moment of weakness. to take him down, to supplant him and exploit the situation. And he does so in verse 33. He doesn't just say, sell me your birthright, like in verse 23. Like in the other verse 31, in verse 33, he says, swear to me now. What's the point? He He's insinuating that Esau has no use of his birthright, and by swearing it would make the transaction legal, meaning Jacob had the legal right to the birthright. Think about how he's deceiving and manipulating his own brother to get what his brother has. This is so complicated, brothers and sisters. Why? Because on the one hand, it is so sinful in how he does it. On the other hand, it is entirely what God said would happen. What do you do with that? I leave that to you. But for now we need to take a step back. We need to ask ourselves, what is the warning for us today in how Esau and Jacob treated the birthright? Well, the warning in Esau's response is not to despise the birthright by living for the flesh. And Jacob's response also warns us not to live by means of the flesh. That's a subtle distinction, but it's an important one. Think about the warning about living for the flesh. That simply means living life in a way that values merely what the world is concerned about. And that should cause us to take a step back and ask, are we this morning living for the flesh? Are we despising the birthright that is of eternal value that is offered to us in Jesus Christ? To give you an idea, what does it look like to live for the flesh? Well, Paul tells us in Galatians 5, 19 through 21. For the works of the flesh are evident sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, Paul says, as I warned you before, those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God Do any of those things characterize you this morning? If so, you may be like Esau, in danger of being like Esau, despising the birthright that is offered to you in Jesus Christ. So as we think about coming to the Lord's table, and believe me, the irony is not lost on me that Esau gave up the birthright for food, and we're about to come and partake of something at a table. that goes into our stomachs that actually strengthens those promises in our faith um on our behalf. Questions that you can ask yourself as you prepare to come to that table Do I make decisions in my life, valuing my present life and being willing to compromise of what is eternal value? That's a good question. Do I live by the impulses of my physical body? Boy, that could be a lot of things, huh? That could be succumbing to sexual temptation. It could be Like succumbing to overeating or under-eating as it may be, seeking physical and temporal comfort at the cost of obedience to God or eternal concerns. So, at least outwardly, it is possible for us to look more like Esau than what God calls us to. But there's also the warning, it's not just living for the flesh like Esau, it's living by the flesh. Like Jacob. And this is where we'll end. Jacob's response is very subtle, but it warns us not to live by means of the flesh. We're going to see this over and over in Jacob's life. He has a proclivity that he demonstrates to try and secure for himself the promises of God, which we see him doing so with the birthright here. He does this by means of his own cunning, by means of his own opportunism, and he even seeks to use a legal means to secure the promised inheritance that God had given. This is exactly what the Apostle Paul warns about in the book of Galatians. Are you trying to earn God's favor this morning by your good works or your own righteousness? Then guess what? You're falling into the trap that Jacob falls into here. Are you trying to be righteous in your own self apart from Christ? Are you trying to clean yourself off before you come to God and submit him? Then you might be living more like Jacob. When you look at what drives Jacob, the same things drive us today. And the question we have to ask in light of this is whether we're trusting our own cunning, our own understanding, our own intelligence, our own righteousness. our own schemes, our own devices, even if they are legally permissible, to secure for yourself what only God can give freely by grace through faith. If you are relying on anything other than Jesus Christ, the call of this passage, from the example of these two brothers, is to repent. Repent of your own cunning and devices. Repent of living for the flesh. And trust in the Lord Jesus Christ to one, fulfill his promises, and two, satisfy what you think only the flesh can satisfy. And that leads us right back to our main idea, doesn't it, as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper. God's sovereign election highlights the unconditional grace of God towards his people, which then influences, I'm going to say, our attitudes toward our spiritual birthright. Are you trusting Christ this morning? Well, if so, then this is good news. Let's pray before we come to the Lord's table. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you, and none of us in this room are perfect. None of us are righteous in and of ourselves. Lord, we either fall into the proclivities of Esau or the proclivities of Jacob, but either way, we are sinners in need of a Savior And Lord, we are so thankful, Lord, that you sent your son, Jesus, to be that Savior, to which we're going to come to your table here in a second, Lord And we're going to be reminded and we're going to partake and we're going to be strengthened, Lord, in the promises that you have given And so we ask your blessing as we do this. In Jesus' name, amen.