If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and turn to Genesis chapter 26. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 34. Which is the extent of that chapter. Genesis 26, 1 to 34. And if you are physically able, I would invite you to stand in honor of the reading of God's Word. Genesis 26, beginning at verse 1. This is the inerrant word of the Lord. Now there was a famine in the land, besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Gerar to Abimelech, king of the Philistines. And the Lord appeared to him and said, Do not go down to Egypt. Dwell in the land of which I will tell you. Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you, and I will bless you, and for to you and to your offspring I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath that I swore to Abraham, your father. I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and I will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge and my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. So Isaac settled in Gerar When the men of the place asked him about his wife, he said, She is my sister, for he feared to save my wife, thinking lest the men of the place should kill me because of Rebekah because she was very attractive in appearance. When he had been there a long time, Abimelech, king of the Philistines, looked out of a window and saw Isaac laughing with Rebekah, his wife. So Abimelech called Isaac and said, Behold, she is your wife. How then could you say she is my sister? Isaac said to him, Because I thought lest I die because of her. Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us. So Abimelech warned all the people, saying, Whoever touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. And Isaac sowed in that land and reaped in the same year a hundredfold. The Lord blessed him, and the man became rich and gained more and more until he became very wealthy. He had possessions of flocks and herds and many servants, so that the Philistines envied him. Now the Philistines had stopped up and filled with earth all the wells that his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father. And Abimelech said to Isaac, Go away from us, for you are much mightier than we. So Isaac departed from there and encamped in the valley of Gerar and settled there. And Isaac dug again the wells of water that had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, which the Philistines had stopped up after the death of Abraham, and he gave them names, the names that his father had given them. But when Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there was there a well of spring water, the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, The water is ours. So he called the name of the well Esek, because they contended with him. Then they dug another well, and they quarreled over that also. So he called its name Sitna. And he moved from there and dug another well, and they did not quarrel over it, so he called its name Rehoboth, saying, For now the Lord has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. From there Isaac went up to Beersheba, and the Lord appeared to him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham, your father. Fear not, for I am with you, and I will bless you and multiply your offspring for my servant Abraham's sake. So he built an altar there and called upon the name of the Lord and pitched his tents there And there Isaac's servants dug a well. When Abimelech went to him from Gerar with Ahusa, his advisor, and Pikol The commander of the army, Isaac said to them, Why have you come to me, seeing that you hate me and have sent me away from you? They said, well we see plainly that the Lord has been with you. So we said, let there be a sworn pact between us. Between you and us. Let us make a covenant with you, that you will do us no harm, just as we have not touched you and have done you nothing but good, and have sent you away in peace. You are now blessed of the Lord. So he made them a feast, and they ate and drank. And in the morning they arose early and exchanged oaths. And Isaac sent them on their way, and they departed from him in peace. That same day Isaac's servants came and told him about the well that they had dug, and said to him, We have found water. He called it Sheba, therefore the name of the city is Beersheba to this day When Esau was forty years old, he took Judith, the daughter of Barry, the Hittite, to be his wife, and Basmuth, the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and they made life bitter for Isaac and Rebekah. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, and we do ask, Lord, that you would take this passage that we have just heard read to us, O Lord, and that you would open our eyes to see how this points to your Son Jesus. to see, O Lord, how the gospel comes out of a passage like this. That we may not assume on the surface level that it would point to that, but we pray that you would show us, O Lord. what your Holy Spirit wants us to see this morning. And we ask, Lord, that you would take your word, that you would apply it to our hearts and our lives this morning. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, no doubt you have heard the phrase before, like father, like son. Maybe that you could say the same about daughters and mothers? It always astounds me when you see little kids. I I'm not really astute in usually determining what which parent the child looks like, but there's others of you who can tell those things better than me. I know that when I was a child, um people told me I was the splitting image of my mother. And I thought to myself, oh, that poor woman. Um, no woman wants to know that she looks like a man, and no boy wants to know that he looks like a girl. But such was the case. The older I've gotten, people who knew my father will tell would tell me, you know, the older you're getting, you look a lot more like your dad. Okay. We see those things not just in terms of the way we look, but we see these in terms of experiences and our responses to those experiences. We find as we get older, we are much more like our parents than we thought. Sometimes in a frightening way I remember in college r coming into situations and responding to them and thinking to myself as I responded, oh my goodness, I'm turning into my father. Um this is either good or bad, but there's no middle ground here. Well this is exactly what we see in our passage this morning in in the the life of Isaac in chapter twenty-six In fact, in Genesis chapter 26, this is really the only chapter in the book of Genesis that focuses almost exclusively on the life and the experiences of Isaac. If you remember, going all the way back to chapter 12, all the way to 25, we're seeing the focus on the life of Abraham. In chapter 27 and following, all the way to really maybe 37 or 38, the focus will be on Jacob. But Isaac, in the midst of these three patriarchs, gets one chapter. And one of the things that we're going to see in this chapter this morning is we're going to see a repetition of experiences from the life of Abraham that seem to happen all over again in the life of Isaac. But there's Isaac's responses are somewhat similar and somewhat different. And we want to trace those out and see how this points to the gospel of Jesus Christ this morning. In fact, if you're with us this morning and you're visiting, maybe for the first time, you'll notice that right at after the liturgy, after the order of service, we print in our bulletin the sermonic idea. And so this morning the sermon idea that this passage will flesh out for us is this. The Lord safeguards his blessing by reiterating his promises to us. By providing all we need to be fruitful, and by securing peace through His covenant That is the idea we want to flesh out this morning. Let me just repeat that. The Lord safeguards his blessing by reiterating his promises to us. By providing all we need to be fruitful, and by securing peace through His covenant And so as we jump into our first point this morning, we're going to see right before us, like Father, like Son. So let's look at our first point in verses 1 through 16. which is the promise repeated to a new generation. You see that repeated in verses 1 through 5. And I want to highlight verses 1 through 2. Now there was a famine in the land besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham, and Isaac went to Gerar, to Abimelech. King of the Philistines. Actually, I want to stop there really quick. You'll notice the famine is the same thing that happened to Abraham back in Genesis chapter 12, verse 10. God had called him out of Ur the Chaldees. He came and he came to the land of Canaan. He surveyed the land. There was a famine, and so if you remember, Abraham ended up going down to Egypt. Now on the way to Egypt is Gerar. It's in the southern part, kind of the northern part of the Sinai Peninsula, on the way from the southern part of Canaan down to Egypt. And that is where Isaac finds himself in our passage here in verse 1. He comes to Gerar, to Abimelech, the king of the Philistines. And again, this should sound familiar to you. This is exactly what happened to Abraham again in chapter 20. Now, we've seen this name before, Abimelech, the king of Gerar. But we need to ask ourselves, are we talking about the same Abimelech as we saw in chapters 20 and 21 during the life of Abraham? I don't think so. Because at this point, Isaac is probably somewhere between the ages of 80 and 100 years old And in in Genesis chapter 20 and then 21 happened right around right before and right after the birth of Isaac. And so this, in my opinion, has to be a throne name. It's a name that simply means my father is king, and if you would imagine that if you're you know set to inherit the throne What's going to make your throne and your claim legitimate? Well, you want to be the son of the king. Your father needs to be the king. And so I think this is a throne name. You see it in other parts of scripture. for the king of the Philistines, and so I just think it was a name that was passed from one king to the next. But what's interesting is in verses two and three, the Lord commands Isaac Don't go down to Egypt. That was exactly what happened to Abraham in chapter 12. Abraham went there. In fact, later on in Genesis, in Genesis 46, Isaac's very son Jacob is going to be told by the Lord to go down to Egypt. And so you have two of the patriarchs, Abraham and Jacob, who go there, but Isaac in the middle is prohibited. Probably because the Lord knows what is about to happen anyway in Gerar. He promises in verses 3 through 5, all of the same promises. He reiterates all these promises and repeats them to Isaac. If you look at verses 3 through 5, he says, sojourn in this land. I will be with you, I will bless you, and to your offspring I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath that I swore to Abraham your father. You know, as you trace these promises out, there's nothing new here. Again, it's all repeated. And I'm going to just boil it down into four of them. He promises his presence. He promises the land of Canaan, which we saw again in Genesis 15. He swore that to Abraham. He promises to multiply his seed and his or his offspring. Again, that was promised to Abraham in Genesis 15. And then the last thing he says here, he promises blessing that will go out to the nations. Do you see the way verse 4 culminates there? And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Let me stop there for just a moment. That goes again back to Genesis chapter 12, verse 3. Genesis chapter 22, verse 18. There's nothing new here But that is the culmination, that is the summary of God's promises to Abraham. Why? Because what it does is it shows you the scope of God's heart. Not just for Abraham and his family, but the scope of his love and his kindness and his goodness that is meant to go out to all the nations of the earth. This is a universal, to use that word. It's got a universal scope to his promises. And why is it so? Well look at verse 5. This is really what's fascinating to me. He says in verse 5, this is the case because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. Now it's fascinating about the way that that's worded when you see that list there, my charge, my commandments, my statutes, my laws. That's used later, particularly in the book of Deuteronomy, to talk about the whole Mosaic law. Now, Abraham didn't have the Mosaic Law revealed to him. He's living 400 years prior to that. And yet there were things God told Abraham to do, and Abraham was obedient. Here's the principle I want you to pull away from that is that it is because of the obedience of Abraham, the covenant head. That the blessings of the covenant then pass on to the seed of Abraham or to the children and heirs of the covenant. It is because of the obedience of one that blessing passes to the many. I want you to see that because that is crucial. And we'll look to apply that in just a moment. But before we do, we see the promises repeated in verses 1 through 5. We see in verses 6 through 10 the fear that is repeated. And this is where you see kind of a repetition, like father, like son. Now, in this particular section, we see that Isaac ends up in Gerar. And verse 7, when the men of the place asked him about his wife, he said, She is my sister. For he feared to say my wife, thinking lest the men of the place should kill me because of Rebecca. Why? Because she was very attractive. Again, we have not just seen this once, brothers and sisters. We've not just seen this twice. This is the third time that we've seen the same thing happen. You think he would have learned his lesson from his father's laughs of faith, but he doesn't seem to here. There's some similarities and there are some differences. The similarity is very clear. He lies about who his wife really is and says, She's my sister. Why? Because he fears the world around him. He's not trusting in God in this moment, he's fearing. And the passage makes that very clear. But the differences are really interesting. Sarah, if you remember, was taken into the harem of the king both times. And in both times, God had to reveal himself to the king in some way, shape, or form that caused him to return Sarah to Abraham. Rebecca here is not taken into the harem. She remains with Isaac. And God God reveals the real truth of the situation in an unusual way. The king finds out by looking out his window And you know, he's not like this isn't like a peeping tom kind of thing. I think this the king had a place in the highest part of the town. And so he would oftentimes look through his window or maybe have his roof set up where he could walk out and survey the town, which is his capital, his royal city. And as he does this, notice what he sees He sees Isaac laughing with Rebekah. That is a very interesting translation of a very interesting verb that we've seen before. It's the verb laughing is so tied to Isaac's identity as a patriarch. You remember when God told Abraham, and then he told Sarah later, that they were going to have a son? They both had the same response in chapter 17. They laughed. And because they laughed, God says, You will name your son Isaac, which means laughter. Well here you see a guy whose name is laughter laughing with his wife. What is the nuance that is going on Well, I'm not going to get into the graphic details, but if you actually do a word study on that word in this context, it's got the nuance of he's he's caressing his wife. Some translations will use the word fondling his wife. They're making love. And Abimelech, without getting into all the details, sees this and he knows exactly what's going on. Wait a minute. She's not his sister. This is his wife. And you can imagine that he's upset And so he calls Isaac in, and he's in verse 9, and he says, Behold, she's your wife. How could you say she's my sister? Isaac reiterates the fear that we saw back in chapter 7, or I'm sorry, verse 7. He says, Because I thought lest I die because of her. And again, you can imagine Abelech's anger in verse 10 as he says, What is this you have done to us? One of the people might have easily lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us. In verse 11, he makes a law, essentially, saying, anyone who touches this man or his wife will be put to death. You know what is fascinating here? Isaac, being the covenant heir, being part of the people of God, and that community in relationship to God, is not as righteous as the Gentiles around him. That is really fascinating. In fact, the Gentiles have a greater sense of honor and duty and morality than even Isaac, the covenant heir. Now his his response as a king here is not out of the ordinary for that day and age. In fact, if you actually look at some of the the ancient law codes like the code of Hammurabi, for example You know, if if someone was found committing adultery and sleeping with another man's wife, the penalty was death. And this was among the pagan Gentiles. That's exactly what we see here. And so you see, it's not just the promises repeated to Isaac. It's the same fear that characterized his father among the Gentiles that is repeated by Isaac. But you also see in verses 12 through 16 the envy that is repeated. Take a look with me at verses 12 through 16. This is kind of an interesting. Scenario. So and Isaac sowed in that land and reaped in the same year a hundredfold. The Lord blessed him. And the man became rich and gained more and more until he became very wealthy. He had possessions of flocks and herds and many servants, so that the Philistines envied him. Okay, so what's the problem? Well, the problem here is the Philistines envy him. Why do they envy him? Because verse 12 tells us the Lord had blessed him. Now in this case, the blessing is very obvious. It's material wealth. And by the way, if you really stop and think about it, the fact that in verse 12 He sowed in the land and reaped in the same year a hundredfold. That is almost unheard of in that part of the world. That in and of itself demonstrates there is something supernatural and unusual going on with this man. in his accruing of wealth and the blessing that he has. This is not natural. In fact, I actually did some research into this. um in that kind of area of the world, uh Canaan, what is now like Lebanon and parts of Syria, you know, the greatest fruitfulness that farmers typically see in in the in the most unimaginable way is about 80% fruitfulness. The fact that this man is 100% fruitful here shows that God is at work in his life and through him. In verse 15, we see the outworking of that enmity, that envy, that strife. They stop up the wells. Now again, you have to understand that this is a very arid geographical area that we're talking about. I mean plants do not just grow easily there. And if you've got flocks and herds that are multiplying, you've got to you've got to get those those animals some water so that they don't die and you lose your wealth. And so what do they do in their envy? They they kind of make life difficult by taking the water away from him, by stopping up the wells. And on top of that, in verse 16, the king finally comes to Isaac and just simply says, You're mightier than us. Depart from us. Hmm. Well the question we have to ask, because he does depart from them, the question we have to ask As we look at all of this, taking a step back and thinking about applying it, how does God's reiterating of his promise point us to the gospel, which That word simply means good news. How does all this point to the gospel of Jesus Christ today? Well, I think it highlights this. The promise Points to the obedience of one securing the blessing for all and the promise of God's presence for his people as they live in this world. Now I really want to highlight the promise in the beginning of this section that God gave to him. That fundamental principle of One being obedient and blessing many that we see with Abraham here is a fundamental principle of the gospel. Think about it, just as Abraham was obedient to all of God's commands and statutes, and he used all those legal terms, but even before he received the law. Think about how much more Jesus Christ was obedience to the law of God fulfilling it And Jesus came at a time in history when he had all that six hundred and thirteen Mosaic commandments to fulfill perfectly. He did it better than Abraham. He was faithful. And as he lived his life perfectly, we call that his active obedience. Jesus Christ was actively obedient to the will of God. But then you think of passages like Philippians 2. 8 , being found in human form , he, being the Son of God, humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. That is what we call his passive obedience. So Jesus is obedient in a way that Abraham never was, to a degree that Abraham never was. to the commandments of God that Abraham never received, and he did that and through his obedience, the blessings of those covenant, of that covenant, the blessings that God has made in his promises passed on to those who are of the children of Abraham through faith in Jesus Christ. That little paradigm there that you see in verses four and five And our passage actually point us to the gospel of Jesus Christ very clearly And everything, if you can think of everything that that God had promised to give to Abraham or to Isaac, the promise of his presence, the promise of land. Now we don't have land in the same way, but we have an eternal inheritance. that has been promised to us. The promise of multiplied seed as we go out and make disciples of all nations and preach the gospel and see people come to Christ. God is faithful to his promises. We heard it this morning in Sunday school from our missionaries that we support that are serving in Indonesia. We heard it this morning in our ministry minute. Didn't we? God is being faithful to multiply the spiritual seed of his people. And the promise of blessing that goes out to the nations that attends that. But I want to highlight the promise of his presence this morning. He promised Isaac specifically that he would be present with him as he goes out and he lives in the world. And we saw that Isaac did that. He's living among Gentiles. Just like us, as believers, we are living in the midst of a world of unbelief. And you can imagine we're going to be in situations where there is fear, just like Isaac had fear for whatever reason, uncertainty. And yet in the midst of those, I want you guys this morning to take to the bank the spiritual promise that God is with you. Some of you have done things this week and you're wondering, is God really with me? He knows how I've sinned. If if people around me knew who uh how I've sinned this week, maybe they wouldn't really believe that God was with me. And maybe there's doubts that the devil is festering in your heart as to whether or not God is really with you and will bless you. We see from this passage, yes he is. Was Isaac perfect? No. Not by a long shot. And yet God has promised to be with him. And we see that. We see the beginnings of that in the way he blessed him. Which leads to our second point this morning in verses 17 through 25, the provision for fruitfulness. So it's not just a promise repeated now, it's the provision for fruitfulness. How do we see that work out? Well Kind of in an interesting way, there's disputes over the provision of water in this very arid area. Look at me in verses 17 through 20. You see the first dispute laid out for you. So he was asked to leave, he does in verse 17, he departs, and he encamps in the valley of Gerar and settled there. I'm assuming that just means he's left kind of where the city was at, and there's a valley that kind of stretches out, but that's where he finds himself. And in verse 18, and Isaac dug again the wells of water that had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, which the Philistines had stopped up after the death of Abraham. And he gave them names, the same names that his father had given them. But when Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of spring water. So there's a new well here. Verse 20, the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, The water is ours. So he called the name of the well Esek, because they contended with him Well once again I I I'm gonna just go back to that principle, like father, like son. We saw this already in Genesis chapter 13, when when the herdsmen of Abraham were quarreling with the herdsmen of Lot. Because the land could not sustain all of them and the wealth and the animals that they had. In this case, Isaac's servants find a well of spring water. Did you notice that wording there? At the end of verse 19, that word in Hebrew, actually, that phrase in Hebrew could literally be translated living water. In fact, that's really what it means. They found a well of living water. You're wondering , what is living water talking about there? Well, living water, it just simply means flowing water. So in other words, when they dug, they found a stream. They dug deep enough to find a stream flowing underground. And you can imagine if the water is moving underground, it's going to be cool, it's going to be really refreshing in that hot Desert, arid climate. This is going to be something that is to be desired and coveted by anyone who finds it. It's it's it's different from like a cistern, which is like a bowl that's just meant to collect rainwater, but once that water is in that bowl, it's just sitting there. And believe it or not, if you just let water sit long enough, it it really becomes kind of languid and nasty. So when it says living water that they find underground, this is something that is incredibly refreshing. And the herdsmen, of course, quarrel with Isaac. Now the verb for quarrel here, it doesn't mean they just, you know, show up and have an altercation. get into a verbal argument over whose water it is. That's not the idea. The verb for quarreled here refers to a legal dispute, a legal lawsuit. And so that's why Isaac names it Essech. The name of Esek just simply means contention. There was contention over this well. But you know it's kind of ironic to me and a little bit funny. They kick him out, right? He ends up leaving. He kind of concedes, okay, you can have the well. And yet he names it. Which is an action in the Bible of showing your dominion and your ownership over it. So he's not receiving it, but he's actually saying in a back-handed way by naming it, it really is mine. But take it. There's a second dispute in verse 21. It's the exact same dynamic. I won't go into all the same phases, uh stages there, but they named the second well sitna, which ends up meaning accusation. That name may sound familiar to you if you're listening carefully, Sitna. It's actually related to the same verb in Hebrew for accuse. Which is Satan, which is where we get the name Satan from. How about that? What you see here as they're accusing Isaac So this is a legal quarrel that has an accusation attached to it. What you're seeing is the hostility between the seed of the woman And the seed of the serpent that we saw all the way back in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, working itself out. These people are acting like Satan and acting like that because they are the children of Satan, essentially. But finally, there's some good news. In verse 22, there's the provision of water for fruitfulness. Look at verse 22. This is really kind of the linchpin of this section. And you see, as he moved from there and dug another well, and they did not quarrel over it. Well that's good news. So he called its name Rehoboth. That name should sound really familiar to you. There's a beach named after that, right? Rehoboth. Saying, For now the Lord has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. You know, Rehoboth just simply means a wide open space. No, I've never really been to that beach. Is that really true? Is it really wide open? I don't know. Maybe I'll go there sometime. I heard she's saying it's nice. It means a wide open space. And so the name again means something. And what the what's so important about the name? He names it Rehoboth because look what he says. For now the Lord has made room. It's the same verb. for us. And we shall be fruitful in the land. We've got water. We've got a well. Now we're going to be fruitful. The Lord has given us a place. And immediately after God provides that, in verses 23 through 25, he appears to Isaac once again, like he did in verse 2, and he reiterates his promise. Now I won't go over the promise because it's really the same promise as we saw in verses 3 through 5, but I want you to draw I want to draw your attention to the fact that it's interesting that in a world of disputes and legal accusations and contention, you can imagine how Isaac going through one of you know one of these experiences to the next would be very discouraged. He's got the promises of God, he's got the presence of God, he's got the blessing of God, and yet, in spite of all of that, that does not mean that his life is easy. His life is still hard. And he needs encouragement. So it's interesting to me that the Lord shows up right at the opportune moment when this man likely would have been discouraged and dejected, and he's getting encouragement from the Lord. So my question is, as we seek to apply this, second point, how does God's provision of water from the wells and his encouragement apply to us today as Christians in the 21st century? Well, I think the provision of water from the wells for fruitfulness points us to the need that we have for the Holy Spirit while we live in the world, who reminds us of the promises of God as we deal with hardship in real life. So if you were just listening, I said the provision of the Holy Spirit for fruitfulness, you're probably thinking to yourself. How are you drawing the connection from this to that? Really? Well, what I want to do is I want to draw a thematic connection for you. Bear with me as I draw that out. And I want to point first to John chapter four. If you remember, Jesus meets the Samaritan woman at the well in Sikar. Right. They have a discussion there, if you remember. I mean it's it's it's noon at that time when he shows up. It says that he's weary from his journey, so like Isaac, probably feeling the heat. And the need for water. He says to her in verse 10, or before verse 10, give me a drink. There's this discussion, like, who are you to tell me to give you a drink? You're a Jew, I'm a Samaritan, we have nothing to do with each other. And Jesus says in verse 10, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. There's that phrase again. The living water. Hmm. Well, what does Jesus mean by living water Well, if you fast forward to John chapter 7, verses 37 to 38, Jesus is at the Feast of Tabernacles, and he stands up in the temple on the great day of that feast, and he shouts out to the crowd, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water Verse 39 is the key. So what does he mean by living water? It says, now he said this about the spirit whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified. There's the connection of the dots for you. The water or the well and the living water underneath pointing forward to the gift that Jesus gives of the Holy Spirit as we live in the world among the Gentiles, dealing with the difficulties of everyday life. Just as Isaac knew that the wells were important for being fruitful in the land among the Philistines, which is why he named it Rehoboth. So also is the Holy Spirit important for us today if we are to be fruitful in the world that God has placed us in. And we cannot bear fruit without the Holy Spirit. This is why when you get to Galatians chapter 5, Verses 23 or 22 and 23, it says, Now the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things, there is no law. You cannot bear those fruits, brothers and sisters, without the Holy Spirit active and indwelling in your heart and life. The living water. And believe me, when you bear those fruits, it is refreshing to those around you. And so as we live in the world and dwelt by the Holy Spirit today It is the Spirit who reminds us of the promises of God during hardships. And I I love this. What's fascinating to me is about this narrative is the disputes over the well, they're not fair to Isaac But they are legal. Right? It was legal for these Philistines to do to him what they did. He's a foreigner. He doesn't have a right to the land. So if they come in and make claim, he has to concede that Now many of you today will experience things in the world, whether it's at work or among your friends and your family that may not be fair that you're dealing with it, but there's nothing illegal going on. And it's during these times of disputes and hardships in the world that you will be tempted to think that God is punishing you. That is that that is the temptation, isn't it? When life is not going our way, when it gets tough And we're in conflict with others, sometimes for things we've not done wrong. Sometimes because we're standing for the truth. And maybe your job is threatened because you won't go along with the program or your school. Or someone in your family doesn't treat you the right way, it's easy to think, take a step back and wonder: has God abandoned me? Did I do something wrong? Did I earn his punishment? You know, it's times like that that the indwelling Holy Spirit is so necessary because he reminds us and presses on our hearts in a new and fresh way that no, the promises of God still apply to you. He has not abandoned you. And how does he do that? If you go back to John chapter 14, 15 and 16, the upper room discourse Jesus makes a big deal in each of those chapters about the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our lives when he's gone after he ascends into heaven. And one of the things he says in John chapter 16 is very crucially important for us. He will come and glorify me. And so it's in those crucial moments that we are suffering, and maybe in dispute with people around us and being persecuted. And things aren't fair that the Holy Spirit will point us back to Jesus Christ and remind us, look to your Savior. He was falsely accused. He was persecuted. He was put through a mock and a sham trial that was quote-unquote legal but not fair. It really wasn't legal, by the way. I have to say that. But he was eventually crucified, and remember, God did not abandon him Right? Remember what the Psalm said? He will not abandon his holy one to undergo decay. He rose him from the dead and vindicated him. The Holy Spirit reminds us, brothers and sisters, of the precious promises of God, and He writes them on our hearts, and He reminds us that we are children of God, and that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Maybe you're in a situation this week or this coming week where you know there's going to be some conflict You know there's going to be a dispute. You know that you're going to have to take a stand for the gospel of Jesus Christ and what you believe in the face of a world that is hostile to what you believe. Here's something tangible you could do this week. You know, look at Romans chapter 8, verses 30 to 39. Spend some time in that this week. And be reminded from God's word and let the Holy Spirit work in your heart that there's nothing that can separate you from the love of Christ when you put your faith and trust in Him. That leads us to our third point this morning in verses 26 -35, the peace that is secured through the covenant. Once again, like father, like son, we've seen this before back in chapter 21. There's a request in verses 26 to 29 to make a covenant. Abimelech is the one who makes the request. He comes to Isaac because he recognizes that God has blessed him. Yes, this is the same man that told them, get out of here. You're too mighty for us. We don't want anything to do with you. Now they're coming to him. And Isaac gives a challenge in verse 27 that you would almost implicitly understand. He says to them, Why have you come to me, seeing that you hate me and have sent me away from you? It's a valid question. Well, look at their answer in verse 28. Well we see plainly that the Lord has been with you. So we said, let there be a sworn pact between us, between you and us, and let us make a covenant with you, that you will do us no harm, just as we have not touched you and have done you nothing but good. That's a lie. And sent you away in peace. Well, if you're going to make a covenant with someone, don't lie to them on the front end, but that is exactly what he just did, right? But notice what he says here. Let there be a sworn pact, let us make a covenant. And he repeats it twice there for emphasis. Why? Because we know you are blessed of the Lord. Now I don't think this is a new covenant. I personally think this is a renewal of the treaty that was made with probably this king's father or grandfather with Abraham back in chapter 21. But notice In both cases, it was the patriarchs who were sinned against as the covenant representatives. And in both cases With the request, it is the patriarchs who provide the means to establish the covenant. This is exactly what you see in verses 30 through 33 There's a ratification of this covenant look at verse 30. Look what Isaac does immediately in response. There's no real argument. So he made them a feast, and they ate and they drank. By the way, that was common when people would make a covenant at that time in history, usually these were political in nature, they would make a covenant between these two parties as partners, and they would have a feast. To commemorate what is happening. Jacob will do the same thing in Genesis 31 with Laban after he's been cheated and abused. God, believe it or not, will do this with Israel in Exodus 24. We know the covenant meal concept from the Lord's Supper today. But here's what's interesting to me. The Gentiles leave, having been brought into covenant relationship with Isaac, the covenant head, and that secures peace. Did you see how they left in verse 29? Sorry, not verse 29, verse 31. They departed in peace. They have a peace with Isaac secured by a covenant. And so again, the final application here is how does this covenant between Isaac and Abimelech point us to what we enjoy as Christians today? Well, this points us to the covenantal relationship that we have with Jesus Christ through faith in him. He is the heir of the patriarchs, and the covenant we have with him Secured through faith, secures our peace with God. How about that? We have peace with God because we are in covenant with him through Jesus Christ. Now just as Abimelech and his people effectively sinned against Isaac and then against Abraham before him, there was hostility between them. Well so we have also sinned against God and we've sinned against Christ today. And just as it took a covenant to secure peace Now this passage doesn't talk about it, but that covenant indicates and assumes that there was animals and blood that was spilled to establish it. Just as it took a covenant that shed blood to bring these two hostile parties together in peace. So it took the blood of Jesus Christ, God's only son, the heir of the patriarchs. to bring peace between us and God. That's the final covenant blessing I just wanted to highlight from this passage this morning. Some of you are walking around in your conscience struggling because you feel like you're at war with God for one thing or another that you've done And the good news for you this morning is you don't have to walk around like that. Because you have a covenant with your God through his son Jesus Christ, who shed his blood to pay for all of your sins. So that you might be brought into that covenant relationship and have peace with God. Amen indeed. Paul writes in Romans chapter 5 verse 1, Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, that just simply means we have been declared righteous, not because of what we've done in our good works, but because of faith Since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. He goes on in verses 10 and 11 of Romans 5, for while we were enemies, and yes, we were enemies with God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled by the death of his son, how much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life, because he's risen from the dead? More than that, we rejoice now in God through Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have now received reconciliation. And so the last bit of encouragement that comes out of our peace that we have with God that I wanted to share with you this morning comes from Paul in Philippians chapter 4, verses 5 through 7. He says, The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Are you struggling this morning, feeling like you're at war and enmity with God? Come to Christ! And you can have peace. And out of the peace that you have with your God, who you are once at enmity with , That peace flows out into other areas of your life. And as Paul says here, the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ. Christ Jesus. What blessings we have secured for us. It brings us back to our main point, doesn't it, as we close. The Lord safeguards his blessing by reiterating his promise to us, by providing all we need to be fruitful in the Holy Spirit. And by securing peace through the covenant that we have with him, by his grace, through faith in Christ. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you, and we have so much, O Lord, this morning to be thankful for. Lord, we just ask that you would take your word, that you would take the gospel, and that through the power of the Spirit, you would impress these truths, these comforts into our hearts and our minds and our lives this morning. Lord, for those that are struggling here this morning and in how they relate to you, Lord, I pray that you would reveal your Son to them and that they would see his kind and his loving face. In a passage like this, we ask that you would strengthen us, O Lord, for the week to come resting in you. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.