If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis. We mean Genesis 28 this morning. Verses 1 to 22, and I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. Like many of these passages, this will likely be a familiar one to many of you. But this is the reading of God's word. Then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and directed him, You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women. Arise, go to Padon Aram to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father, and take as your wife from there one of the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you that you may become a company of peoples. May he give the blessing of Abraham to you and to your offspring with you, that you may take possession of the land of your sojournings that God gave to Abraham. Thus Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Padon Aram, to Laban, the son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Padon Aram to take a wife from there, and that he blessed and that as he blessed him, he directed him, You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women. Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and gone to Padon Aram. So when Esau saw that the Canaanite women did not please Isaac his father, Esau went to Ishmael. And took as his wife, besides the wives he had, Mahaloth, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nabiaath. Jacob left Beersheba and went towards Haran, and he came to a certain place and stayed that night because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones of the place, he put it under his head and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold , There was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, the God of Abraham, your father, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie, I will give to you and to your offspring. Your offspring shall be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south And in you and your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go. and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, how awesome is this place? This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. So early in the morning, Jacob took the stone that he had put under his head and set it up for a pillar and poured oil on top of it. He called the name of that place Bethel. But the name of the city was loose at the first. Then Jacob made a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way. that I go and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God, and this stone which I have set up for a pillar shall be God's house. And all and of all that you give me, I will give a full tenth to you. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you to this passage, as I said a second ago, was likely familiar to many here. Lord, I pray that you would continue to open our eyes, open our ears, that we may see your son more clearly. That as his sheep, we would hear his voice clearly and recognize his voice and follow him. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name Well last week in chapter 27 we we really left this covenant family, Isaac, Rebecca, Jacob, and Esau. We left them at kind of a crisis point. If you remember, Jacob, who had previously manipulated his brother out of his birthright, has now stolen the blessing through deceit. With the help of his mother's cunning plan, of course, put into action. Isaac was deceived, Esau was deceived, and robbed. And you can imagine how, as we talked about at the end of the sermon last week, that left the relationships in this family in a disastrous state. And boy that's that's true of us today, isn't it? Many times our families are not as clean or nice as we we would want them to. Um things happen, like conflicts in families. People say things that are hurtful that leave scars. Divorces happen, uh parents separating, children making decisions uh that bring grief to their parents, and so on and so forth. And yet in the midst of it God shows up. And that's what we see in our passage today. At a time when you would really probably not expect God to show up and manifest Himself. And his goodness and his promises and the gospel, that is exactly what happens in chapter 28. In fact, if you're visiting with us this morning, you'll see in the bulletin Right after the liturgy, we always print the sermon idea in that bulletin. And so our idea that we're unpacking in Genesis 28 this morning is this. God's blessings relate to whom Christians choose to marry, that's where Jacob's at, and to God's continued presence in their lives to fulfill his promises to them. Now those may seem like really separated ideas there, but in Jacob's case, they are very intimately related. But that's the idea we're unpacking. God's blessings relate to whom Christians choose to marry and to God's continued presence in their lives to fulfill his promises to them. So our passage this morning breaks really into two main subpoints here. And the first one in verses 1 through 9 is this: God's blessing and the choice for marriage. Now remember, Jacob is now in possession of the birthright as the firstborn, having manipulated Esau with the stew back in Genesis 25, verses 29 to 34. But now he is in possession of the blessing as we saw last week in Genesis 27. But there's one obstacle if you're really paying careful attention to what God's promises to him are. There's one obstacle that remains. uh for Jacob and it is the fact that he needs a wife. Jacob needs a wife. Why does he need a wife? Well If those passages, if those promises that we've seen over and over again are going to pass to the next generation, a wife is going to help Jacob reproduce the heirs of the covenant that God made with Abraham. And so this first point here deals with the choice of a wife for Jacob. And this this this point breaks down into two further points. First we look at Jacob and the instruction that Isaac gave to him. And then secondly we want to look at Esau's response in verses 6 Through nine. So we begin with God's blessing and Jacob's choice for marriage. Now again, he's deceived his brother. And you can imagine the hatred that Esau has for Jacob having been deceived out of his birthright and his blessing. Remember at the end of the passage last week we saw that Esau was harboring a hatred to kill Jacob. That was the plan. When my father dies and the period of mourning is over, I'm going to kill Jacob for what he's done. Simple as that. It's a resolve. And in light of all that turmoil, we see Isaac's instruction to Jacob in verses 1 and 2. He tells him very clearly, you shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan. Rise up, go to Padon Aram to the house of Bethuel your mother's father Take for yourself from there a wife from the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. Now that may seem strange to us, marrying a cousin like that, but you you'll remember if you go back to Genesis 24, this is exactly what Abraham had told his chief servant over his whole household to go do. He said, Do not take from the daughters of the land, from the Canaanites, a wife for my son Isaac Rather, go back to my family up in Haran in Mesopotamia and secure a wife for my son Isaac from there. We see the same repetition, the same pattern from father to son in this passage. He instructs Jacob to go to the same exact place in Mesopotamia where his wife was found. And so, like Isaac, Jacob's not to take a wife from the Canaanites. Why? Well, we saw this again in chapter 24. The Canaanites are not part of the covenant people of God. You go back even further to Genesis chapter 9, verse 25 to 27. You'll remember right after the flood Noah, God through Noah really, cursed Canaan for the sin of his father Ham. Remember that? Curse thee, Canaan. A servant of servants he shall be to his brothers. We see God reiterating back in Genesis 15, 6 when he cut the covenant with Abraham with the pieces of the animals. In Genesis 15, 6, he tells them, Your your descendants are going to go down to another another foreign land, they're going to be enslaved there and serve for 400 years. Then I will bring them up in the fourth generation. Why? For the sin of the Amorite is not yet complete. The Amorite being a catch-all phrase or term for Canaanites. These Canaanites are described as sinful people. They are outside of the covenant. They're under the curse. And as the heir of the covenant who will receive God's blessing, Jacob cannot be yoked in a one-flesh union with someone who's under the curse and judgment, coming judgment of God. And so Isaac not only instructs Jacob in verses one to two, he blesses him again in verses three and four. Now, those two verses give a summary of the blessings, and we've seen this repeatedly with Abraham and Isaac already. Very, very briefly, we see first, God promises that he will multiply Jacob's seed into a congregation of peoples. Did you see that? The ESV translates that a company of peoples, but it's the idea of a multitude of peoples will come from him. That's his blessing. And what's interesting to me is Isaac uses the term El-Shaddai, God Almighty in verse 3. And the last time that we saw that was back in Genesis 17, when God was making the same promise to Jacob's grandfather Abraham, I am God Almighty. Jacob has no wife, he's got no children yet, and yet God is mighty to provide all of the things to fulfill his promises in this covenant. So first , I will multiply you. Second, he promises the land, the land of Canaan. Third, he tells Jacob, you will receive the blessing of Abraham. Now I'm not going to comment on that right now because we'll comment on that later. It gets detailed in the passage as we go on. So what does Jacob do? Verse 5. He goes to Haran as Isaac his father instructed. Now one of the things that is really fascinating is a detail that is so easy to miss. Look at the end of verse 5. It gives two names, Jacob's and Esau's mother. The real focus is he's going to Laban, his mother's brother, but it says Jacob and Esau's mother. Notice the order of the words there. Jacob comes first, even though he's not the firstborn, but he's listed first to make clear that the blessing goes with him. And it's strange because as Jacob leaves for Haran, you would expect the blessing to stay with Isaac and Rebekah, and yet the blessing goes with Jacob. We'll unpack that more in our second point, but I want you to pay attention to verses 6 through 9 because you see God's blessing and the contrast of Esau's choice for marriage. Now let's just kind of plot this in their lifespan here. Jacob and Esau are a little over 40 years old at this point. And this is a contrast here, because when you go back to Genesis 26, verses 34 and 35, you will notice that when Esau was forty, he took two wives for himself. for himself from among the Hittites. That's a strange thing to do, and that tells you a little bit about his character. The last time we saw a man take two wives was Lamech back in chapter four from the line of Cain. This kind of tells you spiritually where this man's heart is at as he he takes two wives Not just two wives in a polygamous way, but two wives from the Canaanite nations, namely two Hittite women, two unbelieving women. As if one is not enough to satisfy the lust and the desire of his flesh, he's got to have two. And yet we see here in verses six through eight. These Canaanite women did not please his father, and he saw that very clearly. In fact, you could translate that they were bad or they were evil in the eyes of Isaac his father There's something about their character. It's not just that Isaac subjectively is not pleased with them or he has the problem. This is more objective than that. There is something wrong with these women that Isaac sees in their character. They are evil or they are bad, and yet these are the wives of Esau. So what does he do as a solution? He sees his brother Jacob going to Haran to secure a wife. And notice how Isaac said that. A wife, not wives. We'll see the problem with that in a few weeks. What's Esau's solution here in verse 9? Esau went to Ishmael and took as his wife besides the wives that he had, Mahaloth, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nobiah. Now here's the question you want to ask yourself. Why do you think Esau would want to do this? I mean he's already a polygamist, if that's not bad enough. And now he's going to go and complicate things even further than this. Let me tell you what I think was going through his mind. Okay? This is my opinion, but it's not only my opinion. Some commentators have the same idea, but I think it makes a lot of sense. Isaac his father says, go to your mother's brother's house and take a wife from among his daughters. Well, it would logically make sense that he would say, well, if he's going to mom 's side of the family, I'm I'll go to dad's side of the family. So what does he do? He goes to his father's brother and takes one of his daughters as his third wife. And somehow in his mind, I would you you have to think, put yourself in Esau's shoes. You know, his father loves him. He sees that he has let his father down in his choice of wife, and he's trying to fix this problem. He's trying to fix the the the complication in his family's life that has caused a lot of tension. Well, maybe if I go to Dad's brother, my uncle, and I f I find one of his daughters pleasing to me, I'll marry her, and maybe that will please my father Isaac. It's gotta, in my opinion, that's gotta be what's going on in his mind. It makes sense, but it doesn't really fix the problem. Why The problem with his decision is that Ishmael was separated from the household of Abraham all the way back in chapter 21. Do you remember when Isaac was weaned years before this? Ishmael, being 13 years old, was mocking Isaac, and the New Testament, Paul, uh, interprets that as persecuting Isaac. And Sarah gets upset and they have to send Hagar and Ishmael away. Why? Well, it's not only the persecution, it was the fact that Ishmael was not the child of promise within the covenant. Ishmael was the child of the flesh. So by jo Esau, by joining himself to the household of Ishmael, by marrying uh his daughter, this woman named Mahalath. Esau is making yet another declaration that he is a man after gratifying the desires of his own flesh. That's a really interesting contrast to Jacob. Jacob has no idea who these women are that he's going to find in Haran, but he's obedient. to his father. He doesn't take matters into his own hands. He's obedient. Esau does. He continues to take matters into his own hands. So the question is, by way of application, how does the contrast between Jacob and Esau and their selection of wives apply to Christians in covenant with God today? That's a very practical question. Christians today are to put the Lord at the center of their choice of a spouse as well as within their marriages. So notice I probably didn't word that too well, but there's kind of two application ideas there. If you're not married, your choice of a spouse as you look forward to that should have the Lord at the center. If you are married Christ, God, the Lord, should be at the center of your existing marriage. So what do you think about that? The centrality of God in Christ in the covenant of marriage. I'm going to try not to reiterate every single thing I said in chapter 24 because there is a lot of carryover in the application, but let's look at and comment briefly on some points that we see here. And I'll do two. This one's familiar. Believers are not to marry unbelievers. Christians are not to marry non -Christians. And as simple as that principle is to hear and to maybe just say, oh yeah, yeah, yeah I've seen so much concession and compromise in this respect throughout the 20 years I've been in ministry. Many times people struggle looking more like Esau in their choices than Jacob And the problem with dating or marrying an unbeliever, a non-Christian, is that their core fundamental priorities are not on the same page as believers. Like if you're here this morning, just to give an example, and you're exploring the possibility of marriage with someone, like some some someone concrete in mind, you're in a relationship, whether it's dating or courtship or whatever you want to call it Then the implication of this passage is for you to dig into the spiritual priorities of the person you are with. There are some things you should not let a prospective spouse get away with. Such as don't let them get away with telling you simply That they believe in God in a generic sense. I've had to do some counseling um within the last year with a young lady that I know that um has been married for some time now, but I remember when when she brought this guy around to meet um me and several of the friends that were close to her back in Illinois. Um, you know, this guy said he believed in God and and and I I always had a um I always had a weird feeling about him. Now he is a nice guy and he's been faithful to her and takes care of her, but in some of the little nitty-gritty problems that they've run into in their marriage that me and others have walked with them through What it really came down to was when they were dating, he told her that she believed in God, and in her mind that was enough. That made him a Christian. Only to find out painfully later in some some situations in their marriage that no, he's actually not a Christian. And because he's not a Christian He does not think exactly the same way and prioritize the same things as she does. Don't let them get away with simply telling you that they identify as a Christian in our day and age, to use the terms today. There's a lot of people out there, brothers and sisters, who say that they are Christians who are not. You want to ensure yourself by looking into their lives and seeing their actions and their decisions and understanding what those things reveal about their character. There's a lot of things you want to know about someone before you marry them that strikes at the core of their values and whether or not they are truly walking with Christ. Like what kind of compromises are they willing to make sexually before marriage? That's a big red flag. How do they view money? How do they view money? How do they view membership and commitment to the local church? If they're not willing to commit to a local church in membership and plant themselves in a family of believers, you better believe they're going to have a hard time. Staying planted in a marriage. Staying committed there. There's a lot of things. You want to ask them, what's the gospel? How did you come to know Christ? Are you willing to share with me your testimony? About how the Lord drew you to himself. Those are things that any prospective spouse that you might want to marry should have no problem talking about and ask and answering. Because if you don't properly vet someone you might that you might marry, it can lead to a bitterness in the lives of the rest of your family and in your own life. And the person will not be a blessing to your family as God intended. Isn't that the problem that Esau had? His wives were not a blessing to the covenant family that he was a part of. Why? Because he went after the flesh. And that leads to the second kind of application point here. Believers are to value faithfulness to the Lord in marriage over what they may want. in their flesh. Now my opinion, I think that's probably the more difficult part of this application. Because it means that you need to subjectively search your own motives for what wanting to pursue a specific person potentially in marriage. It's asking yourself, why do I want to marry that person? Now let me make a few things clear. It is not wrong to say that you feel like you love them, and that's why you want to marry them. It is not wrong to say, um, well, I want to be happy. It is not wrong to say because I'm attracted to them Most things aren't wrong. But the question you have to ask yourself is where does the glory of God factor into your decision? And this is something, in my opinion, I think you should be asking yourself, especially those of you who are younger who are not yet married. Whether you're a teenager and you're thinking and looking forward to that or you're a young adult. Or maybe you had a biblical divorce, but you hope to get married again someday. But I think that these are also principles that you as parents And grandparents are in a position to speak into the lives of your children and grandchildren when God presents the opportunity. Because the covenant of marriage, as we all know, is one of the most important decisions you will make in your life. And the way you make that decision, the way you pursue that, says a lot about your relationship and covenant with God through Christ. But it's with the glory of God factoring into a decision like that that drives our passage forward. Our second point in verses 10 through 22. Jacob is on his way to Haran, and we see God's blessing, his presence, and the gospel unfold before us as he goes to seek a bride. Now, I want you to take a look at this in verses 10 through 17. You see God's blessing in the form of Jacob's dream. Now, this is really interesting because it is on this journey that Jacob has his very first religious experience and God's self-revelation of himself to Jacob. God reveals himself by means of a dream, and again, just like the last section, this section breaks it down into two sections further. The first is looking at the dream itself, and then secondly at the end, Jacob's response to the dream. Let's take a look at the dream. Look at me at verses 10 through 17. I want to look at this dream and some of its component parts. Look at verse 12. Let's camp out there for just a moment. 12 sums it up and says this, and he dreamed, and behold, there was a ladder set up on the earth. And the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. That's really the sum and substance of his dream right there. This is what he sees. If you want to say experiences, fine, but that's what he sees. Now, a little bit of background may help us understand this. In verse 11, Jacob is in a town or outside of a city. It's nighttime, and he's using stones as a pillow. And remember, where is he going? To Mesopotamia. where his extended family is at. Now, I think that's those details are important because when when you see that term ladder in the text This is not a ladder like most of us would think today. I mean if we were to there's a door right here, if you were to walk in that hallway behind there, I think there's a ladder. you know, against the wall, like laying down. It's not like a piece of wood with with just, you know, some steps here and there, and that's it. The word for ladder that's used in Hebrew, it's not a bad translation, but I think it's more than that. It has more to do with a stairway. And the stairway that I think that's in mind here is in Mesopotamia, they didn't call them pyramids, they called them ziggurats. It's kind of the same shape as a pyramid, but on the side of these ziggurats, as archaeologists have uncovered many of them, we can see there are staircases like on the side of them, sometimes on two sides. where priests and worshippers can go up and down this temple. That's the idea here that I think Jacob is seeing. He's on his way to Mesopotamia. He would have known what a ziggurat was. He's dreaming and he sees this temple structure that has a staircase going up to heaven. Now, in Mesopotamian thought, it was understood that they were These ziggurats were kind of like shaped like a mountain because mountains are where God meets his people, or the gods meet their people, right? And they go up there, and it's kind of understood that as they're worshiping at the top of the ziggurat, the God will come down and meet with them and fellowship with them and in some cases give them instructions. And so as Jacob dreams this dream, he sees these steps, likely on the side of a temple or a ziggurat. And angels are ascending and descending. They're going up and they're going down. Now what's fascinating about verse 13 is he sees God himself standing at the top of it. Hmm. Well, the Lord interprets the dream for us in verses 13 through 15. He identifies himself as the God of his fathers, Abraham and Isaac. Why is that important? That's important because as the first religious experience that Jacob has had individually and subjectively himself We know that he has not yet made the God of his fathers his own God yet. I mean, God has revealed himself multiple times to Abraham. A few times to Isaac back in chapter 26. But Jacob has never had this experience before And so God has to identify Himself. I am the God of Abraham, your father, and the God of Isaac. And again, there are three things that he reiterates that are important. as he undertakes his journey to Mesopotamia. The first, he reiterates the promise to Jacob that he already received from his father, that the land would be his. That's what we see in verses 13 through 15. Particularly verse 13. The land will be yours. Notice when he says, look in all four directions. Look to the north, the south, the east, and the west. That's not just a rhetorical device. Where Jacob is geographically located that very night as he's having that dream, we will see in a moment, is Bethel. And if you look at a map of the ancient uh Near East and Israel in particular Bethel is smack dab in the middle of the promised land. And so from the vantage point of the middle, he's saying, look around you, every direction that will be yours. I'm giving that to you. I promised it to Abraham. You will get it. And even though he's leaving the land of promise for the land of Mesopotamia, God promises to bring him back to the land of promise. Secondly, once again, he reiterates the promise to multiply his offspring more than the dust of the earth. What an interesting analogy there. I mean who can really count the dust, right? But the word offspring remember has translated seed. What he's essentially telling him is that Jake, the seed of the woman, which we saw back in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, is going to come through Jacob's line. And it will be through that one seed, and this is again a repetition in verse 14, that all the nations of the earth will be blessed in his seed. Thirdly, he promises his presence with Jacob. You've got to imagine how important that was. For Jacob to hear. It's understood that God, the God of Abraham and Isaac, would be present with them in the land that he promised them, but what about if they leave that land? And go to say pagan Mesopotamia. No, Jacob, I will still be with you when you leave. Still be with you. What's Jacob's response in verses 18 to 22? Well, twofold, really. You notice he takes the stones that he was laying on and he makes a pillar out of that. That was a religious thing that people would do in the ancient Near East, but he renames the place Bethel. Which literally means the house of God in Hebrew. Now Bethel will become a religious Place in Israel's history later in their later down the line, but it all begins here. Bethel, the house of God. Secondly, this is interesting. He makes a vow. And this vow is really important for us to pay attention to. If God provides for him in Mesopotamia all that he needs and brings him back to his father's house in the land of promise, notice what he says. Then the Lord will be my God. So it's a lot like the covenant promise that God made to Abraham. Again, back in Genesis 17 , I will be their God, and they will be my people. And on the surface, it sounds like Jacob is confessing his faith in this covenant God. It's like he's coming to faith in Yahweh. Well, not quite. You have to understand the conditions that he puts on that. If God will do this and do this and bring me back, then Then I will trust him. Then I will believe him. Then I will claim him as my own God. So is he a believer here? He's almost, but he's not quite a true believer. He knows the truth. He knows the promises. Time will tell if he will really give his life to this covenant God. And so now we have to turn and apply this to ourselves. How does Jacob's dream point us to Jesus Christ in the gospel today? Well, I think it's probably simpler than you think. Jesus Christ himself is the ladder between heaven and earth. who brings the blessing of Abraham to all the families of the earth, and it is in him in whom we are called to put our faith. Isn't it amazing I see the gospel of this summarized right there in this pass Old Testament passage? Jesus Christ is the latter This is where our application has to begin. We have to clarify our vision and view of Jesus Christ as the substance of this passage. This is why our our our New Testament reading earlier in the service had to do with John chapter 1, because you remember how that ended in verse 51. Jesus alludes to this passage, applying it to himself. Remember when he was calling his first disciples, Nathaniel made a profession of faith that Jesus was the Son of God and the King of Israel that the Jews are waiting for? And he said this because Jesus saw him under a fig tree. Doesn't sound all that spectacular, if you ask me, but he was pretty impressed. And in response to this, probably Jesus thinks more like us today, where we're like, that's not really a spectacular reason to put your faith in him. Jesus is like in verse fifty one, you know, or fifty fifty. Do you really believe because I said I saw you under a tree? Then he says in fifty-one, Truly, truly I say to you, you will see heaven opened. And the angels ascending and descending on the Son of Man. Now I want you to remember the latter was a temple complex that had a staircase. Connecting heaven and earth in that Old Testament context. There is a theological point that the gospel makes Christ himself in his incarnation, when the Son of God, eternally begotten, took on human flesh, he became a temple. How do I know that? Well, a few reasons. Remember what Jesus what John says in John 1. 14? And the word was made flesh and dwelt or tabernacled among us? You get to chapter 2, Jesus says, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Took 46 years to build that temple. You think you're going to raise it in three days? Remember John's comment in verse 21 of chapter 2? But he was talking about the temple of his body. All the things that men would put their trust in in the Old Testament, like temples, where they assumed God's presence would be. Came among us in the person and the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. God the Father stands in heaven calling all to himself Remember what Jesus said in John chapter 3? Talks about just as Moses lifted the serpent In the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up. Why? So that all who come to faith in him might be saved. You can carry that temple theme a little further. In John 14, 1 through 3, Jesus says that he goes back to the Father and He will prepare a place or a house for us. And then after saying that, and this really strikes at the meaning of that stairway that Jacob saw, that ladder, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus is that ladder connecting God in heaven who stands inviting all to come to Him and be saved that come through Christ. But moreover, we see that Jesus is also the seed through whom all the families of the earth are blessed That concept, that statement, that promise is being reiterated over and over and over again in Genesis because of how centrally important it is to the message of the gospel. The Apostle Paul says of the gospel in Galatians 3, 7-8, Know then that it is those who are of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. We could also say that it preached the gospel to Jacob in the same exact way. And so not only is Jesus Christ the latter through whom we must come to the Father who stands in heaven inviting us. He has already fulfilled the promise of bringing the blessing of forgiveness of sins, the blessing of eternal life to those who come to him in faith. And boy, that leads us to really the driving application here. The last thing I'm going to say is there is a call to faith that must make a claim on these promises. That's what this passage drives us to. Why? Because just as Jacob understood that the promises, he understood the promises, but those promises had not yet come to fruition Leading to him saying, Well, until these things happen, and if they happen, then I will make the Lord my God, or come to faith in him. There are many people like that today with that same mindset. They hear the promises. They might even have a rational cognitive understanding of what those promises are and how forgiveness of sins works. in Christ. But we don't have the same excuse as Jacob has. Jacob was willing to wait before committing himself to the Lord because he wanted to see if the promises would be fulfilled. We're not in that same boat. The promises have been fulfilled in Christ. Which means you have to ask yourself: if you have not come to Christ, what holds you back? Are you waiting for him to do something when he's already done everything in his son? So the application is for us to come to Christ. If you already have come to Christ, the application still applies. Because what do we do here on Sunday mornings? Have you ever thought about that? Sunday mornings, when we're here in God's presence, we hear from his word, we pour out our praises and our worship to him. And our prayers. Every single week, brothers and sisters, we are renewing our covenant with the Lord through Jesus Christ. So what a beautiful application. Coming to Christ. Whether we've done so. Doing so every week, or whether we have never done so, and coming for the first time. The Lord stands at the top of the ladder and says, Come, will you come to Christ? And submit yourself to him. Really brings us back to our main point, doesn't it? Because where's Jacob going as he sees this? He's going to find a wife. God's blessings relate to whom Christians choose to marry, as well as to God's continued presence in their lives to fulfill his promises to them. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are thankful, O Lord, for all that you do and all that you have done, Lord Jesus, to fulfill the promises of your Father on behalf of your people. Lord, that we might you might be our God and that we might be your people. We pray, Lord, this morning that you would help us to take tremendous comfort in that reality this morning. Lord, we ask this in the morning.