If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them as we stand together in honor of the reading of God's Word, and we turn to Genesis 34. Verses one to thirty-one, Genesis thirty-four, one to thirty -one. Now Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to see the women of the land. And when Shechem, the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, He seized her and lay with her and humiliated her. And his soul was drawn to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. He loved the young woman and spoke tenderly to her So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, Get me this girl for my wife. Now Jacob heard that he had defiled his daughter Dinah. But his sons were with his livestock in the field, so Jacob held his peace until they came home. And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him. The sons of Jacob had come in from the field as soon as they heard of it, and the men were indignant and very angry, because he had done an outrageous thing in Israel by lying with Jacob's daughter. For such a thing must not be done. But Hamor spoke with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter Please give her to him to be his wife. Make marriages with us. Give your daughters to us and take our daughters for yourselves You shall dwell with us, and the land shall be open to you. Dwell and trade in it and get property in it. Shechem also said to his to her father and to her brothers, Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you say to me I will give. Ask for me ask me for as great a bride price And gift as you will, and I will give whatever you say to me. Only give me the young woman to be my wife The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully, because he had defiled their sister Dinah. They said to him, We cannot do this thing to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us. Only on this condition will we agree with you, that you will become as we are by every male among you being circumcised. Then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to ourselves, and we will dwell with you and become one people. But if you will not listen to us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and we will be gone. Their words pleased Hamor and Hamor's son Shechem. And the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he delighted in Jacob's daughter. Now he was the most honored of all his father's house. So Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city and spoke to the men of their city, saying, These men are at peace with us. Let them dwell in the land and trade in it, for behold, the land is large enough for them. Let us take their daughters as wives, and let us give them our daughters. Only on this condition will the men agree to dwell with us to become one people. When every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised. Will not their livestock, their property, and all their beasts be ours? Only let us agree with them, and they will dwell with us. And all who went out of the gate of the city listened to Hamor and his son Shechem. And every male was circumcised, all who went out to the gate of his city. On the third day, when they were sore, two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, took their swords and came against the city while it felt secure, and killed all the males. They killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went away. The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and plundered the city because they had defiled their sister. They took their flocks and their herds and their donkeys, and whatever else was in the city in the field All their wealth, all their little ones, and their wives, all that was in the houses, they captured and plundered. Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have brought trouble on me by making me stink to the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites and the Perizzites. My numbers are few, and if they gather themselves against me and attack me, I shall be destroyed, both I and my household. But they said , Should he treat our sister like a prostitute? Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you. With this passage ahead of us, and we ask and pray, O Lord, that you would open our eyes and help us to see what it is that you have for us this morning in this passage. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. There are several historical events recorded in the Old Testament in which God's word simply tells us the story. with little comments, leaving us to wrestle with the moral and the ethical ambiguities that it brings. Our passage this morning is one of those historical narratives. I'm not lying, when I went to prepare this, started to prepare this two weeks ago. and started reading through it, I thought to myself, oh dear, what am I supposed to do with that? Am I supposed to get up and tell people, gird up their loins, let's go kill some Shechemites? No, I that really I don't believe is the intention that God had in revealing this. Um But this do this passage does bring a lot of detail, a lot of nuance, some moral ambiguities that we're going to have to be left to wrestle with this morning. And so what I want to do is jump right into the story. Let's sift through some of the details to the best of our ability and draw what conclusions and applications that we can Together. So jumping in, I want us to look at first the danger that comes without the Lord. Now the best way to work through any story, whether it's a difficult story or an easy story is to look at the the details and just make some general observations. And that's what we want to do, looking at the context. Now, we weren't here last week because of inclement weather, but a couple of weeks ago when we were last here, we saw that Jacob had finally come to the land of Canaan. He finally got peace with his brother Esau, and he is now dwelling securely in the land outside of a town called Shechem. We saw At the end of our last passage, he bought a piece of land and pitched his tent outside of that city. Now, when you look at the context that comes immediately before this passage, look at the last verse of chapter 33, namely verse 20. There, he, being Jacob, erected an altar and called it El Elohe Yisrael. What you have there is a reference to Jacob essentially claiming that plot of land for the glory and the worship of the God of Israel, the covenant God that he was in relationship with now by faith. But notice you have that mention there of the God of Israel. Now, fast forward, let's take a look at the first verse of chapter 35, immediately after our passage. God said to Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. I'll go ahead and stop there. What you have there is God speaking to Jacob. Now I I think that that's pretty clear, but if you carefully read the passage in the middle, which we just read, chapter 34. Well you will find there is not a single mention generically of God, the Hebrew word Elohim, or specifically the divine covenant name of God, Yahweh There is no mention of God at all whatsoever in the narrative of chapter 34, which is Incredibly fascinating. There are passages like that in Scripture. I mean the whole book of Esther doesn't mention God once, and yet we know God is working in the background of that. We see here a passage With all these moral ambiguities, strange things that happen, moral question questionably moral things, and yet what we find is God is absent. And I think that's the point of that observation this morning that I want to draw to your attention. The point of this observation is that in such a morally scandalous And in some ways, there are some moral ambiguities here. The Lord is not mentioned once. What's Why do I bring that point to bear? It should not surprise us that without the Lord, all kinds of scandal and all kinds of sin abound as we see in this story. That God appears on the surface. Well, that leads us to looking at verse one. We see the danger of being enamored with the world. Look at verse 1. This is where the story really begins. Now, Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, as you remember, went out to see the women of the land. Now that's a strange, that's a strange statement, and it's easy to just read through it and miss the point. This is no ordinary excursion on her part. And again, if you're a careful reader, you're going to be left asking the question as to why does Dinah want to go out into the city? Well the passage tells you what her purpose is. To see the women of the land. Okay, well what does that mean? Let's flesh that out just a little bit. Well, the idea was likely that she was looking to learn about the culture, the customs, the manners, and the values of the women of the land. In other words, there was something about these people that she's dwelling among that enamors her. And as a daughter of Israel living outside of the city, You know, how many of us just really want to fit in and get along with everyone else around us? I think that's what's driving her here. There's something about the customs and the lifestyle of the world around her that is just fascinating to her. The glitz and the glitter of city life. And metropolitanism is attracting her. Now, this would have resonated with the original Israelite audience. that heard the story because how many times throughout the law and then throughout the narratives of the Old Testament and then the prophets are God's people warned over and over again not to learn the ways and the practices. of the nations around them. I think that this story, right from verse 1, is designed to function as a warning to that end. Well, you get to verses 2 through 4. It's not just that she's enamored with the world and there being danger, and there now there's the danger of intermarriage with the nations. Look at verse verses two through four. This is where really um the drama begins and gets complex when Shechem, the son of Hamor, the Hivite. The prince of the land saw her, he seized her, and he lay with her, and humiliated her And his soul was drawn to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. He loved the young woman and spoke tenderly to her. So Shechem spoke to his father, Hamor, get this girl for my wife. We see in verse 2 clearly the danger of rape. Notice the progression of verbs, I think, are pretty self-explanatory. He saw By the way, that's very similar to the original sin in the garden. Remember that? The woman saw the fruit. In other words, the desire started with what's Coming in through her eyes. Same thing here. He sees something beautiful. He sees a young lady. He saw, but he doesn't just stop there. He seized her. He lay with her and he humiliated her. That's a pretty rapid progression of verbs all in one verse. But then you see the danger of his desire unfold even further as if rape isn't dangerous enough. It is. And it's horrible, yet it goes further. And this is what complicates, there's a complicated uh nuance to this rape. And it's the feelings that result in his heart that he develops for darna afterwards. Now you think about that. Those are not the normal feelings of rape, typically. These are the same verbs, by the way, of what he did to her that were used in 2 Samuel 13. If you remember that story, David's son Amnon raped his half-sister Tamar. Remember that story? He was enamored with her, and it talks about this great love that he felt for her, by the way, indicating that your emotions can really lead you astray. They're not the proper mooring for these things. And what did he do? He ends up tricking her. He rapes his sister. And then it's pretty um descriptive in what it says after what happened afterwards. It says that his hatred for his sister Tamar was greater than the quote-unquote love that he felt for her before the rape. This is really different though. Because notice what it says. It says, his soul was drawn to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. By the way, when it says his soul was drawn to Dinah, that's the same verb the the verb drawn to is the same verb that's used in In Genesis chapter 2, verse 24, when it says that a man will leave his father and will cling to or hold fast to his wife. Something happened in the heart of this man that despite what he did, which was horrible, in raping this girl, the the consequence was a one-flesh union. Of course, not just in the body, but deep down in the soul. And that one flesh union, which I'm assuming maybe he didn't expect to happen. Leads to this demand that he gives to his father in verse 4. And you've got to hear the brazenness in this statement. He tells his father, Get this girl for my wife. Again, it's the same s it's the same demand, it's the same exact wording that is used later In uh uh uh Judges chapter 14, when Samson sees the young Philistine girl down in Timnah, and he goes up to his father, Manoah, and he says, She is pleasing in my sight. Get her for me as a wife. Once again, like Shechem, being judged and ruled by what he sees with his eyes. This is a brazen man. But notice it brings with it the danger of intermarriage with the nations. Because Dinah is not just one woman, although she is, she's representative of women in Israel who are called to be set apart. So I do want to take a step back as we look at this story, at least right from the beginning here, and try to seek to apply this as best as we can. And here's my stab at this. Living in a secular society, we have the same dangers of being without God and enamored with the world. How about that? The danger of being enamored with the world comes when the Lord is absent from our lives. By the way, that's I believe this passage leaves us with the same warning that it left the Israelites in the ancient world. And it presents Several diagnostic questions. Well, let me give you just one that we can ask ourselves this morning. Are we enamored with the world like Dino was, enticed by what it offers? I think that's a really valid question for us to ask this morning. I do think it's interesting that when Israel was about to go into the land, In Deuteronomy, I believe it's chapter 8, what you find is this incredible warning of God telling the people, you're going to go into this land, you're going to get Fields that you didn't sow and plant. You're gonna get vineyards and and olive trees and groves and you're gonna get houses that you didn't build and cities that you didn't build. And all kinds of goods and riches and wealth that you didn't work for are going to be given to you, Israel. But once you get in the land and you get all this prosperous wealth and material blessings Don't forget the Lord your God. In other words, don't be enamored with what the world offers you, even though some of those things ended up being God's blessing for them to the detriment of forgetting the Lord who gave it. This is why we read earlier from 1 John 2 Verses fifteen through seventeen. That was only part of what we read, but that's why we read it. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, and the pride in possessions, is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. And so that's a di interesting diagnostic question, isn't it? When we look at the the the observation that God is not mentioned in this passage. He seems to be absent on the surface. The question becomes, when God seems absent from your life and the world around you looks really enticing , are you drawn more to that? Or are you still looking for the Lord who promised to be with you? And that leads to here the danger of intermarriage with unbelievers. And this is not the first time. that we heard about this danger from the book of Genesis, and sadly it will not be the last time we hear this either This issue was so important that God warned the ancient Israelites in Deuteronomy 7, verses 1 through 5, not to intermarry with the inhabitants of the land. Now I want you to understand that prohibition is not racial or ethnic. It's not because, oh, don't marry those dirty Canaanites simply because they're Canaanites. That's not the idea. You read that Deuteronomy 7 passage and God gives you the reason. The reason is if you take their daughters for your sons. And you give your daughters to their sons and so on and so forth, and you intermarry with them, those unbelieving spouses will draw your children away from me. That's the idea, and lead them into idolatry with other gods. By the way, the same danger appears to Christians living in the world today, doesn't it? It really does. But at the end of the day, verses 1 through 4 brings us to the first point, the danger of forgetting the Lord. The danger of forgetting the Lord. But the story goes on. It's not just this danger of forgetting the Lord. When the Lord is forgotten, things get worse. They spiral out of control. We see in verses 5 through 12, the proposal of assimilation through intermarriage. So we got that that danger we've already mentioned, but there's a proposal of assimilation that comes through this intermarriage. When you look at verses 5 through 12, once the rape has occurred, you see in verses 5 through 7 that Jacob and his sons hear about it, and I think it's really interesting. Jacob holds his peace, his sons are angry. Why would Jacob hold his peace? By the way, commentators that I as I was looking at that, I mean, that detail really caught my attention. Um, I mean fathers in the room, if your daughter got raped, would you be willing to just hold your peace like that, or would you be ready to go off the rails? Probably the latter. Why did Jacob hold his peace? Well, I think it shows a certain measure of passivity to Jacob I think it shows a certain measure of compromise in his heart that he really just wants to do what he has to do to get along. with those around him, even at the expense of the dignity and the honor and virtue of his daughter, his sons are angry And that leads to the heart of a marriage proposal in verses 9 through 10. Shechem 's father Hamor says, he takes, notice he takes the lead in verses 9 through 10. It was a father's job. legally and culturally at that time to find a spouse for his son. Notice what he says, make marriages with us Give your daughters to us and take your our daughters for yourselves. You shall dwell with us and the land shall be open to you. Dwell in it and trade in it and get property. Well that's fascinating. He really um appeals to the basis of, you know, someone's heart. Can you what can you get out of this, Israel, and your sons? You can get some you can stand to pro prosper. You can stand a profit if only you give Dinah to my son But you see the real basis of this marriage proposal in verses 7 and 8, and then again verse 12. The basis of it really goes back to the soul of my son Shechem longs. for your daughter. The verb translated longs for here can be translated also as Um the soul of my son Shechem is attached to your daughter. We saw that in verse 3. Because of this illegitimate sexual relationship that created a one-flesh union without the support of marriage. Or the structure of marriage to support it. In other words, this kid's putting his cart before the ox. But notice what he says in verse 12. In verse 12, Shechem now speaks up. He offers to pay any dowry or bride price to Jacob and his sons for Dinah as his wife. The idea behind this is that the basis of their marriage proposal rests on such a thing That may not be done. I like the way that that's that's phrased. Why are Jacob's sons upset? Because such it was outrageous, number one, and such a thing should not be done. You should not rape another woman. But yet that rape is the basis of this marriage proposal. So rape and then this offering of I'll give you whatever you want essentially cheapens Dinah by reducing her purity, her integrity, her virtue, her honor to a material. Um monetary price. You know who else you buy the dignity like that from? A prostitute. They're angry. Now, for Jacob and his sons to acquiesce to that and go along, would be nothing less than to compromise to the standards of the nations around them. And such a compromise would not only threaten the purity of Dinah, but lay the whole covenant community open to spiritual danger. That's what's really going on here. That's where the danger of assimilation is beginning. It cheapens who these people are. And then you get to verses 13 through 17. It gets even worse in a very morally complicated way because we we look at the deceit behind assimilation through intermarriage. Now, I don't know about you, but up to this point, like this has been pretty clear-cut. A rape has happened, something wrong has occurred, these people are angry, and they have every right to be angry. Okay, I'm tracking with you so far. That makes a lot of sense. Right? It's easy to understand. This is where it gets a little difficult. The lines start to blur. We're going to have to wrestle with this. Look at verse 13. You see the deceit of Jacob's sons. It says it so plainly and bluntly. The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor, what? Deceitfully. Deceitfully. Why? Because he had defiled their sister. Now that word deceitfully Thankfully, there is a key word that you want to latch on to. Why is it a key word? Well, because if you remember anything about Jacob's character in this long saga that we've been working through in Genesis, you know that Jacob is a deceitful, slippery kind of guy. What has Jacob done up to this point until God broke him in that wrestling match? Jacob has constantly deceived people. He's constantly been deceitful. And why has he done this? Because he's looking out for his own good. Have you ever heard the phrase like father, like son? That's exactly what's going on here. These guys have learned from the best And they're going to deceive these two suckers named Shechem and Haymor. But in their minds, I want you to think about this, and maybe you sympathize, I don't know. In their minds, the defilement of their sister merited deceit from them. One sin deserves another. You punch me in the eye, I'm gonna punch you right back in yours. You knock my tooth out, I'm gonna knock your tooth out. That's the mentality these men are coming from So there's deceit, but then there's deceit, and this this gets really bad, in my opinion, in verses 14 through 17. The deceit comes or is about to be done by means of a covenant sign. Did you catch that when we were reading it? This goes this is where the plot thickens. It goes from bad to worse. They tell Shechem and Hamor essentially, the only way that we're going to give you our daughter or our sister. is if you become like us and you receive the covenant sign of circumcision Now, when you look at the whole testimony of Scripture, it's really interesting that circumcision is a seal of the sign of the righteousness that comes by faith In fact, if you look at Romans chapter 4, verse 11, it says exactly that in those words. They are using a covenant sign that is a sign and seal of righteousness. That comes by faith as an instrument of deceit. Wow. And if they do this, look at verse 16, they promise, we will become one people. Notice how wicked that is. One act of wickedness begets another act of wickedness in this particular narrative. The covenant sign, which was eventually a picture of something that was going to be a blessing to the Gentiles and all of the nations of the world when they received the righteousness of God by faith in Jesus Christ. as a blessing is now going to be used as a weapon against these, this nation, essentially Wow. Okay, well s secondly, I want you to think about it in the event that the these Canaanites And Shechem actually do receive the covenant sign of circumcision. It would mean effectively, as they said in verse 16, that they would be one people. But it's not, this is where there's some nuance here. It's not that the Canaanites, by receiving the covenant sign of circumcision, become Israelites, as you would imagine. It's actually the opposite. And this is kind of where the compromise really sets in. It's that if you receive this covenant sign and become circumcised like us, then we will dwell with you. In other words, we will become as you. Not you becoming as us. That is an interesting nuance I want you to see very clearly. Now what's the motivation behind this assimilation through intermarriage in verses 18 through 24? I really just want to focus for time's sake on verses 22 and 23 here. Verse 22 tells from Shechem and Hamor 's point of view what their motivation is. They're talking to the people of their own city. They're trying to convince them of this. Only on this condition will the men agree to dwell with us and to become one people. When every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised. Okay, there's nothing shocking about that. But they go on to say in verse 23, will not their livestock their property, and all their beasts be ours, only let us agree with them, and they will dwell with us. In other words, the danger of this intermarriage between Israelites and Canaanites is that the Israelites will lose the blessing, the covenant blessing that God had given them. and that the people of the land will plunder them for all that they have. That's interesting. The danger of this intermarriage Which essentially means that the Israelites will lose their identity as God's covenant people by becoming one with the nations around them. and adopting their practices through these intermarriages. And then the result of that is then they lose their covenant blessings that they've received from God. And that the nations have plundered them. And they've lost everything at that point. That's what's at stake here. And the motive is right there in verse 23. It's not only lust, it's greed. These Canaanites, they see the blessings of God that have been given to these Israelites who are in covenant with God. They want those blessings. They don't want the covenant God. But hey, we're willing to take the sign and the seal of righteousness to get what we want. Yeah, let's do this. And so How would we summarize the danger of intermarriage between God's people and the world today as we think about how this applies to Christians? Well, the threat of intermarriage between believers and unbelievers is that it compromises biblical standards for marriage, leads to a loss of spiritual identity, and ultimately a loss of God's covenant blessings for future generations. But this is where the warning gets really thick in the passage. Think about this. Let's just unpack that very quickly. Intermarriage with unbelievers compromises God's standard for marriage. Again, think taking a step back and just thinking about the historical context of who would have heard this for the first time. It would have been Israel. Possibly at the foot of Mount Sinai, being read this by Moses, whom God revealed it to. And if you remember in Exodus 24, Israel entered into covenant relationship with God. Which Ezekiel sixteen and then Ezekiel twenty-four likens to a marriage relationship between God and Israel What's the point? The covenant that Israel had with God was the pattern on which their marriages individually were to be built. That was the example. We also saw that compromised in Numbers 24 when Israel worshipped Baal at Peor and they compromise themselves by entering into these weird sexual relationships with the uh Moabite and the Midianite women, and God judged them for it. But the point is this, that the marriages of God's people are meant to reflect the relationship between God and his people, or to use New Testament language, Christ and His bride. But that witness to the world, and believe it or not, your marriages are called to be a witness and a testimony to the world around you. That witness is compromised when a believer marries an unbeliever because only one party, because one party has no clue what his or her marriage is to be patterned after and reflect. And then the compromise will then show up with the values and priorities within the marriage where neither spouse is exactly on the same page. I remember in a former church I had, just to illustrate the point, very briefly, I had a lady that um married uh a man that she said when she was younger and they got married, she knew he was not a believer, and she said That was um that's had you know ramifications the rest of her life. And she gave me one example. She's like, I'll give you one example, Pastor. I want to tithe faithfully to the local church because I see the point, the purpose of the local church and its importance for fulfilling the Great Commission. I have to fight with my husband for him to part with any of his money to give to the local church. That's just one example. Not on the same page. And this intermarriage leads to a loss of spiritual identity. I think one follows, one point follows the next Do you realize that the word church in Greek that's used in the Greek New Testament means those who are called out? Ecclesia? What are we called out from? The world. We're called to be set apart. And that includes even our marriages are meant to be consecrated and set apart to the Lord. And the choice of spouses that young people make and pursue. Well, why is that important to God? The Christians marry other Christians. I think Malachi chapter 2 gets at it in chapter 2 verse 15. It says this in part. What was the one God seeking? Talking about marriages of his people to other people of his covenant, godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit and let none of your faithfulness let none of you be faithful. Faith let none of you be faithless. Now, I believe the application here is to those who are not yet married and who are looking forward to getting married one day. But the question still remains, what about those of you who are sitting here who might, who are already married and maybe in a marriage with an unbeliever? What are you to do? Is this passage calling you to just live in guilt? And is this passage calling you to just wallow in your situation? No. I don't think that's God's heart either, in revealing this. Why do I say that? Well The New Testament clearly does maintain the standard of marrying only in the Lord, but you know, the New Testament also understands that, you know, when the gospel goes out to the nations, there's going to be situations where one spouse comes to the Lord and another doesn't. Or maybe you were both non-believers when you got married, and then in somewhere in the course of your marriage, one person became a believer. Those things do happen. And look what 1 Corinthians 7. 14 says. I think it offers a little bit of hope for those in a tough situation. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, implying that the wife is a believer. And the unbelieving wife Is made holy because of her husband. And then notice how it follows up. Otherwise, your children would be unclean. But as it are, they are holy. So maybe you're here this morning and you're in a marriage with a non-believer. Should you wallow in guilt? The answer is no. Why? Because you were essentially the missionary or the evangelist to your unbelieving spouse. Right? To give another example, 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 1 through 6 particularly verses 1 through 2, is telling believing wives who are in marriages to unbelieving husbands, right? Submit to them. But it says, you never know, you just might bring him to faith without a word by your conduct. Right? And so there is application here that all relates to those who are already married to unbelievers. You don't have to live in guilt and wallow in shame. That's not the point. But one of the one of the things we do have to understand here that God's word is after, because God was after godly offspring, the faith is meant to be passed on generation to generation, is that when you Willingly and intentionally as a believer, marry an unbeliever, you are compromising the covenant blessings for future generations. That is what is after here. And so what we're seeing in verses 5-24, which is really the biggest part of this passage, is the danger of assimilation through intermarriage. It's not just the danger of forgetting God. That leads to other things, in this case, assimilation, loss of identity through intermarriage. And that leads to the last part of our passage this morning in verses 25 through 31. And again, this is where it gets really kind of weird. There's moral ambiguity here. Look at verses 25 through 29. You see what's happening here is um Israel takes vengeance. And when I say Israel, I mean two of his sons. It's very clear. The men of the city are writhing in pain from their circumcision three days beforehand. That's probably an understatement. Two of Jacob's sons by Leah, Simeon and Levi, what do they do? They go in, they kill all the men in the city, including Shechem and Hamor. Now I'm going to try to unpack this very quickly as best as I can. Do I think that Shechem and Hamor probably deserve to die? Yeah, I do. I'll tell you why. Deuteronomy 22 makes it very clear the rapist deserves the death penalty. I think that's true. We don't think like that as Americans today. We probably should. It's God's word Did they get justice? Yeah. They got justice for their sin. What about the men of the city? That's where it's a little more ambiguous, isn't it? Now granted, they entered into they took that covenant sign in a deceitful way, and so maybe you could argue they deserve to die, but they weren't the ones who were responsible for the rape So did they deserve to die? Maybe not. I'll leave that for you to wrestle with. At least somebody laughed at that. Um I don't have the answer to that. Did did they deserve to die? I don't know. Jacob was clearly upset, as we'll see in a minute But here's the irony of this kind of resolution. And this again kind of leaves us in attention. Look at verses 27 through 29. I'll just reread that part. The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and plundered the city. By the way, that's a key word here, plundered. They plundered the city because they defiled their sister. Okay, we get the point. That happened. They took their flocks, their herds, their donkeys, and whatever was in the city and in the field, all their wealth All their little ones and their wives, all that was in the houses, they captured and, key word again, plundered. Why is that ironic? Well, if you go again going back to verse 23, it's ironic because that was the motivation that Hamor and Shechem had as they plotted against Israel by Trying to convince the whole town to become one people with Israel. Everything they have, we will get to plunder. And then it turns around and they get plundered and killed. Now, again, the tension here is that, you know, did they do the right thing Probably not in every respect. But there's something I don't want you to miss. And this is, again, one of those things we have to wrestle with as believers. And it's not easy, it's complex. The destruction of these Canaanites at the hands of the children of Jacob Is only a foreshadowing of the judgment that will come on all of the Canaanites 400 years later when they take the land. And that time, God will tell them to do it. Why? Because the sin of the Amorite was not yet complete at this time. But then there's this almost an impossible discussion in verses 30 through 31. There's an argument that's not resolved. And there are times that Scripture does this to us. Jonah, the book of Jonah is one of these. The book of Acts is open-ended. It's like, okay, what do you do with that? What happens next? This is one of those moments. And this is where the narrator doesn't weigh in. Look at verse 30. Jacob rebukes his sons, saying that they have brought trouble on him by making him stink to the inhabitants of the land. That's a pretty Jewish Hebrew phrase, right? It it comes up later when the Ammonites remember they they um humiliate the servants of Jacob and send them back, they cut their pants at the buttocks and shave their beard. Then they realize they made themselves stink in in David's nostrils, right? The trouble that Jacob has in mind is going to lead to the threat of extermination. Notice he fears that the nations will band together. and wipe them out. And he fears because they're a lot smaller and weaker than all these powerful nations around them. And the point here is that by their deception, by their Anger, acting out in this anger and killing the whole city, it made them unattractive to the nations around them. By the way, I do think there's probably something to Jacob's fear. It's understandable. I'd probably think the same way if I was in his shoes. But then the sons answer in verse 31. Shall he treat our sister like a prostitute? Boy, wasn't it ironic when I read that and I just stopped and I said, this is the word of the Lord? Where's the answer? How do you solve that? Is there any redemptive value to this as we think to apply this in closing? Well Without the Lord, this is the principle I want to draw out from this. Without the Lord, there is no solution to this. How about that? Without the Lord, there's no solution to this. And with him, it only serves to point out our need for the cross of Jesus Christ. You think, well, how did you get that? Well, I'll tell you. But first I want you to think about it. Without the Lord, there is no solution to the problem of evil. Boy, there are all kinds of passages in the Old Testament that unbelievers point out and they all point at us Christians and say, look, that's immoral. Your God is immoral. Well, what do you do with that? Well You know, I told you that this passage was one of the harder passages that I've had to preach to date. It does seem hopeless on the surface But I want to draw out a few points here for apologetic response. First, the fact of the passage not mentioning God In the first place, makes the point that without the God of the Bible, we are left in a world of moral confusion without answers. How about that? I think that that's true. And I think that that's what Moses is trying to get at in this passage. He's not trying to explain away what these guys did on either side. And this is what we're seeing as we live among the nations today as Christians. We're no different than Jacob and his family living among the Canaanites. Without the God of the Bible, whose very existence and character stands as the foundation for good and evil, this is the best we get. That kind of moral ambiguity and unclarity. You go talk to people in the world, you tell them something is good or evil. And you just might hear the response, who are you to condemn? Or who are you to say that this is bad or wrong or sinful? That's all people get without the God of the Bible. Everyone does what is right in his own eyes. Secondly, without presupposing the God of the Bible, we are not in a position to declare that anything is truly good or evil to begin with. Which is really fascinating. If you grant the premise of this story that God is not present because he's not mentioned, who are you to complain when bad things happen? Because by what standard are you saying something bad happened? That's the point. Without the Lord, there is no solution to evil. But this is where the gospel comes in, right? With the Lord, this points to our need for the cross of Jesus Christ. Is there any redemption to this story? I think that there is. And here's why. If you go later in this book, Genesis chapter 49, verses 5 through 7, Jacob's on his deathbed. And he he kind of tells tells each of his sons, all twelve of them, something about them and their spiritual inheritance and and he calls it, you know, he tells them, I'm going to tell you what's going to happen in the last days. But here's what he says about Simeon and Levi. It's actually not a blessing, it's more of a curse. This is what he says. Listen to this. Simeon and Levi are brothers. Weapons of violence are their swords. Let my soul not come in to their counsel. O my glory, be not joined to their company. For the in their anger they killed men, and in their willfulness they hamstrung ox oxen Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it is cruel. And this is his parting shot to them. I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel. How does all this point to the gospel? Where's the redemption in this? Well, it really begins with understanding that God's people can do some horrible things. It really points out the need for Christ, because we're all sinners, doesn't it? If you go back and you read that confession of sin that we did earlier this morning. There was a lot of uncomfortable things in there, if you were really paying attention. This drives us to the fact that we need a Savior to save us from the curse of sin, from the wrath of God, which is the just punishment on Sin. And by the way, that applies to both Jew and Gentile. It applied to Israelite and Canaanite. There's sin enough to go around in this passage. It tells us something about ourselves, doesn't it? Secondly, though, I want you to think about this. When he tells, mentions that he's going to scatter Simeon and Levi in Israel. Historically, Simeon was scattered in Israel because his tribal allotment was within the tribe of Judah, and then as time went on, he just lost that tribal identity and was just part of Judah. And because he was part of Judah, he came under the reign of the messianic king who came in the person of King David. And if you read David's story, what did David do? David brought God's judgment on the nations around him through warfare God makes a covenant with David in 2 Samuel 7. And you read 2 Samuel 8 and 9 and 10. What is Jacob doing immediately after entering into covenant with God? He goes to war against the nations and subdues them. Simeon was part of that. Following the Messianic king. Levi also received no allotment He ended up serving as priests, if you remember. And those priests who were responsible, those are the ones responsible for dealing with the sin of God's people through the sacrificial system of shedding blood. How ironic. What did they do here in this passage? They're shedding blood. Why? Because someone sinned against them? Well, what does God turn around in his divine providence and do? He ordains that that man's sons are shedding blood for the forgiveness of sins under the old covenant administration? And if you think about it, all of those those sacrifices that his descendants Shed the blood of, pointed forward to the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ, who is the Messiah, who came and gave himself at the cross. For sinners like me and like you. But here's what's really interesting. I mentioned how this slaughter of Shechem Points forward to a greater slaughter when Israel comes and takes the land in the time of Joshua as God's punishment and judgment of those Canaanites for their sin in due time. Brothers and sisters, there's going to come a time when the messianic king, Jesus, returns to bring judgment on the nations at the end of time. What should our response be to this? How now shall we live as God's people? We repent of our own sins and acknowledge them for what they are. And we come to Christ. And we remind ourselves every day of the hope and the promises of the gospel that we have. And we remind ourselves that if it wasn't for Christ, we would be those Shechemites. Let's remember the gospel. Let's take joy that we don't have to be put to death for our sin because Christ was put to death for us. Let's pray. Father, this was a very, very, very hard passage to preach. You have it in your word for a reason. It is for warning, but it is also to drive us to the cross. Of Jesus, the ultimate son of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And Lord, you are cut off for our sins, that we might receive the blessing of righteousness that comes by faith. We thank you, O Lord, that you have spared us through Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen.