If you have your Bibles, and I hope that you do, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis chapter seventeen. Genesis chapter seventeen, and I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's word in verses one. Through twenty-seven Genesis seventeen one to twenty-seven When Abraham was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abraham and said to him, I am God Almighty Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you and may multiply you greatly. Then Abraham fell on his face, and God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abraham, but your name shall be called Abraham, for I've made you the father of a multitude of nations I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you, and I will establish my covenant between me and you. and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house, or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring, both he who is born In your house, and who he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. I will bless her, and moreover, I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of peoples shall come from her. And Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said to himself, Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you! God said, No, but Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him. As for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and multiply him greatly. He shall father twelve princes, and I will make him into a great nation. But I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year. When he had finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham. Then Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his house, or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very day, as God had said to him. Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, and Ishmael, his son, was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. That very day Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised, and all the men of his house, those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with it. Well, this is the word of God. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and we are thankful for your word. And we, Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes. as I've prayed many times from this pulpit, open our eyes, open our ears, open our minds, open our hearts, O Lord, to see, to hear your word , to understand it, and to receive it. O Lord, we ask that you, by the power of your Holy Spirit, this morning would change us and transform us in light of your holy word. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. I've mentioned a few times from this pulpit that I've I've lived on the East Coast now three different times. I lived in North Carolina during seminary. I before here I was in Pennsylvania, two hours north of here, and now I'm here. And and each time that I have lived out east I've always driven home to visit my parents and and now particularly my mother. When I lived in North Carolina, the drive from Charlotte to Chicago was anywhere between 14 and 15 hours. in the car, depending on how much traffic I hit in what city. It was about 12 hours from PA and I have yet to drive home from here, but my hunch is it's probably 10 or 11 hours from here to Chicago. And one of the things, when you're driving home and you're in the car that long, you cannot wait to get the trip over with and get to where you're going. You are constantly looking forward. to getting out of that car. You're constantly looking forward to uh no longer seeing the signs along the roadway. Every little city you come to along the way. You know, Pittsburgh, a hundred miles ahead of you. Right? Akron, 50 miles ahead of you. South Bend, 20 miles ahead of you. Seems like Chicago seems eternally far every time I do this. 234 miles ahead of you. What is it about these signs that draws your longing, draws your anticipation to the substance of where you're going? That's what this passage is about this morning. Abraham, like me being in the car, has been on the journey now for twenty-four years. Remember he got to the land of Canaan when he was seventy-five, and now he's ninety-nine. Twenty-four years of hearing the promises that God has made to him, I will multiply you greatly and I will give you the land of your sojourning. 24 years on the journey looking forward to the time when he receives what he has been promised. And God, as we saw in chapter 15, made a covenant with Abraham by a unique, by our standards, a unique procedure of walking through bits and pieces of animals. As if to signify, I will certainly bring these promises to pass. Now we're in chapter 17. And we see that God ratifies this covenant. In other words, he reaffirms it. And our main idea in chapter 17 is this. God's covenant is with believers and their children, and baptism is the covenant sign to be received by both, both being believers. and their children. I want to unpack this with you this morning. We're going to spend most of our time unpacking verses 1 through 14, but 15 through 27 will get thrown in the mix as well. I want to begin looking at our first point. The covenant promises reaffirmed. The covenant promises reaffirmed. This is not the first time Abraham has heard these promises. Now, I want to draw your attention to a fact here that in verses 1 through 6 and then verses 15 through 21, God addresses both Abraham first and then Sarai. We're going to kind of put those sections together for the sake of our time this morning. But what I want to draw your attention to first and foremost in verse 1 is that God reveals a new name for Himself. Take a look at verse 1. When Abraham was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abraham and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me and be blameless. Let's stop there. I realize that's the middle of a sentence But let's stop there. God reveals himself here as God Almighty. Prior to this passage, God had never revealed himself in that way to Abraham. He always revealed himself as as God, as God most high, but here God Almighty. Now again, I want to draw your attention to the fact that Abraham has been hearing these promises for twenty-four years, and you have to imagine that as time has gone on, after one year after another, as the years just wane and pass. Abraham is probably thinking to himself, is it possible? I know God has made these promises. I know he's done great things already in my life to redeem me and my wife from various trials. But is it possible for a man who's a hundred years old and a and his wife who's ninety years old and then on top of that was barren? Is it possible for God to bring these promises to pass that He's going to give us? A child. And notice how God, in revealing this name, God Almighty, the Hebrew is El Shaddai. Maybe you might remember years ago, not too long ago, Amy Grant sang a song called El Shaddai. And if you know what that means, it means God Almighty. It seems that God is remind speaking to Abraham's heart his concerns in this passage Maybe the concerns he had, is this even possible? Yes, it is possible. Why? Because I am God Almighty. I am powerful enough to perform my promises. And so he speaks to Abraham's heart, revealing his power over his circumstances. But it's not just a new name for himself that God reveals. It is Two new names, a new name for Abraham in verses four through six. He changes his name. Notice what he says: Behold, my covenant is with you. You'll be a father to a multitude of nations, and your name will no longer be called Abraham, or in Hebrew Avram, but your name will be called Abraham or Avraham. For I will make you a father of a multitude of nations. Now, you can do a cursory study and any generic commentary on this passage, and it will tell you that Abraham or Avram is Hebrew and it just simply means uh exalted father. But now he goes from being an exalted father to Avraham, a father of a multitude or a father of many. Notice again how the name speaks to the substance of the promises. The promises that God is going to multiply him into many nations now is now reflected in his name. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that that with this change of name, God is, in a sense, giving Abraham a new identity, and a new identity that is based on the content and the substance of his promises and his word. There's a lesson for that, for uh for us in that, that our identity is based on who God tells us that we are, based on his promises. Now historically, this was fulfilled literally and historically. I mean, Abraham was the father of the Ishmaelites through his son Ishmael. Through generations following, he's the father of the Edomites, the Amalekites, the Midianites, and obviously the Israelites, just to name a few literal fulfillments of that. But I want to draw your attention to something God says really important in verse 6. It's easy for us to just gloss over in our cursory reading. In verse 6, I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations. Notice the plural there. And kings, this is what I want to draw your attention to. Kings shall come from you. Hmm. Really points to the coming of King David, whom God is going to make a covenant with later on in history in 2 Samuel chapter 7. verses 12 through 16. And then if you remember God makes that covenant with David, and then it is with David and all of his descendants or sons after him in a successive line that will sit on the throne that God promises to put his descendants on. And so God makes this covenant, changes Abraham's name, but it's not just him. It's not just Abraham to Abraham. It is also in verses 15. to 16 looking a little further forward God changes Sarai 's name as well again notice what he says there God said to Abraham, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah. Shall be her name. I will bless her. And moreover, I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of people shall come. from her. I've always liked the name Sarah myself. My grandmother's name was Sarah on my dad's side. The name means princess And it carries a connotation of royalty, of someone that bears glory. And as we know from the scriptures, when we talk about glory, glory comes with it a weight of privilege, a weight of honor. And this is something that God gives to Sarah. And notice the weight of this honor here is that God specifies that he will give the son of promise through her. Remember what Abraham says when he laughs. He says, Oh, that Ishmael may live before you. And God corrects him. No. If you remember from last week in chapter 16 , Ishmael is the son that resulted from Abraham and Sarah taking matters into their own hands to try to fulfill God's promises, and God says no. I've heard your request for Ishmael. I will bless him for your sake, but my covenant will come through Isaac, through whom Sarah, your wife, will bear. to you. And again, God reiterates the fact with her as well, the kings of peoples. shall come from her. So we see both Abraham and Sarah get a change of name. Their name reflects a new identity. That new identity is tied. So the promises that God gives them that define his relationship with them, and he makes promises that kings will come from them, from both of them together. And so we see these promises reflect new names, but these promises also have recipients in verses 7 and then 19 and 21. Look at verse 7. He says, God says, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring after you. Now there's something in this, and looking at the promise and its recipients, that we have to take notice of this morning to see how covenants work. How do they function practically? What do these relationships look like? First, Abraham is the immediate recipient in verse 7. I just read that to you. I won't reread it, but it simply means that Abraham is the covenant representative and because of him and God's entering into relationship first and foremost and immediately with him All of the blessings that are given to him are then mediated through him to those who are related to him. But Abraham is a covenant representative, a covenant head. Now, I don't mean to get too far off the beaten path here by this illustration, but we just had a presidential debate this week. And if you think about the way that our government works, and no I'm not going to comment on the substance or the how that debate went, but the way that the American government is structured, the way that it is meant to function by the Founding Fathers We are a representative form of government. We elect our representatives. Or to bring it more out of the secular sphere into the more familial ecclesiastical sphere, we've been nominating Men all month are receiving nominations for men all month to serve as elder and deacon. Why? Because those elders and those deacons represent you, the congregation. Right? It's a covenantal structure. And we see the same thing in the local families, making it even more personal. We have husbands And connected to their wives like Abraham and Sarah, but husbands serving as the covenantal head of their household representatives. Abraham is the immediate representative and recipient, but as that recipient, as that representative, as that head The blessings are not just for him alone. They're meant to trickle down and bless many under him. And so in this case, in verse 7, we see that the offspring are included as recipients as well. By the way, that word offspring in Hebrew is the same word that could be translated seed. It's the same word that's been used all throughout Genesis up to this point that began in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. The seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent, or the offspring of the woman and the offspring of the serpent. That concept is running all the way down and trickling down through Abraham, or Abraham, all the way through his offspring. What I find amazing, and I remember the first time I really studied this years ago and this clicked in my mind, was realizing that God is making a covenant with those who have not yet been born. Isn't it interesting? Uh Isaac's birth at this point is a year off or a year in the future from this passage. God names him. God enters into covenant with Isaac. And yet Isaac has not been born. And yet he's still in covenant with God. We see a similar dynamic in Deuteronomy chapter 29, verses 14 and 15 with the Mosaic covenant. It says, It is not with you alone that I am making this sworn covenant, says the Lord. But with whomever is standing here today before the Lord our God , And with whomever is not here today. In other words, who has yet to be born? You know what that tells you? God cares about our children, some of whom have not yet been born, our future descendants. Now, if that's true in the Old Testament, why would it be any true in the New Testament where God's grace is made so much more abundant and manifest for all to see in Christ? And so this points to the fact that God is making his covenant with Abraham, with his household, which we're going to see clearly when we look at the covenant sign. But I want to draw your attention to the fact as well in verses 19 through 21, it adds something important for us to see, and it's Abraham's offspring are numbered through Isaac. I've already commented on this a little bit. I won't say a whole lot right now, except to say that Abraham wanted the covenant to to come through Ishmael. It's like why have another child? I've already got one. I'm a hundred years old. Can I really have another? Those of you who are parents who know what it's like to care for children crying in the night know that it is a young person's game. To be a parent. A hundred years old? Ninety years old having to wake up and care for a child crying in the night? Lord Let it just come to Ishmael. No. Through Isaac. Why? Because Isaac is the child of promise. He's the child of promise. And so the last thing I want to draw our attention to before we apply this first section here is in verses 7 and 8. Take a look at verses 7 and 8. The way they end. Is is the same way. And it's really important for us to take notice of. I'll read the whole verse, but pay attention to the end. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you. Throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. This is where I want you to latch on to. To be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. Now later on as the scriptures roll forward in the Old Testament and even into the New , that gets added to, I will be their God. They will be my people, and I will dwell among them. All the way to Revelation chapter 21. In the new heavens and the new earth, when the heavenly Jerusalem, like a bride adorned for her husband, comes down out of heaven, what does it say? John writes again of this particular promise. He writes, Behold, the dwelling place of God is With men. He will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. So you see these promises have an impact on who these people are and the names that they have that reveal who they are. You see that these promises are made with not just one person but with households. There's a community network there, and we see the substance of these promises that God will be their God and they will be his people and he will dwell among them. How Are these covenant promises fulfilled in the gospel of Jesus Christ? That is what we have to ask this morning as we seek to apply this. And the point is, the covenant promises are fulfilled because through faith in Christ the ultimate promised son of Abraham, we likewise become children of Abraham and therefore members of the covenant. We have to see how these promises are fulfilled first and foremost in Christ before we can even think about applying them to ourselves. We mentioned two things about these promises. One, there's a coming son of promise that is going to be given to Abraham. and Sarah. And then secondly, in light of that one covenant son who's going to be multiplied into a nation, kings will come from him. Brothers and sisters, please understand that Isaac, in the almost impossible circumstances in which he was brought into the world Point forward to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what's even more impossible than a 90-year-old woman giving birth? As impossible as that sounds? A virgin giving birth. How about that? That Jesus Christ was the child that not just Mary and Joseph were looking forward to, but all of Israel, all of God's people were waiting for their Messiah. Just as Abraham waited 24 years. And ultimately 25 years for the Son of Promise? His people waited so much longer for the Messiah to come, and he finally did, in Christ. The ultimate son of promise. And just like kings would come from Abraham and Sarah. And their line, we see that not just through David, but through Jesus Christ. He is the son of Abraham. He is the son of David. This is why Matthew chapter 1 verse 1, the very first statement in the New Testament says this, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, who is he? The son of David, the son of Abraham. And all that line of names, that genealogy is meant to just describe that one truth, that he is the son of David and the son of Abraham. All these promises have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. But the other implication I want to draw out for you is the fact that God's covenant continues to work primarily through families. This is why I really think that it is so important for churches and for Christians to really support marriages and the local family. Because that is the norm on how God works. Now I think that this aspect of the way God works really challenges the mindset that many of us have living in a hyper-individualistic culture which sees religion, which sees faith as something that is just simply intensely personal and private. That is a Western saying. It's really been a focus, I would say, in the last couple of hundred of hundreds of years in the West, but it is true of us today. The father of modernism, Immanuel Kant, in his philosophy, which has really affected the way we think in the West, has essentially privatized religion as a personal matter and therefore by implication religious arguments or religious statements are typically shunned in the public public marketplace of ideas. You go to a college campus, and maybe there's a debate or a public discussion happening in a public place, and you make an argument that is deemed religious, you watch, you will be shut down. Your argument is not welcome. Why? Because we implicitly assume that the Christian faith is simply a personal thing. You keep it to yourself, you shut your mouth, and you leave the rest of us alone. That's the idea. That's the air we breathe, or the water we swim in, however you want to look at it, in the West And our passage challenges the assumption of our society and our culture today, and it shows that the Christian faith, while yes, personal, while yes, including individuals. It's much more than that. It also includes family and community That's why in Presbyterian and Reformed circles, you often hear the term covenant community. That's what we are as a church. We are a covenant community. We are in covenant with God through Jesus Christ, who, like Abraham, is the covenant head. Our union with Christ not only means we have union with Him, but we are in union with one another through Him This is why all kinds of analogies are used in the New Testament, like the church being a family, the household of God. Think of Paul in Galatians chapter 6. 16. Right? Um, or Galatian or uh uh excuse me, First Corinthians chapter twelve, the the church is a body, Christ is the head. We're all connected to one another because of this covenant community and the reality of this. that we see in our passage. But what's interesting, and I want to highlight this again, God's covenant is with believers and their children. Which means that the covenant community, the church, is made up of believers and their children. We see this in Scripture. And for our purposes this morning here, as members of the Presbyterian Church in America, we see this in our doctrinal standards, the Westminster Standards, and we also see it articulated in our book of church. church order in the way a church is defined. Where do we get that from? We get it from here. Scripture. And that leads us not just to the covenant and its substance. Let's look at the covenant sign and seal in verses 9 through 14 primarily. We will comment on 20 to 27 very briefly, but 9 through 14 is our focus. Let's take a look at the sign and seal of these covenant promises. I want you to look at verse 11. I think that's a good summary. For the sake of time, that's a good summary. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. That's a good summary. Now, circumcision was not historically practiced in Mesopotamia or modern-day Iraq and Syria where Abraham had come from. But it was practiced in Egypt at this time, and believe it or not, it was practiced among certain Canaanite groups. However, It was practiced a little differently. It was a sign or some something that was linked to puberty or premarital rites. And so this is a little different because of the way that it is instituted with those males eight days old. But there's one thing I want you to take note of about circumcision in this passage. The verb in Hebrew is always used here in the passive Sense. Meaning the circumcision is not something that someone does to themselves, it is something that happens to them. And I want you to think about this. The nature of a sign is to point forward or behind or wherever, to something else, to another reality. And so if the sign reflects something that someone passively receives is done to them, that means that whatever circumcision is a sign of Whatever spiritual reality it is a sign of, that spiritual reality is not something they do actively, it is something that they passively receive as done to them. That is an important Important point I think we have to make this morning. Now what is it a picture of? Well I'm gonna highlight four things very briefly. One, it is a sign of the righteousness that comes by faith. Where do I get that? Well, I want to draw you back to what the Lord says in verse 1. I am God Almighty. Notice those two verbs. Walk before me and be blameless. The other times that we've seen that verb walk before me or walking with God was with Enoch back in Genesis 5. 22 and Noah in Genesis chapter 6 verse 9. Now Abraham is being told, walk before me and be blameless. This doesn't mean absolute perfection. What does it mean? Well it goes back to Genesis chapter 15 when God established the covenant with Abraham in the first place in Genesis chapter 15 verse 6. If you remember, I said that was a key verse. It gets brought up again here. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. It's not that Abraham has to be perfect or do good works in order to earn God's covenant relationship. It's God has already declared him righteous. God has already justified him. And on the basis of that, received righteousness given to him As a gift, freely by faith, God then commands them, as if to say, use New Testament language, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Be obedient. Walk before me and be blameless. And live out the righteousness I gave you back in Genesis chapter 15, verse 6. So, circumcision is a sign and a seal of the righteousness that comes by faith. Paul elaborates on that in Romans chapter 4, verse 11. Second thing, it's a sign and a seal of birth. Don't miss that. Verse 10 says that circumcision is a part of the covenant between God on the one hand and Abraham and his offspring on another hand. Offspring implies birth. Verse 12 says, in part, he who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. You know what that means? That means that One is born into the covenant. And when one is born into the covenant, they are to receive the sign of the covenant. Now I think it's interesting the picture of being born into the covenant marks the male reproductive organ. Which is the one that is received and then I worded that wrong, sorry. This is why you don't read your notes. What I'm trying to say is the fact that circumcision is marked on the male reproductive organ, it marks the organ which is used to cause the birth of someone being born into the covenant. So it goes back to God's promise to multiply Abraham's offspring more than the stars of heaven. So it marks righteousness that comes through faith. It marks birth and being born into the covenant. But interestingly enough, it marks purchase. I'll just use that word, purchase. Look at verse 12 again. It goes on to elaborate that it's not just those who are born in the house. But those who are bought with money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring. That 's interesting. Because those who were purchased at that time, we know they were household slaves, but those who were purchased were part of the household. They were part of the family and meant to be included. Those bought with money. And in the gospel we see that the same concept Applies to the fact that God's promises they don't only belong to Jews, but they belong to Gentiles as well. Bought and purchased with the blood. Of the Son of Promise, Jesus Christ. The last thing I want to say about circumcision is it's a sign and seal that binds. Look at verse 14 Very interesting. Any circum uncircumcised male who's not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Wow. I'm just going to summarize by saying the idea is that one is either cut into the covenant through the cutting that occurs with circumcision or one is cut off. from the covenant and the covenant people when they refuse the sign. And so that leads us to looking at how the sign and the seal is applied in verses 22 through 27. Now, I'm not going to read through that all over again except to say that Abraham gets circumcised, his son Ishmael gets circumcised, and all the men in the household get circumcised. And what this does is it lays out a paradigm that we find in this passage that gets picked up and applied throughout the New Testament. Now I want to look at the paradigm of these recipients. There's two. One , Abraham receives the sign The covenant sign as a believer. Again, it doesn't take a genius to figure this out. Back in Genesis chapter 15, verse 6, Abraham is justified by God's grace through faith He's accounted as righteous. And then years later, he receives the covenant sign, which is a picture of that righteousness. Paul argues for that in Romans 3 and 4 and Galatians 2 through 4 that justification was the centerpiece of the gospel. So in Abraham's case, this is the first part of the paradigm, he was saved first, and then after he got saved, he received the covenant sign afterwards. But the other side of the paradigm is Isaac, his son. Isaac receives the sign as an infant And so Isaac, the situation is reversed. He receives the covenant sign first before he believes. The promises of God and is justified. He receives it as a child of a believing parent. He still receives this sign. Because he's born into the covenant community, but he still has to, throughout his life, embrace those promises by faith himself. So how does the sign and seal of circumcision apply to us as Christians who receive the covenant promises of the gospel by faith in Christ? Well, the covenant sign and seal of circumcision corresponds to the sign and the seal of baptism, and it applies in the New Testament era. to both believers and their children. You see the same paradigm at play today. Now let me draw that connection for you first between circumcision in the Old Testament and baptism in the New Testament. If you know your New Testament, you can go back to Acts chapter 15, and you can remember that Jerusalem Council, they were arguing as as the Gentile mission had gone out, as non-Jews were embracing Jesus Christ. Being justified by grace through faith like Abraham, the question was, do they need to become Jews by getting circumcised and then by keeping the law of Moses? In terms of all the kosher laws and all that stuff. And the answer in the Jerusalem Council was no, they don't need the Gentiles don't need to get circumcised and become Jews in order to be saved. This is why Paul says in Galatians 6. 15, for neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, in other words, neither Jew nor Gentile, but a new creation. So how does this concept of circumcision apply to us today? The answer is that circumcision has given way to baptism. If you were to, I don't have time to do all of this in every little verse this morning, but if you were to do a word study of circumcision with a concordance through the Old Testament And take a look at all the ways it's used and what it means, and then you were to do the same thing with baptism in the New Testament, you would find that they have the same fundamental meaning. Same fundamental meaning. Remember those four things I said? Baptism? By the way, the New Testament never says baptism is a picture of faith. There's a common misconception that our Baptist friends have. And believe me, having been raised a Baptist, I love Baptists, but that is where we differ. It is not a picture of faith. It is a picture of the righteousness that comes through faith. Highlight emphasis, righteousness. Baptism is a picture of the new birth. Right? Baptism is a picture of the fact that we have been purchased by Jesus Christ and washed in his blood. Because Peter says, we have not been purchased with perishable things like gold or silver, but with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And baptism as a sign or seal is binding. There's something spiritual that happens. The connection between them the two is found most clearly in Colossians chapter 2, verses 11 and 12 in the New Testament. It says this: In him that is Christ, Also, you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands. By the putting off of the body of the flesh. by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. Let me throw in verse 13 as well to make the application complete. And you Who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, that is your sinful nature. Made alive together, God made alive together with him, with Christ in his resurrection. having forgiven all our trespasses. That's the connection. Circumcision is now baptism. In its application among believers. And that same covenant pattern of believers and their children still applies today. It's really interesting if you. . There's one interest, really interesting verse that makes a lot of sense out of some key passages in the New Testament. And it's Acts chapter 2, verse 39. Well, I'll read thirty-eight and thirty-nine. After the preaching of Peter at Pentecost Brothers, what shall we do? Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you and your children. There's a household language. And for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. That's the language of those who are purchased. into the household. The Gentiles. Abraham is the paradigm that we follow for those who come to faith. in Christ as adults who've never previously received the covenant sign of baptism. In cases like that We do not baptize just anybody. If they've never received baptism as a covenant child, we don't baptize them until there's a credible profession of faith Like Abraham. They must come to faith in Jesus Christ, be justified, be receive righteousness as their the gift of faith, and then we baptize them. As a sign of the covenant. But Isaac, likewise, is the paradigm that we follow for those who are born to believing parents. And in this case, they are born into the covenant community through believing parents. They receive the sign and the seal of baptism in their infancy or childhood. and then are raised by the covenant community and mostly their parents in the hopes of their professing faith in Jesus Christ as they grow up in the covenant community. The only thing that is different in this paradigm between the Old Testament application of circumcision and the New Testament application of baptism is that now we we baptize. Not just boys, males, but females as well. In other words, it's a picture of the ever-expanding grace of God that goes out to the nations. Isn't that fascinating? So I want to encourage you, all of you, whether you are parents physically or not That as part of the covenant community, we all have a role in raising the covenant children of this covenant community. We are not to assume that they are simply saved and that they are simply going to grow up and believe on their own. We are to take an active role in evangelizing them, in instilling the gospel into them. And especially you parents. And yes, I'm speaking to you parents. Your children must see how important This covenant relationship between you and your God is to you. They need to see it transform your life, your marriage. Your relationship with them before it's going to become real to them. Maybe you're sitting here this morning and you are a covenant child. You have been baptized, but you have not yet put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The larger catechism uses the terminology improving your baptism. What does that mean? Coming to faith in Jesus Christ. Seeing the realization of the sign that was put upon you in hope that the promises of God would be realized in your life. This is a call to faith for all of us. Whether we've come to faith, saving faith a long time ago or last week. Or have yet to. This is a call to faith and to remember the promises of God that have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning and we are so grateful, O Lord, that we have your promises. And those promises have been fulfilled. And Lord, those promises have been fulfilled to give us new life. I think of what Jesus said. I came that my people may have life and have it abundantly. Through faith in you. Lord, I pray for each person in this room that nobody would leave here without knowing you in a saving relationship, a saving covenant relationship. with your son, Jesus, the Son of Promise. Lord, may you circumcise our hearts. As we heard Jared read in the assurance of pardon, that you would take the heart of flesh. Take the heart of stone and give us a heart of flesh that is soft. A heart that is ready to receive your word. We take joy in you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.