This picks up immediately after Genesis 49, where Jacob passes away. This is the holy word of the Lord. Then Joseph fell on his father's face and wept over him and kissed him. And Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel. Forty days were required for it, for that is how many are required for embalming, and the Egyptians wept for him seventy days. And when the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph spoke to the household of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found favor in your eyes, please speak in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, My father made me swear, saying, I am about to die. In my tomb that I had hewed out for myself in the land of Canaan, there shall you bury me Now, therefore, let me please go up and bury my father, then I will return. And Pharaoh answered, Go up and bury your father as he has made you swear. So Joseph went up to bury his father. With him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his household, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, as well as the household of Joseph. his brothers, and his father's household. Only their children, their flocks, and their herds were left in the land of Goshen. And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen. It was a very great company. When they came to the threshing floor of Atad , which is beyond the Jordan, they lamented there with a very great and grievous lamentation. And he made a mourning for his father seven days. When the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning on the threshing floor of Ataad, they said, This is a grievous mourning by the Egyptians. Therefore, the place was called Abel Mizraim. It is beyond the Jordan. Thus the sons did for him as he had commanded them. For his sons carried him to the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpellah to the east of Mamreh, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place. After he had buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt with his brothers and all who had gone up with him to bury his father. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. So they sent a message to Joseph saying, Your father gave this command before he died. Say to Joseph, Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you. And now, please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. Joseph wept when they spoke to him. His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold, we are your servants. But Joseph said to them, Do not fear. For am I in the place of God? As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. So do not fear. I will provide for you and your little ones. Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. So Joseph remained in Egypt, he and his father's house. Joseph lived a hundred and ten years. And Joseph saw Ephraim 's children of the third generation. The children also of Makir, the son of Manasseh, were counted as Joseph's own. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am about to die, but God will visit you and bring you up out of this land to the land that he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here. So Joseph died, being a hundred and ten years old. They embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, as we come before you to wrap up this book of Genesis, O Lord, to hear the end of this first book of the Bible. Lord, we pray that you would take your word That you would write it and its promises on our hearts, its truths on our hearts. Oh Lord, that you would bring us comfort this morning From things like fear and uncertainty and other things that we struggle with in the Christian life We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would take your word and apply it to our lives in a way that transforms our heart as well as our lives and the way we live in our actions, O Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we come this week to the end of our trek through Genesis. Perhaps some of you are thinking, thank God, it's about time. I've heard a few of you say that to me. Others of you have said, I wish there was more. What's next? Are you doing Exodus? No, I'm not doing Exodus next. But the book of Genesis here crescendoes on the high note, pointing to God's sovereignty over the world and his redemption of his people. In fact, to boil this down to one main point, which you see printed in your bulletin on page five. The big idea of our passage this morning in chapter fifty is God's sovereignty should comfort us that we that He can even use evil for good, leading to a hope for life after death. in the resurrection. Now I want to say right up front here in the introduction that I'm not going to go through the passage in the exact order you find it. What I'm going to do is I want to focus on verses 15 to 21 first. Because I believe it which is right in the middle, which I believe that is the centerpiece that kind of frames everything that happens in the edges, in the beginning and the end. So we want to hit the middle point, which gets to the big idea, which then informs everything else around it. So we'll do verses 15 through 21 first. And then secondly, we will hit verses 1 to 14 and 22 to 26. Now The other reason I'm doing that is it makes sense to me to put Jacob's death and Joseph's death, which come before and after that middle section, together. Okay? So that's what we'll do. Let's jump in. Our very first point this morning in verses 15 to 21 is the sovereignty of God and the comfort from evil. We see that in the middle of our passage , beginning after the death and burial of Jacob, which we'll look at in just a few minutes, we see a comfort from fear that flows from evil. Verses 15 to 18. Take a look with me again at verse 15. You really get a sense of where the hearts of the brothers really are at at this point. Verse 15. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. Now this is a really interesting thing for them to say because when you look at the big picture of all that we've seen in Genesis up to this point, their consciences are clearly still bothering them. Years later for what they did years before, which leads to their living in fear Now that's kind of strange, it may not be exactly what you expect, unless you've read this before, uh because Joseph had already himself forgiven them all the way back in chapter forty-five You remember if you look at the details of the passages and the history and you put it all together, um, you know, Jacob had been in Egypt for seventeen years, as we saw last week He came at 130 years old. He lived to be 147. They had committed this crime all the way back in Genesis chapter 37, which was twenty-two years prior to their meeting. We're talking decades later, they are still bothered in their conscience over what they did to their brother. And that that having that conscience being pricked. and not entirely persuaded that Joseph has forgiven them, has led them to live in this moment in fear. What is Joseph going to do to us now that our father is not alive and there to restrain Joseph from taking full vengeance? You can get a sense of this relational distance in our passage because they do not come themselves to Joseph. Look at verse 16. So they sent a message to Joseph. And then they now it's really hard to tell did did Jacob really actually say what they said that he said in verse 16, or are they making this up in the interest of self-preservation? The scriptures are silent. You take your you can have your own opinion on that, but they send messengers to Jacob or to Joseph because they don't quite trust him for their safety. There's a relational distance there between them. But the point is, they are pleading for forgiveness from Joseph for what they did to him years before. Talk about digging up old issues that you thought were dead and they come to bite you in the rear. We see in verses 17 through 18 that this fear from uncertainty about Joseph's retribution leads to fear. That that brings them to humble themselves before Joseph. Look at the end of verse 17. It's interesting Joseph's response to this, because now you see where Joseph's heart is at in all of this In contradistinction to theirs, Joseph weeps. You see that at the end of verse 17. Very clearly, after they say what their But they want to say to him, Joseph wept when they spoke to him. Now again, did he weep when they finally came into his presence, or did he weep when the messenger sent him the message and gave it to him second hand. We don't know. But the point is we know that he is heartbroken. He's heartbroken that the sin of his brothers is still heavy on their hearts. He's heartbroken because he thought the relationships between he and they were healed and reconciled. And now he's finding out that it's not quite what he thought it was He's heartbroken because they think that he is of such a character as to take the opportunity when he has the chance to take vengeance now that his father's passed away. That is the character that they assume that he has. And that breaks his heart. He finds that they do not trust him still Because of their sins. Their sin and the weight of it is still clouding their perception of reality. Because of this, because of this fear, they come before him and they bow down and they declare, We are your servants. So the interesting thing to say, given all that they've been through as a family and given all that Joseph has already done for them to preserve their lives. We are your servants. In fact, the way the Hebrew words that, and the ESV has the word behold in there, and the Hebrew word is there, behold, but the sense and the nuance of that word is, Behold, we are now your servants. As if to say almost underhandedly, we weren't quite your servants before. But now that our father 's gone and not there to protect us, we're humbling ourselves. Now we are truly your servants. Bringing us all the way back full circle to Genesis 37 and the dream, two dreams that Joseph had when their stars and their sheaves bowed down to his as if they were his servants now out of their mouths, they are truly his servants. But is that the relationship that Joseph really wants with his brothers? To just make servants and slaves out of them. I don't think so. We see in verses 19 through 21 the comfort that God can use evil for good in Joseph's response. Now his response contains several things and details that we need to pay attention to for the sake of our application in just a moment. And what makes these details so crucially important is the context in which they're given. And look at the end of verse 21 It gives you the context. It gives you the atmosphere in which these details were given in. It says he spoke kindly to them, right after it says he comforts them. He spoke kindly to them. Now that's a really nice way in English to say what the Hebrew literally says, he spoke to their hearts. Now when you think of that phrase, you speaking to someone's heart, you're speaking to where their affections are, where their fears are, where their emotions are, where they are really at spiritually. Joseph understands where his brothers are at. There's great fear that comes from uncertainty as to what their relationship with him really is like because of sin that they committed, that he has already forgiven, but they have not yet received that forgiveness. He speaks to the direct concerns that weigh heavy on their souls. Let's look at what he says. Look at verse 19. We find comfort in the fact that Joseph is not sovereign himself. He says in verse 19, but Joseph says to them, Do not fear. By the way, that really was the heart of the matter, wasn't it? Fear. Do not fear. Why? For I am I in the place of God? Huh. That's a command, by the way. Do not fear. Have you ever tried to tell somebody how not to feel in our day and age? It doesn't really go over too well, does it? Um people might look at you like, don't you dare tell me how to feel. That's what he's doing here. He's telling him how to feel and he's giving him a reason why. And the reason he's giving, notice he puts it in the form of a question. Am I in the place of God? What's the implied answer? Well, the answer to the rhetorical question is, because I'm not in the place of God, you should not fear me. Now, of course, there's two ways you can really understand this question, and the one one way is the way the ESV translates it, am I in the place of God? Now we we understand what he means by that. He's telling them that despite being only second in command and authority to Pharaoh over all Egypt , Even he is not in the place of God to meet out vengeance and to meet out judgment against them. With all of his power and authority, not even Joseph, morally speaking and justly speaking, can do this and take vengeance. Another way to understand this, rationality gives, is to understand the word that's translated in the place of as the word under. And by the way, that Hebrew word that's used there is kind of a fluid word. It could mean either one. It could mean, am I in the place of God? Or maybe he's asking, am I under God? As if the implication of that question would be, yes, I'm under God. Therefore I cannot take vengeance against you. However, you understand that nuance, the point is the same. I am in no place to take my personal vengeance against you. You could almost hear him saying in the background of his mind, not that I want to, because I've already forgiven you back in chapter 45. But we see in verse 50, he continues to go on. So he's not sovereign. Verse 19. Well, who is sovereign? Verse 20. He continues. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring about meant that many people should be kept alive as they are to this day. Notice the contrast he's building in his answer to speak to their hearts. I'm not sovereign to just do what I want to do as I see fit. That's just not who I am. I'm not God. But God is sovereign. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that notice this relationship between good and evil. That he mentions here. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. You know, pairing those two words together, good and evil. really should bring us right back to Genesis chapter 2 and 3 with the tree of the knowledge of what? Good and evil. Isn't it interesting? These themes in Genesis just come right back at the end to tie up what we find in the beginning with the fall of man into sin. And with that in mind, this is one of the most important statements, I think, this is my opinion, in all of Genesis, verse 20. Because it highlights what has been going on since chapter 1 all the way until chapter 50, and which continues from Genesis 50 to today. God is sovereign. What you meant for evil against me, God meant it for good to bring about that many people should be kept alive. as they are today. First, let's just take take this apart a little little by little. First, notice Joseph does not explain away his brother's sin as if it was not significant. You know, when people sometimes apologize to you, or maybe you apologize to them, the response is, oh, don't worry about it. It's okay That's not what he's doing here. He's already forgiven them, yes. But he is not just simply saying, well, it's okay, brothers, no problem. Don't worry about it. He actually acknowledges that what they did was evil, despite the fact that he's already forgiven them. He can acknowledge that statement of fact. And it's a statement of moral fact. What you guys did to me was flat out wicked and evil. And and the word that he uses in Hebrew when he says what you meant, well you meant evil, that word meant there is kind of a verb that can be translated to think, to propose. to plan or to devise you fill in any of those words. What you guys thought to do to me was evil. What you guys purposed to do to me was evil. What you guys planned to do to me was evil or what you devised against me was evil. What that shows is an intention an intentionality in what they did to him. It wasn't just happenstance. It was on purpose. And it was wicked. There was a plan, and that plan was executed. Solomon to Egypt, right? But secondly, notice God meant their plan, their evil plan, for his good. It's interesting that he uses the same word for meant there, again, to think, to purpose the plan or to devise. showing God's intentionality. In other words, despite his brothers' evil plans as creatures, sinful creatures, living under the fall God as creator had a sovereign plan that included their plan as the means by which his plan would be accomplished. And what was the purpose of that plan? Well, you see it in verse 20. He says it very clearly. What's the purpose? To bring about that many people should be kept alive. as they are today. In other words, the plan was to save many people and preserve their lives. Now this is one of those really mysterious things in Scripture, and I'm not going to pretend like I can stand up here and tell you how it all works. This is how God's sovereignty works. God is sovereign. He has a sovereign plan that is working itself out in immaculate detail through history from beginning to end. And guess what? That does not rob the creature of their responsibility for the things that they do under heaven How does it all fit together? I don't know. The only thing I can say is it's most people look at this in terms of, well, it's either God's plan or mine. It's either God's will or mine. It's either God's choice or mine. God's decision or mine. The presupposition or the assumption behind that viewpoint is that man and God are on the same playing field and they're not. Notice there's a difference here. What does Joseph say? God is sovereign. He's sovereign. He's not on the same playing field existentially, morally, situationally, than man. And that is something that the brothers have to wrestle with as they wrestle with receiving the forgiveness that he has already offered them in chapter 45. This plan was that many people would be kept alive and survive the severe famine so that the messianic line would eventually come. And then we already saw this in verse 21, comfort in Joseph's care of his brothers. The final thing that he mentions that we have to consider is that Joseph reiterates the idea of commanding them not to fear. He says it again. Which tells you that's what's really on Joseph's heart. He doesn't want them to fear. Why? Because he's going to provide for them. He is going to take care of them. So the question is, how does the sovereignty of God over all things minister to our hearts in the midst of our fears today? Think about that. The sovereignty of God brings comfort to us by bringing us right to the foot of the cross as the answer to our fears in a world full of sin and evil. That's the idea. Fear often comes in the face of evil and suffering in the world. One of the greatest things that results from living in a fallen, sinful, broken world is that it breeds fears within us. And there's all kinds of fears we have, don't we? We have fears of things external to us. That could be anything. What if a tornado comes and blows me away? What if I get into a car accident? What if someone else does something to me? What if I suffer something like a famine or drought and I don't have enough food to eat or a war hits and things are are chaotic around me. There's all kinds of things around us. What if I lose my job to bring it more close to home? to where we live today. There's all kinds of external things and circumstances that bring fear in a fallen, broken world. But like the brothers, we are prone to think that when things go poorly for us in the world Or when we suffer in the world, that it necessarily means that God must be taking vengeance on us for our sins. We naturally gravitate to that kind of thinking oftentimes. Well, this is going on in my life, therefore God must be punishing me. Now, while scripture certainly does indicate that sin does lead to judgment as a general principle, our particular passage this morning points us to the fact that we cannot automatically assume that in any particular circumstance of our lives, God is simply and only punishing us. Why? Because that is to miss the gracious character of God in Christ. How many of you struggle with sin in this room? Don't raise your hand, because all of your hands should probably go up. For me it'd be like two hands, right? We all struggle with sin. We have besetting issues and character flaws and and things that that we sin against God and other people and and the more we walk with the Lord This is one of the, I say, unfortunate things of the Christian life is the closer you get to the Lord, the more aware of your sin and imperfection you become. Believe it or not, the more holy you get, the more unholy you realize you really are fundamentally. Right? And the more you see of your own sin and imperfections, the more temptation it is to despair that God can actually forgive you. And then you find yourself in the same situation the brothers are in when you come to Christ. Almost begging him to forgive you and not understanding that he already went to the cross to forgive you. That he's already given this benefit of the forgiveness of sins, which is a benefit of the new covenant. When we come to faith in Christ and receive that forgiveness, we have no reason to fear our standing and relationship to God. in Christ, because if we did, it would undo everything that Christ did and accomplished for us. And brothers and sisters, one of the good news, one of the parts of the good news of the gospel is the work of Christ cannot be undone for his people. Yes, thank you. That is definitely worth an amen. Think of how it grieves the heart of God when we doubt his goodness. Like the brothers doubted Joseph's goodness. The weeping of Joseph is I was thinking about this this week. The weeping of Joseph is really a good illustration of the divine grief that God has over our unbelief when we claim to trust in Christ, but deep down entertain these doubts and continue to look at our sins and the power of our sins rather than Christ and the power of Christ. to conquer those things. Because what man intends for evil, God can and does intend for good. Now by the way I have to say this. This key verse in this section of our passage on the sovereignty of God is supposed to be full of comforting truth, although most people miss the comfort You know why they miss the comfort? Because when we talk about the sovereignty of God, far too often it is discussed in a dry in an academic manner that robs it of its real life comfort that God intends his sovereignty to be to his people Don't miss that. The sovereignty of God passage, one of the clearest ones in all of Scripture, not to mention the Old Testament, is mentioned in a passage that is full of emotional depth. And pastoral quality. And so we need to understand the context of this doctrine of the sovereignty of God comes as Joseph comforts and speaks to the heart of his brothers who are struggling. Does the sovereignty of God bring comfort to your heart this morning? Or do you see it as a threat? Because you're trying to usurp that sovereignty for yourself as we confessed earlier together Again, we need to understand that this relationship of good and evil, what man intends for evil, God can and does use for good. goes right back, as I said, to Genesis 2 and 3 and the knowledge, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And I want you to think about this. Just as Eve saw that the tree was good for food, and desirable in a lot of ways. She ate from that fruit as as did the man. And what they thought was good in their own eyes resulted in plunging the world into sin, ruin, and evil. What they intended, being duped and deceived by the serpent, thinking that it was good, was in fact evil. And brothers and sisters, when we focus on our sin and when we continue to live in it, what we often intend in the flesh, thinking that it is good, oftentimes leads to evil. We see that evil from ourselves is enough to lead us to doubt our standing with the Lord By the way, taking a step back, some people look at evil and suffering in the world, and they somehow deduce that that automatically means that a good, all-powerful God can exist, and they just doubt his existence altogether. Yet somehow, in a manner that is mysterious to us as finite creatures, God is able to take what man intends for evil and bring good out of it. There are some of you sitting here this morning. Your own personal lives, you've done horrible things. You've sinned in grievous ways. And I I don't have to lay out all the list of sins that that may be. You know your heart, and so does the Lord. But the pastoral app and and you're tempted to think that because you've done X, Y, or Z, you've destroyed your life, or there's no hope in this area, or there's no hope for restoration or redemption there. The pastoral application to this, for those of you who wonder about your sin and doubt you're standing with God because of that and whether or not God can really redeem you is that God can still work in your life. regardless of how broken you may be because of your sin. What man intends for evil, God can still use for good in his redemption Now that does not give us a license to sin, but it brings tremendous comfort for those who are broken over their sin. And so how does this work and how does this point us to Christ in the gospel? Well, think about it, evil intentions resulting in good is what happened at the cross in the gospel. When you look at the wider picture of the four gospels of Jesus Christ in the New Testament, what really led him to the cross Well when you read the details of the story, it was oftentimes the wicked planning and scheming of the Jewish religious leaders I mean it is incredible to me that in Mark chapter 3, Jesus um you know heals a man whose hand is withered in the synagogue, and in Mark chapter 3, verse 6, what does it say? the Pharisees and the Herodians went out and conspired against him and how they might destroy him. Guys, there are sixteen chapters to the book of Mark, and already in chapter three in the beginning, they're trying to conspire to kill him And they historically got their way. Unless we unless we take a step back and try to be objective and just say, well, that's them. I mean I'm not like that. If Christ died for your sins, your sins put them on the cross. You're as guilty as them. Right? What was meant for evil? What did God do with the cross? He meant it for good. Because what was the result? Well, the result is what we read oftentimes in the New Testament We read that where the law was powerless because of sin, God Did what the law could not do by conquering sin and condemning it in the flesh. He triumphed over sin and evil in the cross. He triumphed over sin and death in the resurrection. Do you understand, brothers and sisters, that every worldview out there, every religion out there Does not have a problem or does not have an answer for the problem of evil and suffering. Do you understand that only the gospel that comes from Scripture, which is the foundation stone of biblical Christianity, has the answer to the problem of sin, evil, and death at the foot of the cross. And at the mouth of the empty tomb? That's what this passage points us to. What is God's sovereignty driving towards? Redemption for his people And that leads us to our second point this morning in verses 1 to 14 and 22 to 26. The sovereignty of God and the hope for life out of death. Now I'm not going to go through all the details here. There's just too much to go through. Let's summarize. As we look at verses 1 to 14, you can really break this down into two sections, 1 through 3 and then 4 through 14. In the first three verses, we see the preparation of Jacob for burial that showcases a hope for life out of death. What am I talking about? Well, the obvious response to the of the brothers when Jacob dies is grief. But there's a key word there in verses 1 through 3 that's mentioned three times, and it is the word embalm. Now most of you know what it means to embalm. Right? You've seen mummies before or pictures of mummies in museums or in tombs. Here's what's really interesting. The Hebrew word for embalm actually means to make spicy. How about that? I got a kick out of that when I read that this week. I'm like, what? What is it talking about to make spicy? Well, it has to do with the spices and the chemicals that are used in the process of embalming as they remove the organs, and I'm not going to get into all those details, but you get the point. They dry out the body so that the body is preserved. Why did the Egyptians do that? historically. Because by the time you get to the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, which Joseph is living in and his brothers, they they had narrowed that down to a precise science. Why did they do it? Have you ever wondered that? Well, they did it because the Egyptians believed that there was, in fact, life after death. And they they believed that the process of embalming preserved the person for the afterlife and that their soul could continue on Now the Hebrews didn't have that same belief. They the the Egyptians tied that to the preservation of the body to as life-like uh a s a sp a state as you could possibly get for a dead person, right? Believe it or not, it it in my opinion, it's kind of like a warped view or hope for the resurrection. It's like A very twisted hope for the resurrection? Well, this is the next best thing. We can't really raise him from the dead, but we're going to keep his body living like it's a looking like it's alive as much as possible. It was really just a symbol of their hope for the afterlife. Why did the Hebrews then do it if if they don't share that same world view? Well, I think it's because of a practical consideration. Think about it. Jacob dies. They got to get permission to go up to Canaan. They got to transport a body to Canaan. Do you know how quickly the process of decom decomposition begins in a body? I mean it's really quick. I mean think about what happened in in John chapter 11 when Lazarus died. Lord, he's been dead for four days. Don't remove the stone, he's gonna stink. Right? I think this is a really practical concession on their part. They had to bury Jacob in Canaan. This was the way to do it. And it happened to be a way that. at least bore witness to the Egyptians who believed in an afterlife that there is a hope of a resurrection, just not the way that they thought it would happen. So we see in verses 4 through 14, the burial of Jacob showcases the hope in the midst of grief, the hope of resurrection. Now again, I'm just going to highlight some things here. Look at verse 7. We see the entire retinue of those who attend. We find that Joseph and all his brothers go up to Canaan. That's obvious because Jacob's their father. But They do leave their children, their flocks, and their herds behind in Egypt, which is kind of surprising, but it's also surprising who else they take with them. The servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his household, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, as well as chariots and horsemen. In other words, they took a small army into Canaan. Why Well, there's a few options that commentators throw out there. I don't know if we can know for sure, but maybe Canaan had some dangerous inhabitants and they needed protection as Egyptians. Or um You know, I I I tend to think it just had to do with bearing witness to the Egyptians. of the hope that the Hebrews had for life after death. And we see the display of mourning in verses 10 through 11. In verse 10 we read that they came to the threshing floor of Atad We don't exactly know where exact word that is exactly, but the retinue stops there for seven days. Verse 10 says they lamented there with a great lament, grievous A grievous lamentation. He made a mourning for his father seven days. Boy, you read that, it's really repetitive, isn't it? What's the point? They are grieving. Now that had all sorts of cultural and ritual and religious customs for the Egyptians at least I'm sure, but verse 11 says that the response of the Canaanites of this was that they named the place Abel Midzraim. And it says saying that this is a grievous mourning by the Egyptians. By the way, Abel Mizrayim, like any many names in Hebrew, has a meaning. It just means Egypt mourns. The Canaanites understood that at the death of Jacob or the death of Israel, Egypt had mourned. Huh. Jacob's passing left quite the impression on the Canaanites. They finish burying him, they go home. Fast forward to 22 to 26, you see hope despite Joseph's death and burial. This is a little more to the point, a lot less detail here. In verses 22 through 25, you see the hope of a greater redemption. What do I mean by greater redemption? Well, Joseph had effected a great redemption for his family by bringing them to Egypt, saving them from starvation. Which is what he was indicating and pointing back to in verse 20. There's a greater redemption, though. He lives to be a hundred and ten. But notice what he says in verses twenty-four and twenty-five. That's what I want to Want you to focus on. He says, I am about to die, but God will visit you and bring you up out of this land that he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And then in verse 25, he says the same thing. He says, God will surely visit you. And just a few things here very quickly. Scripture uses the word visit, and that is the key word here. Oftentimes when he visits his people, it's visiting them for the sake of saving them. You see an example of that when Ruth went to Moab. Right, with her or not Ruth, um Naomi with her family, and then she hears at the end of chapter one that God had visited his people and provided bread in Bethlehem. Right? Something saving was happening. God will visit you. God will save you. Secondly, it's a double verb in Hebrew, which is more properly rendered, God will certainly visit you That double verb is the strongest way, the most certain way to say something in the Hebrew language. And he says it there to indicate this is definitely going to happen. And if that's not strong enough for you to build your confidence and your hope, he says it again in verse 25. He repeats a double construction verb two times, using the same verb four times, to make it absolutely certain that these brothers knew God was going to save them. Now I thought about how would you say that in English without sounding too repetitive using four word verbs? And I came up with this. It will definitely, certainly, absolutely, positively happen. Stop doubting it. That's kind of the idea. Now I use four word verbs there because two double verb statements. You you get the point. But what a hope that Joseph's family had, leading to verses 25 and 26, the end of the book, and the end of the chapter, the hope of the resurrection. This is really interesting. Lastly, he tells them that when God visits Israel to bring them out of Egypt, verse 25, which happened in the redemption of the Exodus, he's prophesying the Exodus, understand, 400 years before. He says, you shall carry my bones up from here. That's a really interesting kind of request. Then he makes him swear to do it. And then he dies. Then they embalm him. And they put him in a coffin. In Egypt. Isn't it interesting? The last words in the book of Genesis, in Egypt. God's people are not in the promised land. They're waiting. Joseph's waiting in Egypt, buried in a coffin, mummified. For what point? For him to await his resurrection body. It's a statement of the hope of life after death again. It's a statement of the confidence that God will fulfill his promises. And by the way, as a side point before I get to the application, understand that That was actually fulfilled. In Exodus 13, 19, after the plague of the firstborn, when Israel left Egypt, it says, Moses took the bones of Joseph. with him. For Joseph had made the sons of Israel solemnly swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry my bones up from here with you. 430 years to the day after the whole family came down from Canaan, Joseph's bones were taken up out of Egypt. So what happened? What ended up happening to his bones? Well you get the actual the conclusion to that in Joshua chapter 24 verse 32 near the end of the book of Joshua. For as for the bones of Joseph, which the people of Israel brought up from Egypt, they buried them at Shechem in the piece of land that Jacob bought from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of money, it became the inheritance of the descendants of Joseph. You go back, you read chapter 48 of Genesis, verse 22, and that's a great fulfillment to the promise that Jacob had made to Joseph before he died. He got that land, his bones rested in his inheritance. So again, how does the sovereignty of God over all things minister to our hearts in the midst of uncertainties like death The sovereignty of God leads to hope for life in the resurrection while living under the shadow of death. Brothers and sisters, we have a hope for life after death. And again, this passage brings us right back to the beginning of Genesis and reveals that God in His sovereignty is working through redemption to reverse the curse of death that we found in chapter 3. And that's where we're here we're at here at the end of Genesis. We're still awaiting God to fully and finally reverse that curse from Genesis 3. But we do so at the end of this book with hope. Boy, this was driven home to me very directly the light these last two weeks. As has been mentioned before, our brother Joseph Leeds passing away, and I did his funeral on Thursday and his burial. Subsequently, and Friday evening, our dear sister Sharon Johnson passed away as well. There's others in our midst who have life-threatening illnesses. in which death could be a reality soon. What are we to take from our passage this morning at the end of Genesis? We take away the hope that this life, that there is life after death. This life is not all there is. Death is not the end. Death will not have the victory. Interestingly, I heard a interview a couple days ago. They were talking about what was John MacArthur's what were some of his last words? And you know what one of his last words, one of his close friends was saying was quoting from um Hosea And 1 Corinthians 15, O death, where is your power? O Death, where is your sting? The words of a dying man who had the hope of life after death. So we uh we have a need to grieve with hope. The fact that Joseph and his brothers and even the Egyptians grieved over the passing of Jacob models for us that it's okay to grieve. In fact, it's more than okay. It's right and appropriate. But let me put this idea to you and take this to the bank. Spiritually. Even as we grieve, our grief over loved ones that go home to be with the Lord is intended by God. to be a testimony to a lost and dying world that is under the curse of death and has no hope for anything beyond the grave. The way you grieve is meant to be a testimony to the hope that we have. And we do have the hope of the resurrection from the dead. And that's the real substance of burying Jacob in the land of Canaan and committing his body to the ground. God told Adam in Genesis 3. 19 about his own death, for your dust, and to dust you shall return. And even as Joseph is eventually brought back to Canaan and buried there in Shechem, it points forward to the time when God will fully and finally reverse the curse and the judgment of death. Brothers and sisters, just like God's sovereignty, what man meant for evil, God used for good, leading Christ to the cross, so these burials point us to the tomb of Jesus Christ. He, in the resurrection of his son from the dead, fulfilled his promises as a down payment by raising him from death? Isn't it interesting that Jacob and Joseph's tombs still are there with their inhabitants in them? Just like our tombs will be until Christ returns. But there is a tomb that we stand outside of, knowing that it is open and it is empty. God will fulfill his promises in raising us likewise one day from the dead. And that leads us to our final inheritance in the newness of life And as we wait for that great day, brothers and sisters, the question is, are you trusting him in his sovereignty? And if not, why not? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word in the book of Genesis. As we come to the end of it, Lord, we pray that you would put your seal of approval on it and seal your word onto our hearts by the power of your Spirit. Lord, help us to see your sovereignty as a sweet savor for our souls, a balm of comfort that leads us and points us to the gospel of Jesus And Lord, I pray that you would fill us with hope, even as we live under the shadow of death this side of eternity, that death will not have the victory, because Lord Jesus, you have already conquered the tomb. We thank you, O Lord, for the glory of the gospel in Jesus' name