If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis 47. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 31 as we stand together for the reading of God's Holy Word. Genesis 47, 1. As we near the end of this wonderful book. This is the word, the Lord's word for his people this morning. So Joseph went in and told Pharaoh, My father and my brothers, with their flocks and herds and all that they possess, have come from the land of Canaan. They are now in the land of Goshen. And from among his brothers he took five men and presented them to Pharaoh. Pharaoh said to his brothers, What is your occupation? And they said to Pharaoh, Your servants are shepherds, as our fathers were. They said to Pharaoh, We have come to sojourn in the land, for there is no pasture for your servants' flocks. For the famine is severe in the land of Canaan. And now please let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Your father and your brothers have come to you. The land of Egypt is before you. Settle your father and your brothers in the best of the land. Let them settle in the land of Goshen, and if you know of any able men among them, put them in charge of my livestock. Then Joseph brought in Jacob his father and stood him before Pharaoh. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said to Jacob, How many are the days of the years of your life? And Jacob said to Pharaoh, The days of the years of my sojourning are one hundred and thirty years Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their sojourning. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from the presence of Pharaoh. Then Joseph settled his father and his brothers. And gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Ramses, as Pharaoh had commanded. And Joseph provided his father, his brothers, and all his father's household with food according to the number of their dependents. Now there was no food in all the land, for the famine was very severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished by reason of the famine. And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan in exchange for the grain that they bought. And Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. And when the money was all spent in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, Give us food. Why should we die before your eyes? For our money is gone. Joseph answered Give your livestock, and I will give you food in exchange for your livestock, if your money is gone. So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them food in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the herds. And the donkeys. He supplied them with food in exchange for all their livestock that year. And when that year was ended, they came to him the following year and said to him, We will not hide from my Lord that our money is all spent. The herds of livestock are my lord's. There is nothing left in the sight of my Lord but our bodies and our land. Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for food, and we with our land will be servants to Pharaoh. And give us seed that we may live and not die, and that the land may not be desolate. So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for all the Egyptians sold their fields because the famine was severe on them. The land became Pharaoh 's. And as for the people, he made servants of them from one end of Egypt to the other. Only the land of priests did he not buy, for the priests had a fixed allowance from Pharaoh, and he lived on and lived on the allowance that Pharaoh gave them, and therefore they did not sell their land. Then Joseph said to the people, Behold, I have this day bought you and your land for Pharaoh. Now here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land. And at the harvest you shall give a fifth to Pharaoh, four fifths shall be your own, as seed for the field, and as food for yourselves and your households, and as food for your little ones. And they said, you have saved our lives. May it please my Lord. We will be servants to Pharaoh. So Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt, and it stands to this day that Pharaoh should have the fifth. The land of the priests alone did not become Pharaoh's Thus Israel settled in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen, and they gained possessions in it, and were fruitful, and multiplied greatly And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. So the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were 147. And when the time drew near that Israel must die, he called his son Joseph and said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, put your hand under my thigh and promise to deal kindly and truly with me. Do not bury me in Egypt, but let me lie with my fathers. Carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying place. He answered, I will do as you have said. And he said, Swear to me. And he swore to him. Then Israel bowed himself upon the head of his bed. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are coming before you asking, Lord, that you would take your word that was just read to us, and Lord, that you Would write it on our hearts that you would use it by your Spirit to transform us, to bring us comfort this morning, and help us to see Jesus more clearly and the work of the gospel. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if you remember, just a few minutes ago, our New Testament scripture reading was Jesus' words in the Sermon on the Mount. Essentially exhorting us not to worry, not to have anxiety, but to trust that the Lord will provide all that we need. And I wonder this morning, what gives you anxiety, or what brings worry into your heart, or uncertainty? Maybe it's a job or maybe it's a certain relationship that you have of someone that maybe you really don't like to relate to and you try to avoid and every time you have to face them it brings up anxiety. It could be any number of things. But what we see in our passage this morning is God beginning to work out the promises in the lives of his people in such a way that sets the things that might bring them uncertainty, brings them certainty, it brings them hope. In fact, the main idea of our passage this morning is this. God's covenant blessing comes to us in his settling our circumstances in the world, in his saving people from certain death. And from securing our hope of resurrection. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning and maybe this is your first time, You'll notice on page 5, right after the liturgy, you can see that sermon idea printed there for you. But that is the idea we want to unpack this morning. God's covenant blessing comes to us in his settling our circumstances in the world, in his saving his people from certain death, and from securing our hope of resurrection. And so as we unpack that this morning, let's just jump right in. Our first point this morning in verses one through twelve is that Christ Settles the covenant promises on our behalf. Now we see this begin to work itself out in verses 1 through 6, settling those who sojourn. If you remember two weeks ago, our passage this morning picks up immediately after the last chapter where Joseph and his brothers come to Egypt, he brings his brothers first in our passage into Pharaoh and then his father. He pres presents his father to Pharaoh. And things go pretty much the way that Joseph thought that they would go. You might remember two weeks ago Joseph told his brothers what would happen, what Pharaoh would ask them, and what they are to say. And that is exactly what unfolds before us this morning in verses 1 through 4. We find the occupation of those who sojourn. As the story unfolds, Joseph takes five of his brothers. Mercifully, for the sake of his brothers, it doesn't tell us which of those five it was, but they must have been the five that Joseph thought were most presentable to Pharaoh for whatever reason. And Pharaoh comes in and asks them what their occupation is. And they answer very plainly, Your servants are shepherds. And we saw the significance of that two weeks ago. But what I want to draw your attention to is verse 4. We have come to sojourn in the land. They're telling Pharaoh why they're there. We have come to sojourn in the land, for there is no pasture for your servants' flocks, for the famine is severe in the land of Canaan. Now again, you remember, a shepherd was somewhat of an abomination to the Egyptians, and this would have kept them separate. This would have prevented them from becoming enculturated in Egypt and losing their spiritual identity as God's people. in a foreign land. And and it seems Jo uh Joseph's brothers, the sons of Israel, understand this calling that God has on their lives. Because when they tell Pharaoh, we are here to sojourn in your land, the very Hebrew verb that is used there indicates that in their minds, we are not here to stay. This is temporary. They were not asking for full citizenship status. They weren't asking for full rights even that a full citizen would have in Egypt. They just wanted to be allowed to dwell in a certain land for the sake of their flocks for a certain amount of time that in their minds they thought was temporary. We're not here to stay. We're not here to mix. We're here for a specific purpose. And yet something unexpected happens in verses 5 and 6. We see not just the occupation given of those who sojourn, but in light of that, their elevation The response of Pharaoh is to certainly allow them to come and stay in Goshen. We see that Pharaoh says, Settle your brothers in the best of the land. So I don't know if they realized that what they were getting was the best, but what is more is Pharaoh commits his livestock into the capable hands of any in Israel who were able men among them. In fact, when the ESV says, put them in charge of my livestock, what he's essentially telling them is set them as officers or officials over my royal livestock. Notice there's a pattern here, isn't there? When Joseph was sold into slavery chapters before in chapter 37, and then we see it again in 39, what happens with Joseph? Joseph has this unique tendency because God is with him, because God is succeeding and prospering, everything in his hands. Joseph starts at the bottom and seems to always rise to the top. He sent as a slave in Potiphar's house, and then because God succeeds everything in his hand, Potiphar elevates him and puts everything in his hands He gets thrown into prison, the lowest of the low, and what does the the jailer do? Puts everything in his charge. You see the same pattern. being expanded, not just to Joseph now, but to all of his brothers. If there's any able among you, let him rise to the top, let him serve as officials over Pharaoh's household, at least with respect to To his livestock and his possessions. They come in, and the Lord sovereignly elevates them in relation to the household of Pharaoh. They rise to the top, they succeed, because God is with them. And so it's interesting in verses 1 through 6 you see the settling of those who sojourn. But that settling then leads to blessing in verses 7 through 13. After the brothers are presented, Joseph, as I said a second ago, brings his father Jacob and sets Jacob before Pharaoh. And I just I imagine Pharaoh likely sitting on his throne and Jo Jacob very humbly in shepherd 's rags standing in front of this man who is essentially the king of kings as far as earthly kings go. And the discussion seems to be a short one. We're not told all the details of what is said in our passage, but albeit short, is full of significance. Notice that Jacob blesses the Pharaoh despite suffering evil days. That is really interesting. That's really interesting. He you know Pharaoh asks him quite you know bluntly, how old are you? Now I can only imagine Jacob, we've been following his story all this time. We know he's had a hard life. Working out in the fields, caring for Laban's flocks, and now taking care of his own family, perhaps he stood there bleached by the sun and burnt. And his skin looking haggard, Pharaoh looks at him, how old are you? And Jacob answers very plainly in verse 9. A hundred and thirty years old. But notice how he describes those 130 years. Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the years of the life of my fathers. Now again, you don't have to look too far in Jacob's life to see the few and the evil character of his days. the difficulty that this man has suffered. And notice the contrast when Abraham dies back in Genesis 25, he dies uh, you know full of years and at a good old age. You get this idea that Abraham lived a full and a good life. Jacob's life is not nearly as long at this point. And it is contrasted with Abraham's full of evil. and suffering. And yet despite that suffering that Jacob has endured, verse 10 tells us that Jacob blessed the Pharaoh, and then went out of his presence. And the thing I want to highlight to you in that detail, because it is mentioned twice , in this section mentions it right before Pharaoh enters into dialogue that Jacob blesses him and then at the end Jacob blesses him and goes out of his presence. I want to highlight for you That sometimes the most profound blessings come out of the most profound suffering. There's a pattern there. That we see over and over and over again in Scripture. And we see it in Jacob's life. Jacob's suffering led to his blessing Pharaoh. But I want to kind of take a step back for just a moment and put this blessing of Pharaoh into its larger context than the book of Genesis. You might remember, back in Genesis chapter 12, verse 3, God told Abraham, You know, all the families of the earth, in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. All those who bless you, I will bless. All those who curse you, I will curse. Talking about Abraham and his descendants It's repeated in chapter 22, verse 18 , narrowing it down, in your seed, singular, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Interestingly enough, he said that right after he almost sacrificed Isaac. Jacob here is the one who is of the seed of Abraham, blesses the nations. In this sense, blessing the Pharaoh of Egypt as kind of a preview of the blessing of the nations that will come in a greater scope in time to come. promises and is God's um providence and plans for redemption work themselves out in the world. And so we ask ourselves, as we look at all of this, as God settles his people who sojourn, as that settling leads to blessing. We ask ourselves by way of application, when we find ourselves living in an uncertain world, as Jacob and his sons did, how do we find a settled hope in God 's promises? Well, we find a settled hope in the promises of God when we understand our role as sojourners in this world, related to Jesus Christ by faith. We see that we are called to be a blessing to those outside of the four walls of the church. Amen indeed. Now you can imagine the uncertainty that Joseph's brothers and Jacob were feeling as they began to live in Egypt. And many of you here this morning live with different types of uncertainties. Uncertainties maybe like Joseph's brothers, the children of Israel, as they're talking to Pharaoh about their occupation, maybe you're wondering. About your job. Maybe there are some uncertainties in the job that you are working right now, or underst or you're not sure what the future of that is going to hold for you. Maybe it's uncertainty about where are you going to live or how are you going to care for your family as times get tougher. Ironically enough, I just heard of a new text that they passed here in Maryland and it didn't surprise me, but you know, just watching some reading some of the news and some of the backlash and people worried about how This is going to affect their budgeting as families and as they try to make things make ends meet. Any number of uncertainties that we face in this life. Well, maybe it's this. Maybe as you look at the moral insanity in the world around us, you're wondering how are you going to keep your families safe? from the uncertainties of of turbulent times in our countries or political instability or more as I just said, moral insanity. How are you going to remain faithful to the Lord? How are you going to raise your family to follow Jesus? I mean, all of these uncertainties that life seems to just throw on us. There's nothing new. Jacob and his family. had to deal with the same things. And I said last time in chapter forty six that one of the main points at the end was we are called to not acclimate to the world and and acculturate ourselves to the world. We're not called to adopt the world's standards. We are called to be separate and distinct and holy as God's people. There is to be a difference between the church and the world. Now with that truth, and it is a biblical truth, There's another corresponding truth that our passage brings out today to balance things out The temptation for us as a church then is to shy away from the world and then take an isolationist approach. Yes, we are called to be separate. We are not called to be isolated as believers. The temptation is for us to look at the world as it goes to pass and say, well, that's your problem. I'm going to just look at my own affairs and take care of myself and my family. But that's not what we see in our passage, is it? We're not called to take that isolationist approach. We are called to be separate, but not isolated. Joseph and his brothers have opportunity to be useful to the house of Pharaoh. And moreover, Jacob blessed Pharaoh. Why? Because they had realized that God was settling them in the land. God was going to take care of them and fulfill his covenant promises. on their behalf, and doing so using Jacob's very son Joseph, whom I've been arguing all this time as we've been going through Genesis, Joseph being a paradigm of Christ. As you face the uncertainties in your life, whether job or family or economics or whatever the case may be that you're worried about. And let's face it, we all who live in the world have cares that are related to this world. We're called to rest. The certainty of our hope on the settled promises of God in Christ It is because we have received the blessing of Abraham, which is to be declared righteous by faith in Christ, that our relationship with God is settled, and in that settled relationship with God, we can then turn around. and be a blessing to those in the world around us who exist outside of these four walls, who have uncertainty and are unsettled themselves. situationally and spiritually, we can turn around then and be a blessing to them. Brothers and sisters, I want to exhort you to pray about actively seeking to be a blessing to those around you. And let me do so with the words of Jeremiah the prophet from Jeremiah 29, 7. Just as Israel in our passage was living in exile. In Egypt, later they would go into exile to Babylon, like we are in exile today, outside of our eternal inheritance, as we live in this world. Jeremiah said this to the exiles. But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile. That was Babylon. And pray to the Lord on its behalf. For in its welfare you will find your welfare. Do you see? In seeking to be a blessing as sojourners in this world, and that is our identity, sojourners in this world. The Lord then brings a settled hope in God's promises to those outside who desperately need it. The question I want to ask you is, do you pray for the welfare of the world around us? And if not, why not? That is our calling as believers to be salt and light. But it's not just Settling our hope in the promises of God, settling our external circumstances that this passage deals with, it goes further. Our second point here in verses 13 to 26 is that Christ saves us by the outworking of his sovereignty. Now there's a lot of detail in this, and we don't have time to get through all the detail in painstaking manner, but I just want to like summarize this for you. There are three stages to how this section unfolds. And there's three things that the Egyptians will say to Joseph that I want to I want to highlight for you because I believe Moses is highlighting this as he wrote this under the inspiration of the Spirit. Notice what the Egyptians say to Joseph is in response to the conditions of famine that they are suffering under. And what we're going to see here in the middle of chapter 47 is These people are saved first and foremost by a confession of the reality of their plight. We see a confession of their need in verses 15 and 19. Take a look with me in verses 15 and 19. The famine is in full swing. The money has been spent. And all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, What? Give us food. You can hear the urgency in that, because that is a verb of command. And then they asked a question, Why should we die before your eyes? For our money is gone. Why should we die before your eyes? They say something very similar later in verse 19. uh year uh a year or two later. Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? They understand that in the midst of this famine, the threat was to their very lives. It was an existential threat. Why should we die? What's the threat? Death They understand the need. And who do they come to? They come to Joseph. What's interesting is what they say at the end, this is kind of the third stage here. In verse 25. At the end of Joseph taking wise action, they say to him, You have saved our lives. Notice that structure. Twice they they confess their need. The third time, when the need is met, they confess That Joseph has been the one that God has used to cause them to have their lives saved. You, Joseph, have saved our lives. You can see that. The Hebrew verb stem there is a causative stem. They're crediting Joseph as the one who causes their deliverance. Hmm. One thing I want you to observe here is that these Egyptians are Gentiles, and it is these Gentiles who are confessing this freely And gratefully that the one who saved Israel, saved his own family by bringing them to Egypt, is also the one that didn't just save his family, but now saves the whole nation. And they're overjoyed by that. Now I want to look at secondly here how Joseph actually saved them. I find it interesting, and a lot of commentators do as well, they're, you know, kind of somewhat mystified, well, why is it that Joseph's, you know, domestic tax policy and agrarian policy is is listed in such painstaking detail. Well I think there's a point. It it does happen in stages as well. There is He saves them by a process of submission to sovereignty. Don't miss that point. How are they saved? By a process of submission to his and Pharaoh's sovereign authority. Let's take a look at this. Three stages. The first one, very simple. Verses 13 to 14. There's sovereignty in gathering up the money of the land. Okay, verse 13 lays out the situation. The famine is is going really bad. It's taking the land out. Notice though it says Egypt and Canaan, and that they're mentioned together. We know the fam has been in Canaan because they came down to Egypt. We know it's in Egypt, but it puts them together. That is not an accident that Moses wrote that. And it says that together Egypt and Canaan are languishing. By the way, that is the only time in the Hebrew Bible that you see that word used in that stem in Hebrew, which tells you something really interesting about this salmon. It is so severe that this is so unique that this word is only used once to describe this event happening so profoundly and affecting the people in every single way. In this context, in verse 14, Joseph gathers all the money that's found again in Egypt and Canaan. Again, mentioning both of those countries together. All the money, not just Egypt, but Canaan. comes into Pharaoh's household. What's the point? These people are giving up the things that men fight war is over, gold and silver. And they're giving it willingly for the sake of their lives. But what this does, when Joseph doesn't just keep this for himself, but when he gives it into the house of Pharaoh, What he's doing is he's expanding the kingdom of Pharaoh, its economic influence, and its power outside of just the borders of Egypt, but now into Canaan. That's the point. As people are surrendering what means almost most to them immediately, their money, the kingdom expands. That's the first step. The money is gathered up. The second step, in verses 15 to 17, is we see sovereignty exercised by buying the livestock of the Egyptians. Okay, the money's gone. The people admit it. They come to Joseph. Our money's gone. Why should we die in your presence? Joseph comes up with a solution in verse 16. Give your livestock, and I will give you food in exchange for your livestock if your money is gone. Now again, you have to remember. I mean, silver and gold are obviously monetary currency units in the ancient Near East, but livestock was also seen as a form of wealth at this time in history. When you read Job chapter 1, it describes Job's livestock as it describes his wealth. So because this is a form of wealth in the absence of silver, it makes sense. That this would be the next form of currency that is used for a transaction. And notice what verse 17 says. Joseph bought, highlighting a financial nature of this transaction. Livestock for food. It also tells us which livestock he received the horses, the flocks, the herds. the donkeys. And notice again, it Joseph doesn't keep this for himself. He maybe could have, but he brings it all into Pharaoh 's Now, what's fascinating here about this is when you put all the details together, this is what what what what we see here is that as all of this livestock from Egypt comes into the house of Pharaoh , Whose hand does it pass then into? Joseph's brothers. Why? Because they're the ones who are in charge of all the livestock in Pharaoh's house. It's really interesting that these shepherds, whom the Egyptians consider to be abominations Are the ones elevated again. As the Egyptians get lower and lower and lower under Pharaoh's sovereignty, and Joseph's sovereignty for that matter, the Israelites increase more and more and more. Again, just built on this nature of God settling his people. But this is not the end. That's just step two. Step three. Sovereignty is exercised by buying the land and the people of Egypt. This is where it gets most intense, and this is where it gets most personal when you really stop and think about it. Again, verses 18 and 19, they freely admit there's nothing left besides the land and their bodies to trade with. And by the way, from a modern Western perspective, this is really difficult to understand. Why? Because this is not our experience. You and I would never think of selling ourselves But in this case, again, it just speaks to how severe the famine was. These people are desperate. Life depends on selling themselves. And so what does Joseph do? He he buys them. And they lay out themselves the implication in verse 19. We with our land will be servants to Pharaoh. That word servants in Hebrew is the same exact word that is used for slaves. Kind of interesting. You see some some patterns developing here. The results laid out in verse 20 and 21. Joseph buys all the land and all the people. For whom? For himself? No. For Pharaoh. Again, Pharaoh's dominion, Pharaoh's sovereignty is becoming more and more and more realized as time goes on through this famine. Now it's interesting in verse 21, if you look there in your ESV, if you're using the ESV, it says, as for the people, he made servants of them In my ESV, there's a little number one there. From one end of Egypt to the other. That little number one indicates that if you look at the bottom of the page, there's an alternate translation there. He removed them to the cities. Actually, that is what the Hebrew says. He removes them to the cities. What's the point? He's taking them off of their land that he has just bought, and he's moving them into the cities so that they can work. to help gather the grain so that they all have food to all survive. Now again, this is so foreign to our experience today. And lastly, he institutes a 20% grain tax on whatever is grown in the land that is go to go to Pharaoh perpetually. Again, as far as all that goes in the ancient Near East in context, 20% is not terrible. 20% is a little less than you and I pay in taxes today in the modern United States of America. But what's the point? The point of all this is that Joseph saved Egypt by working out the implications of sovereignty and his royal authority. And in the dramatic irony of God's sovereignty in the background of all this, it's interesting that Joseph is sold into slavery in Egypt from the beginning, and by the end all Egypt are servants to Pharaoh. It's really strange. Joseph saves the Gentile Egyptians and expands the kingdom sovereignty of Pharaoh. And don't miss this. As he saves them, they become very secure in their lives. What's the point? Well Again, when we find ourselves living in an uncertain world, how do we find saving hope in God's promises? We can find safety. under the promises of God when we come more and more under the sovereign and saving work of Jesus Christ Now what do most people worry a lot about? Their lives, their livelihood. You look at the healthcare system and you see that today This isn't a surprise. But is our physical life our greatest need? Well, biblically speaking, the answer is no. Our greatest need is our spiritual life. Remember what Jesus said, don't fear those who can kill the body and then have nothing else they can do to you, but fear the one who can take the life out of the body and then throw you in hell after that. There's a spiritual need. We are called to find our saving hope first in confessing our needs. Just like the Egyptians came to see their need through their dire circumstances in this famine, do you and I Today, see our continual need spiritually, for spiritual life, for vitality for spiritual sustenance, that we might persevere. One of the things that perhaps many of you struggle with sitting here this morning is a sense that you are truly saved. A sense of assurance. There's a lot of people out there that are truly saved and wrestle with a sense of assurance. Am I really going to live spiritually? When we see our need, we know who to run to, and we find saving hope in coming to the one who has the bread of life. And this is again where Joseph is a pattern or a type of Christ. When we see the need for spiritual life, who do we run to to grant that? We run to Christ, the greater than Joseph. Joseph gave grain. Joseph bartered with the Egyptians for grain. But do you remember our call to worship this morning? You could almost put that in the mouth of Jesus. Come to me, all who don't have money. And buy freely what I give to you. Buy bread and drink. You see, Jesus didn't just give physical grain that was external to himself that costed him nothing. He gave himself the bread of life that came down from heaven to give life to the world, as he says in John chapter 6, verses 35 and following. And by the way, which we will partake of in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper here in just a moment, we come to Christ for spiritual life. But we also grow in our assurance, our saving hope, by acknowledging God's sovereignty. in his saving work. And this is where that pattern of these three steps comes in handy. More and more and more and more was required of them, but the more they gave and the more they gave and the more they gave, their lives were more secure. Their lives were more assured. And so maybe this morning, if you wrestle with the assurance of your spiritual life Your spiritual vitality, the assurance of your salvation, the question I want to ask you this morning is, are you seeing the implications of Christ's sovereignty, Christ's lordship growing more and more and more prominent in your life as time goes on. Because if not, you might have some serious questions to ask yourself Are you seeing more victory over sin as time goes on? Sin that robs us of spiritual life and vitality. Are you seeing your joy in the Lord grow over time? Are you able to cry out to Jesus as you give more and more and more of yourself to Him and His Lordship? You, O Lord, have saved me. If not, maybe ask yourself some questions this morning about where you really stand with Christ, the greater than Joseph. This leads us to our last thing. Many of us worry about the circumstances of our lives. Many of us worry in this life about our assurance of salvation, but there's something more. In our third point in verses 27 to 31, Christ secures our hope in the resurrection. Look at verses 27 to 28. We see securing hope through old promises realized. By the way, this is kind of like a summary here. In these verses of Jacob's life, his final instructions to Joseph that we'll see carry some weight. Look at the promise of fruitfulness that's fulfilled in verse 27. We see Jacob ends up in Egypt 17 years. probably much longer than he expected. I mean, he came down to Egypt saying, I will see my son Joseph and then die. Like it 's it's seventeen more years. Right. Look at verse 27. Look at the way it ends. As they're in Egypt, all Israel, all of his family. And they were fruitful and multiplied greatly. Again, I've already gone back and referenced Abraham, but you might remember the promise that God made to Abraham to multiply his seed into a mighty nation back in Genesis 12. 2, back in Genesis 15, 1 through 6. That's the same thing God promised would happen in Genesis 46. 3 when God came to Jacob and told him, do not be afraid to go down to Egypt. And what makes this all the more surprising is that they are being fruitful and they are multiplying despite being in a context in which they are outsiders. And despite being in a context where their work is considered an abomination to the dominant culture, and they are therefore somewhat outcasts and weird to the rest of society. They're being fruitful and multiplying despite living in the context of a famine, which gets harder and harder to feed the mouths in your household. And yet God is blessing them richly. Moreover, they're multiplying and being fruitful outside of the land of promise. where you would most expect those promises to be in danger. Yet God uses the harshness of the overall circumstances to actually grow and multiply his people. By the way, that's the same dynamic as I said earlier with Jacob at the beginning. He had a hard life. The suffering and distress led to blessing. But we see also the promise of possession fulfilled. And this is kind of interesting and not what you would really expect. Look again in verse 27, it highlights the same thing verse 11 said, namely that Israel, as a family, gained possession within the land of Egypt. Now in verse 11, that word is singular, in verse 27 here the verb is plural, but it refers to gaining possessions of land and wealth in Egypt. They were promised, this is what's ironic about it. They're promised a land of their own. The land of promise was supposed to be their possession. And yet in Egypt, God gives them a possession of land and cattle and other things, even as the Egyptians sold their possession of land, their livestock and cattle, and their money. Again, what does this have to do with God's promises in the details? Well again, go back to Genesis chapter 15, verse 14. God had promised that his dis Abraham, that his descendants, would sojourn in a land not their own. And back then we didn't know what that land would be. Now we know where it is. It's Egypt. And then when God judges that nation, which will happen in the book of Exodus, they would come out with great possessions. You are seeing that promise being set up Hundreds of years before its actual fulfillment, right there in our passage, God's faithfulness to his promises. Hope is secured through promises that are realized. And then verses 29 to 31, securing hope through swearing an oath. We've seen this before. After the summary of Israel's time in Egypt, it mentions Jacob's life is coming to an end. We have the instructions that Jacob gives to Joseph when he dies. Essentially the instructions are, do not bury me here in Egypt. Bury me with my fathers in the land of Canaan. And then he makes them go through that ceremony which we've seen before in Genesis chapter 24 with Abraham and the servant, put your hand under my thigh. And swear an oath to me that you will do what I say. And Joseph swears the oath. The question is, how does Jacob's desire to be buried in Canaan show the hope that he has in the promises of God? That's a good question to ask. Because it's a weird thing to ask. Well, it does so because as Jacob commits his body and burial to the land of promise, he is essentially looking to the day that he will one day rise from the dead. when he will receive his eternal inheritance from the hand of God. It's an act of faith that God is going to one day truly give him possession of the land that he promised to give him. His possession in Egypt was temporary. It reveals a faith, brothers and sisters, that death is not the end for God's people. Thank you. That it deserves an amen. We find a secure hope in the promises of God. as Christians through hope in the resurrection that is not just fulfilled in Christ and his own resurrection, but will one day be fulfilled in our own We've talked this morning about worries and anxieties and uncertainties that we all carry about us that are related to this world, jobs. Family, relationships, or even our own eternal security. But the one uncertainty that everyone has Is the uncertainty it's a certainty that it's going to happen, the uncertainty of when and how is death What does Hebrews say? It is appointed for man to die once, and then comes the judgment. Many people out there are afraid to die. And I I understand so. What is the hope that we have? What do we see in Jacob here that we want to ask God to give us today by way of application? It is a hope in the promise of the resurrection. Even as we face death. And for some of you, that may be tomorrow. For some of you, that may be many, many, many, many years from now. Regardless of when it happens, the hope is called to be the same. Hope in the resurrection. How can we have hope in the resurrection? Because as Jacob tells Joseph, put my body in the tomb. We saw this already in Genesis 23 when Sarah died, the hope of the resurrection. There is a tomb in which Jacob's body still dwells today. But there is a greater tomb that we look to, and it is the empty tomb of the Lord Jesus Christ. We talk about promises realized or fulfilled. That is the promise of death defeated. Right? We've looked already and seen Joseph's and Pharaoh's sovereignty growing and growing and growing as the kingdom expands. But what does Paul tell us in Ephesians chapter 1? Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, has ascended to the right hand of the Father. And what is he doing? He's bringing all the enemies under his feet progressively. Step by step, stage by stage, stage, until what? The last enemy is conquered, which is death. When you and I will be risen from the dead in resurrection glory. And as John the Apostle says in 1 John chapter 3, We will see him as he is because we will be made like him. Wow. Do we have uncertainty about death this morning? It is in the light of the resurrection of Christ that we have the basis for a security that cannot be taken away. from us. This is why Jesus said to Martha in John chapter 11, verses 25 to 26, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet he shall live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Is what he asked. What an open-ended question. Do you believe? And that really, brothers and sisters, is the question we must ask ourselves this morning as we examine our own hearts for the greatest uncertainty about death. The last enemy to be conquered will be death. What a way to lay out for people who are uncertain, living in a strange world as we live in. That in Jesus Christ our hope is settled, our hope is assured And our hope is secure in the promises of God fulfilled in Christ. Let's pray Our Heavenly Father, we come before you, and many of us in this room wrestle with a wide variety of uncertainty this morning. Some of it's physical and related to our tangible real lives, and some of it's spiritual. I pray, O Lord, for each person here this morning that If they don't, that they would come to know you, come to the greater than Joseph in Christ. Christ for true bread and true drink that gives life to the soul. But for those of us who know you, Lord Jesus, I pray, and for myself, more than anyone here. that you would progressively step by step reveal and realize your Lordship over areas of our lives, O Lord, that we never thought needed to be submitted to you, that we might find fullness of life and joy in Christ We pray this this morning, Lord, as we prepare to come to the table in Jesus.