I would invite you, if you have your Bibles, to take them and let's turn to Genesis chapter twelve and stand together for the reading of God's Word. In Genesis chapter twelve, verses one through twenty Now the Lord said to Abraham, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and in him and him who dishonors you I will curse And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abraham went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot with him. Abraham was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. And Abraham took Sarai, his wife, and Lot, his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan, Abraham passed through the land to the place at Shechem, to the oak of Morah. At that time the Canaanites were in the land. Then the Lord appeared to Abraham and said, To your offspring I will give this land. So he built there an altar to the Lord who had appeared to him. From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east And there he built an altar to the Lord and called upon the name of the Lord. And Abraham journeyed on, still going toward the Negeb. Now there was a famine in the land, so Abraham went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai, his wife, I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance. And when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife. Then they will kill me, but they will let you live. Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake. When Abraham entered Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. And for her sake, he dealt well with Abraham, and he had sheep and oxen, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels But the Lord afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai , Abraham's wife. So Pharaoh called Abraham and said, What is this that you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say, She is my sister? So that I took her for my wife. Now then, here is your wife. Take her and go. And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. Well, this is the word of God. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together in the Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you into this passage, and we just pray, oh Lord, that you would open our eyes to see how this applies to us. Lord, help us to understand Abraham. and the circumstances from which you called him, and the circumstances to which you called him. Lord, and I pray that As he is our Father in the faith, Lord, we pray that you would be able to take this passage and by the power of your Spirit apply it, O Lord, to our hearts and our lives this morning. We ask this in Jesus. Jesus' name. Amen. Life seems full of tests, doesn't it? One test that I can think of from church history that just comes to mind as I try to think about what Abraham went through in this passage is the German Protestant reformer Martin Luther in the 16th century. Many of you know the story. He was called to stand on trial for his life, essentially, before Emperor Charles V in Worms in Germany. And Luther, as he's presented with his books, it was a heresy trial. And anyone who knows anything about the Middle Ages knows that the Inquisition led to the death penalty for those that were being inquisited. And Luther was no exception And being this a heresy trial, this was seen as one of those issues of national security for the Holy Roman Empire to which he was a part. And we can think of, if you've ever read a book on Luther, a biography on his life, or you've ever seen a movie, you can almost think of this this glorious scene of him standing in the courtroom telling the emperor and telling all of the princes and all of the cardinals and leaders of the Roman Catholic Church at that time that unless I can be convinced by scripture or plain reason, I will not recant what I have written. Okay, maybe my tone embellished the scene a little bit. I I don't really think he was that forceful in in his protest. But nevertheless, we have this glorious thought of Martin Luther standing there, a man of faith, achieving this tremendous victory that really led to the Protestant Reformation. But it really wasn't a few years later that after this massive success, this massive display of his faith, that I would say you would see a lapse in his faith um spurred on by unbelief when he a few years later is at the castle in Marburg and he's meeting with the Swiss German reformer Ulrich Zwingli and they're trying to come to some kind of agreement to unite the Protestant Reformation cause, as they were all feeling the pressure politically, economically, and militarily from the Roman Catholic authorities. And in what I would say is a lapse of faith, a tremendous defeat, not a stunning example of what we should look like in our faith. He botches the whole thing. He loses his temper with Ulrich Swingley. He tells him over one article of faith. That I don't think that we are of the same spirit and fractures the Protestant Reformation for decades to come. One might argue for centuries to come. A chance at Christian unity fractured because one man failed to see God's purposes in the bigger picture You have victories of faith, and there are defeats in faith. That's what we see in this passage. In fact, the main idea, if you're visiting with us, we tend to print our sermonic ideas right below or right after the order of worship. You can see this in your bulletin, but our main idea this morning in Genesis 12 is that God tests our faith by calling us to respond faithfully. to promises that seem impossible, while sending circumstances that reveal where our hearts really are at. That's the idea. Let me repeat that. God tests our faith by calling us to respond to promises that seem impossible while sending circumstances that reveal where our hearts really are. Now if you listen to that idea very closely, it there's two kind of sub ideas there, and we want to break that down into two points this morning. Our first point from verses one through nine is the response of faith to God's promises. That's what we see. see in verses 1 through 9. Look at me again in verses 1 through 3. You see faith to impossible promises. Now the Lord said to Abraham in verse 1, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you. I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth. shall be blessed. Now that really is the sum and the summary and the substance of what we call the Abrahamic covenant. The promises that God makes to Abraham. Now look at verse 1 and you see the impossible call to leave everything behind. There's three things God is calling him to leave behind. Go out from your land. Now, in order to understand the significance of that command and the full impact that that would have had on Abraham, I want to just draw your attention to the verses right before, and I'm not going to read through them. I'll just summarize. But this gives in chapter 11, verse 27, the history of Abraham, and it gives you the bigger, broader context. And so let me just summarize his life up to this point. His birthplace, he was born in Ur of the Chaldees. We see that in verse 28. of chapter 11. They lived in Ur of the Chaldees. Where was that? That was in southern Mesopotamia. It was actually south of Babel, which we saw in Genesis chapter 11 We also see that his name, Abraham or Avram, in Hebrew means the father of many. Which tells you something about what God's purpose for him is. But there's a problem, as we see later on in verse 30, his wife Sarai was barren, and she had no children. Okay, so that lays a little bit of foundation for this context. And the last thing we see in this context is that his father Terah, take him, his wife, his nephew, and all that they have, and they go from Ur the Chaldeans. To Haran, which is in northern Mesopotamia, northern Iraq, kind of near eastern Syria in modern times. But he's called here in verse 1 to go out from your land. Now I want you to think about the impact that that would have had on him. Born and raised in one area of Mesopotamia with one language and one culture, all of a sudden they they up, take everything they have, and they go. to another part of Mesopotamia that has another language and another culture, another custom among people. It's hard enough. Any of you who've left one place and have moved to another. Um even in this own even in our own country, moving from one place to another is hard enough. But imagine going from one country to a new country and then having to do it twice. That's what's going on here. They have to leave everything behind that they know in terms of cultures and customs. And what God says here is, leave that and go to the land which I will show you. You know what that tells you? That tells you that Abraham did not know where he was going. Have you ever been in that in those shoes before? You're going somewhere and then you get lost and you really don't know where you're going and then you have to figure out where you're at and figure out where you're going from there. You can imagine this is an impossible call. Go from here. Go where? Just go. Well, go out from your kindred is the second thing he says here. No, it's not just leaving the familiar places that they know, the familiar cultures and customs and people and languages. It's go off from your kindred and This is a broad circle of his extended family. It would have been his entire social network. Think about it. that for just a moment. Leaving every everyone that you know behind. All the relationships that you have that you've built up over a lifetime, God is calling him to sever those ties and go off from them And then it gets really specific and really personal here. Go out from your father's house. Now again, if you look back in chapter 11, verses 27 to 32, it's interesting. It gives all of the ages. You know, so-and-so was this age when this happened. We know that Abraham was 75 years old when he left. His father Terah here, we see that actually in verse 4 of our passage. He was 75 years old. His father Terah had him when he was 70 years old, which meant that his father would have been at least 145 years old. That's pretty old. His father lived to be two hundred and five years old, and imagine your father's elderly. You don't know how long he has yet to live We're not told what his health is, but Abraham is told, leave your elderly father behind. In other words, cut ties with even him. Because when you go, you are not going to likely see him again. And in fact, when you read the rest of Abraham's story, it's likely that he never saw his father again on this earth. I've always wondered why he said, leave your father's house. Why cut ties with your father? I mean, after all, you get a lot of your identity from who your father is. Joshua, the book of Joshua, chapter 24, 2, gives us a little bit of a clue. It says this: Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, long ago your fathers lived beyond the Euphrates. Terah, the father of Abraham and of Nahor, and they served other gods. Is that interesting? Terah, Abraham's father, Nahor, his brother. And presumably even Abraham, because that's in the plural there in Joshua 24, too, it seems like they all were idolaters. And so when God is issuing this call to Abraham to leave his country, leave his kindred, and leave his father's house, cut ties with all of these things, what is at the heart of it? Relationship with the Lord. Cut ties with the idols that you've attached yourselves to. Because after all, in the ancient Near East, the man wasn't just defined by you know his family and his father's house and his kindred and his country, a man was identified by the gods that he worshipped And so he's told, leave all of this behind and go to the land that I will show you. That really is almost an impossible call. But it's an impossible call that comes with almost impossible promises. And I really shouldn't say almost. They are impossible promises. God promises him in verse 2 that he's going to become a great nation. The question is, how is he going to become a great nation when he is one, 75 years old? Two, his wife is sixty-five, past the normal age of childbearing, and then she's got a second strike against her. According to the previous chapter, she's also barren. How in the world is is that promise going to be fulfilled Humanly speaking, it is absolutely impossible. Think about that. It's absolutely impossible. And then you see the impossible promise of blessing in verse 3. And it's impossible because it only builds on the impossibility of the promise in verse 2. But he says something very important in verse 3. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse. You could legitimately translate that by the way. Him who curses you, I will curse. It uses two different words for curse to really put the oomph in that threat. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. By the way, that blessing really does show the scope of God's heart, doesn't it? We talked about that the last couple weeks when we looked at these genealogies, the table of nations, the Tower of Babel, and now this. But the idea of blessing brings us back to Genesis 3. 15, the promise that the coming seed of the woman is going to crush the head of the seed of the serpent It brings us back to Genesis 9, 26 and 27, where there is the blessing, blessed be the Lord God of Shem, and then the next verse. May God enlarge Japheth and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, implying Gentiles will participate in the blessing that comes to Shem's descendants And by the way, this is also repeated almost verbatim in chapter 22, verse 18 of Genesis, after Abraham is tested once again, being told to sacrifice Isaac, his only son, the son that he loves. And that was a test that he passed. And God reiterates this promise from Genesis chapter 12. Verse 3, blessing to the nations. In you, in your seed, all the nations will be blessed. Well that's an impossible promise Why? Because what seed are we talking about? He's 75 years old and childless. And yet he's called to faith in these impossible promises. But that really gives way to a stunning response, a response that defies all the odds and the circumstances he obeys in verse Verses four through nine where we see a face that consecrates God's blessings back to him. Now when you look at that passage again in verses 4 through 9, in verses 4 through 5, and then again in verse 7, you see the land is the immediate blessing. Now he takes his wife, Sarai, his nephew Lot, and all their possessions, and he himself goes down to the land of Canaan and leaves his father in Haran, where his father will eventually die. Now, if you actually notice and you you look at verses four and five, he moves into the land of Canaan again, not knowing exactly where he's going. He goes from north to south, and there are kind of three stages to this journey, breaking the land into three sections, and that's really important. For what he's doing here. Notice he starts in the north and he goes down to Shechem. Then he goes from Shechem, which is a Canaanite city, down to Bethel and Ai, which are kind of two twin cities. And then he goes from there to the Negev, which in Hebrew the Negev just means the south, the southern part of the land of Canaan. But notice what he does here. Notice what he does. Look at verses 7 and 8. It says this. Then the Lord appeared to Abraham and said, To your offspring, I will give this land. Okay, so now he knows where he's going. I'm here, this land. So he built there an altar to the Lord who appeared to him. From there he moved to the hill country in the east of Bethel and pitched His tent with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east, and there he built an altar to the Lord and called upon the name of the Lord. Okay, what is he doing there? Well, he's consecrating the land back to God for God's own glory. God makes the promise. God tells him, you're there. But when he builds altars, he's doing something really important. By the way, it should remind us of back in Genesis chapter 4 verse 26. Remember before the flood, the godly line of Seth, it gets right from the beginning. Seth is born to Adam, and in his days they begin to call upon the name of the Lord. We're talking about worship here. What is Abraham doing? He is worshiping in the land. Now, the rabbinic scholar and commentator Humberto Casudo says that these particular places, Shechem , And then Bethel and Ai were important religious centers for the Canaanites. So what is Abraham doing here? as he does this. Well, he's going to the most prominent religious sites in Canaan And he's building an altar there. It's like putting a flag of victory there, saying, I'm staking this land for the glory of the God who's called me to be here. That's what he's doing. And then we see this pattern really repeated over and over again throughout history. I want you to think about it. The pattern is also followed by Jacob later in the book. In chapter 34 After Jacob comes down from Mesopotamia, you remember he went up there and he married he married two women. He came back really with four and had a lot of kids. And we don't know exactly. I mean we know that he comes through the Transjordan, but where does Jacob end up going first? To Shechem. And actually we find at the end of Genesis chapter 33 that Jacob does the same thing Abraham does. He builds an altar at Shechem and calls upon the name of the Lord. And then at the end of chapter 34 and chapter 35, he leaves Shechem and he goes to Bethel where God had appeared to him when he was fleeing from Esau, his brother. And he builds an altar at Bethel, just like Abraham did, and he calls upon the name of the Lord. And then he goes from there down to the south to the Negev where his father Isaac was still living. But you also see the pattern followed by Joshua much later in history When Joshua is going on conquest of the land, you might remember in Joshua chapters 7 and 8, they go into conquest against Bethel and Ai, and they demolish it. And you know what they do there? They build an altar. It's almost in reverse, but they build an altar there. And when they build an altar there, they they pronounce the covenant blessings and curses on the land, and they take it upon themselves as they take possession of the land. And then at the end of the book at Joshua 24, they end up in Shechem, where an altar is built, and the covenant is ratified, and they take possession of the land almost entirely at the end of Joshua's life. Do you see what Abraham is doing here? In taking these three stages and building these altars and claiming the land for God's glory, what he is doing is an essentially Foreshadowing the conquest of the land of Canaan that one day will happen with his descendants when the promises that are impossible are fulfilled. That's what's going on here He is symbolizing the conquest of the land despite the impossible circumstances right in front of him. What an example of faith. I mean he's claiming staking his life on the promises when he still can't see how they can possibly be fulfilled. And so as we take a step back and we try to apply this to ourselves this morning. We want to ask ourselves, what does Abraham's response to God's promises show us about how we should respond today to the promises of God? What do we see here that we can take away? Well, it shows us that faith does not rest on the outward circumstances, but rather rests on the character of the one who makes the promises as the basis of our response. That's the nature of faith. And I want to encourage you this morning, because Abraham was living at a time when he had no idea how those promises were going to be fulfilled. They would be. He didn't live really to see all of it. But we have. Do you understand that the promise the blessing of Abraham has already been fulfilled? And from a human standpoint, it's just as impossible how it all worked out as when Abraham was living. I want you to see that. The Apostle Paul in Galatians chapter 3 makes a big deal talking about the blessing of Abraham that has gone out to the nations in the gospel. No, I want you to think about that for just a minute. How in the world is God going to make Abraham a a mighty nation and and have him have children when his wife is barren? Well think about how harder it was to For a virgin to give birth. I mean that that's absolutely impossible. If if a young woman comes home and says to her father, Dad, I'm pregnant, but don't worry, I'm a virgin, you know she's lying It's impossible. Yet that's what God did in the gospel, right? He brought forth the seed of Abraham from the womb of a virgin, the seed of the woman. To trample the head of the serpent at the cross where sin was defeated. And in we get to Galatians chapter three, Paul is talking about the blessing of Abraham that has gone out to the nations through that seed through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And you know what that blessing is specifically? That blessing is the fact that sinners can be forgiven of their sins by the grace of God through faith in the promises of God fulfilled in Jesus' name. Christ. That's what the blessing is. The blessing is being declared righteous when you know you're a sinner. We talked about this yesterday a little bit in the in the men's book study. You know, it's the question, how can a sinner be forgiven of sin and be declared righteous when everybody knows that he's a sinner and he deserves Justice and wrath and judgment, it's impossible. It is absolutely impossible from a human standpoint. You cannot be shown mercy if you are given justice If you are given justice, you cannot be shown mercy. Why? Because definitionally, they are opposite from one another. Right? What is justice? Getting what you rightly deserve. What is mercy? Not getting what you deserve or getting what you don't deserve. You can't have both from a human standpoint. And yet at the cross of Jesus Christ, justice and mercy kiss. Why? Because justice has been fulfilled in the cross of Jesus Christ. And in his resurrection, as we read in Romans chapter 4, he was raised for our justification. The blessing of Abraham, that we can be forgiven of our sins, declared righteous before God simply through faith. It's impossible, but it's been fulfilled. But with the fulfillment of that promise comes a call. comes responsibility on our part. You know what that call is? You know what the application is to this with Abraham It's the call to leave the world behind to follow Christ. That's what Abraham had to do. He had to leave the world that he knew behind. He had to leave everything he knew behind. Why? For the sake of following Christ based on promises that he had not yet seen fulfilled. Now there are promises that have been fulfilled. I just talked about them. There's one promise that hasn't been fulfilled, and Christ has not come back, and we have not entered our eternal inheritance yet. That's something that is not in front of our eyes. And that is something that when you look at the circumstances of your life, not just personally, but if you look at the circumstances in the world around you right now, it may seem impossible for those promises to be fulfilled. But yet we're called, nonetheless, like Abraham, to leave the world behind. Now this one of this kind of concerns me because the way we present the gospel today oftentimes is as if there is no cost to following Jesus. Jesus is just an add-on to the life that you are already building. And that's how we tend to preach the gospel, right? Oftentimes. But in Luke chapter 14, verses 25 to 35, Jesus talks about counting the cost of discipleship. He gives two examples like don't don't start building a building without counting the cost and see if you can afford to finish building it. Otherwise you lay the foundation and then you realize, oh great, I don't have all the resources to finish this and then You leave an unfinished structure in place and everybody walks around and knows it's your property, starts making fun of you. Because you couldn't finish the job. Or two kings, right, going out to battle against one another. One has ten thousand, one has twenty thousand, the one who has ten thousand better well sit down and figure out, can I withstand twenty thousand with ten thousand? Count the cost. And so as we as we think about the call to leave the world behind, there is a cost. What is the cost? And we have to ask ourselves as we think about that this morning: is what will God require you or me to leave behind for the sake of following Jesus Christ? What does he call you to leave behind? Some people here might be called to leave home physically, like geographically, and serve the Lord somewhere in a foreign mission field. Some people may have to put relationships that you value very dearly, like family. Like Abraham had to do, put those second to put the Lord first and follow him I think about the way the world is working around us right now. I mean there are abundant examples of, say, parents. Who have children running off into sin and almost requiring that their parents give the nod of approval to their sin, otherwise, they won't have a relationship with them. That's a tough cost. Or it goes in reverse. It does. What happens if a child is walking with the Lord and The parents are hostile. I've met people like that. They've been disowned by their families because they're walking with Christ. Or maybe the Lord might call you to lay down one career to go in a different direction in life for the sake of better serving Him and building His kingdom. That's what the Lord did to me when I was in college initially studying marketing and business and had a lucrative banking career ahead of me at 21 years old. I still remember my boss looking at me so puzzled when I said I was going to Bible college and turning down an internship at this bank. And but you know what? It's not just me. A lot of people do stuff like that. God calls all kinds of people to do things that might seem impossible in the moment. But there's a Always the promise that he will bless you and make you a blessing when you follow him. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Morning, by saying that faith does not depend on the visibility or the viability of your circumstances. Rather, it depends on the object of your faith And I want you to hear me very clearly. Christians are never called to have blind faith. We get pegged by that by unbelievers all the time. So you just have blind faith. No, I don't. My faith has an object. It's God, particularly Christ. He's made promises to me. It's not blind. There's substance to it. Our faith is in the one who makes the promises, and our faith is in the one that keeps them. And you know what? That leads us to our second point this morning, because just as you see A spectacular example of faith in Abraham in verses 1 through 9. You say a spectacular failure in verses 10 through 20. And that's our second point, the circumstances that reveal unbelief. Now look at me again at verses 10 through 16. I'm not going to read every verse. But I want you to look at verse 10 specifically. We see the circumstance of a famine. Because what we're looking at here is the circumstances and the fear and the self-preservation that drives Abraham's failure. And we begin with the circumstance of famine. Now that that's pretty clear enough in verse 10. Now there was a famine in the land, so Abraham went down to Egypt to sojourn there. For the famine was severe in the land. Huh. I just find it interesting that, you know, later on the land is called the land, you know, the promised land is the land flowing with milk and honey. And yet for a land flowing of milk and honey, there seems to be a lot of famines that hit this land throughout biblical history. Did you ever notice that? I mean Sometimes the blessings, again, are not always on the surface, right? I mean, we see a famine here. We see a famine again in Isaac's time in Genesis 26, 1. In Genesis 41 and following, you remember Jacob's uh Jacob, Joseph's vision or the dream that Pharaoh had, and he interprets it, there's seven years of famine coming on the land. That included Egypt and Canaan. There was a famine in Elijah's day in 1 Kings 17. There was a famine in Elisha's day. 2 Kings chapters 6 through 8. There was a famine in Joel chapter 1. Man, famine, famine, famine. So what does he do? Well, you've got to feed your family somehow. He leaves and he goes down to Egypt. He leaves the land of promise. And he goes down to Egypt. And notice what he does in verses eleven through thirteen. I'll summarize it. You probably noticed it glaringly when we read it. There's a fear in Abraham here that produces a lie and that demonstrates his cowardice. I mean his wife is very beautiful, and so he says, look, they're going to see that when we go down there. So for my sake. So they don't kill me and take you. Just say that you're my sister, so that I can live and it'll go well with me. Now she agrees to this. That's the most that's the interesting part. She agrees to this, clearly. And they go down there. Now maybe you're reading that and that might boil your blood because how could you Put your wife in such a precarious situation. Are you really trusting the promises that God just said that He was going to make us a great nation by doing this? No. You're not trusting in the promises. In fact, what are you doing? You are looking for self-preservation. And that's exactly what happens in verses 14 through 16. Actually, take a look at verses 14 and 15 once again. This is actually really interesting. And it kind of jogs my imagination a little bit at the glory of God here. Verse 14, when Abraham entered Egypt. The Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. By the way, that word very in Hebrew is the he is a superlative word. I mean, it's like she was the most beautiful thing they ever saw. Okay, verse 15. And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh Isn't that interesting? Beauty in all forms, right? Art, nature, from a man's perspective, the beauty of a woman, tends to call forth praise. I mean, what a praise! You're going to the king of Egypt talking about this woman's beauty. And so what happens? Probably not what Abraham expected. She was taken into the household, I I would probably assume the harem of Pharaoh. And I mean if you really think about it, that really is captivity for a woman. Any woman reading that would think, okay, not only is this unjust, not only is this not fair. She goes into captivity for his lie? Yeah, that's what happens. And and maybe adding more fuel to the fire of your anger or ire at this point at Abraham, he is enriched with all the things that an omad and a shepherd could want. In verse 16. I mean look at the list of things he gets in verse 16. Sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male servants. female servants, female donkeys. And the interesting one, believe it or not, is camels. Now you're like, well, why is that interesting? Well, because historically the camel was not widely used for travel or bearing burdens until about a thousand years later At Abraham's time in history, the only people that used camels were the absolutely rich. This was a status symbol. This guy is making out like a bandit. Why? What's the worst part of this? You know what the worst part of this is? Maybe not what you would think on the surface The worst part of this is by his unbelief in allowing this to happen to his wife and acquiring all these riches, Abraham is threatening the promise that God made to his seed. It's the promise of the seed of the woman, the promise of the seed that will come through him that is being put at jeopardy because now she is in the harem of another man. All the things that God had promised from Genesis 3. 15, Genesis 9, 26, and 27, all of that seems to be in jeopardy. What is going to happen? Well, verses 17 through 20, we see that the circumstances lead to a rebuke, which then leads to an very ironic redemption. Take a look at that again. Verse 17, we see the circumstances of plagues. But the Lord afflicted afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abraham's wife. God intervenes by striking his house. Notice what it says. Great plagues. In other words, it's in the plural. There are many of them, and they are great. In other words, they're probably really pretty severe. Now the thing that I find really interesting, have you ever looked at this story and just thought, okay, hold on. Abraham is the liar. Abraham is the one that is in the wrong, and Pharaoh is the one that gets smacked by God. What is going on here? I'll tell you what's going on here. There's a principle here. God's glory is always the highest aim and the goal of what he does. Because his promise is the one that is being threatened by Abraham's unbelief and his disobedient actions. God has to step in for the sake of his own glory, and he does what he does. And that's exactly what happens. He gets called in in verses 18 through 19 because there's a re a rebuke from Pharaoh that produces shame. Why do I say that? Well If you look at those verses, I could summarize essentially what the Pharaoh says. Why have you repaid me evil for good? I gave you all this stuff. You lied to me, and this is the consequence that I am now paying. You jerk. I'm serious. Abraham was a jerk in his sin. Now look at those verses again. What does Abraham say? Nothing. You don't see anything about Abraham answering. Why? Well, men, if you were in that if you were in his shoes, would you have anything to say? I wouldn't. No. I'd sit there and put my head down like oh gosh. He has no defense. And yet in his guiltiness, in his unbelief, and in his sin, God does something really amazing. Here. There's redemption through the ex through an Exodus in verses 19 through 20. That's essentially what happens here. Take your wife and go. You can almost register the anger and the bitterness in Pharaoh's voice. Now, the question I want you to ask yourself before we jump to our application is morning is how would the Israelites who heard this in Moses ' time, how would they have either read or heard this passage? Because most of us tend to hear these things and read these things and we tend to interpret them through our own experience in our own lives, how would they have done that? Well, I want you to think about it. Like Abraham goes down during a famine to Egypt, Jacob in Genesis 46 goes down to Egypt during a famine in his lifetime when his son Joseph is there. And he brings 70 people from his house. And Jacob, bringing his house to go and sojourn in Egypt, ends up staying there for 400 years. Just like Sarai was essentially taken captive by being brought into the harem of Pharaoh to serve him. In ways I really don't even want to think about. Think about what happened to Israel. They were taken captive in Egypt. Look at Exodus chapters 1 and 2. They effectively became captives and slaves. Literally. Building monuments and cities for Pharaoh. Just like God unleashed great plagues. For Abraham to get his wife Sarai out of Pharaoh's harem, God unleashes ten plagues on Egypt and on Pharaoh as a judgment on them. Just as Abraham acquired great riches and possessions, as we saw in verse 16. You get to Exodus chapters 11, 12, and 13. You find that Israel plundered the Egyptians with coming out of Egypt with great wealth, great possessions. And just as Abraham was told, take your wife and go, what did Pharaoh do at the death? Of his son in the tenth plague. Take your people and get out of here. And they did. What's interesting is even in Abraham's failure and unbelief, there is a picture that foreshadows God's redemptive activity of grace. Isn't that amazing? So what does Abraham's journey and his return journey to Egypt and his return from there reveal about God's how God's promises will be fulfilled? Well, it reveals that even our struggles with unbelief and failure at times will not derail God from fulfilling his promises. And I'm going to add, in the gospel. Like Abraham, there's going to be times where you and I fail through unbelief In the Christian life? There's gonna be times where we fail spectacularly. And people might look at us and be like, what were you thinking? Like Abraham, we might even be ashamed of our failures when they get outed. But this passage gives us tremendous encouragement this morning because when we fail, God's promises in our lives do not fail or be derailed. Some of you in this room might struggle with a sense of failure in the Christian life. and wondering how in the world can God save me? How in the world could his promises keep and hold and stay true? And you know, the good news of this passage is it doesn't depend on you, does it? It. I mean, we are called to respond obediently. There's no doubt about it. We are called to respond in faith to these promises But at the end of the day, when we struggle, like Abraham, and we fail in unbelief, God's promises will not fail. That is amazing news for us this morning. When we come and we confess our failures freely to the Lord, we find That they point us even more to the glory of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is a far greater redemption than Abraham's Exodus or Israel's Exodus. Right? And at the end of the day, what did Israel really do to deserve or merit God's grace? Nothing. Otherwise, it wouldn't be grace. I always find it astounding when I, you know, have something in my life that God opens my eyes to seeing, like, oh, okay, I gotta work through that. I gotta confess that sin. That's not good. And I sometimes struggle and I realize, well how can or I think how can God save someone as pitiful as me? And then I have to remember, it's not about me. It's about him fulfilling his promises in the person of God. His son. And I just can't keep looking at the failure, guys. I I gotta keep looking at Jesus. I gotta keep looking at Christ. Have you failed this week? Have you acted more out of unbelief in God's promises than belief? This passage, if so, is given to remind you of the great redemption that God has provided to you through Jesus Christ, the son of Abraham. who did not fail like Abraham did. In fact, Christ didn't look for his own comfort when he was on the earth. He didn't cut corners. He didn't not go to the cross. He didn't give his bride over to the harem of another. He went all the way to the cross to secure the bride for himself. Don't you think about that? He is faithful. And his faithfulness and the merits of that can be yours as a free gift. Brothers and sisters, if you're a believer here this morning, This calling is still for you. You are still called every day to look to Christ, especially when you fail. And you will. I will. If you're not a believer here this morning, you never put your faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. The call like Abraham is for you. Come out. From the nations. Come out from the idolatry. Come out from sin. And receive the promises that God has given you that He's fulfilled in Jesus Christ. That's what it takes. Faith. Repentance. But make no mistake, the circumstances of our lives as believers are designed to do one thing They do bring to the surface what is really deep down in the heart. And God is at work in those things. Why? Because our main idea. God tests our faith by calling us to respond faithfully to promises that seem impossible. While at the same time sending circumstances that reveal where our hearts really are. Where is your heart this morning? Is the question. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are thankful, Lord, for Abraham. The Father of all the faithful, as Paul says in Romans 4. We are thankful not just for the stellar example of his faith. We are actually thankful for the example of his faithlessness. Because, Lord, we see a reflection of ourselves in that. And yet you are still a God of grace who is going to fulfill his promises despite the weakness of those who receive the promises. Thank you, Lord, that your promises don't depend on me or any of us, but that they've already been fulfilled in Jesus Christ, and one day they will ultimately be fulfilled in a way that is our faith becomes sight. And Lord, until that day happens, we pray that you would keep us and that you would sanctify us, O Lord, through the various trials and tests and circumstances that we find ourselves in this week We ask in Jesus' name, amen