Well, if you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open to Genesis chapter 24. Genesis twenty four, and let's stand for the reading of God's holy word. You'll see this is a longer chapter, and you'll be relieved to know I'm not going through it verse by verse. We will do this in summary fashion this morning. But We will read through the whole thing. Beginning in verse 1, Genesis 24, verse 1. Now Abraham was old, well advanced in years, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said to his servants, the oldest of his household, who had charge of all that he had, put your hand under my thigh. That I may make you swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and the God of earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. But will go to my country and to my kindred and take a wife for my son Isaac. The servant said to him, Perhaps the woman may not be willing to follow me to this land. Must I then take your son back to the land from which you came? Abraham said to him, See to it that you do not take my son back there. The Lord, the God of heaven who took me from my father's house and from the land of my kindred, and who spoke to me and swore to me, To your offspring I will give this land, he will send his angel before you. And you shall take a wife for my son from there. But if the woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be free from this oath of mine, only you must not take my son back there So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham, his master, and swore to him concerning this matter. Then the servant took ten of his master's camels and departed, taking all sorts of choice gifts from his master, and he arose and went to Mesopotamia to the city of Nahor. And he made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time when women go out to draw water. And he said, Oh Lord, God of my master Abraham, please grant me success today and show steadfast love to my master Abraham. Behold, I am standing by the spring of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. Let the young woman to whom I shall say, Please let down your jar that I may drink. And who shall say, Drink, and I will water your camels? Let her be the one whom you have appointed for your servant Isaac. By this I shall know that you have shown steadfast love to my master. Before he had finished speaking, behold! Rebekah, who was born to Bethuel, the son of Milkah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, came out with her water jar on her shoulder. The young woman was very attractive in appearance, a maiden whom no man had known. She went down to the spring and filled her jar and came up. Then the servant ran to meet her and said, Please give me a little water to drink from your jar. She said, Drink, my lord. And she quickly let down her jar upon her hand and gave him a drink. When she had finished giving him a drink, she said, I will draw water for your camels also, until they have finished drinking. So she quickly emptied her jar into the trough and ran again to the well to draw water, and she drew for all his camels. The man gazed at her in silence to learn whether the Lord had prospered his way, his journey, or not When the camels had finished drinking, the man took a gold ring, weighing half a shekel, and two bracelets for her arms, weighing ten gold shekels, and said Please tell me whose daughter you are. Is there room in your father's house for us to spend the night? She said to him, I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milka, whom she bore to Nahor. She added, We have plenty of both straw and fodder and room to spend the night. The man bowed his head and worshipped the Lord And said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken his steadfast love and his faithfulness towards my master. As for me, the Lord has led me in the way to the house of my master's kinsmen. Then the young woman ran and told her mother's household about these things. Rebecca had a brother whose name was Laban. Laban ran out toward the man to the spring, and as soon as he saw the ring and the bracelets on his sister's arms, and heard the words of Rebecca his sister, thus the man spoke to me. He went to the man. And behold, he was standing by the camels at the spring. He said, Come in, O blessed of the Lord, why do you stand outside? For I have prepared the house and a place for the camels So the man came to the house and unharnessed the camels and gave straw and fodder to the camels, and there was water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him. Then food was set before him to eat, but he said, I will not eat until I have said what I have to say. He said, speak on. So he said, I am Abraham's servant. The Lord has greatly blessed my master and has become great. He has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male servants and female servants, camels and donkeys. And Sarah, my master's wife, bore a son to my master when she was old. And to him he has given all that he has. My master made me swear, saying, You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell, but you shall go to my father's house and to my clan. And take a wife for my son. I said to my master, Perhaps the woman will not follow me, but he said to me, The Lord, before whom I have walked, will send his angel before you, with you, and prosper your way. You shall take a wife for my son from my clan and from my father's house. Then you will be free from my oath when you come to my clan. And if they will not give to you, give her to you, you will be free. From my oath. I came today to the spring and said, O Lord, the God of my master Abraham. Now, if you are prospering the way that I go, behold, I'm s standing in the spring of the water. Let the virgin who comes out to draw water, to whom I shall say, please give me a little water from your jar to drink. And who will say who will say to me, drink and I will draw for your camels also. Let her be the woman whom the Lord has appointed for my master's son. Before I finished speaking in my heart, behold, Rebecca came out with her water jar on her shoulder, and she went down to the spring and drew water. I said to her, Please let me drink. She quickly let down her jar from her shoulder and said, Drink, and I will give to your camels drink also. So I drank, and she gave the camels drink also. Then I asked her, Whose daughter are you? She said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor 's son, whom Milka bore to him. So I put the ring on her nose and the bracelets on her arms. Then I bowed my head and worshiped the Lord and blessed the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me by the right way to take the daughter of my master's kinsman for his son. Now then, if you are going to show steadfast love and faithfulness to my master, tell me. And if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand or to the left. Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing has come from the Lord. We cannot speak to you, bad or good. Behold, Rebekah is before you. Take her and go. And let her be the wife of your master's son, as the Lord has spoken. When Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed himself to the earth before the Lord. And the servant brought out the jewelry of silver and of gold and garments and gave them to Rebecca. He also gave to her brother and to her mother costly ornaments. And he and the men who were with him ate and drank, and they spent the night there. When they arose in the morning, he said, Send me away to my master. Her brother and her mother said, Let the young woman remain with us a while, at least ten days. After that she may go. But he said to them, Do not delay me, since the Lord has prospered my way. Send me away that I may go to my master. They said, let us call the young woman and ask her. And they called Rebecca and said to her, Will you go with this man? She said, I will go. So they sent away Rebekah, their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant and his men. And they blessed Rebekah and said to her, Our sister, may you become thousands of ten thousands And may your offspring possess the gate of those who hate him. Then Rebecca and her young women arose, woman arose, and rode on the camels, and followed the man the man. Thus the servant took Rebecca and went his way. Now Isaac had returned from Beer Lehir and was dwelling in the Negev. And Isaac went out to meditate in the field towards the evening, and he lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, there were camels coming. And Rebecca lifted up her eyes. And when she saw Isaac, she dismounted from the camel and said to the servant, Who is that man walking in the field to meet us? The servant said, It is my master. So she took her veil and covered herself. And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done Then Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah, his mother, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. So Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. This is the word of the Lord. You may finally be seated. Thank you. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, what a long story with a lot of repetition, but Lord, we know you have your purpose in this. Lord, we pray that you would take your word this morning and that you would write it upon the tablet of our hearts. Speak to us, O Lord, in ways that we need to hear this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I wonder what you'd think in your mind if I said the words to you, love and marriage. Maybe you would think of that song by Frank Sinatra, Love and Marriage, Love and Marriage go together like the horse in the carriage. Maybe you would think of many, and there are many of them, of the Hallmark movies, those little romantic comedies, to which publicly I'm only admitting to seeing three in my lifetime. Maybe you're you think of a movie like the notebook, to which I was able to hold out seeing until finally I broke last year. Um we won't get into that story, but one of the things I've always liked to hear as a pastor when I meet new people and I meet new couples or families in my church. I like to hear how couples met, they fell in love, how they got married. And I I like to ask that and hear those stories because every story is a little different. And yet, despite every story being a little different, there's one common thread that runs through all of them, and it is the goodness and the provision of God in how He has worked in their lives. Now, our message this morning, I'm going to be very upfront, is not going to comment on the differences between dating versus courtship or which one of those things you are morally bound to choose. Um, I think I always get a little nervous when I hear people say, you know, uh in our family or or I I I follow the biblical way of pursuing marriage. I always get a little worried, okay, are you showing up at someone's house with a goat as a dowry? I mean that really is the biblical way. You know, if we're going to be really strict about this, you know, are you are you doing arranged marriages, as we see here I'm not going to comment on that, but I do believe, despite the Bible not telling us exactly how we pursue marriage, I do believe the Bible gives principles that can be applied in various contexts. that are wise principles in how people should pursue marriage. And why is this an important topic? Why is this particular story in in this part of the Bible, in this part of the story of Genesis? It is the o is part of the overall picture of God's covenant faithfulness to his people to provide what they need. That's really what this is about. Marriage is to be seen in the wider picture of God's covenant faithfulness. Now as we we lay out some of these principles this morning in a general fashion, I want to highlight our main idea this morning. And if you're visiting with us, you can look in your bulletin and you'll see We often type the sermon idea right there. But the sermon idea this morning is this. Christian marriage should be pursued only with other believers. intentionally trusting the Lord's provision and entered into solemnly and joyfully It's a pretty easy, I think, idea. Christian marriage should be pursued only with other believers, intentionally trusting the Lord's provision, and entered into solemnly and joyfully Let's begin with verses 1 through 9 as we look at the pursuit of marriage. We begin with verses 1 through 4, seeing the candidates for marriage. Now this story takes place about two to three years after the death of Sarah. We find in the next chapter that Isaac was forty years old when he gets married at the end of this chapter. You know, Sarah died when she was 127. She had him when she was 90. This is about two to three years later. Verse 1 is very clear. Abraham is old. And it tells us that the Lord has blessed him in all things. But I want to highlight to you, look at the end of verse 2 all the way through verse 4. Abraham says, It says, put your hand under my thigh, that I may make you swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. But you will go to my country and to my kindred and take a wife for my son Isaac. Notice how Abraham narrows down the scope of candidates here. First he tells you who not to pick, and then Secondly, who to pick. He gives a prohibition on the Canaanites. Notice he prohibits Isaac from marrying a Canaanite woman. Why is that? Why is that? Well, if you remember, back in Genesis 15, God made that covenant with Abraham to give Abraham the land of the Canaanites. To begin with. And if you go back to verse 16, he says that Abraham's descendants are not going to get the land of promise for another 400 years, give or take. In the fourth generation they will come back here. Why? Verse 16 of chapter 15, for the sin of the Amorite is not yet complete. And when you hear that, just think Amorite is a catch-all phrase for all of the Canaanites. That tells you something about their character They are sinful. They are idolatrous people. They are outside of the covenant that God is establishing with Abraham. God is giving this covenant to Abraham as a blessing. First to him and then ultimately to all nations. But because they are outside of this covenant, they are under God's judgment, under God's wrath, under God's curse. So why not take a daughter from the Canaanites for a wife for Isaac? Because Isaac is a child of the covenant. He's under God's blessing. You are not to Yoke and join together what God has blessed with what God has cursed. Going all the way back to Genesis 9. 25, you remember what Noah said to Canaan or to to to Ham, cursed be Canaan, because of the sin of his father. And so what Abraham has in mind is the fact that the Canaanites represent those who are not only outside of the covenant, but they are unbelievers. They are not in relationship with the Lord. Isaac as a believer is not to marry an unbelieving Canaanite woman. Now I want to make one thing clear. This has nothing to do with racial or ethnic purity. Or racism. This is everything to do with spiritual purity And we'll see that later when we get into a little bit of our application. But he gives that prohibition, do not marry, do not give a Canaanite woman to my son to marry. So, okay, well, those are the options around him. Who is he supposed to marry? He tells the servant, pick from the family of Abraham. Those are the proper candidates. We see that in verse 4. He's to go back to Haran, take a wife from out of Abraham's extended family. Now I wrestled with this for a moment as I was preparing this, okay, but they're not in the covenant either. So what what do you do with that Right? Well, the consolation prize to that is while they are Abraham's extended family, they're not necessarily believers. Um the only way I can really reconcile my mind around this is they are still connected to Abraham, at least in the flesh. And Abraham has a covenant relationship with God. And moreover, they are not Canaanites. They are not the ones who are under the covenant curse to speak of. And so because they are not under the judgment of God, and they still have some connection to Abraham, his extended family is the proper candidate from which to take a wife for Isaac. They at least have some proximity there to the covenant. And then as you see the story progress, it's very obvious that they are at least open to the Lord's moving. We'll see that later. But those are the candidates. Marry a believing spouse. Find someone who is not under the covenant curse, but is is near and dear to that. That leads to verses 5 through 9, the oath that undergirds this pursuit. This is really interesting. So serious is Abraham about this particular standard of who should and shouldn't marry his son. That he institutes an oath. You saw it referred to in verses 2 through 3, but you can see it really entered into in verse 9. So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham, his master, and swore to him concerning the matter. That's a really strange thing to do, isn't it? Put your hand under my thigh. Well what is that referring to? Well, I think what we can say first is the oath seems to indicate that Abraham at least believes he's at the end of his life or nearing the end of his life. I mean, look at verse 1. He's old. God has blessed him beyond measure. His wife has already passed away and she's been gone for two or three years. No one knows the day of their death. The only other time we see anything like this kind of an oath or practice is actually later on in the book of Genesis, in chapter 47, verses 29 through 31. I won't read that. except to say Jacob is nearing his time to die, and he calls in his son Joseph and he makes him swear an oath, doing the same thing. Put your hand under my thigh and swear to me you will not bury me here in Egypt. Swear to me that you will bury me in the land of promise The land of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac. And Joseph, being the dutiful son that he was, put his hand under his father's thigh and swore that oath. But here we see Abraham, believing he's at the end of his life, knowing that, wait a minute, the covenant is going to continue on. through my son Isaac, but I haven't done my due diligence. I haven't done my duty legally to provide a wife for my son. That was his responsibility in that time of culture. And so we see that the oath is binding for the continuation of the covenant seed. That is really the reason why he does this practice. Now he does say, you know, put your hand we we translate that, put your hand under my thigh. The Hebrew word could also mean the groin area, and if you just think of where the groin area is with a man, not to be too Graphic, but that is where a man's reproductive organs are. And think about how that relates to the covenant with Abraham to bless his seed and his posterity. You can see the symbolism. In other words, finding a wife for Isaac was consistent with God's covenant promises to bless, to multiply the seed of Abraham through Isaac. As he promised to do back in Genesis 22, 18, in your seed, the nations of the earth will be blessed. And so if Isaac's going to reproduce and be fruitful and multiply, He needs to be married. And if he's going to be married, obviously he's got to have a wife. And so if they're going to find a wife, they've got to go find a wife. And so we have to ask ourselves as we kind of step back to apply this first, how does Abraham's concern Here. And how does the oath that he puts his servant under, how does that instruct us about our own choice of marriage partners today as Christians? Well, I think the principle is pretty clear and straightforward. Christians should only marry other Christians who have a clear, saving faith and relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me say that in four words. Christians only marry Christians. Or if you want to add a fifth word, Christians only marry other Christians, those who are of the family and the household of faith. This is a principle that is always applied to God's people, Old Testament and New Testament. And you know what? You know what is kind of scary? It is a principle that has always been ignored and compromised on, both in Old Testament times and in Old Testament. in New Testament times. Think back to Genesis chapter six, verses one through four. We saw the godly line of Seth, the sons of God, intermarrying with the wicked line of Cain, called the daughters of men, and and what was the result? Judgment. The world was destroyed. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 1 through 4, remember, the original audience that would have heard this passage read to them, or they would have read it themselves. would have been the the generation that came out of Egypt under Moses ' leadership. And think about what that what them and their immediate descendants, that second generation that went into the Holy Land, Think about what they heard and what they would have thought of. Well, we don't have to imagine. Deuteronomy 7, 1 through 4 tells us. God says to them. He forbids Israel from intermarrying with the Canaanites around them. And we see in verse 4, the reason again is not it's not racism. It's not ethnic purity or racial purity, it is spiritual purity. Listen to what he says. Why do you not intermarry with the Canaanites? For they will turn away your sons from following me to serve other gods. Then the anger of the Lord will be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly. Spiritual compromise. We've seen this over and over and over again throughout the Old Testament from Samson. To Solomon, to King Ahab. And every single time that this principle is compromised, there are disastrous results. We see it repeated again in the New Testament in 1 Corinthians 7, verse 39. Paul talks about a whole host of topics in there. He talks about marriage and divorce and singleness and widowhood. And speaking of widows, he says widows are free to marry, but only in the Lord. He also says in 2 Corinthians 6. 14, do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness, or what fellowship has light with darkness? This principle that carries through the scriptures is given to us in an example format modeled for us here in the search for Isaac's wife. And so if you're single here this morning and you do desire to get married one day, and by the way, I'm not gonna comment on whether or not You're single because you've never been married, or you're single because you've been divorced or widowed. Regardless, if you are single here this morning and you desire to get married one day, The first question you should be asking of any potential person that you're thinking of marrying is whether or not he or she is a true believer. I don't mean to sound like you know chicken little running around like the sky is falling, but in my twenty plus years of ministry now, I have seen this principle. compromised on over and over and over and over again. Now ladies, I don't mean to pick on you, but I've seen ladies compromise on this more than men. And I don't think that's because there's something inherently wrong with women that's not wrong with men. I just think it's the statistics of male to female in the church. Statistically there are just more women in the church. But what this does is this this compromise w w Why do people often do it? What's one of the rationales? Well, one of the rationales I've heard is, well, maybe if I date this person, I can lead them to the Lord. Now you might laugh at the term. Some people call that evangelating. But according to Scripture, first of all, I've never seen it work personally. Doesn't mean it hasn't, but I've never seen it work. But Scripture makes it very clear from the example of this passage. We have a straightforward example and many straightforward commands throughout the scriptures that we are not to compromise on who we choose to marry when we're single. We are to marry other believers who have a strong, loving, saving relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Because the generations that follow us will pay the price or get the reward of either our disobedience or our obedience in this matter. Remember, this is not just a what I want to do kind of thing. This is couched in the covenant community and what God is doing with his covenant people. I was talking with I don't remember I'm sorry, I don't remember who I was talking with this week. I was talking with someone about this. Um and I remember this person told me, you know, every single time I've seen people compromise on this. The compromise is always for the believer. It's never on the unbeliever. Isn't that the reality? You get someone who marries an unbeliever. What is the consequence? It is always the believer who ends up compromising. to make the unbeliever happy. And so I think the principle is pretty clear. Only Christians only marry other Christians. So that leads to our second point. Here in verses 10 through 61, it is the largest section. I will paint with a very broad brush here for you for the sake of time. But our second point is the provision of the Lord for marriage. Abraham's priorities are correct in who he's willing to let his son marry. And because of that, God is going to provide. Let's see how that provision works its way out We see the provision is preceded by prayer in verses 10 through 14. Now I call this provision because if you go back to verse 7, notice the confidence that Abraham has that God will send his angel before the servant so that he would take a wife for Isaac from among his relatives. In other words, the servant was unclear whether or not this was really going to work. Abraham was very clear in verse 7. No, I trust that the Lord will send his angel, the Lord will provide. So we're going to be faithful and do this. But notice when they finally when the servant finally gets to his destination, he gets to Haran. In verses 12-14, he commits the whole matter to prayer. In fact, take a look at verses 12 through 14 once again. Look at what he says. O Lord, God of my master Abraham, please grant me success today and show steadfast love to my master Abraham. By the way, if you highlight your Bible, that's worth highlighting. Steadfast love. Verse 13, Behold, I'm standing by the spring of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. Let the young woman to whom I say, please. Let down your jar that I may drink, and who shall say, Drink, and I will water your camels? Let her be the one whom you have appointed for your servant Isaac. By this or in this way, I shall know that you have shown steadfast love, there's that keyword again, to my master. I think it's so interesting highlighting God's steadfast love. This servant, as he prays for God's provision, For a wife, for the son of his master, he is relying on the steadfast love of the Lord. That word in Hebrew is Hesed, and it could be translated covenant love. He's trusting God to be faithful to his covenant promises, even as he goes out and looks for a wife for his master's son. So he bathes the process in prayer. First principle. Second, we see this provision is guided by focusing on the right priorities in verses 15 through 28. Now As the story progresses, as we saw, Rebecca is the one who comes out to the well. We already got introduced to her at the end of chapter 22 But let's take a look at the priorities. There are several here that we can deduce from the details of this passage. The priorities of godly characteristics that we see in Rebecca. First, we see the character of responsibility in managing a household. Look at verse 15. You see that Rebecca comes out to the well with a water jar on her shoulder. By the way, this is a theme that gets repeated throughout the scriptures. Later on, Jacob, when he goes to Mesopotamia, maybe the same well. He ends up meeting his wife, Rachel, doing this well, doing the same thing, watering some sheep, getting water. Moses will meet his wife in Exodus chapter 2 at a well. She's doing the same thing, watering some sh some sheep. And in the New Testament, you might remember, Jesus runs into the Samaritan woman at the well. There's a theme of women going to the well and meeting important men in their lives that have an impact on their spiritual life later on. Rebecca comes out by coming to the well and drawing water. To bring it home, she demonstrates to this servant who's watching her that she has the responsibility capable to help provide for the daily necessities in a household. I mean, think about what water would have been used for at that time. It's still used today. For drinking, for washing clothes, for cooking, etc. In other words, she's demonstrating the responsibility that she can take care of a home. We see the character, not just of responsibility, but a character quality of being willing to serve others. Remember what the servant asks for? He asks for a drink. She offers him a drink. But did you notice what she says and how she responds? She says, drink, my Lord. You're like, okay, so what? What does that tell you about her character? Are you making a big deal about that? Well, who's she talking to? She's talking to a slave. And what is she called a slave? My lord. That shows that even in this humility and this servant-heartedness that she has, she knows how to show respect properly to other people. Shh and then to to she goes a step further. She she demonstrates the characteristic of being a little more self-sacrificial. He asked for a drink for him. She goes above and beyond. Okay, I'll give you a drink here. Let me let me let me go back and get more water, and I'll give your camels water. She goes above and beyond. She did what she prayed for without her even knowing that or being told. Wow. I mean this her character qualities are in that short encounter are just screaming out this is a woman of quality This is a woman of quality. And I think that we'll we'll comment a little more on that in our application, but some of this bears weight in our application. But I want to talk about in verse 16 the place of physical attraction among priorities. Notice I started with the priorities of godly characteristics, but it would it is interesting Verse 16 says, The woman was very attractive in appearance, a maiden of whom no man had known. You could translate that. You know, a virgin whom no man had known. It's interesting to me that in the story where Moses places that description of her physical appearance. She shows up in verse 15 and verse 16. That's one of the first things he says. What do we do with this? So some of these thoughts are technical, but bear with me here. First, the fact that her appearance is mentioned at the beginning of the encounter reveals that physical attraction is not unimportant in principle and is often what draws us in the beginning towards somebody. Isn't that interesting? Okay. Secondly, if you carefully look at the mention of Rebecca's beauty. . in this passage. It really falls, the verse is really parenthetical. You have a bunch of action verbs around it and it just kind of takes us a detour parenthetically to just comment briefly on her appearance and then goes right back into the action. What that tells you is that while physical beauty is, yes, it's important enough to notice and to mention up front, it is not the main thing. that drives this story. It's not even the main thing by which this man is going to judge her suitability to be the wife of his master. And thirdly, Moses ma makes goes out of his way to mention her sexual purity as a detail that makes her more attractive as a candidate. Now, let's be honest, there's no way the slave would have known that about her when she walks up. Again, that's a parenthetical detail that Moses, under the inspiration of an all-knowing God, writes in the passage. But it's it's a very important point that sexual purity is very at a very attractive attribute in a prospective marriage partner. Now in this case it's talking about a woman But men, let's just be honest, the street goes both ways. Sexual purity is important for men and women prior to marriage and in marriage. Let me just clarify that. In marriage. Just because you're sexually active in your marriage doesn't mean you're impure, okay? That's still purity. But we see these provisions guided by the right priorities and that provision then in verses 29 through 61 is secured through provision. Now there is a lot of repetition if you remember in that section. I'm not going to go through all that. I just want to pull out a few things here by way of observation. First, in verse 28, Rebecca goes. And she tells her family what happens in meeting and encountering this man. She tells her family. Secondly, the man reiterates the story for her family of who he was, who he served, why he was there. He even mentions the prayer that he gave. And then the family gives their input on whether or not Rebecca should even marry this the son of this slave's master who just happened to be their extended family. You you may have saw that back in verse 50. And Laban and Beth and Bethuel answered and said, The thing has come from the Lord. We cannot speak to you, bad or good. Behold, Rebecca is before you. Take her and go. They give their permission. They hear the story. They hear about who this man is, and knowing that he's connected to Abraham, they would have known something about the character quality of Abraham and his son because they would have known Abraham. And so they they give their permission. They secure it that way. And she goes. And so the question again I want to ask by way of application is what general counsel does the servants search reveal about finding a spouse that we should consider and apply in our own searches today. Well how about this? As we pursue relationships towards marriage, it should be done prayerfully. prioritizing good qualities and not uh godly qualities excuse me and not done in relational or emotional isolation how about those three You know, if you are here this morning and you're single and you hope to get married one day, let me just encourage you that you should be starting to pray for your future spouse. Whether that's a husband or a wife, you should be committing to praying for them now, committing them to the love and the care of the Lord who is going to prepare them for you. But it doesn't only apply to singles, does it? Like if you're a parent here, put yourself in the place of the servant for a moment in the story and you should be praying for the future spouse. of your son or daughter as the case may be. And you should be praying parents while they are very young, before they're probably thinking about getting married themselves. I remember one of my best friends got married and when he got married, um His mother-in-law said something to him. I I just happened to be standing about two feet away, so I heard it. I don't didn't mean to eavesdrop. But I remember his mother-in-law saying on their wedding day, Um, We've been praying for you. Since we found out we were having a girl. It's amazing. Prayer. Bathe If you're a parent, bathe your child's prospective spouse, future spouse, bathe that person in prayer. If you're single this morning, pray and commit that person to the Lord and ask the Lord to help you to be the person that that prospective spouse needs to draw them closer to Christ. And secondly, you should be praying that the spouse you're going to look for and finally marry one day demonstrates the character qualities that are godly. Just like Rebecca did. And let me just say, one of the best ways you can do that is to gauge how does that person serve and interact with people in the local church, the local covenant community. I had a conversation with somebody who's in this room, I'm not going to say who it was this week, that was really encouraging to me. And what they said to me was when they and their wife were were dating years ago, um one of the things they made an intentional um focus of doing was to make sure that they were serving together in ministry and serving the Lord because they knew that was where they're going to really see their You know, character qualities really come out, whether for good or for bad, and that's going to really help them to gauge, do I really want to marry this person? Does this person have a heart that is needed to serve? Because that's what you have to do in marriage. You have to die to yourself and you have to learn to serve other people Namely your spouse. And then if you have children, your children. But make sure you are pursuing godly priorities. Again Don't marry someone you're not attracted to. That's not biblical either. But that's, again, not the main thing. It's the godly characteristics. And the last thing I want to say by way of application, the second point, is pursue marriage in community. One of the things I've seen so many couples, particularly young people, do is, you know, once they start dating, you start talking to their friends, oh how so-and-so? I don't know, I haven't seen them. Why? Because they're dating somebody now and they're spending all their time with that one person and then they they isolate themselves socially, emotionally, and relationally. And what does that end up doing? It ends up, you know, really robbing that couple of any accountability for the way they conduct the relationship. And when you don't have accountability, let's just face it, we all have hormones. What happens? People sin. Right. Don't do this in isolation. Remember, notice what Rebecca did. She went to her family She went to her family. Believe me, you might be overly infatuated with someone you want to marry and caught up in the moment, but the moment you bring 'em to your family, they're not they're not caught up in the same emotions. They're gonna be a lot more objective than you. Things that you don't want to deal with or talk about that might be problems with that person or issues, your family, if they're honest and love you, they're going to say, okay, honey, but you need to stop, slow down. Here's what here's what we see. Parents, particularly when your kids are teenagers, do not be afraid to speak freely about these things. Young people, whether you're teenagers or young or young adults, I would encourage you if you're thinking about marrying somebody, let that bring that person around your family. You want to understand which how does your family think or feel about this person? Your family loves you. They know you well. If they're going to see problems, they should tell you And I hope that they would. That leads to our last point here, and it's actually the entrance into the marriage covenant, which we see in verses 62 through 67. You see the solemnity of going into marriage, and you see it in both Isaac's actions and Rebecca's actions. Take a look at verses. 62 and 63. You can see the solemnity of Isaac here. Now Isaac returned from Beer Lehroi and was dwelling in the Negeb. And Isaac went out to meditate in the field towards evening. And he lifted up his eyes, and he saw, and behold, there were camels coming. Notice where he is. Now it's easier to read those words that mean nothing to us. Behir, Lahi, Roy, and think, okay, so, well, the last time we saw that was In chapter 16, remember when Hagar fled from Sarah? Because she was abusing her essentially? And the angel of the Lord met her and promised that he was going to make Isa um Ishmael um into a mighty nation. Well, Isaac is in the same place, and what is he doing? Fifty-three years after that, what is he doing? He's meditating. He's having communion with the Lord. Now I want to be very careful how I speculate here. So take this with a grain of salt. But I don't think it's too much to assume that Isaac would have known that his father Abraham sent a servant to Mesopotamia to find a spouse for him. I don't think he he would not have been unaware of that It's possible that perhaps he's meditating and praying about that very endeavor and for his soon-to-be wife. But the fact that he's meditating shows that he takes this event in his life very seriously and solemnly before the Lord. And we see the solemnity of Rebecca in verses 64 through 65. She lifts up her eyes. She sees a man coming out of the field, asks the servant, Who's this man coming? That's my master's son. Notice what she does. She gets off the camel, she dismounts, and she puts on her veil. Well that word for veil is interesting. It's the only other time we see that word for veil in the Old Testament is Genesis 38. When Tamar covered herself from Judah when she was pretending to be a prostitute, it's a veil to hide the identity. But I think what is more and what shows the solemnity of Rebecca in this is it was really not proper even for someone who is not the husband of a woman to see her whole face in that culture And so by putting a veil on, she's communicating to Isaac how seriously she takes her purity. how seriously she takes the proper relational boundaries until such a time as she is his wife, which as we know was really that day That was quick. Doesn't happen that often, but here it did And then you see in verse 67 finally the joy and the comfort of marriage. Look at that. This is actually a beautiful kind of roundabout way from last week's chapter on Sarah's death and burial. Verse 67. Then Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah his mother and took Rebecca and she became his wife and he loved her. So Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. This marriage is all about covenant continuity. Sarah, the mother of all of all the covenant children, is gone. Rebecca takes her place in the line of covenant succession And Isaac's comfort that he draws from that, the fact that he loves his his wife, really I think shows very clearly the principle of, you know. . There's a sense in which he's left his father and his mother, and here he is clinging to his wife, where the two become one flesh. So what does this comfort in Rebecca reveal about marriage once we get married? Well it reveals that when we get married, there's a very real leaving and cleaving. There is an endpoint to s, in a certain sense, to the nature of our relationships with family and parents before marriage. There's a new priority afterwards. And think about it. This is all the result of proposing right from the beginning to not compromise and marry an unbeliever. This is the result of committing a process to prayer. It's the result of prioritizing right qualities in a prospective mate, such as godliness and maturity. And this is the result of including wisdom and input from family and parents into the choice of a spouse. You know, when you take some of that adv some or all of that advice into consideration and you put it into practice in your life, The result is that you actually will be ready to launch as a new covenantal unit in the body of Christ, where the husband and the wife have been prepared to leave their parents in terms of dependence. And cleave to one another and be one flesh in all things. And Isaac's example here is so instructive. He loved his wife. How do you emotionally and physically and socially prepare to cleave to another person by doing it prayerfully, looking for the right things? Getting the right wisdom so that you are ready to be launched and to be launched successfully into the greatest union that you will enjoy this side of eternity. One of the things, if you want something to do this week, tangible, do this, whether you're married or single. Look at Ephesians 5, 22 through 6. 4. We read it earlier, didn't we? Read through that this week. Meditate on that. Pray through that. Because the reality is, this covenant marriage of Isaac and Rebekah. Our covenant marriages today, what are they all meant to point out? What are they all meant to illustrate? What are they all meant to showcase to a broken and dying world, the love of Christ for sinners who will bind himself to them through his own sacrifice and blood, so that one day And we're going to see this hinted at in our benediction. One day, at the marriage supper of the Lamb, he will bind us to himself as his bride. I started off humorously mentioning the notebook or or Hallmark movies or things like that. You know what? A lot of these stories, what are they looking for? They're looking for a happily ever after. Now, to be sure, a marriage can be very happy this side of eternity. But we need to remember, because our marriages are in the broader scope of God's covenant faithfulness and to be understood in that way, just like a diamond is to be studded, you know, in a filling and held there for all to see. We need to remember that our happily ever after Is when we the church are married to Christ our bridegroom That brings us right back to our main point, doesn't it? Christian marriage should be pursued only with other believers whom we're going to spend eternity with as part of the bride. It should be done intentionally, trusting the Lord's provision, because he is faithful to his covenant promises. And it is to be entered into solemnly and joyfully. Brothers and sisters, let's pray