If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and turn to Genesis 19. We're going to be looking at verses 30 to 38 as we stand together. For the reading of God's Holy Word. Genesis chapter 19, verses 30 through 38. This comes right on the heels of our passage last week on Sodom and Gomorrah. This is the word of the Lord. Now Lot went up out of Zoar and lived in the hills which with his two daughters, for he was afraid to live in Zoar, so he lived in a cave with his two daughters. And the firstborn said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man on earth to come into us after the manner of all the earth. Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him that we may preserve offspring from our father. So they made their father drink wine that night, and the firstborn went in and lay with her father. He did not know when she lay down or when she arose. The next day, the firstborn said to the younger, Behold, I lay last night with my father Let us make him drink wine tonight also. Then you go in and lie with him so that we may preserve offspring from our Father. So they made their father drink wine that night also, and the younger arose and lay with him, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose. Thus, both the daughters of Lot became pregnant by their father. The firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab He is the father of the Moabites to this day. The younger also bore a son and called his name Ben Ami. He is the father of the Ammonites to this day. Well, this is the word of God. Thanks be to God. You may be seated Let's begin with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, thankful for the time that we've had in your presence. The prayers we've been able to pour out before you, the songs we've been able to sing to you. Father, now we sit at your feet to hear from your word, to learn from you, O Lord. And to be challenged and comforted, to be convicted and to be given assurance. this morning from your word. Lord, we pray that you take this story, as I've prayed many times before, a passage that is so familiar to many of us And yet we pray that you would open our eyes, O Lord, to see the glory of Jesus in the midst of a tragedy like this. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if you know anything about ancient Greek literature from the classical period, you'll know that there are two prominent genres. to the stories that are told in that body of work. There's comedy and there's tragedy. Now when we talk about ancient Greek literature and we talk about comedy, comedy doesn't exactly have the same exact meaning as we think of when we think of comedy today. When you think of comedy today, You might think of a sitcom on TV that you might watch, or you might think of a stand-up comic standing up in a nightclub telling jokes for a half hour or forty-five minutes, and the purpose is to get you to laugh. In ancient Greek literature, comedy was just a little different. Comedy was simply something that wasn't sad. That's all it was. It may have been funny, it may have been humorous, but not necessarily. The best example I can think of of Greek comedy is the story Lysistrata. And I think I pronounced that right. That's how I've heard it pronounced. It's a story in which the women of Greece go on a strike withholding marital relations from their husbands in attempts to try to pressure them to end the Peloponnesian War. But the other type of literature is tragedy in Greek literature. It's tragedy. And the best example of a Greek tragedy that I've had to read that I remember in college is the story of Oedipus Rex, if you have heard that story before. There's about a king by the name of Oedipus, who is the king of Thebes. And it was prophesied before he was born that he would unwittingly kill his father. Who was the previous king of Thebes, and that unwittingly he would marry his mother. Really kind of disgusting. Which he actually did after solving the riddle of the Sphinx. Now it's interesting that even among the Greeks, this was considered a tragedy. In the New Testament, the Apostle Paul deals with a situation in the Corinthian church, which I'll refer to later, of a man who was sleeping with his his stepmother or his mother and committing incest. Paul makes it very clear, this is of such a nature, a sin, of such a nature, that even the Gentiles cringe from it. And you see it in Oedipus Rex. In fact, in the story, when he discovers that he was, in fact, the murderer of his father, he didn't realize the man he murdered was his father. He also realizes that the queen that he has is in fact his mother. And in his despair and in his disgust for what he is done both to his father and his mother, he goes and gouges out his eyes. And that's really the end of the story, and you can see why it's considered a tragedy. There is no redemption to that story. And yet, sadly, when we come to our passage this morning in Genesis 19, verses 30 through 38, With the story of the incest of Lot and his daughters, we can see very clearly that this story can be classified just like Oedipus Rex as a tragedy, hence the title, The Tragedy of Lot. And it's a tragedy because it falls within the larger context of Locke's life, which can be characterized as, though a true believer, he's a man who lives by sight. Rather than by faith. In fact, the main idea of our passage this morning, which if you're visiting with us, you can see it's printed right at the end of the liturgy. The main idea is that the tragedy of living by sight rather than by faith, is that it will cost us the things that we take security in. It will cost us the integrity of our families, and it will lead to a lost legacy. Those are the points that we're going to be unpacking this morning. Let's jump into this short narrative. Verses 30 to 38 We see our first point, the tragedy of losing security in verse 30. Take a look at verse 30 again with me. Now Lot went up out of Zoar and lived in the hills with his two daughters, for he was afraid to live in Zoar. Now I said right from the beginning, this passage comes clearly on the heels of the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah, which we looked at last week. And if you go back to last week's passage in verse seventeen, you'll see very clearly, as they brought them out, that's Lot and his family, one of the angels said, Escape for your life, do not look back. Or stop anywhere in the valley. Escape to the hills lest you be swept away Now that that was what he was commanded to do. That was the refuge that God had provided for Lot, the hills, the mountains outside of the cities and outside of the surrounding the plain and the valley But if you remember, and I won't read all the verses, verses 18 through 21, Lot stops short and he says he argues and bargains with the angel. No! Essentially what he says is, if I flee, I'm not going to make it to the hills, I'm not going to make it to the mountains. They're too far. The judgment will overtake me. Let me go to this one city instead. Now again, we don't know all the details and the inner workings of Lot's heart uh aside from what God's word reveals to us, but one I think can reasonably assume that he had probably gotten so used to the creature comforts of city life in Sodom and Gomorrah that he couldn't almost stomach the thought of surviving in the hills away from civilization. And so what does he do? He compromises essentially presents to God, this is my refuge, this one city, let me run there. And then we saw in verse 21 last week of chapter 19 that the angels, the Lord acquiesces and lets him run there. And so that's where this story picks up. Lot has been living in Zoar, and we don't know how long. May have been a year, may have only been a couple of weeks, for all we know. But this was his own proposed refuge. And what we see here is that something discontents him. And again, the Word of God here is interestingly silent on what exactly discontents him. All we know is verse 30 says he was afraid to live in Zoar. What's interesting is he goes from Zoar to a cave in the mountains. He goes from rejecting what God's plan of refuge was for him to embracing it. Somewhere along the line , Lot has a change of heart. Now perhaps, we don't know, perhaps they were just as wicked as the sodomites, and maybe he feared that the judgment of God was going to come there soon enough. Perhaps they knew that he was the only survivor from Sodom and Gomorrah, and maybe he had there was a social stigma. Causing an anxiety. We don't know. But one way or another, the Lord used that situation to work in Lot's heart to bring him to a point of repentance. And we see that the fear that he experiences in verse 30 is the tool in God's hand of repentance. We know that because it was the fear that was the cause of Lot and his two daughters fleeing human civilization, fleeing the comfort, creature comforts of city life in Zoar, and fleeing to the hills. One wonders if Lot was what the author of Hebrews had in mind in Hebrews chapter eleven towards the end when he's talking about just the the nature of some of the the old testament saints, you know. Some of them were were persecuted, some were stoned, some fled, and some lived in caves. You wonder if Lot was one of those he had in mind. The 16th century reformer John Calvin writes this, and this is kind of an interesting quote. After this habitation was granted to him, talking about living in Zoar , according to his own wish. He soon repents and is sorry, for he trembles at the thought that destruction is every moment hastening on a place so near to Sodom, in which perhaps the same impiety and wickedness was reigning. Then he ends this quote, He therefore, being God, therefore gives them space for repentance, that they may willingly acknowledge their fault. That's kind of an interesting statement, isn't it? The Lord used something in Lot's life living in Zoar to bring him to repentance. In fact, Matthew Henry, the Presbyterian Puritan commentator, says something very similar. He was frightened out of Zoar. Durst not dwell there, probably because he was conscious to himself that it was a refuge of his own choosing, and that herein he had foolishly prescribed to God, and therefore he could not but distrust his safety in it. Here's what's interesting. Sometimes the Lord allows his people to languish in the schemes of their own making in order to work repentance in them That's what I think we're seeing in verse 30 when we're talking about the tragedy of losing his security. Zoar was a security, a refuge of his own making. Something he thought would provide a shield and salvation. And it begins to crumble and it begins to fail. And God allows him to languish there until in his repentance he leaves and goes to the place that God had initially prescribed. You see the same pattern in several saints throughout the Old and New Testaments. You see it in David's life. After David commits adultery with Bathsheba In 2 Samuel chapter 11, you get to chapter 12 and you realize Nathan the prophet comes to him and tells him a parable and brings conviction to David for his sin. And then you find shortly thereafter, Bathsheba has the child, but then the child dies. What you realize if you read between the lines is there was probably about a good eight to nine months where when she was pregnant. that David was away from the Lord relationally, spiritually, not in communion with God for that amount of time. until he was brought to conviction and repentance and return to the Lord. In other words, the Lord allowed him. to languish spiritually in that situation, to work in his life, in his heart, to bring him to repentance. And so as we think about that, and we think about the way this first point here, the tragedy of losing security, as we see it in Lot's life, we have to ask ourselves, what are some ways that we trade the refuge of God that God offers in Christ? For a refuge of our own making. Because we do the same thing Lot did. How do we see it today? Well, I believe we we trade the refuge of God in Christ for any number of things in our lives that look Advantageous for us in this world. And isn't that interesting? We trade the refuge that God offers in Christ for the world. Jesus talks about this, doesn't he? In the Gospel of Mark at the end of chapter 8. He talks about those who who lose their lives for the sake of the gospel will gain their lives. And those who gain their lives in this world will end up losing their life. We see that same thing. Lot shows Sodom. You remember why? Back in chapter 13? It looks good. It looked amazing. I mean this this this whole Jordan River valley where where Sodom and Gomorrah were located was lush, it was fertile, the city was bustling. The economy must have looked good if he was willing to invest in there as we saw last week by buying a house and and moving up the chain of authority and command in the city. He chose it because it made sense in advancing his life situation. Well, how do we do this today? Well, I'm going to start spiritually because this real problem is spiritual, and then there are ways that this looks in real life. The spiritual issue is we might tend to take refuge in other things than Jesus Christ. Such as our own self-righteousness, our own wisdom, our own thinking that we can figure it out on our own. And what's interesting, and there's got to be some kind of irony here in the passage, when Lot chooses Zoar, Zoar in Hebrew means little. And isn't it interesting that something that he chose named little ended up being too little for the needs of his security from God's judgment? It's interesting. We do the same things today. And for Lot, it led to fear. It led to him escaping to the mountains, which God had called him to in the first place. But the question I want you to wrestle with this morning as you think about this is by way of self-examination is what am I putting my trust in this morning to save me? And by the way, all these examples I'll give by way of questions come from a position of self-righteousness. What am I putting my trust in this morning to save me? Is it my career? Is it my relationships? Is it my wealth? These things can very easily become the means of boasting before the Lord. I think of what Jeremiah chapter 9 verses 23 and 24 says. Let not the wise boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty boast in his might, let not the rich boast boast in their riches, but let him who boast boast in in what? In this that I that he both knows me and understands me, says the Lord. I believe here that Lot's ultimate example example of repentance is for us this morning, showing us what it looks like to repent from trusting in anything, including our own righteousness. and fleeing to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, the Lord gave Lot the room to get to the point of dis despair and trusting in his own self-made means of refuge and security. And maybe he's doing the same in your life this morning. I think the warning in this passage is to take stock of what you're trusting in in place of Christ and to repent of that trust and to turn to trusting the Lord Jesus Christ. Some of us have a really hard time, I think, wrapping our minds around the fact that the Lord will allow us to go through certain seasons, breaking us down to really build up our trust and our faith in our walk with Him Why? Because it's not fun. It's not fun. But Scripture makes it very clear that is often how the Lord deals with those that he loves. Jesus said in John chapter 16, verses 7 through 11, and I won't read it, but he makes mention of when the Spirit comes, what is he going to do? He's going to convict the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. Those are not comfortable things to really think through. And yet, what is the point of the Spirit doing that? It is to break down the things that we are trusting in, apart from God in Christ, and to draw us to Christ and to faith in Him and taking refuge in Him. And ultimately finding healing from the things that we trust in that betray us and break us. This is how God works for those whom he loves. Or what about Hebrews chapter 12, quoting from the Proverbs, essentially saying, do not despise. Or do not look down your nose at the discipline of the Lord. Maybe some of you here this morning are going through a tough season in life where you have trusted, whether it was in your own wisdom, your own might, your own riches, your own creativity, your own righteousness. And you're beginning to fray at the edges. Might the Lord be doing a work in you in the midst of a great tragedy To bring you to himself. You see, the sad thing was Lot in in willing to go about um investing himself in all these areas that were tied to sin in Sodom and Gomorrah. It had a tremendous effect, negative effect on his family. And that's what we turn to in our second point in verses 31 through 35. We see not only the tragedy of losing something you put security in, but you see the tragedy of losing family integrity. And this is heartbreaking. I mean, look at verses 31 to 32. What you see here, you see a plot. And by the way, it's a plot, I call it the incestuous plot. Because that's exactly what it is. And you'll notice in verse 31, the oldest daughter identifies a problem, and by the way, the problem is a legitimate problem in that context. There's a problem, but the solution is where the real issue, the problem, gets magnified. Take a look at verse 31. So they're living in the hills, and the firstborn said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man on earth to come into us after the manner of all the earth. Stop there. That's the problem she's identifying. That's the challenge that has to be overcome. Now It's easy to read the story and just be utterly disgusted with these daughters, but let's let's, for the sake of working through this, let's put ourselves in their shoes. Let's really try and understand at that time in history what these women were going through and why they think the way they do. First of all, think about their history. They've been raised in Sodom. So they've imbibed all of the cultural mores and values of that city that was just destroyed. The only home that they knew is gone. You go back to Genesis 19, 14, what you find is that they had uh two men that they were betrothed to. Remember Lot tried to get them to come out of the city? So they had the hope of getting married and having a family of their own one day, and now that in the judgment of God has been snatched away. Taken from them. Because those young men did not listen to their father-in-law Lot. They didn't flee the city. They came under the judgment of God. And then they flee to another city where maybe there was the possibility of new suitors in the city of Zoar, but now that's gone because they got afraid and they fled. So there's the problem of a lack of suitable husbands for these two young women of marriageable age. We know That they were virgins because of the previous passage when Lot almost brought them out and gave them to the mob. Behold, my two daughters have never known a man. Do what you'd like with them And yet, despite being virgins and having no experience in that area of life, they still seem to imbibe a sodomite mindset towards sexuality. But we see the problem of suitable husbands. We also see the problem of a lack of opportunity for childbearing, which simply builds on the lack of suitable husbands problem. Now, at this time in history, think about this. This is actually a two-fold issue. A woman's role and status in the ancient Near East was clearly to bear children and a woman's value even in her own assessment oftentimes was related to how many children that she had. It's not the same today, but that was how they thought back then. You can see this in Genesis chapter 29, at the end of the chapter, and then into chapter 30 when Jacob gets married first to, remember, Leah by deceit. He's really trying to serve for Rachel, and then he gets the handmaids as well. And The two sisters are competing with each other over Jacob's love, and the measure of Jacob's love is how many children that they they bore to him. That was in their mindset. what their value was attributed to. Or you see it again in 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 5, verses 1 through 5. Elkinah takes two wives, Hannah and Panina. And remember Panina bore many sons and many daughters, and Hannah's womb was closed. Whenever they would go to the feast, Panina would mock her and chide her and you know poke at her verbally and pick on her because she had no children and and Panina had many. In other words, that was the cultural value. And these women, lost daughters, are looking at themselves the same way. Wait a minute. If we can't bear children, what good are we? But the other side of this is that it may actually kind of fly under the radar of our observing it. Notice how they phrase this in verse 31. Our father is old and there is Not a manner uh a man on earth to come into us after the manner of the earth. And then you go to verse 32, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him that we may what? preserve offspring from our Father. That gives you a little bit of a clue into the mindset as well. Because in that day and age in history If a man died childless, it was a picture of his being under the curse of God and his line being cut off. And so, interestingly enough, you see a little bit of concern there for their father's legacy, their father's lineage and his line. And so notice I want you to understand very clearly, in verse 31, they are acknowledging a legitimate problem. There's nothing wrong with what they're acknowledging. However, it's the solution in verse 32, which I just read. Isn't it interesting the idea of making him drunk? to deceive him and then to sleep with him so they can have children with him. It almost has similarities to Genesis chapter 9 verses 18 to 29 with remember Noah Getting drunk in his tent and being uncovered. Now Ham, I don't think, really did anything physically to him except for mocking him and looking at his nakedness. But this is like that on steroids. It's like the same kind of situation. It will bring shame to him. And what's really sad about this is Lot clearly did not raise his household in the ways of the Lord as God said Abraham would do back in Genesis 18, 19. Remember when God said that? When he's like, shall I hide from Abraham what I'm going to do? Knowing that he's going to become a great nation, and and I've commanded him, and he will command his household to walk after the ways of the Lord. God knew Abraham would be faithful. Sadly, Lot. Lot, the righteous man, failed to raise his children. In the ways of the Lord. He threw them to the cultural winds and influences of Sodom and Gomorrah, and he didn't care for them that way. And now what we're seeing is the fruit of his lack of faithfulness. His daughters, in this particular suggestion in verse 32, his daughters are clearly betraying that in their mindset and where their hearts are, they are still in Sodom. They are sodomites. They have taken upon themselves the mantle of those who have just been judged and destroyed. and are carrying it on in the same way that Ham and Canaan took upon the mantle of the seed of the serpent that was wiped out in the flood And like Noah, there's drunkenness involved. Here's what's really sad. They knew that what they were doing was wrong, and they didn't care. How do I know that they knew that it was wrong? Well they they have to get them drunk. They know they can't just go to lot and present the idea and say, here's the solution to all our problems. And Lot is just going to go along with it. No, he's not. They know that. They have to get him drunk. They have to deceive him. They have to take advantage of him. They have to manipulate him. And so the incestuous plot in verses 31 to 32 becomes an incestuous encounter in verses 33 to 35. And in 33 and 34, you see the incest of the older daughter. Now let me just read that. I won't read it for the second daughter, because it roughly says the same thing, but take a look at what it says in verse 33. So they made their father drink wine that night, and the firstborn went in and lay with her father. He did not know when she lay down or when she arose. You know, there's a lot of irony here because in the scriptures a lot of times when it talks about sexual relations, it talks about it in terms of knowing somebody. And interestingly enough, you see the same verb here, but it's in the negative. Lot does not know The verb to know, referring to sexual relations in Scripture, is turned on its head. It happens, and yet Lot does not know, showing how wrong and heinous and backwards this incest is And it highlights rape. That's what happened. This was an incestuous rape. Committed by two daughters on their father. Again, which is really ironic because sadly when you think about these things in the world today and the stories that you hear. That are tragic today, usually it's the other way around. It's it's the male who perpetrates this on female family members. It's the opposite here. And then you see it the same thing in verse 35 with the youngest daughter. The only difference in wording in verse 35 is it uses the word also, which by the way highlights the unrepentance. demonstrated by the repeated action of these two young ladies. Well, how does this incestuous tragedy and lost families' integrity warn us today as Christians? Well I think most fundamentally it highlights for us the crucially important call to raise our children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Where did the failure in all of this begin? Long before this passage. actually occurred. It happened those many years Lot lived in Sodom And I want you to think about this. The incredible value of our covenant children. And this is just, this is this application point really carries over from the first. The first had to do with where do you find security in? Where are you investing in? Right? Lot invested his family in Sodom. It impacted the decision of his children down the line. But it narrows the focus of the first point to the impact of our decisions in life on our children. I cited him last week. I'll cite him again this week. Dr. John Currid, Old Testament professor. I thought he was at RTS Charlotte. I found out this week he's now at RTS Dallas. So I have to say that. Wrote applying this passage, this is what he writes in his commentary. Their story, being Lot and his two daughters, their story is a powerful warning regarding how Christians are to raise their children. Lot's daughters grew up in Sodom and they were betrothed to unbelievers. And there is no evidence that they were children of God themselves. Lot had thrown them into the culture and raised them in the heart of paganism. The consequences should surprise no one. How about our children Do we raise them in the church? Are they surrounded by believers? Or do we simply toss them to the cultural winds Boy, I think those questions really speak for themselves, don't they? But there's something that many of you in this room need to wrestle with as parents Let me just read the question portion again. Those questions are really key. How about our children? Do we raise them in the church? Are they surrounded by believers? Or do we simply toss them to the cultural winds? By the way, I would venture to argue, these questions are not just important questions for parents in the room to wrestle with. But maybe you're single. Maybe you're still too young to get married and have children. But these are questions that you need to wrestle with as you think about growing up and getting married and raising a family. Doing all the things that normal people usually do. What about your family? It's just as much for you. And of course, There's the warning here of sexual sin compromising the integrity of our covenant families. I would be completely and utterly remiss if I did not say something about the sexual sin presented to us in this passage. Which is clearly incest. Last week was homosexuality. This week is incest. Boy, we're on a roll, aren't we? You know how hard it is to get up and preach on these two topics? It's not fun. Let me tell you. But it's in the passage, isn't it? One of the things I used to do in my ethics class, I used to teach an ethics class when I was a a Bible teacher in a Christian school. One of the things I would do is we work through like Leviticus 18 and Deuteronomy 22. Which kind of unpacks the sexual ethics of the Old Testament and the law of God, which by the way is still in force today. I would always ask my kids, we would present some kind of moral debacle, whether it was homosexuality or incest, and I would be like, okay, why is this wrong? Why is this morally wrong? And a lot of times the kids will just look at me like, it just is. It just is. It's gross. Okay, that's not a real answer. That's true, but it's not a real answer. Why is it wrong? Well, I'll give you some reasons why incest is wrong and why this messes up Lot's family terribly. One, it destroys Both social and national and um natural order. Secondly, it destroys relational boundaries, and I'm talking about incest here It introduces confusion in relationship roles and it violates trust. in some of the deepest ways that can scar a human being. You go and read Leviticus 18, and it gives a whole host of different incest relationships that are condemned, and what does the Bible say at the end of that section? Such are the things that you saw in Egypt where you came out of. Such are the things that the Canaanites practice. In the land that you are going, remember it's Moses, God speaking through Moses to Israel about to go into the Holy Land. He says, but you are to be different. Brothers and sisters, just like last week when we talked about homosexuality and God's judgment on that, which was horrible. What we see in this passage is a call as Christians to be different in our sexuality. And I'm telling you right now, if we actually were faithful to God's word and our sexuality, both men and women. We will stand out in a way that might be embarrassing to some, but we are called to bear that. In a very dark world. That is broken and that celebrates that brokenness. Look at what happened a couple days ago at the Olympics You have a bunch of drag queens Doing what? Mocking the Lord's Supper And taking pride, pun intended, and joy in it. We're called to be different in our sexuality Because it really affects our families. And it leads to our last point in verses 36 through 38, the tragedy of a lost legacy. This is what this is Lot's legacy. Look at verse 36. You see the legacy of what sexual depravity can do. and the destruction it can bring in a family. Thus both the daughters of Lot became pregnant by their father. You know what one of the saddest tragedies is of this passage is Lot has just escaped the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah for sexual debauchery. and immorality and sexual abomination, only to at the end of the story, succumb to it within his own family Sexual depravity has the power to carry over into the legacy of our descendants. This is how serious this is. In God's law, he says that those who hate him, he will count the iniquity to the third and fourth generations of those who hate him. And that's what sexual depravity demonstrates, a hatred towards God. Because proper biblical sexuality between a I can't believe I have to say this, a biological man And a biological woman in the covenant of marriage is a demonstration of the glory of God. Which is why sexual depravity It's not just an attack on our own physical bodies, our own families, and its legacy, but it's an attack on the Lord himself. You realize that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verses 3 through 7, it tells us this is the will of God. Your sanctification that you abstain from sexual immorality, and it ends by saying the Lord is an avenger in all these things Let's look at his legacy in verses 37 and 38. It's the legacy of two pagan nations. Look at verse 37. The firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab, he's the father of the Moabites to this day By the way, the Moabites ended up historically living on the east and the southeast coast of the Dead Sea, where Sodom and Gomorrah were , in a sense, taking up their heritage. The name Moab in Hebrew means from father. Isn't it interesting that even in the name of this son, there is the shame attached to his name of sexual immorality? Listen to what Joyce Baldwin, commentator in Genesis, says about the legacy of Lot's sexual depravity here. The Moabites worshipped a fertility god which included orgies, which beguiled the Israelites on their way to the promised land back in Numbers 25. You see the same broken sexual standards carried forth through the Moabites. Look at verse 38, the second nation, the Ammonites. The younger also bore a son and called his name Ben Ami. He's the father of the Ammonites to this day. By the way, his name means son of my people What about the legacy of sexual depravity in among the Ammonites? Joyce Baldwin also comments. Ammon became noted for cruelty not only in war, which you see in Amos 113. But even in religious observance, for Moloch was the Ammonite God who demanded child sacrifice. There's no no accident, it's no coincidence that you see the children becoming the victim of the parents' immorality. You saw it in the ancient world, sexual depravity, child sacrifice. You see it today, sexual depravity, abortion. Interestingly enough, both of these nations, I think, continue today At least partially, in the modern day, the country of Jordan in the Middle East occupies the land where Moab and Ammon once lived. And you know what the, interestingly enough, you know what the capital of Jordan is? Amman. Where does that come from, Amon? And where is Amman situated? Where it was situated with the city of Rabbah, which was the capital of the Ammonites. So I want to ask by way of application here towards the end, what are some of the ways in which Lot's lost legacy warns us and points us to the gospel of Jesus Christ? That question might surprise you, but we have to ask it. The lost legacy of Lot warns us about how we choose to raise our children and also indirectly points us forward to the hope of the gospel when all seems lost. Why do I say when all seems lost? You know why? I'll tell you why. This is the last time in the Old Testament that Lot's story is told. He drops off after this. The next time you hear Lot's name really mentioned in any significant way is in the New Testament in 2 Peter chapter 2. Verses 7 and 8 when second when Peter calls Lot a righteous man, despite this. How do you connect the dots? Well, all seemed lost. This is the end for him. I have no idea how he spent his last days. But despite this being a tragic historical account, the gospel is all about finding what is lost and redeeming it. Remember those parables? The lost sheep, the lost coin, and even the prodigal son? You know, what what's the constant refrain? What was lost is now found. That is what the gospel is all about. When all hope seemed lost here, and it did , The gospel redeems it. So in order to apply this, what I want to do is I want to trace a little bit of history before drawing this to a close. And I want to draw the history of the Moabites in very, very broad strokes and their influence from the Old to the New Testaments. I want to first point you to the book of Ruth If you read the story of Ruth, Ruth and her family during a famine go where? To Moab Where her two sons married two Moabite women, which was really taboo at that time. They weren't supposed to do that, and yet one of them turns out to be Ruth. Let me read to you when when all else seems to fail them, and their husbands die, both Naomi 's and Ruth and her sister-in-law's husbands die. And they're going to go back to the promised land. Listen to what Ruth says to Naomi in Ruth 1. 16. This is one of the greatest statements of faith in the Bible from a Moabite woman. She says, Do not urge me to leave you, Naomi, or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go. Where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. I call that Ruth's confession of faith. Why do I call it her confession of faith? Because if you go back to Genesis chapter 17, verses 7 and 8, it really she takes upon herself what God promises to Abraham. I will be God to your descendants. She takes God's promise. She owns it for herself and acts upon it going back. And then you get to the end of the book in Ruth chapter 4, verses 18 to 22, what you find she becomes the great grandmother of King David The one whom God made a covenant with that he will not lack a son on the throne. Before you get to the New Testament, you trace this through to Jeremiah 48. The prophet is declaring the coming judgment of God on Moab for their sins. They're not escaping judgment But it ends really interestingly in verse 47 saying this, yet, in other words, despite the judgment, I will restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days, says the Lord. The very next chapter, Jeremiah 49, verses 1 through 6, he's declaring the coming judgment on the Ammonites. Again, for their sin. And what does it say in the end? But afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, declares the Lord. How did the Lord just really restore their fortunes? Well, you go forward, trace it to the New Testament in Matthew 1, particularly verse 5, in the genealogy of Jesus Christ. Ruth, the Moabite, is named as one of the five women in the line of Jesus. You know what that tells me? This is where the gospel balm becomes so sweet for those who are sexually broken, like Lot's daughters and the Moabites and the Ammonites. It tells us that despite the lost legacy of Lot to sexual immorality, in Jesus Christ Even some of his descendants, who were the recipients of that, were redeemed and saved by the Messiah, who makes all things new. Isn't that incredible? Tell me that's not good news. You can be so broken in your sin. I've talked with people before who were the product of rape. One of them I grew up with was the product of an incestuous rape. Not terribly different from this passage. Somebody who comes from that background can still have a life glorifying to God. Isn't that incredible? There is grace for all. And I hope that this gives you hope and and and and expectation this morning, despite how you may have sinned. Or how you may have been sinned against, regardless of how heinous the sexual sin might be, there is still grace to be offered to you in the Lord Jesus Christ. And though you may be lost, and from your point of view, all may be lost, Jesus has the power to find you through repentance from sin and faith in his finished work on the cross and in the resurrection. Let me trace this one more step in the New Testament before drawing this to a close. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5. In that Corinthian church, which seemed to have been riddled by sexual sin, the Apostle Paul is dealing with a discipline case of a man who got caught having an affair with his stepmother. And the Corinthians were proud of it. Paul calls them to repentance by turning this man out. Excommunicate him. Throw him out of the assembly. And you can read 1 Corinthians and think that's the end of the story, but then you've got to read 2 Corinthians 2, verses 1 through 11 to find the end of the story. That man repented of his incestuous, sinful relationship. And was restored. And Paul said, embrace him. Bring him back in as a brother. So how does this tragedy stack up this morning to Oedipus Rex? I would say that this tragedy was far worse. At least Oedipus Rex 's tragedy did not end with any offspring with his mother, and he ends up gouging his eyes out. But Lot 's tragedy endured for generations across two nations. close to almost two millennia. And it brings us back to the main idea, doesn't it? It's tragedy of living by sight rather than by faith is that it will cost us the things that we take security in, it will cost us the integrity of our families, and it will lead to a lost legacy. But the hope of the gospel redeems all things, brothers and sisters. And while there is tragedy, there is also a great redemption. And I want to leave you with this that the Apostle Paul said from Romans chapter 5, verse 20. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, and I would add parenthetically, resulting in tragedy. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. Cling to grace offered in Jesus Christ this morning It's the only thing that redeems what is lost. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and we are thankful for your word here in this passage. And we ask, O Lord, that you would redeem what is lost. Among us, what is broken and riddled through with sin. We know, O Lord, that the blood of Christ cleanses to the uttermost, even to the deepest reaches of the conscience. And I pray, Lord, this morning that somebody who needs to hear this, oh Lord, is cleansed and washed and restored By the blood of Christ and by faith in him. Lord, what is true, what Paul said is true of the Corinthians, is true to us. Though they were broken, Through sexual sin, Paul said later in 2 Corinthians, I am going to present you one day to the Lord Jesus as a pure virgin. You can restore what is broken. Please do it, Lord. We humble ourselves before you this morning, and we give you thanks for Jesus Christ. Amen.