If you have your Bibles to take them, and let's turn to Genesis chapter 18. We're going to be finishing the chapter. We did the first part of the chapter last week. We're going to be looking at verses 16 through 33. This morning. And I want to invite you to rise for the reading of God's Holy Word. Genesis 18, verses 16 through 13. thirty three. Then the men set out from there and they looked toward Sodom. And Abraham went with them to set them on their way. The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do? Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him For I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him, to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice, so that the Lord might bring to Abraham what he has promised him Then the Lord said, Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and their sin is very grave. I will go down to see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry that has come to me. And if not, I will know So the men turned from there and went towards Sodom. But Abraham stood still before still stood before the Lord. Then Abraham drew near and said, Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city. Will you then sweep away the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous who are in it? Far be it from you to do such a thing. To put the righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fair is the wicked. Far be it from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? And the Lord said, if I find fifty righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place for their sake. Abraham answered and said, Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord, I who am but dust and ashes. Suppose five of the fifty righteous are lacking, will you destroy the whole city for the lack of five? And he said, I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there. And again he spoke to him and said, Suppose forty are found there. He answered, For the sake of forty, I will not do it. Then he said, Oh, let the Lord not be angry, and I will speak. Suppose thirty are found there. And he answered, I will not do it if I find thirty there. there. And he said, Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord. Suppose twenty are found there. He answered, For the sake of twenty I will not destroy it. Then he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak again, but this once. Suppose ten are found there. He answered, For the sake of ten, I will not destroy it And the Lord went his way when he had finished speaking to Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place. Well, this is the word of God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we thank you for your word. As we do every week, we are so grateful to have this Translated for us in a language that our hearts understand. Lord, we pray that you would draw near to us now as we draw near to you, and that you would reveal your goodness, your grace. And reveal to us once again, O Lord, the power and even the beauty of the gospel. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I will admit to you that one of the things I've had to do a few times in my adult life at various periods is look for a job. I hate looking for a job. It is very difficult. One of the common things that any of you who've had to do this, and Which is most of you in the room, you know that an employer will ask for references for a job. Now they usually look for two different kinds of references, personal references and professional. references. But have you ever wondered why this is? I think the answer is kind of obvious. It's they want to know who they're talking to. They want to know who you are, what kind of person you are, because if they hire you, they are going to have to work with you and maybe even put up with you. They want to know the ins and the outs of who they're thinking of hiring. They want to know, are you going to be a good fit for the team? Which is possible. Or are you going to constantly complain and create problems because you are unable to work with others around you? I think we all know we've had emplo um fellow employees and colleagues that we've absolutely enjoyed working with and those that we have dreaded. But together, those two types of references function in a way to intercede on your behalf in order for the employer to see you favorably and therefore reward you by giving you the job. You always want to pick your references very carefully. I remember one time I had no idea that a guy that I knew had put me as a reference and I did not enjoy working with him. And when the employer called to ask what this guy's character was like, I had nothing but to tell the truth. And then I had to call this guy and embarrassingly tell him what had happened. You see, the idea in this passage this morning has to do with someone interceding on behalf of other people. In fact, the main idea of our passage, and if you're visiting with us, you can see this printed. In your bowl of tin right under the liturgy, it's the blessing of the gospel comes through the covenant obedience and intercession of Jesus. Jesus Christ. That is what this whole passage, I believe, is driving us towards this morning. The blessing of the gospel is seen through the covenant obedience. and intercession of Jesus Christ. Let's break that down into the two ideas this morning as we work through this. Our first idea this morning is the covenant obedience that secures blessing in verses 16. through 22. And we see in verses 16 through 19 first, the covenant obedience of Abraham. Now, I want to be very clear here. In this whole section of verses 16 to 22, you have two contrasting ideas here. You have, on the one hand, the covenant obedience of Abraham that is recognized by God, as he will state. we see, and then the sinfulness of Sodom and Gomorrah, representative of the sinfulness of the world. And it's interesting, Abraham stands as the representative of all believers in his covenant obedience. And Sodom and Gomorrah are kind of like an archetype or a representative pattern. Of the sinfulness of the world. And so we begin this morning with the covenant obedience of Abraham. Look at verse 18. We see an obedience that leads to blessing. Now in verse seven, let me actually begin in verses sixteen to seventeen. The men go out that were with the Lord. They look down towards Sodom and they they begin to set out from there. Abraham walks out with them to send them on their way in verse 16. Kind of a side note. One of the things uh my family my Mexican side of my family does. We call it the Mexican send-off. When you go to visit, you know, one of my relatives, and we do this often in our house, is We will often walk out with you, you know, out the door. And I remember my dad doing this before he passed when his relatives would come, he would kind of stand there as they drove away. And you you don't you stand there until they're almost out of sight. And this is kind of like what Abraham is doing here. It's what I call the Mexican send-off, although he's in Messian You know, the Holy Land. He's sending them off because that is a part of hospitality. And then in verse 17, you see the Lord begin to ask a question within himself. Shall I hide from Abraham when I am about to do. Now it's interesting that that that verb hide and what he's about to do are participles. And what that tells you is the Lord is in the middle of deliberating on the judgment that he is about to meet out upon Sodom and Gomorrah. This is a process. This is not a whim decision. And then verse 18 picks up, and Abraham will certainly become a great nation. And all the nations of the earth will be blessed in him, or, or you could translate that, through him So the Lord is deliberating whether or not he's going to hide this judgment from Abraham. Am I going to tell him what I'm about to do, or should I keep it to myself? And he starts reasoning in verse 18. I've made a promise. That I'm going to bless all the nations of the earth through him. And that shouldn't be new to us. We saw that back in Genesis chapter 12, verse 3. All those who bless you, I will bless, and those who curse you, I will curse. And in you, all the families of the earth will bless He will say it again in Genesis chapter 22, verse 18. After Abraham nearly sacrifices Isaac, that promise will be repeated. But the idea of God blessing all the nations of the earth demonstrates the scope in God's mind. and in his heart of all of his redemptive activity that is about to follow. The scope is all the nations. And I want you to notice here the verb is passive, which tells you that the nations, they don't go out and secure the blessing for themselves. They passively receive the blessing that is given to them as a free gift. You may be asking, well, what is the gift that is given here? Freely by God. Well, it's it's Twofold, I think, based on what we've seen in Genesis up to this point. We saw in Genesis 15, Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. So it's the righteousness of God that is given as a gift that is freely to be received by the nations. And then we saw in Genesis chapter 17 the sign of circumcision. pointing to the new birth, being born into the covenant. And so this is something else that will be given as a free gift to the Gentiles in the course of redemptive church. history and yet it comes through a mediator. And that's interesting. All of this will come through Abraham. And ultimately, later on, through his heir. Abraham is the mediator of the covenant blessing to these nations. And so because Abraham will be the medium or the conduit of blessing, God is reasoning within himself here to say, because of that, I'm going to tell Abraham why I'm going to judge Sodom and Gomorrah. Which we're not focusing on this week, but next week we will. But we also see here that this obedience passes on to his household. It's not just that it's his obedience as a covenant mediator, as a covenant representative that passes on. It passes on to whom? His household. Look at verse 19. God explains his reasoning further, for I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him. to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice so that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has promised to him. In fact, it's really interesting as I was looking in this, preparing this message this week, I realized that when it says, for I have chosen him, it doesn't really use the Hebrew word you would expect to hear or find there. For chosen, it means I have known him. And it shows this tremendous intimate relationship that God has with Abraham as his covenant partner. Because I have known him. And I've known that he will command his children and his household after him. Now we've been seeing for some time now that the blessings of Abraham are not just meant for him, they're meant to pass from one generation to the to the next, being mediated from one covenant representative, in this case Abraham as a father, to those under him, in case end of the day. this case his children But it is interesting here that God is saying, I'm going to reveal my judgment against Sodom and Gomorrah to Abraham as a covenant head so that he can teach this judgment. to his children and his children's children after him. That tells you that the judgment that we're about to find and see next week In Genesis 19 in Sodom and Gomorrah is meant to be such a profound example of God's judgment, a demonstration of his holiness. a demonstration of his justice that that particular judgment was to be recorded for posterity so that his descendants will remember and look at that in ages and generations down the line and be able to stand back and marvel at the judgment of God is meant to instill in them A fear, a healthy fear of the Lord, as they walk with God in faith as Abraham their father once did. And it is interesting to me that it The result of this at the end of verse 19, so that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has promised to him. Don't misunderstand that in this arrangement that God has set up, it is the obedience Of covenant representatives, covenant heads, fathers and even mothers of households, it is often the obedience that passes on and leads to the blessing of the generations and children. Now, of course, we all know there are exceptions to that, but that is the standard paradigm that God lays upon his people. And so we see that Abraham's covenant bless covenant obedience leads to the blessing of his household. But the blessing includes warnings of God's judgment. And that's something we don't often think about. Blessing tied to warning. And yet we see it here. The contrast to this is in verses 20 and 20. Now there's a few things there that we want to pay attention to Now look at what he says here in verse 20 and following. Because the outcry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great and their sin is very grave. Now that's really interesting because the word outcry in Hebrew sounds a lot like the word justice in Hebrew. Now, if I didn't know any better, I would think that Moses, who wrote this, is trying to form a wordplay here to get us to see something that sin produces an outcry and that outcry leads to the justice of God. That's what this is getting at. Now, we all know that this is describing it from the Lord's perspective. The Lord who sits in heaven is saying that their sin is so great. Now I want you to think about that for just a moment. Um those of you who have children know, uh especially when they're small, uh And you try to put them to bed, sometimes they cry for long periods of time. And some of your parents will cave in and go in there and, you know Help the children out. Some of you are a little more hard-hearted and will say, well just let the kid cry, he'll wear himself out until he falls asleep But even if you're watching TV and you're comfortable, the outcry could begin to work on you a little bit. That's the idea here. You know, this idea of an outcry is very important. It means that sin is very loud in the ears of God. The moral depravity of Sodom and Gomorrah is a noise at this point that the Lord is no longer willing to tolerate. Interestingly enough, if you go back and you read some of the ancient Near Eastern and Mesopotamian accounts of the flood, um the story is a little bit different than the Bible's account, as you can imagine. There's multiple gods in those accounts. But in the in those stories, what leads to the flood is it doesn't always call it the sin of man, it's the noise that humanity makes Is making that is starting to bother the gods, and it was because of the noise, the outcry of humanity upon the earth that led the gods to start Now Abraham coming from ancient Mesopotamia probably would have been familiar with that kind of an analogy. Maybe that influenced the way God described the cry of sin. in his own ears to this ancient Mesopotamian. Maybe that's why he's using that image. But notice what he also says. He calls the sin of Sodom very great. Very grave. Now, when you talk about something that's grave, you're talking about something that is very serious. This is not a light matter. This is grievous. You could translate that it's very heavy to the Lord. And even in God's assessment of how bad sin is and how much he hates it, you can get a glimpse of God's heart for even the sinner in this case. If he really didn't care about these people, he would not be bothered by their sin. But the fact that what the sinner does is grievous to God and weighs heavy on his heart is really important for us to see him. We saw this already, leading up to the flood in Genesis chapter 6. Do you remember in Genesis chapter 6, 6 when it said, And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart? That's the idea here. This is what the outcry of sin in all of its grievousness is doing in the ears and the heart of God. And it helps us to see his holiness, and it helps us to see his hatred of sin. Now, for those of you men who are here who were at the men's book study yesterday, this is probably going to sound very familiar to you when we looked at R. C. Sproul's chapter on God in the hands of angry sinners. God's hatred of sin. And notice what he's what it leads to in verse 21 and 22. It calls for God's judicial response. Notice what God says here in verse 21. I will go down to see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry that has come to me. And if not, I will know. Now, it's almost perplexing, isn't it? On the surface, it almost seems to insinuate that there's something that God doesn't know. There's something that God has to explore or examine for himself before he really truly knows. Is that what's going on here? I don't think so, and here's why. This is an example of a pattern that we've already seen in the book of Genesis If you go back to Genesis chapter 11, you will see the same verbs of going down and seeing used in Genesis 11. 5 when God is talking about the Tower of Babel. It says, and the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the children of man had built. This idea of God coming down from heaven to see Something. In that case, it was the rebellion of the Tower of Babel, the rebellion of all humanity. Here it's the rebellion of one city representative of all of humanity. It is a illustration of God's Judicial response to sin. The Presbyterian commentator Matthew Henry from the Puritan era argues that this is an example, that this sets an example for human magistrates in authority today to do their due diligence to inquire into the details of a case before they give judgment. You know what this really illustrates for us? It illustrates for us that God's judgment is never just a knee-jerk reaction to sin. It's not just that it's not that God is really moody and is agitated and just responds out of impulse. God's response to sin, even though it is a response that stems from his nature, is always deliberate. It is always intentional. In nature. It is never just rash. And so, in response to this, in verse 22, the men. Remember, three of them came. One of them was the Lord. Two of them were angels. They turn, two of them from there, and they go towards Sodom. And Abraham still stands before the Lord. Now I want to stop there in the narrative and ask the question, how does the Lord's description of Abraham at this point Point us to the Lord Jesus Christ as the one who fulfills the covenant. That is what we always have to ask, whether we're in the Old Testament or the New Testament. How does this show us more of Christ? How does this tell us the gospel in a new and fresh way? How does the Lord's description of Abraham point us to Christ? Well, like Abraham, the Lord Jesus is our covenant representative whose obedience brings the covenant blessings to us. That's the idea. That's the applicational idea. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one who mediates these blessings to the nations. So when God says that Abraham is the one who mediates the blessings to all of the covenant, the nations, giving his covenant blessing to them, it has been fulfilled in the person and the work of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. He is the son of Abraham par excellence. Right? And it's interesting to me that the way theologians have put this is, you know, what did Jesus Christ accomplish for you? If I were to ask you that question, how would you answer that? Well, I'll just give you the answer right now. Two things. One, his act of obedience Is given to you. He came down from heaven, fulfilled the law, which we could not fulfill perfectly and righteously. And that's one thing. The second thing is his passive obedience. Right? Think of what Paul says in Philippians chapter 2. He was obedient up to the point of death on a cross. Both of those things demonstrated his righteousness and the righteousness of God. That's the blessing, as we saw, that is mediated to us through faith in him. We are justified. We receive his righteousness through faith. He's the one that passes that The other part of this application is designed to get us to see and stand in awe of Christ, is to see that the Lord Jesus came down as a judicial response to the outcry of sin. Now this part may kind of hit you sideways, but I want you to think with me here for just a moment. Just as God says in verse 21, I will go down to see whether they have done altogether accordingly to the outcry that has come. to me, and if not I will know. Just as he said that. I want you to understand, so did the Lord Jesus Christ come down out of heaven in the incarnation to deal with the sin of humanity. We need to understand that that was one of the motives and the impetus as to why God sent his son. We need to see the glimpse, get a glimpse of the heart of God towards sin when he said to Abraham that he's going to go down and check this out. This morning I want you to take an account of this and really own it for yourself. Because it is your sin and it is my sin that it was the outcry that sent Jesus Christ. It was an outcry that is very great. It's not just the outcry of one city, it was the outcry of the whole world and all the nations. Because that is the scope of God's redemptive heart. It is his heart that all the nations would hear the gospel That all the nations return and repent. That all the nations from everyone from every tribe, tongue, language, and nation responds and receives the blessing. We need to understand that it was our sin that is this grave, that is this serious, that is this weighty, that is this heavy for the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me illustrate the reality of that to you from the Gospels. If you look at Mark chapter 14, Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane on the night that he is betrayed. After the Lord's Supper. And actually Luke's gospel in Luke 22 illustrates it a little more graphically, but you know that Jesus went a stone's throw away from the rest of his disciples. And took Peter, James, and John with him and said, pray for, pray that you do not enter into temptation. I'm going over here to pray. Do you remember what he said? When he was knelt down, Father, let this cup pass from me if it is possible. But not my will, but your will be done And Luke really graphically illustrates this. He began to sweat drops of blood. Why? Do you think it was just because Jesus was afraid to die? I don't think so. I don't think it was just because he was afraid to die. I'll tell you what I really believe was going on He is beginning to feel the full weight of sin placed upon him as the sacrificial lamb about to go to the cross. and be slaughtered, and it is it is the the prospect of facing the wrath of God that he was truly afraid of in his humanity to bear that weight. The way it's described here. It is very grave. It's very weighty. It 's very heavy. You need to understand this morning that it was your sin that testified against you. It was your sin that rose up to God in a deafening pitch. To cry out for justice against you. And the same is true of me And this is what God was doing in sending his son to go down, to see if the cry Is as it has risen to him, and behold it was. Justice demanded your life. And what did God do? He gave his son instead. For you. That's what you see here. The covenant obedience of the covenant head And the blessings that come from him being passed on to you through faith. And that leads to our second point, which is actually more of a benefit, For those who are in Christ, in verses 23 through 33, we see the covenant mediator intercedes before the Lord. Because is our sin pretty bad? Yeah, but there is good news. And I want to begin here in verses 22 and 23. We see the persistent intercession of Abraham. And by the way, I got thinking about this when I was preparing this. How would the original Israelites have taken this mediation, this intercession by Abraham? How would they have connected to it? If you remember in Exodus 32, they did something really bad after they had been redeemed. They sinned by making a golden calf. And it is one of the worst episodes in their history, recorded in the scriptures, and then what's even worse in my opinion is almost the excuse that Aaron gave the high priest when Moses comes down from the mountains like how could you let this happen? Well the people they were clamoring they gave me their gold I put it in the fire and out came this calf. I you know, you kinda wonder, did Moses want to slap him for that? I don't know. I'm not as holy as Moses, but I would probably be tempted to slap him for that one. What But they would have remembered in Exodus 33. What did God want to do? He wanted to wipe them out. And Moses. Interceded for them. Reminding him of his promises. Let's take a look at this. There's a few aspects of this that I think are important to the original audience. who heard this that I think are going to be important for us as we look to apply this today. In verses 23 through 25, you see the basis of this persistent intercession. Why does Abraham feel like he can can approach God and intercede in this case? Well, what we see here is two questions, and then there's a statement in the middle that answer this for us. It explains why he's so persistent. Look in verse 23. First, he asks, Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? Now notice what his concern is here. His concern is for justice. And his concern, his presupposition is that it is not just. It is unjust. For God to treat the righteous in the same way that he would treat the wicked when it comes to his judgment. And it's interesting in our day and age when judgment is usually presented in terms of equity for all. This is one form where justice and equity are not the same thing. Real justice means not everyone is treated equitably when it comes to God's judgment. That was what Abraham is concerned with. God's justice. And secondly in verse 25, he exclaims or makes the statement, Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fares the wicked. Far be it from you. He says that twice. Far be it from you. You could, I suppose, translate that, God forbid. Thirdly, in verse 25, he asks, another question rhetorically, shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? Now he ends that for rhetorical effect. And what makes the rhetorical effect all the more important in this case is that in the original Hebrew, and you can actually see this in English as well. There's almost a wordplay between the word judge and just. They actually come in both Hebrew and English, they come from the same root word. It's like a wordplay. Shall not the judge of all the earth? Who is just in his nature, shall you not do just? Lord, if I'm being logical here, you have to be just You cannot treat the wicked and the righteous in the same way in your judgment. And so he intercedes with God based on who God is, based on God's character. By the way, there 's a side application there, isn't it? When you're praying and you're asking God for something, appeal to his promises and his character. That's what Abraham is doing here. But the question you have to ask yourself is, who is he interceding for? And this is probably not an observation that you would make on the surface. Who is he interceding for? Who are the recipients? Well, one of the surprising facts of this passage is Abraham is not interceding indiscriminately for the sodomites to be saved here. He knows God's judgment is coming. So who's he interceding for? Well, looking at the context, I would say he's likely interceding for Lot, his nephew in Lot's family, who he knows dwell in Sodom. You go back to Genesis chapter 13, verse 13 specifically, it says, Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord. Go back to Genesis 14. You remember the Sodomites got captured by those Mesopotamian kings, and Abraham with 318 men had to go up and save them and bring them back? Abraham knew who these people were. He would have interacted with them a little bit in that event. I think very clearly he's not interceding for the sodomites. He's interceding for Lot, who is righteous. You may ask, how do you know he's righteous? Well, if you go to Second Peter chapter two, verse eight, in the New Testament it says that Lot was a righteous man whose soul was tormented by the sin of the Sodomites among whom he lived. Lived, daily tormented. Abraham is clearly interceding not for the sinners, brothers and sisters here, but the righteous. That is a really interesting Observation. So we see he's got a basis for his persistent intercession and God's promises. and God's character. He's interceding not necessarily for the sinners here, but for the righteous. And then you see this this intercession is marked by humility in verses 27, 30, 31 And 32. In verses 27 and 31, he says in both of those passages, Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord. In other words, he's setting his resolve. To come into God's presence for the sake of the righteous. But notice what he says in verse 27. But I, I who am but dust and ashes. Again, you see a word play in the original Hebrew. It really sounds like the same thing, and he's driving the point home. Lord, I realize I'm just dust that air is coming through. That is how effective my intercession really is. And yet, God listens. And in verses 30 and 32, he acknowledges that he might be sounding like a pest. Repeating himself over and over again. Well, what about this? What about this? What about this? Lord, do not be angry. I will speak. He's humble. And we see his intercession prevailing throughout the passage. I'm not going to read every single verse here, but not only was he persistent, We see that God listened to him. By the way, the persistence is marked by six cycles. He goes from asking for what if there are fifty righteous to forty-five, to forty, to thirty, to twenty, to ten. That's another indicator, he's not just praying for the sinners and interceding for them. He's interceding for the righteous. He's asking on behalf of the righteous. And what does God say every single time? Every single time God says that he will not destroy the city if he finds fifty. If he finds forty-five. If he finds forty. If he finds thirty, twenty, or even ten. Now as we get to chapter nineteen next week, what we'll find is sadly there were not even ten righteous people In the city. You know how many there were? Not even half. There were four. There were four people that God sent those angels to save. And then sadly, we know that one of those four perished along the way. Because she looked back longingly at what she had left behind in Sodom. But it's interesting. Did Abraham's intercession fail? No. It actually worked. God saved. Those four righteous people. And yet his holiness, his justice were still demonstrated In judging the city. So the question we ask ourselves: how does Abraham's intercession for sinners point to our need that only Jesus Christ can meet? Why don't you think about this with me? Jesus Christ is the only righteous person that brings God's mercy to his people who continually lives and intercedes for us today. Jesus is the only righteous person who can turn away the wrath of God. That is the consistent testimony of the New Testament and the heart of the gospel. You know, this passage ends by God saying that he will not destroy the city for ten righteous people. We saw that there were four, but the whole testimony of Scripture is very clear: that there is no one righteous. If you go to Psalm 14, verses 2 and 3, or Psalm 53, 2 and 3, says the same thing, it says this: The Lord looks down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there are any who understand who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. Boy, that's tough. The Apostle Paul gets at that too in Romans chapter 1. He talks about the sin of the Gentiles, Romans chapter 2, the sin of the Jews, Romans chapter 3 wraps it up by saying, All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. There is no one righteous, no not one. Boy So if God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, and it saved the four righteous people by calling them out for the sake of Abraham. The covenant mediator. What does God do when he looks down at a world that is sinful and there is no one righteous, no not one? Well The answer is that he sends his son. And again, that's the manifold witness of the scriptures. Jesus Christ is the only righteous This is what the Apostle Paul was getting at, brothers and sisters, when he said in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21. Which you've heard me say in this pulpit before, and you will surely hear it from me again, it says this, For our sake, he made him, that's Christ, to be sin who knew no sin. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. What does God do when he sees no unrighteous in the world? And yet his promise is that the blessings of Abraham will go out to all nations. What does he do? He takes matters into his own hands. He goes down in the person of his son, and he lives that perfect life I mentioned in the first point, goes to pay the penalty of that perfect death. And then he gives that righteousness that he has as a free gift to all who come to him through faith. It's the righteous obedience of Jesus Christ that is credited to you and I when we come to him in faith. And what's more is Jesus Christ lives and continues to intercede for his people still. For those of us who think that his ministry is over and it's done and he's not doing anything, he's just relaxing with his feet up on the throne in heaven, that is not what he's doing. He's interceding for us. The reason I read John 17 in our scripture reading earlier here Is because it is a it's called the high priestly prayer of Christ. It is an intercessory prayer before he died, and it really gives us a glimpse into the heart. Not only of Christ, but of the triune God. Remember what he said? I'm praying in verse 9. I'm praying for them. In this case, he's talking about the twelve disciples. I'm not praying for the world. But for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. Look, just as Abraham did not intercede for the wicked Sodomites, I want you guys to understand one of the blessings of the covenant that you have by faith in Christ, one of the privileges, is that Christ intercedes for you. He's not interceding for the world. He's interceding for his people. He's interceding for his bride. He's interceding for those that he loves. That's what his intercession is all about. And Hebrews chapter 7 makes a big deal about this, arguing that the priesthood of Jesus Christ is a priesthood where he intercedes For you and I today. Now, when you woke up this morning, did you dare to think that Jesus Christ had you On his heart and on his mind, as you are preparing to come into his presence and worship him. Did you ever dare to stop and think that he takes joy in Delight over you enough to intercede before you or before his father on your behalf. That's What's going on here? And just like Abraham's intercession prevailed upon the Lord to spare those righteous. Many of you this this week, and I'm the same way, we all deal with junk and sin, which we've seen how bad that is in God's eyes. We deal with That almost on a daily basis. If you're like me, probably an hourly basis. What do you do? Take comfort in Christ Remember what I preached from 1 John chapter 2, verse 1 in the fall? Brothers and sisters, I'm writing this to you so that you do not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for our sins, but for the sins of the whole world, Jew and Gentile alike, those whom he has called to be his. Take joy. Rest in that. When you fall into sin this week, be quick to run to Christ. He intercedes for you so that the forgiveness of God, the blessings of the Father, will be given to you. That's how this applies. We take comfort in the gospel. So the question that each of you must ask this morning as you encounter God's word is whether or not you have a mediator that is interceding for you. This is where it gets very personal, very quickly. If you do, if you have faith in Christ, then you have a tremendous confidence and a tremendous right to joy this morning. in the presence of God, knowing that his wrath has been turned away through Christ, the propitiation who took his wrath on your behalf. Now, if you're here this morning, you have not come to Christ. Now there's two things I'm going to say to you. One of them is going to be really hard. The first thing I'll say is hard. The only thing you have that you can be certain of outside of Christ is a fearful expectation of the coming judgment that is spoken of in this passage That's the bad news. The good news is that it's not too late. You too. Can be counted among the righteous so that you will be spared God's wrath By putting your trust in Jesus Christ and believing that He paid the penalty of God's justice for you on the cross so that you may be made righteous through Him. That's it. That's what this passage is driving us towards. What is God's heart? Is it really that He desires to meet out justice and judgment? No If we understand the passage correctly, it's that he desires to show mercy to any and all who will come to him And that brings us right back to our initial point, doesn't it? The blessing of the gospel is seen through the covenant obedience of Jesus Christ and his intercession for us on a daily basis. basis. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we are thankful this morning that we have an advocate before you, Father. Father, an advocate in your son Jesus, because none of us, if we were truly honest, could truly stand in your holy place. We're just just too sinful. We do deserve your wrath and your judgment. But we thank you, O Lord, that you sent your Son as our Covenant mediator to give us the blessing of righteousness by faith, not because we earned it, but to receive it as a gift And Lord Jesus, we thank you that you continually intercede for us, your church, your beloved, and we thank you that you continue You have given your Holy Spirit to us, that oftentimes when we don't have the words to even say, when we know we should pray, the Spirit will intercede with us. By crying out with groanings too deep for words. Lord, give us rest this week in these tremendous promises that we have. May this be sweet balm to our souls. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I would invite you to stand