If you have your Bibles, and I hope that you do, let's stand together for the reading of God's Holy Word and turn in those Bibles to Genesis chapter 32. We're going to be looking this morning at verses 22 through 32. Genesis 32, 22 to 32. This is God's word for us this morning. The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabak. And he took them and sent them across the stream and everything else that he had. And Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him. Then he said, Let me go, for the day has broken. But Jacob said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel. For you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed. Then Jacob asked him, Please tell me your name. But he said, Why is it that you ask my name? And there he blessed him. So Jacob called the name of the place, Peniel, saying, For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered. The sun rose upon him as he passed, Penuel, limping because of his hip. Therefore, to this day, the people of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket. Because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip on the sinew of the thigh. This is the word of the Lord. Bless be to God, you may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning and we are thankful for your word. Lord, we pray that You would take this word that you would open our eyes to see it, our ears to hear it, our minds to understand it, our hearts to receive it. Oh Lord, that you would help us to apply this to our lives today and this week and this year. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it is the New Year's and it is the time for New Year's resolutions. The question is, what do you want to change about yourself this year? Having just celebrated it and we look at these resolutions, my question is, do you have your list in order yet? These are a time where we set personal goals or maybe even projects that we want to do to form new habits that make our lives just that much better. Now, I don't know about you, but I tend to hear the same resolutions year in, year out from people. Things like I want to get in better shape, I want to lose weight, I want to eat better. Boy, that's true of me, I'll tell you. I I had so much uh I ate out so much these last couple weeks with friends and family. Um I really should be cutting back. I want to eat better I want to get a better job situation. Or how about this? I would like to dump all of my debts and pay them off. These are the kind of things that I hear people say year in, year out, and the list can really go on and on. But as we come into the new year this week, or this past week, and as we walk into God's Word this morning, I want to put three questions before you that I want to unpack with this particular event in Jacob's life. And the first question is, when you think about New Year's resolutions, what kinds of things are you trying to resolve? It is what a resolution is, right? You're resolving something. What kind of things are you trying to resolve? Secondly, how do you go about seeking those resolutions? And lastly. What kind of response should we have to these resolutions? Those are the things we want to unpack, and we'll see Jacob's life kind of model this for us. in an exemplary format that I believe points us to the truth and the centrality of the gospel. I want to begin jumping into the story by looking at the struggle of Jacob in this con in in the context. I mean We see him struggling here. And in order for us to really understand what's going on, we have to look at the bird's eye view of the whole chapter and even what came before that. What is happening in Jacob's life that he finds himself in this situation? Well, you remember he duped his brother out of the birthright and the blessing, and then he had to flee because his brother was going to kill him. He ends up working for twenty years in Mesopotamia before he realizes one, he got gypped and duped by his own father-in-law Laban in the matter of his arranged marriage, and then There was some struggle for six years as he worked for him tending his flock before he finally decided, that's it. I'm cutting out of here. I'm done with this. And you remember, several weeks back, he decided to leave without telling his father-in-law Laban, and Laban was out for blood. He was going to kill him. And Jacob narrowly escapes that, only to find that there's news that his brother is coming with 400 men. uh likely in his mind to kill him because that is exactly what lab uh what Esau said he was going to do. He said he was going to kill Jacob for stealing the blessing from their father. So you remember just a few weeks ago when we were last in Genesis before Christmas, what did Jacob do? We saw a little bit of that in the beginning of this passage. He divides everything that he has little by little. And he sends it in front of him. Why? So that he can set a gift in order for his brother to placate his brother's anger. And if you remember the the key phrase that I might find grace or favor in your eyes. Jacob is looking for grace. He's trying to, in a sense, manipulate his brother and placate him in order to somehow earn grace. And all at the same time, he prays for the Lord to save him from the coming calamity. You think that Laban would have killed him? I've said this before, but out of the frying pan into the fire. That's what's going on here. The tension is thick at this point in the passage. And as he sends this gift forward to appease his brother, notice what he does here. He's trying to uh Get everything in front of him so that he goes last. Now, in some sense, that seems a little cowardly Doesn't it? Send your wives and your children ahead of you into the danger while you stay behind. But there's a purpose that God has. in mind here. We see this picked up in verse 24. This isn't just the context of the struggle. We've just seen that. Now what's the struggle? The struggle is with God. Look what verse 24 says. And Jacob was left alone, and there he wrestled with a man until the breaking of day. Now, I tend to think part of God's purpose in Jacob sending everything forward ahead of him was that this struggle was to occur with less distractions. I think it is so important for you to see, and this is such a detail that is so easy to just skim over and miss. Notice Jacob is alone when he is fighting and struggling in this scene. I think it's really interesting that he's alone. Jacob says back in verse 10, when he's praying to God, he said, originally he crossed that river. He was alone. Just him and his walking stick. Now he's got many riches, possessions, cattle, children, wives. He has everything that a man of stature in the ancient Near East would have to distinguish himself. in the world. And yet, little by little, throughout the chapter, as we saw a few weeks ago, he divided everything and every one. One group at a time sends him over the river, and little by little Jacob is left with less and less and less until he is alone. Boy, isn't that interesting? That's how God is working in Jacob's life, and it's oftentimes how he works in our lives. He removes all the things in our lives, as he did in Jacob with Jacob here, that are distractions. And believe it or not, and surprisingly, the things that God seems to be removing, little by little by little, until Jacob is alone, are the things that God has blessed him with. Is that interesting? These are not bad things that he's taking out of his life or removing from him. These are blessings. that have come from him that he is temporarily removing because they are distractions. He does this to get Jacob's undivided attention. And that's why we see in verse 24, Jacob is alone. He's been going years and years and years, manipulating people, having his way with people, using his own cunning and his own deceit. And it's coming to an end. Because the struggle is not just in the context of less distractions. Now we see the struggle for deliverance and blessing. And verse 24 also tells us that a man wrestled with Jacob until the coming of the dawn. Hmm. Well if you go back to Genesis chapter 32, our very path our very chapter, but verse 1, you'll find that when Jacob was journeying home, he was met by the angels of God in order to assure him that greater is he who is with him than he who is in the world. Why? Because After all, Jacob is afraid that Esau is going to come and wipe him out. He, again, just narrowly escaped death from his father-in-law. But now as Jacob seeks safety and refuge from his brother killing him, someone else found him. Someone else. And up to this point. Jacob's been praying for God to save him and deliver him from a violent end, and now we find him wrestling with a man threatening the very life that he prayed that God would deliver. I mean, remember what he said in verse eleven? Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him lest he come and smite me and the mothers with the children. In other words, he knows only God can deliver him from the fate that he sees as almost inevitable. But the question we have to ask here is, who is he struggling with specifically? Here in verse 24. Who is this man that Jacob is wrestling with? On the other side of the river. Now, I'm not going to go into all of the different views that are out there because we just simply don't have the time this morning, and I don't want to put you to sleep. But Here's what I believe the best view is. I believe that this is a preincarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about what that means. Pre-incarnate. We just celebrated at Christmas the incarnation of the Son of God, in which the Word was made flesh. Well, this is a revelation of Jesus Christ, I believe. Before the incarnation, right? 2,000 years before. This means that Jacob is one of the few people in the Old Testament to have the privilege of seeing and experiencing Jesus before Jesus was born in the flesh by the Virgin Mary. Why do I say that? Well, okay, put your thinking cap on for just a moment. If you go to verse 30, Jacob says, I have seen God face to face. That is a really interesting phrase because and if you think about if you were one of the original Hebrew uh Israelites who came out of slavery in Egypt and m you're hearing Moses read this to you for the first time, this would have shocked you. What do you mean Jacob saw God face to face? Moses, I thought, well hold on, Moses, in in In Exodus chapter 33, verse 20, when you said to God, Show me your glory, show me your goodness. Moses, you told us that God said to you, you cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. That's pretty self-explanatory and straightforward. And then it's not just in the Old Testament. You go to the New Testament. In John chapter 1, verse 18, the end of that glorious prologue in the fourth gospel, no one has ever seen God at any time. Except the only begotten, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known. So what's going on here? Well, I think when it says in John's prologue that no one has ever seen God at any time, the context makes it clear the reference is to the Father. No one has seen the Father at any time. And yet we have Jacob saying, I have seen God 's face. Seeing them face to face. How are you to understand that? Well, I I think it's safe to say, just using a logical process of elimination here. That Jacob confesses to seeing God when he does so, he's seeing God in the person of the second person of the Trinity, who will end up being historically the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll give you one more example. It's not in my notes, but I think it makes the point a little more securely. In in Isaiah chapter 6, at the death of Uzziah. The prophet goes into the temple, and what does he see? He sees a vision of the Lord seated on his throne, and the train of his robe fills the temple. And then you get to John chapter 12. You'll forgive me that I don't remember if it's verse 41 or 42, but you can fact-check me on that later. But one of those two verses John the apostle later in his gospel identifies that Isaiah saw the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. Right? So I think it's worth noting here that Jacob is having this match, this struggle with the second person of the Trinity, a pre-incarnate Christ. And that leads to looking at verse 25, you see the struggle and the victor, and when you think about the victor here, it may not be exactly as clean-cut as you would imagine. Look at verse 25 and what it says. Verse 25 says, when the man saw the man being This preincarnate Christ, the Lord, when the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, what does he do? He touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was out of joint as he wrestled with him. Oh man. I'll admit to you one of my guilty pleasures is I I love watching MMA Okay, this is not what you would expect your pastor to say from the pulpit. And Steve Madden is just nodding like, No, don't go there Why do I love MMA? It's not because I like to see guys just beat each other to a bloody pulp. I love the strategy. I love the different styles. Some people are strikers, some people are grapplers. Who is going to make his will and strategy dominate against the other guy and maybe either knock him out or submit him? Now there are some common Ways to submit a guy that you see often in MMA, you might get somebody's back and you might choke him out unconscious. That's a pretty painless way to lose if you really think about it. You just go to sleep. Or you could get like an arm bar and the guy might break your arm. Or a chimura might, you know, strain your shoulder. What does God do here? Something you would not expect. He just touches his hip. What a technique. And what happens? Basically it cripples him. Now when you stop and think about it, that's an injury that certainly would have produced a change in Jacob's life. By the way, not just MMA, any sport, right? Football. um even soccer, all kinds of sports, you can have injuries that will change your life forever. Or at least till you die. This is an injury that produces a change in Jacob's life, and at this point we do need to step back from the story, is he's in the middle of this wrestling match with God and ask ourselves the question when you think about New Year's resolutions, what kinds of things are you trying to resolve? That was the question I asked from the beginning. Now, I think the changes that we should seek to resolve in our lives this new year should come from spending time with God alone. Isn't that interesting? We're a lot like Jacob, aren't we? Sometimes it is only when God strips us of the things that we consider blessings, and some of them legitimately are blessings, that we are open to hearing what God wants to do in our lives. Jacob had to send everything away so that he was alone. And when he was alone, that is when God met him. Now the question I want you to ask yourself, and I can't answer this for you, but it's kind of a way to diagnose your own life and your own heart as you think about coming into this new year, as you look at God's word in front of you, is what kinds of things are distracting you? this morning. There are all kinds of things that might distract you that you might need to learn to put away For some of you, maybe it's just watching too much TV or watching too much news. I had a conversation with somebody back home. uh these last couple weeks and they were telling me one of the things they've been doing is watching a lot less news. Now to me, I'm just thinking to me that's not really a big temptation to overdo it with news, but this person was sharing with me is you know, it tended to build the anxiety in their lives when just watching too much news or Sometimes just contributed to rising anger and bitterness at what is going on in the world. And so what are they doing? They're cutting away. The amount of news. Some of you, it just might be the amount of time you spend in front of a TV or on social media, right? The things that distract. What kind of things distract you? What kind of things do you need to send away so that the Lord might have you more alone, so that you might hear him more clearly? Now as I continue to think about how this application unfolds, I think the kinds of things that we should seek by way of resolutions this year should be concerning how our salvation is worked out in our lives. I think that's the main concern of what's going on with Jacob here. What is God doing? God is working out his salvation in his life. He already had a covenant promise. He was already in relationship with God. But the question is, how was that, those promises working themselves out? How was that transforming Jacob up to this point not very effectively Maybe you're here this morning and you are a Christian. You are in relationship with God already. You should be as concerned as Jacob. I would argue, to see your salvation worked out in your own life. Aside from the distractions that may hinder you and take up your attention, Things that can easily lead to what Paul calls in Galatians 5, verses 19 through 21, the works of the flesh. Maybe we should be seeking out the fruit of the Spirit. You remember those? Galatians 5, 22 through 23. But the fruit of the Spirit is what? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And I love this. Against such things, there is no law. Right? How many of you thought about this year when you were thinking of resolutions if you do that kind of thing? I'd like to see more of the fruit of the Spirit in my life and less of the works of the flesh. By the way, the works of the flesh are not always things you do. They could be attitudes that you have. Right? Maybe you're here this morning and you're not a Christian. Maybe You've never heard the gospel before. Maybe you have heard the gospel, but you've just never made a commitment to Jesus. Well As we think about our greatest needs before the Lord, before a just and holy God, maybe we need to understand that our greatest need is to come to terms with Him. Not on our own terms, not according to our own standards, but according to his. Because that really leads to the first point, doesn't it? And I'm I'm doing this a little backwards. I'm kind of preaching to the point, not giving you the point right up front and then unpacking it But the first point here as we unpack this is that there is a struggle of being left alone with God, and that is not a bad thing. That's what we're seeing as our first point, the struggle of being left alone with God. Now this does un continue to unfold in verse 26. We see Jacob wrestling for a blessing. Take a look at verse 26. Then he said, Let me go, for the day has broken. By the way, that is the Lord saying that. Jacob said, I will not let you go until or unless you bless me. Wow, okay. That's an interesting phrase. Now at this point, Jacob is like half crippled. Remember, his hip is out of joint, and he's still holding on to the Lord. Now what's really important here is though it seems like Jacob may have the upper hand in the struggle. I mean verse 25 said The Lord saw that he was not prevailing against Jacob. It sounds like Jacob's winning. Jacob still holds on, and by demanding To be blessed in verse 26, Jacob is actually admitting, while he's still holding on to him, that he is dependent on God for the promise to come about. Think about it. Jacob reveals that he is the inferior one who needs to be blessed. The author of Hebrews, in chapter 6, I believe it's chapter 6, argues on that very logic. The one who is blessed is the inferior. The one who gives the blessing is the superior. Jacob, by holding on to the Lord and demanding this blessing, As he's wrestling with God, that's what he's wrestling with. He's wrestling for that blessing. He's saying, I am the inferior one who needs to be blessed by you. And look at what happens here in verses 27 and 28. And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed. Okay. By the way, he's really living up to his name, isn't he? He's not letting go of this guy He says, what's your name? Jacob. You remember what I said about that? Like several weeks ago when he was born? What's the meaning of his name? Like supplanter, heel, grabber. Well, he's really living up to his name by holding on to the Lord here. But he changes his name. Look at the name that he gives him. The name of one who strives with God. Your name will no longer be called Jacob, but Israel. For you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed. By the way, that that verb in Hebrew to strive. Is the Hebrew verb Sarah? You add el onto there, Yisrael. Jacob is the one who strives with God. Hmm. Clearly an allusion to the wrestling match that we see in front of us. By the way, if you go back to Genesis chapter 28, verses 20 and 21, this actually brings us full circle to the fulfillment of something that Jacob had promised to God when he was fleeing. from his brother to Mesopotamia. If you remember, Jacob said that if God brought him safely through and brought him back to the land of his fathers, then the Lord will be my God. That's what he said. And here you see in this wrestling match that led to a life-altering injury It brought Jacob to the end of himself. And when Jacob is brought to the end of himself, when he had to be broken, that is when he receives the blessing of the Lord. Huh. Now it's not just one who strives with God. He's also striven with men. I'm not going to go into all the details. We've seen him do this. with his brother. We've seen him do this with his father-in-law back and forth. He strived with men. He certainly prevailed. Right? But in this case, this is the name of one who has come to the end of himself. Because when he pro when he prevails against men, if you notice. It's always by his own strength, it's by his own cunning, it's by his own manipulation of those other people, taking advantage of situations for his own benefit and advantage. If I were to illustrate what Jacob's life has been like up to this point of God finally bringing him to the end of himself, like have you ever been swimming in a pool, swimming pool, or a lake, or maybe the ocean or something? There's someone around you, maybe it's someone you know very well or love, and they can't swim, what do they do? Well, they thrash in the water and if you happen to be close enough and they're going down, what do they do? They hold on to you So that they can prop themselves up so that they breathe. But what happens? It pushes you under the water, and then you may not be ready to go under, and then you're you're not breathing very well, or maybe not even holding your breath. That's what Jacob has been doing to people all of this time. They have the advantaged position He holds onto them, pushes them down so they can't breathe, and props himself up. That is what he's been doing. No wonder his brother is bringing bringing 400 men to potentially wipe them out. You swindle enough people, it catches up to you. And so by God changing his name, God is teaching Jacob that he is not to trust himself. As he's done all this time. But to see the promises of God worked out, he must strive with God. And when he changes his name, he changes his name because he is the one who's prevailed with God. Now what does it mean that he prevailed with God? I don't know about you, but when I hear that that statement that God just simply touches his hip socket and practically cripples him in the middle of this wrestling match, I'm sorry, that doesn't sound like Jacob is really prevailing here with God It sounds like God is prevailing against him. I don't think, now while I do sim, while I do believe that this literally historically happened and God literally and physically and historically wrestled with Jacob, I don't think that that is exactly just the main point. In fact, I think when you talk about prevailing with God, the prophet Hosea chapter 12, verse 4, gives us a little bit of a clue. Now in the context of that passage, Hosea 's been pointing back to all of these historical things in Israel's past to kind of interpret what's going on in their present And what he says in verse 4, he, being Jacob, strove with the angel and prevailed. How so? He wept and sought his favor. And you're thinking, okay, what's going on there? Well Jacob is prevailing over God here in his prayers, in his weeping, in his supplication, so much so that he moved God to respond. And we've already seen what he's been praying about back in verses 10 and 13. He prayed about the danger that he was in, and God is in the process of saving his life. He prayed in verse 13 about God doing him good and the multiplying of his seed, as God had promised. And essentially what he's doing is he's holding God to his promise. What is he praying about? He's praying about what God has promised him and holding God to account. Now I realize that sounds very blasphemous to say, but you get the point. You said, Oh God, you promised. Stay faithful to what you told me. Prove yourself to be true. Save me. And he does so even when he doesn't see the evidence right in front of him. Isn't that interesting? So the question again that we ask ourselves by way of application, taking a step back from the story for just just a moment, how do you go about seeking the resolutions that you're after? If in fact you have the right kind of resolutions. Well I want to answer that by saying this. Jesus Christ is the one who, like Jacob, has prevailed with God. and men, and who is able to help us when we come to the end of ourselves. This is where I think this passage drives us right to the heart of the gospel. Now what did we just celebrate at Christmas? We just celebrated the incarnation of the eternal word who became flesh, Jesus Christ. We say, truly God and truly man. We just confessed this in the Nicene Creed this morning, didn't we, from our our hymnals. When Jesus Christ prevails with God and with men, like Jacob here, what I mean is Jesus Christ is the only one who who can stand in the place as a mediator between God and men. Why? Because most of us, if we're honest, struggle and fight with God over a whole host of things in our lives. Lord, I don't want to do this. And God's calling you to do it. Or when you sin. It doesn't matter what the sin is. It's treason against God. You're fighting against him. And what does Jesus Christ do? He stands in the gap. He represents you to God, and he represents God to you. And how did he finally do that? Where did the struggle ultimately lead him? To the cross Now, in his case, God didn't just simply physically touch his hip socket and break break him in one place. His whole body was broken on that cross. He was scourged for your sin He was crucified with nails in his hands and in his feet for your sin. He took the full wrath of his father for your sin. Why? So that as Hebrews tells us, Hebrews chapter 2 particularly, he had to be made like us in every respect. Why? So that he could be a merciful and a faithful high priest. So that we might receive grace. So that we might come confidently to the throne of grace in his name. As we humble ourselves before the Lord. One of the things I do want to give you A warning about as you think about how this relates to New Year's resolutions and our greatest need to be made whole, to be made clean, to be made pure before the Lord and forgiven of our sins. When we talk about New Year's resolutions, I want you to understand, brothers and sisters, that that concept, I've been using it throughout this sermon. But the concept in and of a self comes from an unbiblical, ungodly, um unchristian world view And it comes from a worldview of self-help. How am I going to fix the problems in my life by doing this under my own strengths? It is a man-centered rather than God and Christ-centered way of dealing with the issues of our lives. You ever heard the phrase God helps those who help themselves? I know I have. Is it true? No, not by long shot. In fact, God helps those who can't help themselves. That's the biblical gospel. And this is what Jacob has been doing all along. He's been trying to help himself in his interactions with Esau and Laban and all these other things. Well, brothers and sisters, as I call you to repentance, as the Bible calls you to repentance this morning, let's repent of this idea of self-help when we think of our resolutions. And let's throw ourselves at the mercy of God, like Jacob, clinging on to him, saying, I will not let you go until you are the one who gives me a blessing. How about that? And that leads to our second point. Not only do we struggle alone with God, and that's a good thing, The second point from verses 26 to 28 is we are called to wrestle with the promises of God in our lives. That leads us to consider the last part of this passage. You really do see the blessing of the impossible. In verse 30, when Jacob calls the name of the place Peniel, for I've seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. What is happening there? Well, the the impossible is happening. Part of the blessing is that Jacob comes to realize that he has seen God face to face. He has been intimate with the Lord. And I love this. We often miss when he says, And my life has been saved That really is the fulfillment of his plea from back in verse 11 when he's asking for deliverance from his brother, bringing him death and destruction. And when Jacob says that, when he says And my life has been saved. It's basically a confession of faith that he recognizes that God will make good on his promises. To multiply him, to deliver his life. He knows that God is going to bring him safely to Canaan, to the land of his fathers, to his inheritance. And so we see this, and as you see again in verse 31, take a look at verse 31. He passed over Penuel, the sun rose upon him. And he limped upon his thigh. He's limping the rest of his life Isn't it interesting that the greatest blessing that Jacob ever received was a blessing that changed his life forever in a way that none of us would ever really want? But isn't that how God sometimes works? I really shouldn't say sometimes. I should really say often God often works in ways we would never ask him for because it breaks us and it leaves us changed forever. But why does he do this? He does this to remind him that the promises of God are not accomplished by the strength or the cunning of men or the flesh, but by the power of God. Do you remember what the Apostle Paul said? In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 9, you remember Paul had a thorn in the flesh, he called it a messenger of Satan, and he he pleaded with God three times. Three times take this away. What's God's response? My grace is sufficient for you. For my strength is perfected in weakness. Brothers and sisters, nothing has changed between then And today, God's promises are still dependent on his power to be accomplished in our lives. His promises don't depend on who we are or how hard we expend our energy. His promises are dependent on him. And because of that, there is a perpetual remembrance here in verse 32. And it seems like a really miscellaneous thought, kind of out of place. You know, it's for this reason the Israelites don't eat the meat on the sinu, you know, they don't eat that part of the animal because God did this to Jacob. Oh, you're like, okay, I don't do, do I really care about that? Maybe not. But what's the point? The Lord works out a way for his people to remember his wonderful promises, even in the way that they eat Even in the way that they eat, they are reminded that it is through his power, not through our striving, that his promises are fulfilled. Let me just say as a side note here, do you ever look for little remembrances and reminders of God's promises in the mundane things of life, like eating or drinking? What does Paul say in 1 Corinthians chapter 10? Whether you eat or drink, do all things, or whatever you do, do it to the glory of God. So what's what's the application here? What what are we to drive home with? We all have a need to be broken in some way, shape, or form in order to find the blessing of the Lord in our lives. And I want you to think about how this is so contrary to um popular messages that are called Christian in our day and age. We call it, you know, word of faith, prosperity gospel, name it, claim it, whatever you want to call it. That you can only speak these blessings into your life, and if you have enough faith, they'll happen. Claim the abundance that God has for you materially Where does that come from? It comes from the mindset of the world around us. It's not new. It's not unique. And too often we try to put things together under our own strength, don't we? We strive against men like Jacob. We resolve to have a better job with more pay. We we look and we compete with others to get those promotions. And you know what? You might prevail for a little while. But if you are truly God's child, brother or sister , this is the part that popular preachers often won't tell you is that the Lord will break you at some point in some way And believe you me, for my little limited life experience, it's not always in ways that you would expect them to break you. So when you think of New Year's resolutions this year, here's my question. What's really holding you back? From greater trust, greater intimacy, greater fellowship with the Lord It might be those things that the Lord might break in your life. For Jacob, it was his natural ability to supplant anyone who got in his way. Isn't it interesting? God had to strip him of everything until he struggled and was broken of his natural tendencies And this is what we Christians call dying to self. And the question I want to leave you with, who's living your life this year in 2025? Is it you? Are you living it for the flesh with its passions and desires? Or is Christ living with you within you? you. Like Paul says in Galatians 2. 20, I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loves me and gave himself up for me. Is this the attitude that you have with your resolutions this year? It brings us really to our main point. This is the big idea of the passage. Only when we struggle with God, wrestling with his promises, will we find Blessing from God this year. Let's pray. Father, this is a hard passage to work through because There are some really uncomfortable truths about this, but Lord, we come before you this morning and we trust, Lord Jesus, that you were ultimately broken at the cross. Lord, so that you might deal gently with us. Yes, there are habits and sinful tendencies in our lives, Lord, that need to be broken and dealt with and crucified at the foot of the cross as we are sanctified or as we come to faith for the first time. But Lord Jesus, we thank you that you took the ultimate breaking at the cross so that your Father might be gentle with us. In saving us and in working in our lives. Lord, we pray that this year, whatever idols we are trusting in, whatever strength of our own that we are trusting in, Lord, We want to lay that down and trust in you, O Lord, to see Christ shaped and formed in us. Lord, won't you do that in our lives this year by the power of your spirit? Lord, it is in the precious name of Jesus that we ask that Amen