If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open to Genesis chapter 40 as we stand together for the reading of God's Word. Genesis 40. Verses one to twenty three. This is the word of the Lord Sometime after this, the cup-bearer of the king of Egypt and his baker committed an offense against their lord, the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief cup-bearer and the chief baker, and he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison where Joseph was confined. The captain of the guard appointed Joseph to be with them, and he attended them. They continued for some time in custody. And one night they both dreamed, the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, each his own dream, and each dream with its own interpretation. When Joseph came to them in the morning, he saw that they were troubled. So he asked Pharaoh's officers who were with him in custody in his master's house, Why are your faces downcast today? They said to him, We have had dreams, and there is no one to interpret them. Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Please tell them to me. So the chief cup-bearer told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream there was a vine before me, and on the vine there were three branches. As soon as it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and the clusters ripened into grapes. Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup. and placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. Then Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation. The three branches are three days. In three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office, and you shall place Pharaoh's cup in his hand as formerly when you were his cup-bearer. Only remember me when it is well with you. And please do me this kindness to mention to mention me to Pharaoh, and so get me out of this house. For I was indeed stolen out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also I have done nothing that they should put me into the pit. When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was favorable, he said to Joseph, I also had a dream. There were three cake baskets on my head. And in the uppermost basket there were all sorts of baked goods for Pharaoh. But the birds were eating it out of the basket on my head Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation. The three baskets are three days. In three days, Pharaoh will lift up your head from you and hang you on a tree. And the birds uh and the birds will eat the flesh from you. On the third day Which was Pharaoh's birthday, he made a feast for all his servants, and lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants He restored the chief cup-bearer to his position, and he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet the chief cupbearer did not remember Joseph, but forgot him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Thanks be to God. You may be seated, brothers and sisters. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, sometimes, I I've said this to you before, Lord, in prayer through Genesis, sometimes we read these stories and They're so familiar to us. We've heard them before. But Lord, we pray that you would again open our eyes. Give us the eyes of faith. To see your son Jesus in the midst of a passage like this. And Lord, we pray that you would help us to open our eyes to see what it is that you are doing, not just in this passage. But in our lives through the message of this passage. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. There are parts of the Bible that are very straightforward and very easy to understand. But despite how easy and straightforward they may be, sometimes we read them and we wonder What is the point of this story? How does this story further the plot or the narrative of the overall story that we've been reading? And this passage is one such passage. In fact, many commentators I read said something very similar. This passage could be easily skipped over almost Because it seems like such a transition. And yet it is in this transitionary moment in Joseph's life that we see God beginning to work. This passage focuses on Joseph's humiliation in prison before his exaltation in the next passage, which we'll look at next week, Lord willing. But just because this is a transitionary part of Joseph's life, the Lord is showing us that he continues to work during those times in our lives that we would deem unimportant. And it is with that in mind that we jump into where this story picks up. Let's take a look at verse 1. We see the humiliation of sinning against the king. Verse 1, again, very straightforward. Sometime after this, so remember, last week we saw Joseph at the end of chapter 39 was thrown into prison, being falsely accused. Sometime after this, the cup-bearer of the king of Egypt and his baker committed an offense against their lord, the king of Egypt. It is fascinating that it uses the phrase king of Egypt in other places. We've seen in Genesis 13, we've seen uh in Isaac's lifetime. In uh, I believe it was Genesis 26 when uh Isaac was um you know living his life, the king of Egypt is called Pharaoh, and here it's called very directly. the king of Egypt. We meet three people right from the beginning of this passage. We meet a chief cupbearer. We meet a chief baker and obviously the king of Egypt. So let's let's meet in a little more detail who these offenders are. Now, they're just called cupbearer and baker in verse 1, but verse 2 fleshes this out. They're called first the chief cupbearer. And you're wondering. If you're reading this and you're thinking through what's going on, well, why are they being thrown into prison? Who are these people that they would find themselves in the king's prison? Now the chief cup bearer it obviously puts the cup into Pharaoh's hand. You heard the dream that I read. It's a very it seems like a very simple, straightforward task, but there's historically speaking so much more To the role of the chief cupbearer. You see an example of this in Nehemiah chapter 1, particularly verse 10. Nehemiah says that he was the cupbearer to the king of Persia. You know, at this time in history in the ancient world, whether we're talking Egypt, Babylon, Persia, so on and so forth, The cup-bearer to the king was one of the king's most trusted counselors and advisors. One of his most trusted counselors and advisors. He had the audience of the king, oftentimes more of an audience than the king's own wife might have. I mean, think about Esther, for instance. She couldn't just go in to see her husband, the king, anytime she wanted. She had to be called. But it wasn't so necessarily with the chief cupbearers. And so we see a man who had Pharaoh's ear, a man who had Pharaoh's trust, a man who had Pharaoh's attention. And Pharaoh's angry with him. The second offender is the chief baker. Now, when you think about it, bread was the staple of the diet of most of the people groups in the ancient Near East. I mean the fact that they would, you know, r plant and raise up and farm grain to make bread tells you how important that was. This man also had an important role. He was in charge of Pharaoh's diet, in charge of what Pharaoh ate, in charge of what how Pharaoh was nourished. This is a man that Pharaoh is dependent upon for his own life. Again One of the chief offenders. And what's the offense? What is the problem here in verses 1 and then leading into verses 2 through 4? Well, it's very clear in verse 1, they offended the king. What did they do? I don't know. You tell me. It's anyone's guess, really. But here's what's fascinating. The word that's used there for offended In the original Hebrew text is the same word that is used elsewhere for sinned against somebody. Now When we talk about sin, we usually think of like a religious or a spiritual context. This is a secular context regarding a king. And so I think offended is a good translation, but understand that it is that same word, which I think gives some color and some depth to the nature of whatever this offense was I mean, maybe they tried to poison him. I I don't know. But whatever it was, it was enough for the Pharaoh to put them in the same place Joseph was. And that's what we see in verses 2 through 4. It's not just humiliation that comes from offending a king, the humiliation of living under the sentence of death. They end up in the most humbling circumstance they could find themselves in, in verses two through four. Verse 2 gives us Pharaoh's response, the anger of the king of Egypt. He was angry with his two officers, the chief cup-bearer and the chief baker. Whatever their offense was, due to that offense, due to that sin against the king, if you will, it earned them the ire of that king. And I'm going to go ahead and assume, okay? Maybe this is going too far, and you can make your own judgment on this. I think that the Pharaoh's anger was probably justified. Because of what happens. Whatever these two men did, and I do think that whatever they did, it was probably different because the sentence will be different Whatever they did, it was probably just anger on Pharaoh's part But we see in verses 3 through 4, aside from this anger, they're in custody, awaiting the final sentence with Joseph. Well, I mean, we find he's put in the same prison house where Joseph was confined. But notice in verse 3 it says that their custody was in the house of the captain of the guard. Now this actually is a detail so easy to just read over and maybe miss the full picture, the significance of this, but we saw back in chapter 39, verse 1, last week. The Potiphar , an officer of Pharaoh, a cat the captain of the guard, who was an Egyptian. So when it says that they're in the prison house, In the house of the Captain of the Guard, what we're finding here is they are in uh Potiphar's house Apparently, as the captain of the guard, Potiphar, as part of his house, was designated as the dungeon or the prison for the king's prisoners. Boy, that is really humiliating when you go back and think about what happened to Joseph last week. He's not just kicked out of the house and thrown into some outside dungeon uh down the street somewhere, he's still in Potiphar's house He's still the property of Potiphar as a slave, but he still has to live the day-in, day-out reminder of the people he offended because he's still in their house. And that's where these two men are added as well. And we find in verse 4, Joseph was appointed to attend them. Again, that's the same exact language we saw last week in chapter 39 when when Joseph was appointed to serve or attend Potiphar before he got in trouble. And then when he gets put in prison the whoever was in charge of the prison uh appoints him to attend to the issues of the prison. That word attend is not the same word in Hebrew you would expect to find for a slave or to serve. It is actually a very highly dignified position. These are dignified official prisoners. And so he it isn't just guard them as if they're going to get away. He's attending to them. He's serving them in an official capacity. But notice how verse 4 ends. Again, this is a detail that is so easy to miss, but it should grab our attention. It says, they continued for some time In custody. Why is that important? Well, we're not told, believe it or not, how long they were in there exactly. It wasn't like they went in on July 21st and got out on October 31st, right? You'd have a time frame there. But we don't know exactly how long But we do know that Joseph in verses in chapter 41, verse 1, which is the next chapter next week, it says that as Joseph is about to be exalted, to Pharaoh's right hand, that occurs two full years after the events of this chapter. Okay? And then you go to Genesis 41, 46, it tells us that Joseph was 30 years old when he was exalted. Well, you just do a little simple math if there's in there for two full years and he's 30 years old and he gets exalted. This passage takes place when Joseph is about 28 years old. But remember, Joseph has already been in there for some time. Now I'm going to go and take a wild guess here. And again, if you want to disagree with me, we can still be friends. But I think that Joseph is likely in prison for a total of three years. A total of three years. Because he's already in prison for some time. Right? By the time these two chumps get thrown into the slammer. And Joseph gets out two years after this event. I think three years is probably a good guess. But aside from the time frame, the thing that I want to uh pack unpack for us today is Joseph being in this prison for three years, two of them, you know, after the events of today. You've got to imagine Joseph doesn't know what's going to happen in his life. Is he going to be put to death? He's under the sentence of death. He's in the king's prison, falsely accused. This is a time in Joseph's life which we would maybe call mundane This is a time in Joseph's life you would not really expect God to do anything miraculous or useful in his life. It would almost seem like wasted time. And yet, the thing I want to draw your attention to by way of application this morning as we kind of pause the story to apply it to ourselves briefly is it is often under the most humbling of circumstances That we ourselves today find the Lord working in us and through us when we least expect him to during mundane times in our lives. How about that? One of the things that I think this is this really drives home when you look at what God is about to do in Joseph's life. And how God is about to use Joseph in this passage. When you look at it in the scope of the bigger picture of Joseph's life, one of the principles of this humbling circumstances that we can take away is that redemption or salvation or exaltation or glorification or whatever synonym you want to use is usually preceded by humbling or humiliating experiences You see that in the Proverbs all the time. Right? Humility comes before exaltation Let me give you just a real world analogy. Think of sports. You know, anyone who's played sports, it doesn't matter what kind of sport it is, football, basketball, wrestling, whatever, you have to train and humble yourself and subject yourself to things you don't want to do that sometimes might cause pain or any amount of suffering if you get an injury before you can actually go and compete and win the prize Right? Humiliation before exaltation. And I think that that's what we're what God is trying to show us in this transitionary passage. In moments when we least expect it, sometimes when we are humbled the most, are the contexts in which God tends to use in our lives. As Americans, think about this. We live in a society in which we expect great success and we expect things to come easy for us. Some of you in this room are very smart and very gifted people where sometimes as I've gotten to know you and I I I watch you and things you pursue in life, sometimes it looks like it Things might come so easy for some of you. We think that if only we do the right things, or if only we work hard, everything will turn out for our earthly success. But what we often miss, particularly in our place and time here in America, is that the kingdom economy of things is very different. Suffering and humiliation come before exaltation and glorification. And one of the questions you can ask yourself by way of just diagnosing where you're at in your own heart and life this morning in response to this. Is this. Are you living today as if being exalted was something to be expected this side of eternity? That's a good question to ask. It doesn't matter what your station in life really is. It's a good question. More often than not, the Lord will ordain that we go through experiences that are not fun. Or where we think that there is no way that the Lord is active in any way in our lives through this present circumstance. But this passage begins to reveal the opposite. It's often in the seasons of life in which you think are transitionary phrases that the Lord is most at work for the good of you, his people. Think about it. I mean, there's all kinds of things that are unfortunate that we go through. Some of you might be unemployed or underemployed. Some of you are maybe dealing with an illness. Some of you, maybe like the king's officials, are experiencing consequences for sin that you know you've committed, and you're waiting for those consequences to just pass you by. You just want the trial to be over. Right? Others of you like Joseph may be going through something really difficult where you did not do anything wrong to deserve the difficulty you're experiencing, but That's just what you're experiencing in the moment. The point that I'm highlighting in all of this is that these are the circumstances that God ordains and uses to make us more like Christ Jesus his Son. He's fitting us for glory one day with him. If you go to Romans chapter 8, I believe it's verse 18, if I'm not mistaken. But Paul makes an interesting point. He says essentially, you know, the present distress doesn't outweigh the future glory that is going to be revealed. Now, I don't mean to sound older than my years, but I forget if I've said this before from the pulpit, so if I did, you'll understand. But the point is the same. Oftentimes, the degree of difficulty that you experience, whatever the trial may be, okay? It could be illness, it could be something someone's done to you, it could be something you've done, and you're just experiencing consequences, right? The difficulty of the trials that you may experience and suffer, this side of eternity. are designed and ordained by the Lord to fit you for the weight of glory that you are going to bear in his presence. one day and you will bear that weight of glory with great joy one day. Think about that when you are suffering, brothers and sisters. The weight of the trial is related to the weight of glory that God is fitting for you. That's what he's doing in the life of Joseph. Just as Joseph had to wait for some time, and again, we don't know. I'm surmising maybe three years. But just as Joseph had to wait for some time before he knew what God was going to do for his own redemption, you and I Oftentimes may have to wait on the Lord to see the next step in our lives as well. Like Joseph, we may not know what the next step is. We're called to trust. And the Lord often does this to keep us humble and reliant upon Him. And that leads us to really the first point of verses 1 through 4. Redemption and humility. That's the first point. Redemption and humility. But the story doesn't just stop with Joseph and these two men in a humiliating situation that works to their humility In verses 5 through 8, we see God's sovereignty in interpreting dreams. Now, you've got to imagine if these people are in the king's prison awaiting the sentence of death, or as they expect, there's got to be some kind of tension in that prison. Like Joseph, these men likely want to know what is going to happen to them, and maybe when it's going to happen, or how it's going to happen. They want to know the future. Now, Joseph didn't know what his future held at this point. He knew that he had two dreams back in chapter 37 Um, I'm guessing maybe 11 years prior to this when he was 17. He had those two dreams that made his brothers angry. But you know what? Eleven years has have passed. His brothers have not bowed down to him. He has not ascended to the glory that he dreamed of. Rather, he's in the exact opposite. He's in prison awaiting this uncertain future. And the same thing is true for these two men, the chief cupbearer And the chief baker. And that is when it happens. Look at verses five and following. One night there's two dreams with two interpretations. I mean that's exactly what it says. One night they both dreamed, these two men, the cupbearer and the baker, of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, each his own dream, each dream with its own interpretation. Now I've mentioned this before back in chapter 37. Notice there there's two dreams here. Each guy dreams something, his own dream, his own interpretation. Joseph had two dreams. Back in Genesis chapter 37, next week we'll see in chapter 41, Pharaoh has two dreams. You kind of see a pattern here, don't you? Two dreams. You know, all throughout the ancient Near East, historically, dreams were seen as the means by which God, the gods, communicated with people about their future. In fact, one commentary I was reading, Dr. John Currid, who is an Egyptologist, was talking about how Uh as he was talking about this, he's like, you know, this got to be so um outrageous at times in the ancient Near East in Egypt they had manuals on how to interpret dreams. Oh, you dreamt this. Here, let me look that up in the book. Oh, it says this. Good luck with that. Right? Here's the problem. Even though they had a s a special class of specialists to interpret dreams for kings and officials, In prison, these two men did not have access to the insight of the gods to tell them what was going to happen. And so what's the response? Well, it's hopelessness. Look at verses 6 and 7. They're downcast without interpretation. Joseph finds them in the morning and their faces are looking troubled, or you can translate that word out of humor. In other words, there was a certain cadence of their relationship as he attended them and something was off that day. And he asks them why their faces were downcast. By the way, the word translated downcast there is the word the Hebrew word for evil or bad. Why why why do your faces look bad today? It's not an insult. It's a literal question. And it tells you that they assumed the worst about the meaning of their dreams. But verse 8, Joseph begins to give them some moniker of hope. He says in verse 8, or they said in verse 8 to him, We have had dreams and there is no one to interpret them. And Joseph responds It's almost like a rhetorical question that doesn't really need an answer because it's obvious. Do not interpretations belong to God? Please tell them to me Here's the theological point that Joseph is driving home to these two pagans. He's driving the point home that look, your hope. The interpretation of this dream is not to be found in some other man who's going to open up a manual and tell you what your dream is, or a magician or a conjurer. Your hope for interpretation that's troubling your heart over this dream is God Himself. You actually see the same thing in Daniel chapter 2, later in the the Old Testament, later in history, when Daniel, uh Nebuchadnezzar has his dream and he's troubled. You remember that story? Daniel tells King Nebuchadnezzar, when he says, are you able to interpret my dream? God is able to interpret dreams. Notice they give glory where glory is deserved, right? They ascribe glory where it belongs to God. God is sovereign in interpreting dreams, and so the story continues in verses 9 through 15. God's sovereignty over redemption The first dream is recounted in verses 9-15, and again the details are really straightforward. You see in verses 9-11, he recounts the dream of the cupbearer. He says to Joseph, In my dream there was a vine before me, and on the vine there were three branches. As soon as it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and the clusters ripened into grapes. Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup and placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. Now look, aside from what Joseph is about to say, I don't think we really need to get into trying to interpret the nuances of every little part of those those dreams. We're dealing with a dream. Right? But there is a point. There is an interpretation of redemption in verses 12 through 13. Joseph very pointedly says, this is its interpretation. The three branches are three days. Okay, so that's the detail we have an interpretation for. In three days, Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office, and you shall place Pharaoh's cup in his hand as formerly when you were his Cupbearer. Please notice, brothers and sisters, the phrase, he will lift up your head. It's an interesting one. We're going to see the same phrase used with the baker as well. But in this case, it's interpreted a little further when he says, and restore you to your office. In other words, in this case, the lifting up of one's head means to declare him innocent and free of guilt and shame for whatever crime it was that he committed. He will be able to lift up his head confidently in Pharaoh's presence. Kind of reminds me of like when the author of Hebrews says, you know, let us draw near to the throne of grace with boldness. Right? Lift up your face. It corresponds to being reinstated here to his former office. And by the way, this is good news indeed for him What we find is for him, all the downcastness in his face, in his countenance, uh uh was was all unnecessary. It was uh he was worrying about something that he didn't need to worry about. But as the Lord is the one who gives the interpretation, the point here that Joseph is making by example and by interpreting this very favorably redemptive dream is that the Lord is sovereign over the redemption of the chief cup-bearer. And you see in verses 14 through 15, you see, the interpreter then gives a plea for redemption himself. Joseph acknowledges Pharaoh's going to redeem this servant, this chief cup-bearer, and he turns around and asks him to do something in response. Notice what he says. He asks him to remember him by making mention of him to Pharaoh. By the way, that word remember and making mention of him to remember is really the same basic Hebrew verb in just two different stems, but the early reader who saw that would know there's a there's a play on words there What's the point of that play on words? He wants to get out of the pit that they have thrown him in. Brothers and sisters, don't miss the language that Joseph uses there. It's very intentional. Get me out of this pit I didn't do anything deserving to be thrown into this pit. It's the same word from Genesis 37 that his brothers threw him into, and there's a parallel in him being thrown into the pit there before being sold into slavery and exalted in Potiphar's house, and being thrown into prison here before he's exalted in Pharaoh's house. What he wants, what his heart longs for, is to be redeemed. But you know what's fascinating about this in his plea? This is a detail that's really easy to miss, I think. He's very careful in how he pleads his innocence with his words. Did you see what he said here? Um he makes it very clear in verse fifteen. For I was indeed stolen out of the land of the Hebrews. And here also, in other words, in this house, I have done nothing that they should put me into the pit. Do you read there in verse 15? Does he say, my brothers beat me up, stripped me of my garment, threw me into a pit, and then sold me away? Does he accuse them? No. He says it in a very indirect way, doesn't he? And he doesn't say, you know, this master who I used to serve, what a slug. I mean, look at what he did to me. Look at his wife, look at how wicked she was. Does he say that? No. But he still pleads his innocence in a way that doesn't disparage even those who were guilty. By the way, there really is a lesson there for us to apply, but before we do that, we first want to look at God's sovereignty over judgment in verses 16 through 19. So God's sovereignty over the affairs of our lives, over dreams, over redemption, but also there's a second dream, wasn't there? And this dream of the baker is also very straightforward, but it's not what the baker is expecting to hear. Look at verses 16 through 17. He summarizes his dream also, kind of with a hopeful expectation. I also had a dream. It's like, oh, he got good news. I had a dream too. There were three cake baskets on my head, and in the uppermost basket there were all sorts of baked goods for Pharaoh. But the birds were eating out of it, out of the basket on my head. Okay, again, I'm not going to press the details because we're again we're dealing with a dream, but notice there is a correspondence here. Three baskets, three branches. From the cupbearer's dream. I think it's because there was similarity enough he's expecting the same kind of favorable response, but we see the interpretation of judgment, not redemption, in verses 18 through 19. This is the interpretation. The three baskets are three days. Okay, same detail. In three days, Pharaoh will lift up your head. Now if you have an ESV, there's a dash there for emphasis, right? He's gonna lift up your head. What does that mean? From you Dash and hang you on a tree. And the birds will eat the flesh from you. Wow, the same basic phrase. He will lift up your head. Totally opposite meaning. What is he talking about? Lift up your head from you. Decapitation. Beheading as a means of corporal capital punishment You know what's really fascinating here? How gruesome and disgusting this judgment is in its context. What do we know about the Egyptians? What would they do when somebody died, typically? Especially a high official. They would embalm them, and then they would show honor to that person's body by entombing them, embalmed, the embalming to preserve the body. Right? This is how highly the Egyptians thought of the body. So if you're going to get a judgment as an official who should have been embalmed when he died, and he's saying, No, no, no, no, no, no, you're gonna get beheaded And when it says hung there, it doesn't mean wrap a rope around your neck and hang you from a rope on a tree. That's not what it means. What it means is impaling It's the same Hebrew word that's used in Esther, what happens to um Haman. Remember he he set up those gallows to impale Mordecai? And the idea is in a society like Egypt where a body was supposed to be honored by being embalmed and buried This guy, whatever he did, was so bad the Pharaoh is going to turn around, decapitate him, and pale his body publicly, and leave it there for the sun to bleach the bones and for the birds to eat the flesh off of it. That's nasty. That's judgment. And you know what the point here is? And this is a point that We as Christians need to take very seriously. God is sovereign over this man 's judgment. What a scary thing to be told in three days this is going to happen to you. Oof. What does this highlight? God's sovereignty over both salvation and judgment, as well as the circumstances involved of both. By way of application, I'm not gonna lie to you, I felt like I was straining the gnat to get this application, but I think it is a valid one on this passage. Kind of building on the first point about suffering before exaltation, be careful in how you explain your suffering to others. I think that's something we can pull out by way of example out of Joseph here. One of the things that we tend to do when we're when we are relating our suffering to others is to complain about what other people have done to us or blame them, right? I think of another example. I'm reading numbers in my quiet time, and sometimes the Israelites can really get really frustrating to read about because They seem every little thing that happens, sometimes when it's so obvious that the Lord is doing it to them, what do they do? They turn around and blame Moses and Aaron in their suffering, right? That tends to be the natural thing we do. Joseph didn't do that. Instead, he only related that he did not do anything to deserve the suffering he was going through by being thrown into the pit. But the question we have to ask ourselves, and this isn't, again, a question of diagnosis of your own heart and life, as I do every week when I prepare sermons. How often do we complain about others and the comparatively minor inconveniences that they might cause to us compared to what Joseph went through? In this passage. It's so easy for us to do. But we often have to understand that again, the Lord is sovereign over both salvation and judgment. And sometimes those circumstances, which may lead to our salvation, may cause suffering. And this is one of the very difficult things that we have to wrestle with in the Christian life that very few people really want to talk about. about and it is that the Christian life does contain suffering. We talked about that last week as well. You see it again in this passage. But the main point the second main point here is not just redemption, but redemption in God's sovereignty over our lives. That leads to really the end of the story here. It's very straightforward again, as much of this story has been. We see in verses 20 to 22 I'm just titling this to Two Servants and Their Relationship to the King. There is a resolution of the King's wrath and anger That we saw at the beginning, we find the circumstances in verse 20. On the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, he made a feast for all of his servants. and lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants. There's that phrase again. He lifts up their heads. But just in case you are lost or fell asleep in the other part of the story earlier, he fleshes out what that means in verses 21. And twenty-two. Very simply, verse twenty-one, the cupbearer. Pharaoh lifts up his head by restoring him to his former position as Joseph told him he would. And so his redemption is essentially complete. in the presence of the king. You can imagine probably his joy and sense of relief as he's restored. Verse 22, on the other hand, the baker Pharaoh hung the chief baker as Joseph told him that he would do to him We've already talked about how that's a fate that would even send shivers down the spines of these ancient pagan Egyptians. But here's the real gut punch of the story in verse 23. It concludes, yet the chief cupbearer did not remember Joseph, but forgot him. That whole plea from verses 14 and 15, remember me when it is well with you, fell on deaf ears ultimately. And Joseph, as we'll see in the very first verse of next week's passage in 41, spends two more years suffering under uncertainty. You know, if we're honest, this story does not end well this week for Joseph, does it? It ends well for one person, it ends really horribly for another, and Joseph seems to be stuck in the middle, still suffering. So the question we ask ourselves, how does this point to the hope of the gospel that we have in Christ? As I do every week, I try to Bring Christ out in this passage? Well, I think Joseph's suffering in this passage and his interactions with Pharaoh's officials points us to the suffering of Jesus Christ on the cross as the means of our own redemption today. By the way, I have to give credit where it is due, and I'll read part of a quote later in a moment, but a lot of where I'm getting this from comes from Matthew Henry. The Puritan Presbyterian commentator really does a phenomenal job of drawing the line from Joseph to Jesus in this passage. But let me kind of break down some of the main ideas here. One, Jesus is the better Joseph who suffered under the sentence of death. Just as Joseph was consigned to the pit of the prison, being under the sentence of death for something he did not do, so also was Jesus condemned to death on a cross for sin that he did not commit. Remember what God's what Paul says, God says through Paul in 2 uh Corinthians chapter 5 verse 21, he made him who knew no sin to be sinned, so that we might become the righteousness of the world. Of God through faith in Christ? Hmm. Just as Joseph did not blame others specifically, but only spoke in generic terms, it is interesting that Jesus doesn't blame people either. Instead, what does he say when he's on that cross? Probably not what I would have said. Father, forgive them. They don't know what they do Hmm. So he's the better Joseph who suffered under the sentence of death. He's the better Joseph who suffered with two criminals. Do you see the parallel there? Joseph is in the prison with two criminals. Jesus is crucified with two criminals. We assume on his either side, right? And just as the chief cup-bearer was redeemed, and the chief baker was condemned, so also one thief on one side of Jesus was redeemed through faith in him, and the other was condemned. And this is where I will quote Matthew Henry. He says: some observe the resemblance between Joseph and Christ in this story. Joseph's fellow sufferers were like the two thieves that were crucified with Christ. The one saved and the other condemned One of these, when Joseph said to him, Remember me when it shall be well with you, forgot him. But one of those, when he said to Christ, Remember me when you come into your kingdom was not forgotten. Wow, that's an interesting connection. And so that kind of drives us to the final point I want to make in this application. Jesus is the one who remembers us. as he secures our own redemption. That's the greatest resemblance In this passage actually comes in the way of a contrast. On the one hand, the chief cupbearer forgot Joseph. He did not mention him to the king of Egypt to get him out of prison. But on the other hand, the Lord Jesus Christ responded to the seats next to him when he was asked to remember him. He said that he would be with him in paradise that very day, remember? What did he say exactly? You know, truly, truly I say to you, today, today, you will be with me in paradise. The thief forgot. Christ remembers. And the point is that through the suffering of Christ in the middle of two deserving thieves He not only remembers, but secures our redemption as well when he comes before the Father, the King of Kings, and the Lord of Lords. Here's the question. Have you asked the Lord Jesus Christ? To remember you today in the presence of his father? Or like like The chief cupbearer? Do you hear the message? Do you see Christ as he's offered to you? And go away and forget. Matthew Henry talks about that as well as he answers that question. He talks about far too often. We profess faith in Christ, we hear the gospel, and yet we forget so quickly. And we go home and we live like the world. And you know, he uses the language of trampling the blood of the Son of God underfoot by our unbelief What's the plea in this passage in Joseph's words as it is applied to us through Christ? Come to Christ, the greater Joseph, this morning. And he will redeem you. He will remember you in the presence of his Father. That's the third point. Redemption points us to Jesus Christ. And you put all that together, as I've been doing the last few weeks, as we work up to the main idea, God uses the mundane experiences of our lives. To prepare us for the redemption that He's giving us by keeping us humble, by highlighting His sovereignty over our lives, and by pointing us to Jesus. Fix your eyes, brothers and sisters, this morning on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he will meet you where you are. Let's pray Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today and we are thankful again for the life of Joseph and how it illustrates so powerfully the truths of the message of the gospel. Father, we pray this morning. I pray for each and every person that is here. Lord, that we would not be like the chief cup-bearer who hears and forgets But that we would remember because you have remembered us first. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for going to the cross For paying the penalty for our sin that we deserve as we've offended you, the King, and yet the greater than Joseph, your son Jesus. Has covered all those things and canceled all debts by his blood. Lord, we rejoice in this this morning in Jesus' name. Amen.