Well, if you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis 43 as we stand together for the reading of God's holy word in Genesis 43, verses 1 to 34. Beginning in verse 1, this is God's holy word. Now the famine was severe in the land. And when they had eaten the grain that they had brought from Egypt, their father said to them, Go again, buy us a little food. But Judah said to him, The man solemnly warned us, saying, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you. If you will send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food. But if you will not send him, we will not go down, for the man said to us, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you Israel said, Why did you treat me so badly as to tell the man that you had another brother? They replied, The man questioned us carefully about ourselves and our kindred, saying, Is your father still alive? Do you have another brother? What we told him was an answer to these questions. Could we in any way know that he would say, bring your brother down? And Judah said to Israel his father, Send the boy with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and you, and also our little ones. I will be a pledge of his safety. From my hand you shall require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever If we had not delayed, we would have now returned twice. Then their father Israel said to them, If it must be so, then do this. Take some of the choice fruits of the land in your bags and carry a present down to the man. A little balm and a little honey, gum, myrrh, pistachio nuts, and almonds. Take double the money with you. Carry back with you the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks. Perhaps it was an oversight. Take also your brother, and arise, go again to the man. May God Almighty grant you mercy before the man, and may he send back your other brother and Benjamin And as for me, if I'm bereaved of my children, I'm bereaved. So the men took this present, and they took double the money with them and Benjamin And they arose and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph. When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, Bring the men into the house and slaughter an animal and make ready, for the men are to dine with me at noon. The man did as Joseph told him, and brought the men to Joseph's house And the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house, and they said, It is because of the money that which was replaced in our sacks the first time. That we are brought in, so that he may assault us and fall upon us and make us servants and seize our donkeys. So they went up to the steward of Joseph's house, And spoke with him at the door of the house, and said, O my lord, we came down the first time to buy food And when we came to the lodging place, we opened our sacks, and there was each man's money in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight. So we have brought it again with us. And we have brought other money down with us to buy food. We do not know who put our money in our sacks. He replied, Peace to you. Do not be afraid. Your God and the God of your father has put treasure in your sacks for you. I received your money Then he brought Simeon out to them. And when the man had brought the men into Joseph's house and given them water, and they had washed their feet and When he had given their donkeys fodder, they prepared the present for Joseph's coming at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there. When Joseph came home, they brought into the house to him the present that they had with them and bowed down to him to the ground. And he inquired about their welfare and said, Is your father well? The old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive? They said, Your servant, our father, is well. He is still alive. And they bowed their heads and prostrated themselves. And he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said , Is this your youngest brother of whom you spoke to me? God be gracious to you, my son. Then Joseph hurried out, for his compassion grew warm for his brother, and he sought a place to weep And he entered his chamber and wept there. Then he washed his face and came out. And controlling himself, he said, Serve the food. They served him by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians. And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth. And the men looked at one another in amazement. Portions were taken to them from Joseph's table, but Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of theirs. And they ate, or and they drank, and were merry with him. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you today, and we are again thankful once again for your word. And Lord, we are grateful for the life of Joseph. We pray, O Lord, that you would continue to open our eyes, that you would continue to dazzle us by your grace as it's worked out in the lives of Joseph and his brothers and ultimately their father Israel. We pray, O Lord, that you would help us to take these things to heart. Lord, the new covenant promises that you will take your law and your word and you will put it in our minds and you will write it on our hearts that we might be transformed And that is what we ask this morning from your word. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, this story continues to go on and on and on, and it seems like every week we are waiting for the resolution to all of this. And it seems like every week we are left in the tension. If you noticed, the passage that we read earlier in the Gospel of John, chapter 7, seems like I stopped at a place where it left us in the tension. That was intentional because of the way that our passage before us this morning is laid out. Now this seems like it's things are starting to work out. Things are starting to look on the up and up. for Joseph and his brothers, but even at the end of this passage, the drama is not complete. But nevertheless, we we want to look at this this history, this event in their lives, and we want to pull it apart and understand what God is doing in their lives. so that we might be able to turn around and then look at our own lives and apply it to ourselves. And the way we want to do that is we want to see Jesus. In fact, if you look at your bulletin on page six, you will see printed there the sermon idea of this passage. God's compassion is demonstrated in Christ. standing in our place as Redeemer and in his provision of what he nourishes or how he nourishes our faith And so that's what we want to unpack this morning. There are two points that we're going to look at this morning. And the first one in verses 1 through 14 is this: compassion through our pledge in Christ. In fact, when you look at that idea, compassion is the overall idea, and we're going to see how that fleshes out. And the first way we see that is compassion through our pledge. in Christ. Notice in verses one through ten we see Judah as the pledge for Benjamin Now, if you remember last week we saw Joseph's brothers, ten of them at least, be sent down to Egypt to buy grain for food. And they encountered Joseph there, although as we remember, they did not remember that Joseph was standing before them. They didn't know that Joseph was the one giving them these tests. laid out to test their integrity, their honesty, to see, has God done anything in the lives of these men who betrayed me into captivity? And you'll remember, the big test that he gave was telling them to bring Benjamin down. And then at the end of last week's chapter, Jacob refused. Well, that's exactly where this passage picks up. They've eaten all of the grain that they got in that first journey. They've tarried in the land of Canaan. Simeon has been imprisoned and bound all this time. And yet we see in verses 1 and 2, the history here continues pointing back to that issue of famine. Now, the famine was severe in the land. We've seen this famine mentioned over and over again. We know that there's going to be seven years of it. But in our passage here, when it says that the famine is severe, The word that's translated there as severe from Hebrew could also be rendered as heavy or something that is grievous over the land. It's the idea that this famine is not just something that exists out there. This is a famine that could be felt in the very lives and existence of the people in Canaan. It's overbearing. It's taxing to the common people. And again, I'm inclined to think that when it says the famine is severe in the land, the land here is referring not to the land of Egypt, although there is a famine there. Egypt has food. I think it's referring to the land of Canaan, where Jacob and his uh sons are living. And verse 2 tells us again that they they ran out of food again from the food they got from that first visit. And so Jacob does what he does in the last chapter. He tells his sons Go back down to Egypt and buy us a little food. Now, you see in verses 3 through 5 as the story rolls on, and then again in verses 8 through 10, you see the prominence of Judah come to the fore or to the front. And I want to point out to you the fact that Judah is the son who from this point on in the narrative, uh takes the lead among the brothers as the spokesperson among Jacob's sons. Judah is the one who takes the lead. Kind of surprising in some ways probably because when you stop and think about it, Reuben is the oldest You would expect the oldest to take the leadership. We've seen his leadership kind of pushed aside in the last chapter when he proposes the idea. Um, look, if we need to go back down for more food and to get Simeon. We need Benjamin. Father, take my two sons and kill them if I don't bring Benjamin back. You you remember that from last week. It's kind of a preposterous proposal. And uh Jacob, their father, refuses. Well, from here on out, you see Reuben's role as the leader kind of pushed aside, Judah kind of rises to the surface. We see that in verses 3 through 5 and 8 and 10. The question is, why is it important that Judah rises to prominence? Why is it important that Judah now speaks up? Well, let's take a wide view of this family's history to try to understand this. You go back to Genesis chapter 37. When this whole drama with Joseph uh really started boiling over and they they sent him uh well he got sold into Egypt. You might remember that when the brothers were going to kill Joseph when they saw him coming in the distance. Let's kill them and see what comes becomes of his dreams. You might remember Reuben stopped him. And Reuben persuaded them not to kill their brother. And if you remember in Genesis 37, it says, he was hoping to return the boy to his father. So in one sense, Joseph is only alive because Reuben took the lead in that sense. Judah also becomes prominent in that story because it's his idea not to kill him, but what to do with him? Let's sell him off to Egypt. Well, as we saw Judah had this very humiliating event with Tamar In chapter 38, and he became a changed man. Well, it's it's interesting now These two brothers feature prominence to save Benjamin. We saw Reuben try to do it in the last chapter, and now Judah. And I think at this point, and I'm not the only one saying this, this is something I read over and over again in various commentaries, at this point in Genesis, Moses is featuring two brothers. First, Judah and Joseph. Those two brothers from here on out are going to be God's instruments. to save this family, to save his covenant people. And so it's Judah who speaks up and reminds his father that the man required them that they bring Benjamin down. Now, you see in verse 9 the offer to be a pledge of Benjamin's safety. Look at verse 9. I want to highlight that for you. It says, he says to Jacob, I will be a pledge of his safety, for my hand you shall require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever. Now that's a different proposal than what Rubin said last week. Just take my two sons and kill them if I don't bring them back. That's a very different proposal. Let's break that down and try to understand what is different here. Well, first, he says, I will be a pledge of his safety. And in the original Hebrew, that is an emphatic statement. You could translate it legitimately. I myself will guarantee his return. In fact, that word pledge for of his safety is a word that's used in other parts of the Old Testament, like Proverbs, to do with someone who pledges himself to cover another person's possible business loss. or debts from a loan that was defaulted on. So in a financial context here, and I'll draw the personal application here in just a second, In a financial kind of sense, it's a word that means I'm going to co cosign this person's loan Some of you may have done that before with maybe your kids as they've gotten older and they wanted to buy their first car. Maybe you co-signed a loan. My parents refused to do that for me. I wouldn't know. I had to buy my own car. Um but feel fortunate if your parents did that for you They may have co-signed your loan. What they were saying when they did so was if if you default on this and you don't pay, I am legally binding myself to pick up and make the payments for you you. And if I don't, not only will you lose the car, I could suffer loss financially as a result, because I am now legally responsible. Now that that's kind of a a financial example how that word is used in the Old Testament. But the point is in biblical times this could result in a loss of a person's property. by the creditor. Now in the passage before us, Judah is essentially guaranteeing Benjamin's safety by standing in his place. Now, think about it for just an example. This, you have Joseph, who's the ruler of Egypt in this case. What if they get down there? And Joseph decides on a whim, because he can do that as the ruler of Egypt, that, hey, you know, I'm going to keep Benjamin, my brother. Or they don't know it's Joseph, they just think he's some guy. In their mindset, what if this this stranger just decides to keep Benjamin and punish him? What if that happens? Well, what Judah is doing, he's promising to stand in Benjamin's place if that were to happen, so that Benjamin can go free, and Judah is saying, let me bear the punishment. Let me stand in his place. Let me be bound like Simeon was bound last week, so that Benjamin can go forward. What's the point? The point is that Judah is standing as a substitute for Benjamin. That is what is going on here. Like the cosigner of his freedom. Secondly, he says, For my hand, Father, you shall require him. In other words, if the worst should happen, for my hand you will require him. This implies that in fact if something did happen, Judah would bear the corporal and the judicial punishment for the loss. That idea of requiring something is a legal term. In the Old Testament. And the implication of that is what he says thirdly. He says, if I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame. Forever. Now that word of bearing the blame is the same word in Hebrew for let me bear the sin. I am the sinner forever. If I fail to bring him back. That's what he's saying. The point is that Judah will be guilty of a perpetual sin before Jacob his father that he will have to bear legally and responsibly forever. That's what he's saying. Again, this is the language of substitution that he is talking about here. Now, let's put all of this in the wider context once again so we understand the story and what is going on. From Jacob's perspective, Joseph is dead. That's what he thinks. That's what he believes. He saw the garment stained in blood chapters back, right? The end of chapter 37. Joseph's dead. Simeon has been detained. And again, Simeon might be dead for all he knows. Right? With what they shared with Jacob previously, if Benjamin goes down to Egypt, both Simeon and Benjamin will be released. They've come home according to verse 14. Now, what Joseph and Judah, for that matter, do not understand is that by Judah functioning as the pledge and guarantee of Benjamin, Jacob stands to have all of his sons returned to him. Including Joseph. Isn't that fascinating? If only they do what is so hard to believe will actually work. Um all the things that Jacob believes he's lost And are gone and are are just gone forever, he actually stands to get back. If only Judah will stand as the pledge, everything that Jacob has lost. will be returned. Huh. And so again, Judah functioning in this pledge as the substitute in God's sovereign plan will redu result in a redemption for the whole family. in a way that Jacob or Judah for that matter cannot possibly fathom up to this point. So how does Jacob respond? I mean he refused Reuben, obviously Is he going to refuse Judah? Well, look at verses 11 through 14. Jacob's response is largely positive, but if you really read verse uh 11 there there's kind of a sense of defeat there's kind of a sense of I'm just resigning myself to my fate this is how it is there's nothing I can do he says Uh if it must be so, and it must, then do this. What does he tell them to do Well, he tells them to take three things. You see that word take three times. What are the three things they take? First, take some of the choice fruits of the land in your bags and carry a present. down to the man and then he talks about some balm and some, you know, honey and pistachio nuts and you know, just little things like that. It's like taking a care package to him, but he calls it a present. You know what's really fascinating? We saw this before in Jacob's life. If you remember back in chapter 32 , When he is fearful because Esau is coming to him with 400 men and he thinks he's going to lose everything. He thinks he's going to be wiped out. What does he do? He prepares a present, using the same Hebrew term there in that chapter as here. He prepares the present to go before Esau so that he will earn Favor and grace in Esau's eyes. Now that was kind of before he had this breaking moment, this conversion, and now he's obviously converted, but you see can fall and re revert to the same pattern. Bring this gift to this man. And Maybe we can placate him so that he will be inclined to release Benjamin, and you just gotta love the way he says this, and your other brother, Simeon. So that's the first thing they take. The second thing, he counsels his sons to take double the money back to pay what they received the first time, as well as to have money to pay for what they need this time. Perhaps it was an oversight is the idea. And you you remember that was the second test that Joseph gave them last week, and Jacob's counseling them on how to pass that test. To show that they are in fact men of integrity and honesty before Joseph. So that's good. And then thirdly, very simply in verse thirteen, take your brother, arise and go to the man. What's what's the foundation of the hope that this plan is going to work? Look at verse 14. You see the hope of compassion from God. Verse 14, he makes, he gets right to the point. May God Almighty, by the way, that's the term El Shaddai. Many of you remember the song. By that name right. Way back in the day. Um, as I found out, that song is as old as me. That made me feel really old. But El Shaddai, may El Shaddai, may God Almighty grant you mercy. Before that man, and may he send back your other brother and Benjamin. And as for me, if I'm bereaved of my children, I'm bereaved. Once again, almost a sense of hopelessness, and yet what hope does he have? God Almighty is the source of my hope. Hmm. He appeals to that mercy. Okay. The question we have to ask ourselves by way of application is this how does Judah standing as a pledge for Benjamin's surety or safety s anticipate the role of Christ in the gospel? Well this. Christ is the pledge of our safety before God the Father, who secures God's compassion for those who are spiritually poor and needy. And so the question is, what does it mean for Christ to be our pledge? When we talk about Christ being our pledge, like Judah, he stands in our place, securing our safety before God the Father. Think about it. We were lost. We were all but but gone. Right? Without hope. The Father turns around, sends his son Jesus. And requires from him what we owed due to our sin. Right? Sin is a debt before God. It carries a price. And Jesus, being the greater than Judah, is sent to stand as the pledge for our safety. And so just like Judah offers to bear the sin of losing Benjamin, if anything were to happen to him, Christ takes it a step further. He actually bears our sin by going to death on the cross. so that we, like Benjamin, might go free from having to bear the punishment of God's righteous wrath. And ironically, Judah is the progenitor or the father in the flesh to Jesus. Jesus comes from the tribe of Judah. This is one of the reasons why Judah starts to become so prominent in this story. Why? Because Christ, Jesus, is prominent in the narrative of redemptive history through all of Scripture. All of this points to Jesus. Thank you. I got two amens this time. How about that? Just when you think we're the frozen chosen, we don't have to be. We can take great joy in that. And think about that. It's because of Christ being our pledge that we have mercy that is available to us. Because Paul talks about in Roman in Romans, in Philippians chapter 2, verses 6 through 11, because Jesus was obedient unto death, even death on a cross, we have mercy offered to us. You might ask, how is it possible that justice or righteousness and mercy Could both be fulfilled at one and the same time? Think about it, they're opposites. Justice is getting what you deserve, mercy is not getting what you deserve. How can you have it both ways in Christ He fulfills justice so that we might receive mercy Boy, that really must have meant a lot in the grand scheme of things to these brothers. I mean, were they sinners? Absolutely. Scripture is very clear. It does not hide the fact that these, in many ways, were terrible men. In their flesh. And some of you this morning and I have done horrible things in the flesh. Many of us might be sitting here today hearing this and wondering, okay, but is there mercy for me with what I've done? Yes. There is no way you are able to outsin the mercy of God. You remember what Paul says at the end of Romans chapter 5? But the law came in so that sin might abound. But where sin abounds, or where sin increases, grace abounds all the more. Well, you see it here. Demonstrated in this passage, mercy is available. And Jacob, by the way, could only pray in hope that Joseph would be merciful, again, not knowing who this man was. But we have the security of knowing that God offers mercy to sinners because we know Christ Jesus and we know his character, that he is always faithful to his promise. And so in this first section of this narrative this morning, we see the compassion of God in Judah reflecting the compassion of God in Christ Jesus. Much more fully. But that's not it. Because the second part of this story tur transitions to Joseph. We see in our second point this morning in verses fifteen through thirty-four The compassion that I'm saying nourishes our faith. That's an interesting statement or way to put that. Let's unpack it. In verses 15 to 25, you see the preparation for a meal that nourishes faith. Now, the second part of the passage, they are no longer in Canaan, they are in Egypt. We see that in verse 15. It summarizes the journey back and has them standing before Joseph. In other words, what I what I'm trying to summarize in this saying that is they return to the man who has the power to provide the nourishment that will sustain their lives. That's why they are down there. They're down there to buy food, to buy grain, right? And so we see in verses 15 through 17 a compassionate invitation. to Emil because in verse sixteen, when Joseph saw Benjamin, that's how that phrase begins. In other words, that's the most important thing that drives how Joseph responds from here on out. When he sees his brother. It was the sight of his own brother, the son of his own mother, that led him to offer a gracious and compassionate invitation to a meal. You know what's really fascinating to me about this? When you start trying to make connections between the, you know, through through different parts of Scripture, this sounds a lot. In verse 16, when he commands The servants saying, Bring the men into the house and slaughter an animal, and make ready for the men to dine with me at noon. To me, you know what that reminds me of? It reminds me a lot of the prodigal son in Luke 15, when the prodigal son comes home and and the father embraces him. You remember that? And he tells the servants, like, go Slaughter the fattened calf. My boy is home. Put the the best robe on him. Put the ring on his finger. Bring sandals. implying that his feet were washed first, right? Because that was common in the ancient Near East. You almost see the same thing here Joseph sees his brother Benjamin, of course, with the rest of his brothers who have betrayed him, which led to him being in Egypt in the first place, and He wants to celebrate. This signals to us as readers that there is a reconciliation in the works. But we still have to watch how these things unfold because you see in verses 18 through 25, the compassionate provision comes from God. Now when you when they go into the house, the passage tells us these brothers are afraid. And they're afraid for good reason. One, they still have their consciences pressing on them of what they'd done to Joseph. You remember last week in chapter 42 that seemed to weigh heavy on their hearts. This is all happening to us. God is doing this to us because of our sin and what we did to our brother. His blood is now being required at our hands. And remember they still think at this point that Joseph is dead. They don't know this is his b their brother. They're afraid And from verses 20 to 22, one of the things that adds to that fear, they relate to the servants of the house how they found their money returned in their sacks after the first visit. Remember that was the test he gave. They prove here that they're honest men. They bring double the amount of money back. But I want to emphasize verse 23 to you, because that's really where the action's at. And its actions and words. What happens? The servant responds to them. Peace to you. Do not be afraid. Boy, that fear must have been palpable if he said. Said that. Peace to you. Do not be afraid. Your God and the God of your father has put treasure in your sacks for you. I received your money In other words, he's reassuring them by highlighting that they should feel at peace about what's happening. By the way, when he says, you know, peace to you, that that's a really common Hebrew Jewish phrase. They don't need to be afraid. But what's fascinating to me, and I hope this doesn't miss your attention, is that you have a pagan Egyptian servant in Joseph's house who appeals to their God and the God of their father as the ultimate reason for their money being in their sex. I wonder what the brothers were thinking when they heard that. Wait a minute. Back in the last chapter in chapter 42, verse 28, when we found the money, we said to one another, what is this that God has done to us? Be kind of a strange turn of events. The servant is acknowledging the fear that they had in the last chapter. And he's Acknowledging their fear and then turning around and saying, peace to you. Do not be afraid. I really wonder what was going on in their minds. This had to have remind reminded them, you know, that are we about to pay for our sins? Now, clearly, they initially thought they'd be overtaken and enslaved by the man of the house, but this appeal to their God and the God of their fathers would have undergirded and strengthened that sense of peace. And again, it's strange that a pagan points to their God as the source of the peace that he's encouraging them to have. The point is that though they come with money and double the money, what they are going to receive, they receive freely from Joseph. It's a strange thing for a pagan to reiterate. But we see the fellowship meal in verses twenty-six through thirty-four, the fellowship meal that nourishes, I'm just saying nourishes Faith. Look at verse 26. It picks up when Joseph finally comes home. Clearly he was at work. He was probably selling grain. to the people in the land. He's come home for lunch. They brought the present in the house, and once again they bowed down to the ground to him. as Joseph dream dreamt that they would back in chapter 37. But notice verses 26 through 30, where we see in in that that those verses, Joseph's heart for his family. There's two responses that Joseph has here that demonstrate where his heart is really at in all of this family and historical drama. First, he asks questions about their father, Jacob. Again, the brothers don't know who he really is. But we know that he's concerned about his father. He knew that his father would be elderly. He asked in verse 27, Is your father well? Is he still alive? The wording there is not a mistake. When it says, when he's asking of the welfare of their father, the literal translation of the Hebrew words for is your father well? Can literally be translated, is it peace to your father? Same word for peace that the servant just used when he said peace to you And their answer, again, our father as well, is more literally translated, peace to your servant, our father. Is it peace with your father? Yes, it is peace with our father. Secondly, he's not just concerned about the father, but notice his response in verses 29 to 30. When he lays eyes on Benjamin, his brother. He has to run out of the room because he ends up weeping. Think about that. For just a moment. It says in verse 30, it tells you what's going on. For his compassion grew warm for his brother. What a display of Joseph's heart. And the passion emphasis the passage emphasizes compassion. You can almost imagine Joseph is Joseph is probably about 36 or 37 at this point. He's been gone for 20 years. He was betrayed at 17 years old. He was young. He was much older than his brother Benjamin. Benjamin may have been either a baby or a small toddler when he last saw him And here he is, his brother, standing right in front of him, the son of his mother. You can almost imagine, does he is he does he see his mother in his brother? His compassion grows worn. And he can't hold it any longer. He flees because he's weeping. It's interesting when he finally comes back, washes his face, calls him in to bring and serve the food. You see in verses 31 to 34 in this meal, the portion given to Benjamin. I want to highlight just a few things that will have a bearing on our application as we draw this to close. First, notice in verse 32, they serve Joseph by himself. There's three groups essentially eating by themselves. Joseph is seated by himself. As the dignitary, he can't really sit even with the Egyptian servants and mix with them. He's got to be dignified. But he's also not going to eat with the brothers because at this point he doesn't quite intend to reveal himself to them. Again, this is the tension of the drama. Verse, the passage continues. He has the brothers sitting by themselves. Okay, they're the guests. Verse 33 says that they sat with the firstborn according to his birthright, so Reuben, probably in the seat of honor, all the way down to the youngest according to his station. In the order of birth. And then lastly, we see the Egyptians are sitting by themselves. And notice the reason that is given. From a modern Western 21st century American or postmodern inclusive perspective, this sounds really off, doesn't it? Yeah, it it says in verse thirty-two, the Egyptians ate um by themselves because the Egyptians could not eat with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians. If you're wondering if that is a classic example of racism, yeah, it is. It is. But it's really it's it's an interesting example Um I'm I'm actually not gonna chide that example of um racism, and there's a reason why. Um I know it sounds really off-putting, but I want you to think about this for just a moment. While it sounds rude by modern social conventions This prejudice is the very prejudice that God is going to use to preserve his people Israel from cultural, ethnic, and religious assimilation during the 400 years they were in Egypt. What's my point? I'm not excusing the racism here, but I'm saying that God used it. My point is that God separates his people from the world. And that even um applies here when it comes to this fellowship meal. Isn't it interesting that and later on you're gonna see why are they uh an abomination? Well one reason is not just ethnicity, it's also just this this snobbery that well they're they're peasants they're they're shepherds you know we're we as egyptians are more dignified that's the the mentality But God uses that to keep his people separate because each Israel is going to eventually be In Egypt for 400 years. God's promises need to be fulfilled. And eventually God will call his people out of Egypt. There is a separation. between God's covenant people and the world and those who don't believe in those covenant promises, those that are not in covenant relationship with God, there is a difference. Secondly, notice Benjamin receives a portion that is five times more than the other brothers. And I don't miss the fact, this is really important. Where do they get their portions from, whether Benjamin or the other brothers? From Joseph's table. In other words, Joseph provides their provision in this meal out of what belongs to him. It doesn't necessarily say that about the Egyptian servants. But the brothers get from what is on Joseph's table. Again, they don't know his true identity. But we asked with Judah how Judah anticipated the role of Christ in the gospel, and I want to turn and ask. The question for Joseph, how does Joseph's compassion here point us to the compassion of God in Christ in the gospel? Well, what about this? Let me submit this to you. God's compassion is demonstrated in Christ, the greater than Joseph, who gives of himself to nourish our faith on his promises. Let me unpack that here at the end. The compassionate provision comes in the righteousness of Christ. Joseph's compassion anticipates the compassion of God in Christ in the way that he provided for their money to be put in their sacks, as well as the food from his table. The servant was absolutely right to point out God , the God of their fathers, as the one who put the money back into their sacks. They came with money to pay for food to sustain their lives. And the point of giving the money back was that they were, it's communicating to them that they are to freely receive life. From Joseph by grace, how about that? So it is with us today. How often do we tend to come to God presenting to him the currency of our own righteousness to say, I'm here to buy life, to buy salvation. And God says no I'm not going to receive that from you. I will give it to you. Freely, I will give of my righteousness To you by faith in my Son, so that you will have eternal life. And it is through the righteousness of Christ received freely by God's grace alone. Through our faith alone, in Christ alone, that we have peace with God, just like the servants told the brothers, peace to you. It's not a mistake, brothers and sisters, that after discussing justification by grace through faith in Romans 3 and 4, Paul issues into Romans chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through Christ Jesus our Lord. And so for you, the offer this morning is peace with God. Again, some of you here this morning might be sitting here at war with God for whatever reason because you are wrestling with your sin. And by the way, that that is that's even true of many believers, isn't it? We we continue to wrestle with sin. Let's not let's not fake it and pretend like we have it all together. We don't. We struggle. But the declaration here is peace with God. You can have peace with God through Christ, who is the better Joseph. And because of that peace with God, I'm saying you can have a portion of the fellowship meal, and which we're going to take in just a few minutes here, in the Lord's Supper. What a crazy connection. By the way, I didn't really plan that this passage would be preached. It just fell into place that day, that way, didn't it? I'm not that smart. But I want to draw that line between the fellowship meal that the brothers share with Joseph to the table of the Lord's Supper that we're going to participate here in just a moment. And there is a fence for the table. Now, Pastor Jared, when he comes forward to administer the table this morning to us, he's going to do the same thing, but I'll just set him up so that he can slam dunk it. You see a fence for the table in this passage. Just as the brothers ate separate from the Egyptians, so there is a separation between God's new covenant people and those outside of the covenant. And the separation entails that only true believers who are baptized members of gospel preaching churches have a right to come to the table. And so our passage this morning is a dim old covenant shadow of this bright new covenant reality that we will and have been called out from the world. in Christ, which is why we are called the church, which in biblical Koine Greek is ekklesia, which means those who are called out. There is a fence for the table. In this application. But I want you to understand that Christ provides the nourishment for our faith from Himself. And this is where you see Christ as a better than Joseph. Remember, Joseph provided out of his own means for his brothers to feast with him and be merry, you know, from the resources of his own table. But Christ does not just provide out of his own means of things that exist external to him to give to us. Christ provides for us from himself. Now Paul will contrast the table of the Lord with the table of demons in 1 Corinthians Chapter 10, verses 16 and 17, he says, the cup of blessing that we bless, is this not a participation, a koinonia, a fellowship with the blood of Christ? The bread that we break? Is it not a participation, a fellowship in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of one bread. By the way, that is one of the passages that the Westminster Confession of Faith in chapter 29, verse 7, which talks about the Lord's Supper, it points to that passage in order to demonstrate the spiritual presence of Christ in the elements of the supper. Again, we don't believe that these turn into the literal physical body and blood of Christ like they would teach in the Roman Catholic Church. We also don't believe that we are feeding on the physical body of Christ in his physical presence like our Lutheran brothers do, but we believe that Christ is spiritually present. and that we spiritually feed upon him and are spiritually nourished in our faith. And the Westminster Standards points at that passage in 1 Corinthians 10 to make that point. Christ is the better Joseph, brothers and sisters, who gives of himself that you might be strengthened today as we come to this table. So let's take this last moment as I pray to prepare our hearts while the elders come forward and uh Jared will come forward, we'll pray, we'll sing our l our hymn of preparation, and then we will come to This table. Let's pray. Father, we come before you today and we are grateful for this day that you have given us, O Lord We are grateful for the table of fellowship that you offer to us by your grace freely, that we don't come with money. We don't come with our own righteousness. We come only because you said, come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Father, prepare us to come and fellowship with you to be fed and nourished on our Lord and Savior Jesus by faith as we come to this table. Strengthen us for this week. Write your words on our hearts and put them in our minds, as is the new covenant promise. We ask this in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.