I invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. And if you have your Bible, I hope that you do, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis. Chapter 33, we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 20, which is the whole chapter. Genesis 33, 1 through 20. This is God's word for God's people this morning. And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, Esau was coming, and 400 men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and Rachel and the two maid servants, female servants, and he put the servants with their children in front, then Leah with her children And Rachel and Joseph, last of all. He himself went on before them, bowing himself to the ground seven times until he came near to his brother But Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept. And when Esau lifted up his eyes and saw the women and children, he said , Who are these with you? Jacob said, The children whom God has graciously given your servant. Then the servants drew near, they and their children, and bowed down. Leah likewise and her children drew near and bowed down. And last Joseph and Rachel drew near and they bowed down. And Esau said, What do you mean by all this company that I met? Jacob answered, To find favor in the sight of my Lord. But Esau said , I have enough, my brother. Keep what you have for yourself. Jacob said, No, please, if I have found favor in your sight, then accept my present from my hand. For I have seen your face, which is like seeing the face of God, and you have accepted me. Please accept my blessing that is brought to you because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. Thus he urged him, and he took it. Then Esau said, Let us journey on our way, and I will go on ahead of you. But Jacob said to him, My Lord knows that the children are frail. And that the nursing flocks and herds are a care to me. If they are driven hard for one day, all the flocks will die Let my Lord pass on ahead of his servant, and I will lead on slowly at the pace of the livestock that are ahead of me, and at the pace of the children, until I come to my Lord and seer. So Esau said, Let me leave with you some of the people who are with me. But he said, What need is there? Let me find favor in the sight of my Lord. So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir. But Jacob journeyed to Sukkoth and built himself a house and made booths for his livestock. Therefore the name of the place is called Sukkoth. And Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, on his way from Padon Aram, and he camped before the city. And from the sons of Hamor, Shechem 's father, he bought for a hundred pieces of silver the piece of land on which he pitched his tent. There he erected an altar and called it El Elohe Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, as we look at this story, this narrative, which in many ways is a touching narrative. Um a fitting conclusion, so to speak, uh to many of Jacob's troubles. Lord, we pray that you would open our hearts, that you would help us. to see the Lord Jesus Christ more clearly in this passage, to love him, to hope for him, but also to look for his work And to see our own need for grace, O Lord, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen Well, as I just said in this prayer, this this passage is in many ways a culmination, a summary, a conclusion to many of Jacob's troubles. Now, Jacob's troubles are not over by a long shot, but This is kind of the end of a trilogy, so to speak, that began in the beginning of chapter 32. As you remember, Jacob was traveling back from Padon Aram in Mesopotamia, coming back to the land of Canaan as the Lord had told him to do And he meets the angels of God. He hears that Esau is coming with four hundred men. He is incredibly worried, as you can imagine, why his brother was set to kill him when he fled in the first place, 20 years before. And as soon as he is left alone, we saw last week that he met the angel of the Lord. And had a life-altering experience with the Lord in this wrestling or grappling match that by and large left him crippled and limping for the rest of his life. That was part two. Well now we're in part three. He meets Esau. Now one of the things we that came up in Sunday school this morning. Uh we mentioned different trilogies and how oftentimes one and two are often the best part of the trilogy, and I've thought to myself when I was listening to that, part three is usually the worst part of the trilogy, not in this case. This is kind of like a crescendo to the story and the experience of Jacob receiving grace. And I want to begin looking at verses 1 through 4 where we see as the passage unfolds, and the unexpected reconciliation. Now again, our passage picks up immediately after the Lord wrestles with Jacob. This is the next morning. The very next morning, and as we saw, that's the moment where Jacob was finally broken, not just physically, but spiritually. When Jacob wrestled with that angel, the angel of the Lord, and came to cling to him, holding on until he was blessed, that was the moment in which Jacob became a true believer. Now we all know Jacob had inherited the covenant promises from his fathers, Abraham and Isaac. He had received circumcision. He had that that covenant relationship outwardly with the Lord, but now that is ratified, that is inward. In other words, the grace of God had been made real and manifest in Jacob's life. through saving faith. He had found grace in the Lord's sight, but that's where the drama this morning begins We see in verses 1 through 3 the unexpected humility that comes from Jacob. Look at verse 1. It begins. Jacob lifting up his eyes, he sees Esau coming with 400 men, which we again saw that he was told about in chapter Now, I don't know about you, but it put yourself in Jacob's shoes and you can imagine the panic that it must have set in. I mean He does not know what Esau is coming to do, and his assumption Esau is coming to wipe them out. And then on top of it, Jacob is now half crippled, limping, and physically weakened. How is he going to protect his family? And he does what I think would be natural in that situation. He divides his family into three groups. And it's interesting how he divides them. He puts the maidservants and their children together. And he puts them in front. And you might think, well, that's not fair. Well, you have someone's gotta go in front. And let's just face it, I mean he's got children by four women. Two of these women are his wives. Two of the other women are just the maidservants. They have the least status in the family. So they're going first and their children. Then he puts following them Leah and her children. And lastly, and this is what's interesting, he mentions Rachel and Joseph come last. Now I think that that's interesting because none of the children are named except for Joseph in that list. You get the names of the mothers, but you don't get any of the names of the sons except for Joseph. And he's get he gets put in back. Now, I think that indicates to us where Jacob's greatest affections really were. We know that Rachel was the wife that he loved. And at this point, Rachel ends up having two sons, but at this point in the story, Rachel's only got one, and Joseph is the only son of the wife that Jacob loves. But it also indicates to us and kind of gives us a heads up as to where the rest of the book of Genesis is going to go. Joseph is going to be the one through whom salvation comes immediately and historically for the family of Israel. And so that's why he's named. But in the midst of these extraordinary circumstances, we find some extraordinary humility on Jacob's part, as we see in verse 3. Not only does he send these wives and their children ahead, but then he goes ahead of all of them. That's what verse 3 says. He himself went on before them. Lest you think he's a coward, he's actually not. He goes on before them, bowing himself to the ground seven times. By the way, that will be a key word in this passage, bowing down. We see it several times. Jacob, we see the maidservants, Leah and her children, and so on and so forth. He bows himself seven times. Now that was a customary way to show honor to someone. We can remember back in in uh previous chapters when the three men One of them was the Lord, if you remember, came to Abraham. Do you remember what he did? He bowed down. In this case, now that only mentions Abraham bowing down once. In this case, Jacob bows down seven times. It shows a completeness. Of fullness to his humility that Esau no doubt would have noticed as he's coming up to him. But how does Esau respond? Well, in verse 4, we see the unexpected response from Esau. And if you look at verse 4, it just fires off four four verbs. one after another in rapid succession that make the point. This is kind of like the crescendo where the the plot is that it is thickest You don't know what Esau is going to do. And what does he do? He runs to meet him. The beginning of verse 4. Now by the way, you could really stop and put a break between these rapid-fire verbs and link that one, um, keep that one to itself and link the other three. Why? Because when Esau is running up to him, you still don't know what he's going to do. Is he running up to thrust a spear or a sword into his brother and wipe them out? In fact, it's the same exact wording that 1 Samuel 17, verse 48, uses when David runs to meet Goliath in battle. It's the same exact wording in Hebrew. So as as Moses would have been reading this to the original Israelite audience, they might have been wondering what's about to happen. Now, Jacob weakened by his link limp. We know Esau was likely physically stronger than him. But then the unexpected happens. He doesn't run to him and kill him. Notice those other three verbs. He embraced him, he fell on his neck. And he kissed them. Well actually there's really four there. He wept. They wept. Now, only someone who has a really hardened heart cannot be moved by that. Think about the context. These are brothers that have been in enity, strife, and hostility with one another. Jacob deserves to be wiped out. We know this. He he remember he manipulated his brother and and got the birthright with the porridge or the the stew that he gave him that was red, and then later on he stole his blessing from his father. Twenty years ago, many of you know and have had relationships where There has been some conflict that over time, when it wasn't resolved quickly enough, what does it do? It just boils over and boils over and boils over until it gets worse and worse and worse in your heart and you're you're literally ready to to kill somebody. And that is not what happens here. By the way, this kind of response happens two other times in the family of Jacob. In Genesis chapter 45, verses 14 and 15, Joseph finally reveals himself to his brothers in Egypt after they sold him into slavery. When they come for their second visit, what does he do? He ends up falling, embracing them, and uses that language, falls on their neck. That's the language there, and weeps. at the reconciliation of his with his brothers who had abandoned him, sold him into slavery. And then pass off what happened to their father as k as he just died. There was reconciliation. You see the same thing when they go back to bring Jacob down to Egypt in Genesis 46, 29. When Jacob and his son Joseph meet for the first time after many, many years of Jacob believing that Joseph was dead, torn apart by wild beasts. What do they do? What's the first response? Joseph falls on the neck of his father and weeps. You see the same thing here. Now we are not told what changed Esau's heart towards Jacob. Your guess is as good as mine. But what we find is that they reconcile after 20 years of hostility and animosity. This is the reconciliation that comes from the grace that Jacob received. In Esau's eyes. Again, this is not grace that he deserved, but he received it anyway. And that leads to verses 5 through 10. We don't just see an unexpected reconciliation. We see the blessing that continues to flow from that reconciliation in verses 5 through 11. And just because the tension is resolved does not mean that the story is over. Look at verses 5 through 7. You see the blessing of promises fulfilled. Now you can kind of tell that verse 5 is the beginning of the next section because if you remember verse 1 began when Jacob lifted up his eyes and saw Esau coming. Now Esau lifts up his eyes and he sees Jacob's family. And notice what he asks, who are these with you? That had to kind of been a precious moment, I I think, in their family. He hadn't seen his brother in twenty years, and now he sees all these people with his brother and wondering who they are. This past Christmas I got to meet my brother's fifth child for the first time, and when they showed up uh unexpectedly at my mother's house, uh the day before I arrived for Christmas and I had no idea they were going to do that. It was really sweet to see the first four of my uh nieces and nephews who I haven't seen for four years. And you better believe kids can grow a lot in four years when you don't see them. But I got to meet number five, and it was almost like, who is this? That's kind of the heart behind Esau's question here. Jacob's answer is pointed, but it is intentionally crafted. So as to elicit as little anger or reaction from Esau as possible. Look what he says here at the end of verse 5. He answers, the children whom God has graciously given your servant. Now that may seem like a very point of statement that you could just read over and just miss the significance of that. But notice that he uses the generic word God, Elohim. He doesn't use the specific divine name of Yahweh in that answer. The use of the divine name of Yahweh may have reminded Esau of the stolen blessing that Jacob took from him. Back in Genesis chapter 27, Jacob is answering the question, but he's treading lightly. He's being as tactful as he can be. And moreover, he calls himself again your servant. Now, I don't know but if you remember, but it reverses the blessing that he received from his father that said he would be Lord over his brothers. And that his brothers would be the servant. And he still credits here the grace of God in giving him what he has But he's pointing to the blessing that God had given him as the fulfillment of the promises, but he's doing this ever so carefully as not to remind his brother of the offense that he had previously given. It's easy to miss that, but Jacob is really trying to tread very carefully. And then as we see, all these mothers And children come and they bow themselves down. There's that key word again to Esau, just as Jacob had done. And it's really fascinating to me that in one sense the blessing that God had given to Jacob turns around and blesses Esau by showing him honor and showing that kind of in their action that he is, in a sense, their Lord Not a capital L, but a little L, Lord, and they are the servants. Almost contrary to what God had promised, but yet The blessing that God had given is turning around and being a blessing and an honor to Esau. Now that's not all. In verses 8 through 11, you also see the blessing that is offered by Jacob. And now this gets a little interesting to me. The second question that Jacob asks or Esau asks in verse 8 is this, what do you mean by all this company that I met? Now he's not talking about the the mothers and the children there. What he's referring to by that question is, remember the gifts that that Jacob had sent with uh in three waves prior to that with the servants back in chapter 32? When Esau meets you, say this. And he's hoping to find grace and favor in Esau's sight because of the gift. That's what Esau is referring to in that question. What do you mean by all this company that I've met prior to finding you and your family? And Jacob again His answer is indicative to find favor in the sight of my Lord. Again, that's been a key phrase since chapter 32. This is what this is all about, finding grace or favor in Esau's sight. Hmm. Now, I want to draw your attention to verses 10 and 11 because Jacob repeats himself, but he words his point a little differently. Look in verse 10. Because Esau initially declines. No, I have enough. But Jacob in verse 10 says, no, please If I have found favor in your sight, in other words, that's a conditional statement, then accept my presence from my hand. Okay, my present from my hand. But what does he say in verse 11? Please accept my blessing. that is brought to you because God has dealt graciously with me and because I have enough. It's interesting how Esau answers initially, no, you keep what is yours. I have enough. And Jacob turns around turns it around on his head. Because that's what Jacob does, right? He always flips things the w the way he wants it to. No, I have enough. God has been gracious to me. He has blessed me. Therefore, out of the blessing that I've received from the Lord, I want to bless you. He doesn't call it a present. He calls it a blessing. And that's the same word that's used back in Genesis chapter 27, referring to what he stole from Esau in the first place from their father. What an amazing turn of events. This blessing that is offered by Jacob Now that's again intentionally worded, but the point I'm trying to get you to see here is that Jacob has been blessed by God in receiving the promises that God had given to him. And that worked itself out, namely in reconciliation with God, which we saw when he was broken last week in that wrestling match. And now reconciliation with Esau. So he turns around and he seeks to share the blessing with Esau. And don't miss this. Esau is now receiving the blessing, despite the fact that he is the one who is outside of the covenant community. He's not the one who received the covenant with God, and yet he's receiving the blessings and the benefits of that covenant through Jacob, the covenant head and representative. So as we take a step back and we think about the application here, the question comes to mind here, what kind of fruit does grace produce in the relationships between believers? Or the relationships of believers. Let me just state it that way. Well, the answer is this, and this is kind of where uh this will drive our application. Grace produces the fruit of reconciliation, which in turn blesses even those presently who are on the outside of the community of believers. Let me restate that and then I'll unpack it for you. Grace produces the fruit of reconciliation, which in turn blesses even those presently on the outside of the covenant community of believers. Think about how this worked out in Jacob's life and what this looks like for us. So we we see grace, reconciliation, But as we look forward to how this plays out through the rest of the testimony of Scripture, we have to bring the gospel to bear And the thing to keep in mind is exactly what happened to Jacob is what happens to us. Jacob was once at enmity, not only with those around him, but ultimately with God. And God had to bring them into a position where his grace could be made manifest in his life. To use a baptism analogy, many are baptized into the covenant community when they're small, but they they're not really spiritually born again until they come to faith, right? That's when the promises get ratified and they they enter into that relationship with God. That's true of so many of us Experiencing the grace of God. And that experience of God's grace, being reconciled to Him, makes all the difference in the world when it comes to reconciling with those around us with whom we have conflicts. Again, I've said this before from the pulpit. We've seen this before from Genesis. But remember very clearly, you were once at enmity with God. You were cut off from him by your sin. And that is crucial to remember as the proper framework for grace. The Puritans caught this so clearly, didn't they? If you read any of the Puritans, the way that they preached the gospel, it was law, grace. You do not understand God's grace and what is given to you and the value of it until you understand your sin, which puts the context of why you need grace in the first place. Right? And when we understand just how much grace we needed from the Lord because of our sin, it really puts into proper perspective the the conflicts and and let's just say the sin that we deal with among ourselves. As human beings. We remember that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We have been forgiven, and we've been reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. And it leads to the second part of this application, reconciliation with those we are at odds with. Or I'm going to say at odds with the most in our lives. Now you can put yourself in Jacob's position or Esau's position. It really doesn't matter. Grace is what is required. Right? Let's unpack that. Well, for those who've been wronged, kind of like Esau. This passage offers a call to be reconciled to those with whom you were at odds with. And don't miss this. Your reconciliation with others sitting around you in this room is a statement and a commentary on the reality of your reconciliation with God with whom you are in covenant. Think about what Jesus says about anger in the Sermon on the Mount, in Matthew chapter 5, verses 23 and 24. He says, so if you're offering your gift at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go. First , He says, be reconciled to your brother, and then, secondly, come and offer your gift. In other words, what is Jesus saying? How could you come into the presence of a God whom you cannot see and pretend to have reconciliation when you don't have reconciliation with your brother around you whom you can see? He goes on later in the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 6 of Matthew, verses 14 through 15. This comes immediately after the Lord's Prayer, by the way. And he says this, and this is one of those like tough sayings of Jesus, I think. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. Understand well, brothers and sisters, that your willingness to forgive someone or not says volumes about the true state of your relationship with the Lord. Someone who cannot or will not forgive is someone who has not likely truly experienced the grace and the forgiveness of God towards them to begin with. But you can flip the scenario on his head, can't you? What about those who have been the one to wrong or sin against someone else? Like Jacob did in this passage. Well, what you see here is a this passage functions as a calling to humility as the necessary precursor to reconciliation. That's putting the shoe on the other foot there, isn't it? And just as we said about forgiveness, we can also say the same thing about humility. Someone who's not humble enough Towards others in being willing to confess their sin and ask forgiveness of them when they are in fact sinning against them is someone who has not likely experienced the grace of God Which leads to humility over sin in the first place, right? Brothers and sisters, this confession and seeking grace, forgiveness, and reconciliation is nothing less. than the fruit of the gospel in our lives. Now I'm not going to tease out every little example that this would apply to, but just think about how that might apply to your relationships with your spouses. Or your children, or if you're younger, your parents, or your siblings , or your friends at work or school, and so on and so forth. The way that we are willing to show grace, whether it's in forgiving or being humble enough to come and ask for forgiveness, says a lot about the grace that we have received in our own lives. And I want to take a little bit of a turn here in the application before I wrap up this first point here. I want I want to just say, you know, there is the blessing of the gospel and the reconciliation for unbelievers as well. And you're like, what? Well, I think that just as Esau was not a believer in covenant relationship with the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, notice that he's still in this passage enjoys the fruit of the gospel, which is reconciliation with Jacob, the covenant head and representative. So what's the application I'm driving at with that? Well, the application is this, namely that we should have a heart for the lost who are outside of covenant relationship with God through Jesus Christ. I do think that that's one of the things is that this passage is trying to open our eyes to get to see. It's so easy to focus on relationships within the body of Christ. within the covenant community that we become so insular and inward focused that we forget about a lost and dying world around us And hurting people who need the grace and the reconciliation that is offered through Jesus Christ so that they can be made whole and have their sins forgiven And have eternal life. There are unbelievers around us And around you, with whom you can share the reconciling power of the gospel, and tell them how they might find that forgiveness from a God that they are at enmity with. And the question I want to ask yourself, and this is a diagnostic question in this part of the application, is do you have a heart for evangelism of the lost this morning? Think about that. By the way, that was not a comfortable question for me to ask myself this week. I would like to focus our attention and our energies this year as church here at Liberty to developing more of a culture of evangelism and outreach. And by the way, I don't just simply mean programs. I mean the way we do relationships, and let me just state this for the fact. This is a goal that goes well beyond 2025. This is going to take some time. This is going to take the work of God in our hearts as a church to develop that heart for the lost. But that's what I would like love to focus on here at Liberty. One of the blessings I've had in my what year and a half or Give a take of being here is hearing the stories about how in years past this church has had a tremendous heart for the lost. I'd like to recapture that here. That we would be known as a church that cares for those around us. And by the way, I'm going to give a shameless plug here. And my I mean shameless. This is really milking it, guys. One of the reasons Jared and Phil and Steve are teaching through the book of Acts for Sunday school. this spring is to reorient us corporately as a church as well as individually as Christians to the responsibility and the calling that we have to fulfill the Great Commission. And I'm just going to say this, no one is exempt. None of us. That's a great commission that's given not just to pastors and apostles in the New Testament. It's given to the body of the church. And as they're going to lay out for us in Sunday school in the book of Acts, you're going to see how it wasn't just the leaders who were involved, it was the whole church engaged in this mission. And so one of the applications, come to Sunday school and hear what God's Word has to say about this. But our first point in verses 1 through 11 is very simple. God's grace results in reconciliation. But it goes on from there. The story continues to unfold in verses 12 through 14. We see the need for grace. Why? For remaining sin. Okay The story continues. Now, Esau continues to show an unexpected amount of generosity towards Jacob in the things that he will offer to Jacob. We see in verses 12 and 13. We see an offer, the offer can lead to a potential occasion for sin. Notice what Esau says. Okay, he's received the gift. He says, let us journey on our way. And I will go ahead of you. Now by the way, that you know Jacob all this time has been calling himself your servant to Esau. And he's constantly been calling Esau my Lord. Esau is doing what a Lord at that time in history would do. A Lord was tasked to protect guard and provide security for those under him. And that's what Esau is, he's acting the part. He's taking that role. You know, I'll go on ahead of you. Why? To protect you in case there's thieves or other people who will harm you on the way. But notice what Jacob says Jacob responds by essentially declining. He gives an excuse, and by the way, his excuses I think true as far as it goes. I've got these animals, I've got these children, I can't drive them too hard, but what is he really getting at? I think, and I came across more than one commentary that said this. So it's not just me making this up. I think there's legitimacy to this. It's possible that Jacob still fears Esau to a degree. And he's perhaps thinking that if they continue on journeying together, it only increases the opportunity for potential offense. And so, no, no, no, no. We will not journey on together. Let's uh we've had a good conversation. We've had a good time of reconciliation. Let's not spoil a good thing. No What he says in verse 14, let my Lord pass on ahead of his servant, and I will lead on slowly at the pace. at the pace of the livestock that are ahead of me and the pace of the children. Notice what he says there. Until I come to my Lord in seer. Seer was just a geographical area kind of southeast of the Dead Sea where the Edomites ended up and Esau was living at that time. But here's what I think is going on in verse 14. You see the remaining sin of dishonesty. Isn't it interesting? Jacob will say one thing and do the opposite to get his ways, to make things easier for himself. And you see that remaining sin there. Why do I say that? Because when you look at the context of the passage of what comes afterwards, you do not ever see Jacob coming to Seir to visit or stay with Esau, as he just said. I mean, we're going to see two more places that he does go. He goes to Sukkoth and then Shechem in this passage, but he does not go to Seir. In fact, when you read in the next chapters, he still doesn't go to Seir. The next time you see him and Esau together is at the death of their father, where they do seem to be getting along, but he never goes to Seir. And on the surface of it, he only seems to be telling Esau what he needs to tell him in order to kind of get rid of him so that his brother will move on. He's not being truthful and if guys, if he's not being truthful, what is he being? He's being dishonest Now, I think what you're essentially seeing here is the reality of indwelling sin that remains in Jacob, despite the fact that he is now walking with the Lord as a believer. How about that? But the story goes on. You see in verses fifteen and seventeen, the need for grace even after reconciliation. I'm not going to comment much on verses fifteen and seventeen. except to point out to you what he says in verse 15. Esau makes another offer. Well let me leave some men. No. Verse 15, let me find favor or grace. you could translate that word, in the sight of my Lord. Now in this case, ironically The request for grace is not whether or not Esau will receive his blessing as a gift, but now the point is whether or not Esau will turn away from him. And if Esau turns away from Jacob in Jacob's mind, it would be the indicator that he needs to know that Esau's wrath has been fully and finally turned away from him. And that will be the indicator that he has finally received grace from Esau. His wrath is not going to come. By the way, that's exactly what Esau does, doesn't he? And you see in verses 18 through 20 the need for grace gives way to worship. This is really kind of where all of this has been driving. All of this time. He returned safely to Canaan after twenty long years away. And you see in verses 18 through 19, you need a a need for a place to worship. Notice verses 18. 18. And Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, on his way from Padon, Aram, and he camped before the city. That's interesting. He's outside of the city, he's not in it. He's outside. Why is it important that he's outside? Well, look at verse 19. And from the sons of Hamor, Shechem's father, he bought for a hundred pieces of money the piece of land on which he had pitched his tent. By the way, we've already seen that. I'm not going to comment too much on that, except to say w we saw that in Genesis 24. Abraham bought the cave in which he buried his wife Sarah when she died. And the point was that by buying the land it gave him a legal claim to the land so that he so that the inhabitants and the Canaanites cannot say, Look what we graciously gave you, you're indebted to us for our grace to you. No, Jacob's indebted to God's grace, not to the Canaanites. He buys the piece of land. And what does he do with it? Verse 20. He erects an altar for worship. There he erected an altar and called it in Hebrew El Elohe Yisrael. By the way, that means the God, God, the God of Israel. Now why is that so important that he establishes an altar before we jump to our application? Why is that important? Well Abraham came to Shechem in Genesis 12, 6, when he first came from Haran in Mesopotamia. Think of the pattern there, both coming from Mesopotamia into the promised land, both go to Shechem. What does Abraham do? Abraham surveys the land. He goes as far as the oak of Mora. You're like, what is what's the point of mentioning some tree? Well, those landmarks are mentioned because they were well-known centers for Canaanite worship of pagan false gods. And so what Jacob does camping outside of the city He establishes the worship of the Lord with whom he is in covenant with as a witness and a testimony both to the Canaanites And it's also a testimony against the gods that they were trusting in of who God really is. The point is that Jacob's experience of God's grace led not only to his understanding his continuing need for grace, which we see in this passage, because He's God-indwelling sin, but the need to be in regular fellowship and communion with God through worship because of that indwelling sin. And so we ask ourselves, why do we continue to need grace after we come to saving faith in Jesus Christ today? Well, the application point is we have a continual need for grace because of the reality of indwelling sin in our lives. even after we come to saving faith. And that indwelling sin, that need there, drives us to worship God for His continued grace in our lives. What's the point? The point is this: we are not perfect yet. Boy, if you think that you are perfect as a Christian, you got something else coming to you this morning from this passage. It's a perfect example that when we come to faith in Christ, we still have remnants of the flesh within us. That's why some of you struggle so much sometimes with your sin. And why I struggle with my sin. Now there are instances where when we come to faith in Christ, he powerfully delivers us from certain tendencies of sin that we have. There's no doubt about it. But every one of us is like Jacob. Not everything in our character is immediately worked out. Jacob still lied to Esau even after he came to faith. And we what we need to do is make sure we understand the difference between coming to Saving Faith and the process of sanctification that happens throughout our lives. Why do we need to know that? Because tapping into our first point, when people sin against you, they are sinning against um not just you, but the Lord. They're not living up to the exact calling that they have, do they, are they? But they still need grace because you need grace. They're not perfect, just like you're not perfect. And because we're not perfect, we still have the calling to take hold of God's grace. in regular corporate worship. That's why Jacob built that altar. And just like he did that, so are we called to regularly worship in the midst of an unbelieving world. I want you to think about that. Once again, our apprehension of God's grace in our lives can really often be measured by the heart for and the regularity of our worship week to week or even day to day. Let me connect this with evangelism because I made a huge point about that in the first point here. We often forget that faithful worship of God in Jesus Christ at the altar of God's grace, which is really at the foot of the cross. is one of the most powerful means by which the church corporately evangelizes the world around us Now I'm not talking about making our worship look like and make it appealing for unbelievers and basing it on the whims and tastes and preferences of unregenerate people. I'm not talking about that. I'm not talking about like a seeker-sensitive worship. I'm talking about when Christ's people are corporately gathered together every Sabbath day. It is a testimony To the world around us, especially for those who maybe are not saved yet, who might be sitting in our midst, is a testimony to them of the power of the grace of God in our lives. That's what all this passage is driving for. And worship Reveals our continued need for grace. Which leads to our second point this morning. God's grace reveals a continued need for his grace. What's the main idea? Where does all this fuddle down into? Well, you see it in your bulletin, don't you? The pursuit of God's grace results in reconciliation. And yet it reveals our continued need for grace even after we come to saving faith in Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, let's press on to the goal of Jesus Christ. Set before us this morning. Let's pray.