If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and let's turn to Genesis chapter 25. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 18 this morning as we stand together for the reading of God's. were Genesis 25 1 through 18. Abraham took another wife whose name was Keturah She bore him Zimram, Jokshan, Midan, Midian, Ishbok, and Shua Jokshin fathers Sheba and Dedan, and the sons of Dedan were Asharim, Letushim, and Laomim. The sons of Midian were Epha, Ephir, Khanok, Abida, and El-Daa. All these were the children of Keturah. Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac, but to the sons of his concubines, Abraham gave gifts. And while he was still living, he sent them away from his son Isaac eastward to the east country. These are the days of the years of Abraham's life, 175 years. Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years. and he was gathered to his people. Isaac and Ishmael, his sons, buried him in the cave of Machpellah in the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite east of Mamrah, the field that Abraham purchased from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried with Sarah, his wife After the death of Abraham, God blessed Isaac, his son, and Isaac settled at Beer Lehroy. These are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's servant, bore to Abraham. These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, named in the order of their birth. Nabioth, the firstborn of Ishmael, and Kadar. Abdil, Mibsam, Mishmah, Duma, Masa, Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Nafish, and Kedma These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names by their villages and by their encampments, twelve princes according to their tribes. These are the years of the life of Ishmael. 137. He breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people. They settled from Havilah to Shur, which is opposite Egypt, in the direction of Assyria. He settled over against all his kinsmen. Well this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning once again thankful for your word, O Lord, that speaks to us as the word of a parent. to his children. Lord, we pray that you would help us to be attentive to what your word has for us to hear this morning. And Lord, even with the news of Abraham's death in this passage, we pray, O Lord, that you would continue to point our eyes to Jesus and to fill us with joy in the message of the gospel. We ask this in your precious name. Amen Well, no doubt you'll notice in your bulletin, the title of this message is The End of an Era. You can think back into history and There's probably many times you can point to that would be the end of an era, whether it was an event that happened or the the death and passing of a specific individual, or maybe both. When I think of the end of an era, I think of maybe like the fall of the Roman Empire in the mid-fifth century. St. Augustine lived to see that and wrote a book called The City of God, which has been a classic in Western literature since that time, where he talks about the kingdoms of man, or the city of man versus the city of God. of God. But it is interesting that shortly after the fall of the Roman Empire in the West, Augustine dying and passing from history, uh ushered in what we call the Dark Ages. Well, what characterized it as the Dark Ages? Well, the knowledge of the scriptures largely went out in the West. with the fall of the Roman Empire and the fall of classical antiquity. And Augustine with his passing became known as the teacher of the Western Church. So much of his writing has influenced Western Christianity, but with his passing, shortly after the fall of the Roman Empire, the end of an era. You can fast forward in history, the passing of John Calvin marks the end of, largely speaking, the Protestant Reformation and That led to what came after the Protestant Reformation, a lot of fragmentation in the Protestant churches in history. Or maybe some of you lived through the end of an era. I think about the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Um some 19 years before my time, but my dad told me the story when he was a kid in grade school hearing The announcement over the speaker at school that the president had been assassinated. And with that, if you really think about it, came the The passing, the end of an era. What era? Well, it's commonly been called the last age of American innocence. That led to the hippie generation. A lot of cultural upheaval following that. Or some of us have lived through an event. 9-11, the end of an era. Um, I really feel bad for a lot of people who were born maybe in the like 2000 and following they they didn't know what the world was like. prior to 9-11. I mean society was very different. The world was very different after that. The end of an era. That's what we see in our passage this morning. We see the end of an era. Abraham passes away. The veil of death falls upon Abraham as well. And that brings us to our main idea. Despite the experience of death that all people have. Christ, as the heir of Abraham, has secured the promised inheritance for us through his death and resurrection, which then gives us hope for life after death. What an idea. By the way, if you're visiting with us, you can see that printed there right under the you know last part of our worship service this morning. Despite the experience of death That all people undergo. Christ as the heir of Abraham has secured the promised inheritance for us through his death and resurrection, which gives us hope for life after death. That's the idea I want to unpack with you this morning from this passage. And we want to begin looking first at verses 1 through 6, where we see the descendants and the promised inheritance. That's what we see in verses 1 through 6 Now narrowing it down, let's look at verses 1 through 4, the descendants of Keturah. Now our passage last week ended with the story of Isaac and Rebekah's marriage, if you remember. That was a really long passage. It was really exhausting to read through that, to be honest with you. But if you remember how it ended, Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. What an interesting statement to say at the end of a wedding story. Isaac was comforted after the death of his mother. We saw that two weeks ago. In chapter 23, Sarah had died and was buried. And now in chapter 25, we're kind of back in that valley of the shadow of death here. We're going to soon face Abraham's own death. However, if you think about it, uh by the time Sarah passed away, and then Isaac gets married just a few years later, We've got a time gap of about 35 years between the end of last chapter and the beginning of this chapter when Abraham dies. 30, 35 to 38 years, depending on whether you mark from Isaac's marriage or Sarah's passing, we get Abraham's final years shared with us and opened to us in the first four verses of this passage. And what we see in verse 1 is the second wife of Abraham. Take a look at verse 1 again. Abraham took another wife whose name was Keturah. Now, in that 35, 38 years, we don't know exactly when he took her as a wife, maybe shortly thereafter. But he is she is called a wife here. I find that interesting. We don't know where she's from. I'm of the opinion she's probably was one of the servants born in his household, because if you remember he wouldn't allow his son Isaac to marry a Canaanite woman. Why would he? So she's probably from his household among the servants. I'm of the opinion that he married her after the death of Sarah, although it was interesting reading some commentaries. They seem to think that maybe he took her on as a second wife before Sarah died. I think it was probably after. Because there would have been 38 years, which would have been sufficient time to produce six sons, which we'll look at in just a moment. What I find interesting is the meaning of Keturah's name. Keturah's name is related to the verb in Hebrew that is used throughout the Old Testament to burn incense for sacrifice. What's really interesting is from what we know about her sons, again, which we'll look at in just a minute, the areas in which her six sons and their descendants settled was along the spice trade route in Arabia. Interesting. Interesting. Burning incense, burning spices. Her sons end up living along a spice trade route. But let's look at her sons here because we we see in verses 2 through 4 the sons of this second wife. You see the list of all six in verse 2, Zimram, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shua. Now I'm going to try to keep this as very simple as possible because many of these names don't mean much of anything to us today. And it's understandable. But verse 3 goes two generations deep into the sons of the second son, Joxhin, giving his sons names. Verse 4 gives the five sons of the fourth son of Abraham here in Midian. Now, that name should ring a bell to you. Midian. Midian, it's interesting. It's the Midianite traitors who, if you remember later in the story where Joseph is getting sold out by his brothers, they throw him into the pit. It was Midianite traitors who came along and lifted Joseph out of the pit, took him to Egypt, and sold him to the Egyptians into slavery. If you remember in the book of Exodus, chapter 2, at the end of chapter 2 and chapter 3, it was Moses ' father-in-law Jethro. who was a Midianite, and it says it calls him a priest of God. Isn't that fascinating that this this Midianite, this Gentile, you would expect him to be a pagan In Moses ' day and age, 400 years later, and yet Scripture calls him a priest of God. This is a man who had a true relationship with the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and we see why. He comes from Midian, one of the sons of Abraham through Keturah the second wife. But the Midianites were not all good, if you remember in Numbers 25. They were involved in seducing Israel to sacrifice to Baal of Paor. Right before going into the promised land, and you get to Numbers 31, God commands Israel, go and take vengeance on the Midianites. For what they did in seducing Israel at Baal of Paor. All of that detail is meant to draw out one observation or conclusion. on our behalf. The point of all of this is that not of all the children of Abraham , they are a mixed bag spiritually. The children born to Abraham in the flesh are a mixed spiritual bag. Now this would have functioned as a warning to the Israelites who would have heard this read to them from Moses in the wilderness. And it would be as if to communicate to them, do not put your confidence in the fact that you are a physical descendant of Abraham, for you too can fall, you too can be a mixed bag. Physical descent does not entail spiritual inheritance. And at least to verses 5 and 6, where we see the inheritance is promised to Isaac. Now, on the surface, you can imagine if you had all these children. By the time you come to die, you've got a hard time figuring out your inheritance policy. You've got a hard time setting out your will. And yet that doesn't seem to be the case for Abraham. Notice what verse 5 says. Isaac receives everything. Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac. You might be thinking, well, that's not fair. Okay, fairness has nothing to do with it. You remember exactly what God said to Abraham. He promised that he would bless Abraham and his seed through the covenant air. And so all that he had, when it mentions that in verse 5, is essentially talking about the covenantal blessings. Which, by the way, are both spiritual and material in Abraham's case. He gives them to Isaac because God repeatedly told him that the covenant would come through Isaac And if you remember in chapter 21, verse 12, right before sending Ishmael out, God promised and reminded Abraham that all of his descendants would be named in Isaac by saying they be named, those will inherit the covenant blessing through Isaac, through the promised seed, the child of promise, to use Paul's So what becomes of the other sons then? Well, verse 6 makes actually short work of them. But to the sons of his concubines, Abraham gave gifts, and while he was still living, sent them away from Isaac. his son eastward to the east country. Here's what's really interesting to me. Did you really catch this when we read through it or did you gloss over the fact that the word concubines is in the plural? Who are these women? I don't know. Because if you really think about it, you go back to Genesis chapter 16, when he when Sarah gives Hagar to Abraham, she gives Hagar to Abraham as a wife. not as a concubine. Katurah is spoken in verse 1 as a second wife not a concubine. And yet clearly he's got children from concubines in the plural Which tells you that the sons of Keturah are simply a sampling of many more sons that Abraham had. Did God indeed make him fruitful? Yeah. He did. But Abraham sends them away. And I want you to want to draw your attention in verse 6 to the fact that the focus is ultimately not on the other sons. The focus is actually on Isaac. Because Isaac is the point of reference. They are sent away from Isaac eastward. Why? So that Isaac in his inheritance of the land of Canaan as part of the covenant promise would not be compromised. That's what's going on here You see these descendants of Keturah, you see the promised inheritance goes to Isaac. And the question we have to take a step back on and ask ourselves by way of application is, how does the manner in which Abraham deals with his sons reflect the reality of the gospel. That's what we want to ask ourselves. How does this reflect anything remotely bearing on the gospel? Well, it points to the fact that merely being a child of Abraham in the flesh does not secure the promised inheritance. But being born of the Spirit, according to the promise, is what is needed And so what Moses is doing here that we need to pick up on by way of application is that this passage narrows down the seed of promise to the one child of promise. Yeah, Abraham had many children by means of the natural normal process of the flesh, a man and a woman. coming together in sexual union within the covenant of marriage and producing children. There's no doubt about it. This passage makes it very clear. Abraham multiplied exceedingly. But we've seen over and over again how Isaac is the child of promise that anticipates the Lord Jesus Christ. As the greater and ultimate child of promise, he is, Christ is, the son of Abraham. And just as this passage would have reminded the Israelites in the desert who had been redeemed out of slavery from Egypt, which itself is a picture of the gospel. Just as much as they would have been reminded that it was through their one Father, through one man, that the promise is passed on to them. This passage is designed to remind us today that the promises of God, the inheritance of eternal life, only come through one man, the Lord Jesus Christ. There is an exclusivity here that this passage is driving us towards. And interestingly enough, even though Abraham dies and will eventually die, the promises still remain valid. And even for us today, even though we die physically in the flesh in this world, the promises of God are still valid today. You remember what Paul said at the end of Romans chapter 8? He gives a list of all these things, sickness, nakedness, war, famine, and he says, not even death itself. can separate you from the love of God in Jesus Christ. But this passage reveals that we must be born again according to the promise of God. Because if Isaac is the one seed through whom the promise spreads to all of Abraham's children, all of his seed, through that one person. This reminds us today that we must be born again, born of the promise, if we are going to receive the promises of God. That was the challenge for the Jews to believe in the New Testament period in the first century when Paul wrote Romans chapter 9. If you read that chapter, he's answering the question, well, what about the Jews now that Christ has come? And now that he's come, we're seeing Gentiles flood into the church, trusting in Jesus for their eternal life, for their forgiveness of sins, for their salvation. But the Jews don't seem to come. And Paul argues over and over in Romans 9, 10, and 11, that it is not by being of the flesh of Abraham or Israel that saves you. Not all Israel are Israel, but it is those who are born of the promise His point is simply that being born in a believing family physically does not entail that one will be saved. Boy, this is something we have to take into real strong consideration today in our day and age, isn't it? Now parents like Abraham You are called to raise your children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. No doubt about it. But children, covenant children that are here this morning, it is not because your parents have a saving relationship with Jesus that you are going to be saved. It is by coming to Christ yourself. You must be born again. And so if you're here this morning and you have not placed your faith in Jesus Christ, maybe as a covenant child, the ultimate son of Abraham, through whom the promises of God are yes and amen, then you are essentially no different than the children of Abraham. And Ketura. Yes, there are benefits to being born into a covenant family. Outward benefits. No doubt about it. Being raised in a Christian home is a tremendous blessing. But you must be born again, born of the Spirit, which is a miracle that only God can perform. Just as he was the only one who can cause a 90-year-old woman who was formerly barren to bear a child and bring him into the world. And so, brothers and sisters, I want you to see very clearly from this list of Keturah's descendants and the idea that Isaac got the inheritance. The beginning of this passage reveals to us the great need that we all have, that if we are to receive the inheritance of eternal life from God, we must be And that leads us to our second point in verses seven through eleven, the blessings secured, uh, the blessing from secured promises or promises that are secured If you look at verses 7 and 8, you can see the blessing of Abraham in life and death. Now this is really interesting. There is no doubt that life was not easy for Abraham. Right? Isn't that interesting that his life is described with a lot of blessing as it's summarized here, and yet his life was hard. Maybe we should take something away from that. But we know that. Despite the difficulties. Verses 7 and 8 say these are the years of the life of Abraham, 175 years. But look at how it's described. He breathed his last and died in a good old age. An old man full of years, and he was gathered to his people. Now notice just a few details here. Verse 7, the length of his life, he was 175 years old when he died. This means that Isaac was 75 years old. Remember, Abraham was 100 when Isaac was born. So Isaac himself is 75 years old. Now, verse 26 of our same chapter here tells us that Isaac himself was 60 years old when Esau and Jacob were born. So at the time of Abraham's death, Jacob would have been fifteen years old. And so it's interesting to me, you don't see this on the surface, when you look at the details and you dig. You see that there was a period of 15 years where all three patriarchs were living together and knew one another. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But that's the length of his life, 175 years. Look at the description of the blessing. And I'm going to focus only on two of these for the moment. Verse 8, he died in a good old age, an old man full of years. What a statement. When it says he died in a good old age, that is exactly what God said would happen to him back in Genesis 15, 15. When God was making that covenant with him and he cut the animals in half, remember that? And he promised what was going to happen, your descendants are going to go uh to a foreign country, they're going to be slaves for 400 years. Four generations, and in the fourth generation, they will come back here and take the land, for the sin of the Amorite is not yet complete. But you, Abraham, in the meantime, you will die. At a good old age. Hmm. It's interesting that even in his death it showcases the goodness of God. in such a sad event. Here's what's really fascinating. This kind of blew me away when I thought about it and I read it actually. It wasn't my own original thought, but at the end of Jacob's life in Genesis 47, 9, Jacob goes down to Egypt. Joseph presents his father Jacob before the Pharaoh. And the Pharaoh asks him, this is kind of a, from an American standpoint, pretty rude question, but you know, it's a different part of the world, different time in history. The pharaoh looks at Jacob and asks him, how old are you? Remember Jacob's response? The days of the years of my sojourning are 130 years. Few and evil have been the days. of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their sojourning. What a contrast. Abraham's life and even his death is pictured in terms of he died in a good old age. He had a good life. Jacob, on the other hand. The days of my years have been evil. You see that same contrast going back to the Garden of Eden, don't you? The tree of the garden of, or the tree of the knowledge of what? Good and evil. You see the whole spectrum covered in the life of these patriarchs. But Abraham's life, while being contrasted with Jacob's, highlights God's goodness, God's blessing, God's promises, and yes, despite the difficulties that he went through. And then it says he was a man full of years. That word full could be translated as satisfied. How many people at the end of their life look back and They're not satisfied because they're like, I wasted so much time, I wasted so many opportunities, maybe I spent too much time working, not enough with my family, and the things that matter. Abraham Died satisfied in his years. That leads to the burial in verses 9 through 11. I'm not going to share a whole lot here. Because there's a lot that's the same with with what we looked at in chapter twenty-three when Sarah was buried. But the point that Moses is making here as he wrote this is that after living a good life full of God's blessing Abraham's body was committed to the ground by two of his sons, Isaac and Ishmael. And notice the order of them. It's not put in the chronological order in which they were born. You would expect him to say Ishmael and Isaac Isaac and Ishmael, highlighting the covenant priority of Isaac as the heir of the promises to whom Abraham gave everything. Where do they bury him? Same place they buried Sarah. In fact, they make a meant they make a point to say that this was the cave that Abraham purchased from the Hittites. Once again, the burial is they're committing the body to the ground in the land of promise as an expression of their faith that he would one day rise from the dead to receive his eternal inheritance. of which the promised land was but a shadow of a heavenly reality, according to the author of Hebrews in chapter 11. And so even in Abraham's death, just like Sarah, there is a hopeful expectation of the resurrection. They put him in a tomb where he still is to this day, but his tomb looks forward to an empty tomb. Two millennia later. But what we have here, if we put it all together is that Abraham walking with God in his life of 175 years only received a foretaste of the blessings that would one day be his when he rose again from the dead. Think about that. He he only got like the down payment, the foretaste. He didn't get the full experience of God's covenant blessings in his 175 years. And so we have to ask ourselves again by way of application, how does Abraham's death and burial point us to the means by which Christ has secured the inheritance for us? Well, it reveals that the greatest blessing of God's promises are only experienced in part now. But the full experience stands on the other side of the resurrection And I want you to grasp onto that. The blessings of God in this life are only experienced partially. That doesn't mean we don't experience them in full measure this side of eternity. We can be like Abraham and experience them in a satisfying way. But one of the dangers that comes in living in the modern world such as ours is we tend to see this world as all that matters. We live in a society that that is net we would call it a naturalistic secular society. This world is all that matters, this world is all that exists, if you can't see it, taste it, smell it, and so on, it's not real. That's the mindset of the world we live in. And because of that, we are tempted to oftentimes slip into this thought pattern of expecting God's full blessings now. I call it the microwave culture. I want this food. I want it now. I don't want to wait 45 minutes for something to cook. And that's kind of what's going on here. Dr. John Currid summarizes the issue this way in his commentary really well. Let me just read this. When we look over Abraham's life, we see that he merely tasted the promises of God. He saw God's promise of a great posterity only partially fulfilled. with the birth of Isaac and his other children, but he did not see them as the stars of heaven. He saw the land of his inheritance, but he never inherited it. But the situation is true of all believers. We have the great and precious promises of God. Yet we too know what it is to see, impart, to know, impart, to experience, impart. Even the fullness of the Holy Spirit, he writes, that we have received is simply a down payment on what we will one day receive. Like Abraham, we too must live by faith and die by faith, receiving in part, but not yet receiving in full what God has promised. So what does that tell you? Well, it tells you the other part of this application, the blessings will stand on the other side of the resurrection. And this just covers the same thing we talked about in chapter 23, that when Sarah died, just like Abraham now, and is committed to the ground, it's looking forward to the resurrection when she will one day rise again from the dead. Her tomb, and Abraham's tomb, which is still full, points to an empty tomb that is now empty, because 2,000 years ago Jesus Christ lived a perfect life. Kind of like Abraham's description, right? It was full. It was satisfying in terms of satisfying the divine requirements of God and the law. Both positively and negatively, he went to the cross, he died for us, he was buried in that tomb, he rose again on the third day You see, death is still the great enemy. Even Abraham had to go through it. But more importantly, the Lord Jesus went through it and rose again to defeat death. Hence that's why in our assurance apart in this morning, you will have noticed from 1 Corinthians 15, 54 through 58 which Steve so graciously read to us earlier, oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? Jesus is the first fruits of a new creation in which death will be banished. And it is when we ourselves are risen from the dead when Christ returns that we will one day receive the eternal inheritance that God has promised to us. Boy, you want to talk about the end of an era? That is what the cross and the resurrection was all about This is what Paul is harping on so furiously in Romans chapter 6 when he's like, don't continue to be a slave to sin. Why? You have died to sin. Sin and death no longer reign over you because Jesus Christ the first fruits of a new creation is already alive, already living. Death will never claim victory over him again. And he sits on the throne of heaven. He's the first fruits of the age to come. The era has already come to an end. It is just dying a slow death and has been for 2,000 years. Brothers and sisters who are in Christ this morning, you and I are already alive in Christ And though the veil of death over our physical mortal bodies will happen one day, inevitably, if Jesus Christ tarries in our lifetime The fact remains Jesus made a promise. Remember what he said to Mary and Martha and John chapter 11? I am the resurrection and the life. Though a man die, he will live. What an amazing promise. One practical thing you could do this week. In light of that. Spend some time reading Revelation 21 and 22. That gives us a glimpse of the inheritance that we're going to one day receive along with Abraham. and Sarah and Isaac. But keep in mind that as you read it, Paul does say in 1 Corinthians 2. 9, quoting from the prophet Isaiah, What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him. Revelation twenty-one and twenty-two is merely a glimpse, a foretaste to wet the palate. To develop your longing to receive the inheritance. And that leads us to our final point this morning in verses 12 through 18, the hope from promises fulfilled Now this is kind of interesting. We see in verses 12 through 16 the promises are fulfilled in this case takes a detour from Isaac to Ishmael And by the way, this section here, 12 through 18, is actually a section in Genesis all its own. If you look at the whole scope of the whole book of Genesis, there's twelve sections, and aside from the very first one, which begins in creation. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Every one of the rest of the sections begins with the phrase, these are the generations of. This is a section on the generations of Ishmael. And the question you have to ask yourself this morning is why would Moses include this section of genealogy giving the names of the twelve sons of Ishmael. Why would Ishmael be honored with an entire section of his own? These are the generations of, as one of the twelve sections of the book of Genesis. Why? Well, the answer goes back to Genesis chapter 21, verse 13. If you remember, that's where God told Abraham before he sent Ishmael and Hagar away. He said, I will make a nation. Of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring. And then again in Later on in that chapter, he says to Hagar, Up, lift up the boy and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation. Now that is fascinating to me, I don't know if it's fascinating to you, that God makes the covenant that goes through Isaac, and yet God in his grace in his mercy and in his goodness, only because he could, only because he wanted to, still gives a promise, a general promise, to Ishmael. And what we see here is God making good, following through on the promise that he made to Ishmael or to Abraham on behalf of Ishmael. highlighting his goodness and faithfulness to his word long after Abraham is gone and then eventually long after Ishmael is gone God is good. He keeps his promises. Even to someone who is outside of his covenant proper. And that leads us to our final verses, verses 17 through 18. You see, after giving all this list of names of the 12 tribes of Ishmael, kind of paralleling the 12 tribes of Israel, right? You see, hope after death in verses 17 and 18. Look at verse 17. It tells us that Ishmael was 137 years old. But look at the end of that verse. It parallels what it says about Abraham in verse 8. It says, he breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people. What a peculiar phrase. Gathered to his people. What is that supposed to mean? Well, I think first the mention of people in Hebrew as well as in English is in the plural form. So going back into verse 8, talking about Abraham when he dies and is gathered to his people, I don't think you can say properly that this is a reference to him being buried because he's only buried with one other person in the singular, namely his wife Sarah. It's gotta have a different meaning. By the way, the same phrase is used of Isaac in Genesis 35. It's used of Jacob in Genesis 49. They are gathered to their people. Okay, so secondly, outside of Genesis through Deuteronomy, which were written by Moses, you find the parallel phrase in 2 Samuel 7 in 1 Kings 2. David, it's used of David, of him lying with his fathers. Now the implication here is to be gathered your people is the same thing as going to your fathers. Now several commentaries, including John Curry, who I read that long quote from a minute ago, imply that this likely refers to the afterlife. An example of that would be an illustration from, remember the prophet Samuel telling Saul through the witch at Endor? You know, tomorrow you're gonna die. It's not something you really want to hear. Um, but what does he say? Tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. But thirdly, when Jesus is locked in debate with those Sadducees, which we read about in our New Testament reading earlier this morning. In that last week of his ministry. Remember they challenged him about the resurrection of the dead, and it says they didn't even believe in it to begin with? Remember what he said to them? As for the resurrection of the dead. Have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He's not the God of the dead, but of the living. Here's what's fascinating. Jesus is quoting in saying that from Exodus chapter 3, verse 6, which is 400 years after the physical death of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So when they go to their fathers, lie down with them, when they're gathered to their people, it is a statement that they are still alive, they are still conscious. What a hope that after being dead with respect to this earth and their physical body They are still alive. That's what Jesus is saying. The patriarchs are still alive with God. What a hope. For life after death. So how does God's dealing with Ishmael after Abraham's death point us to our own hope today? Well, it reveals to us that ultimately the promises of God don't depend on us. And we can trust that God will remain faithful long after we are physically gone from this earth because we have a hope of life after death. This is meant to be encouraging. This is meant to be encouraging. And it builds on the last application about the fact that we receive this side of death is only in part experiencing what God has prepared for us. There is a hope that we have for believers when we lie down with our fathers and when we are gathered to our people. Let me argue that from from the lesser to the greater, just to make my point. If God is faithful to his promises to Abraham and Hagar about Ishmael, who was not part of the true covenant community, How much more will he be faithful to keep his promises to us who are in Jesus Christ, who are a part of the new covenant community, despite the fact that we still go through the veil and the shadow of death in this life. He will remain faithful. Do you remember what Jesus said in John chapter 14? Do not let your hearts be troubled, and do not be afraid. For I go to my father, and I go to prepare a place For you. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, would I have told you this? Wow You want to know what Jesus Christ is doing today for you? He's preparing a place for you. He's preparing your inheritance for you to one day receive that every all the blessings that you have in this life. Here and now, your marriage, your children, maybe the success of your career, the money that He's enabled you to make to support your families, and passed on a physical inheritance today. A home and a roof over your head. All of these things are only experiencing what God has in store for us in fullness in eternity. And if those things are good now, imagine how good they will be later. What an encouragement we find from the message of the gospel that Jesus Christ Died and rose again to secure for us the promises of God that we don't have to live in despair under the veil of the shadow of death Brings us right back to our initial point, doesn't it? Despite the experience of death that we all have as people. This side of eternity. Christ as the heir of Abraham has secured the promised inheritance for you and for me through his death and more importantly his resurrection, which gives us hope. For life after death. Do not put all the eggs of your hope in one basket in this life Yes, God wants us to have an abundant life this side of eternity, glorifying Him, enjoying Him, and serving Him, but it is but a foretaste, brothers and sisters. Of the glory and the joy and the abundance we will have one day in eternity. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to a passage like this, that on the surface is a sad passage, the death of the patriarch. But Lord, your word is so clear in the Psalms. Precious in the sight of the Lord are the death of his godly ones. And so important and precious are those, Lord, that you sent your son, who underwent the sentence of death and rose again from the dead, that we might have life and have it to the full. Father, I pray that as we walk out these doors this morning or early afternoon, Lord, I pray that you would fill us with a hope. And an appetite that has been wetted for what we will receive when we are, most importantly, face to face with you. All the blessings, even of eternity, will pale in comparison to seeing you face to face, the one who's guaranteed Our inheritance. Bless us, O Lord, we ask in Jesus' name