If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open them to Genesis chapter 35. We look at it in verses 1 through 15 this morning. Genesis 35, 1 to 15. And I would invite you to stand For the reading of God's holy word. Genesis 35, beginning in verse 1. God said to Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. Make an altar there to God who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau. So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, Put away the foreign gods that are among you, and purify yourselves and change your garments. Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, so that I may make an altar there to the God who answers me in the day of my distress, and has been with me wherever I have gone. So, they gave all the foreign gods that they had, and the rings that were in their ears. Jacob hid them under the terabinth tree that was near Shechem. And as they journeyed, a terror from God fell upon the cities that were around them, so that they did not pursue the sons of Jacob. Jacob came to Ludz, that is, Bethel, which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who are with him. And there he built an altar and called the place El Bethel, because there God revealed himself to him when he fled from his brother. And Deborah, Rebecca's nurse, died, and she was buried under an oak below Bethel. So they called its name Alon Bakuth God appeared to Jacob again when he came from Padon Aram and blessed him. And God said to him, Your name is Jacob. No longer shall your name be called Jacob, but Israel shall be your name. So he called his name Israel. And God said to him, I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply A nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall come from your own body The land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac I will give to you. And I will give the land to your offspring after you. Then God went up from him in the place where he had spoken with him, and Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it, and poured oil on it. So Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him, Bethel. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you and we are so thankful, O Lord, for your word. Lord, I think about even as we hear this I think about uh Ephesians chapter five, uh that chapter that talks about the relationship, Lord, between husbands and wives and how that's meant to be patterned on the relationship of Christ and the church. And how the Apostle Paul wrote that, Lord Jesus, you wash your bride with the washing of the water of the Word. so that you might purify for yourself a bride that is spotless and without blemish to be presented to you on that great day. Lord, we pray that you would just take your word this morning. And that you would wash and purify your bride, the church, this morning through the preaching of this word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we are coming near to the end of Jacob's story arc in the book of Genesis. Now that doesn't mean that we're coming to the end of his life, because the end of his life goes through almost the end of the book. But the focus on Jacob is coming to a close end. In fact, this week and next week are going to kind of be two sermons that go together that talk about how Jacob's story is completed in God's work in his life. Now if you remember last week, we saw a very strange a and morally complex passage in Genesis thirty-four when Jacob's daughter Dinah had been raped by a man named Shechem, who was the prince uh of the city of that name. and how Jacob's sons deceitfully dealt with them and ended up slaughtering the whole city. In fact, if you remember where we ended last week at the end of chapter 34 in verse 20, Jacob ends up rebuking, I'm sorry, verse 30, Jacob ends up rebuking his two sons who committed that murder. And it was a mass murder. And he essentially tells them, you're going to bring down trouble upon me with the inhabitants of the land. Now if you remember, one of the things that I mentioned about that strange story towards the end of Jacob's story arc is that The name Yahweh, or the divine name of God, or the generic term for God, is not used. It doesn't mean that God is entirely absent, it just means on the surface, He is not mentioned. Well, now God shows up at the beginning of our passage. And we see God's command to Jacob to come to Bethel in verse 1. Take a look at verse 1 again. God said to Jacob, Arise. Go up to Bethel and dwell there, make an altar there to the God who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau. So there's obviously a clear command to go to Bethel. At this point, Jacob is still in Shechem. He's probably still living in that tension of whether or not the inhabitants of the land are going to gather together. and try to attack him and kill him. And God steps in and tells him to go up to Bethel. Why go up? Well, there's a few reasons. The first is probably the most obvious. Bethel, geographically, is at a higher elevation than Shechem. So that would make sense. You're gonna have to go up the hill country. But I think more importantly, the language of going up implies what God has in mind in telling Jacob to go to Bethel. Oftentimes you see this language in the Old Testament, they went up, and it was for the purpose of worship. In fact, you see this all throughout the Old Testament when it talks about people going up to Jerusalem. What's the purpose of going up to Jerusalem? Well, that's where the temple's at. You you worship there. You read in the Gospels, Jesus traveling with his disciples in the synoptic gospels, slowly moving from the north in Galilee to the south. In Judea, and yet at the same time, it doesn't say he went down to Jerusalem and Judea. No, he goes up to Jerusalem. And so when God tells Jacob to go up, it is for the clear purpose of worship. And this is where you see Jacob's story arc coming full circle because he tells him to make an altar there. Now The idea of worship, I think, is obvious. God telling Jacob to dwell in Bethel may be a little bit of a surprise, but that's what God tells him. He tells him to make an altar. Now he says that's the signal there that God is going to appear to Jacob once again. It's really interesting in verse 1, he says Make an altar there to God who he describes himself as who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau So that kind of gives you the signal. It kind of gives you the alert that the idea of building an altar is I'm going to appear to you again, which we will see in verse 9. And so Jacob already has an expectation laid out for him. But why build an altar? Is it just for worship? I mean, worship is the plain, obvious reason, but is there something more? Well, I think more than worship, which is important enough, building an altar illustrates or anticipates Israel's conquest to take the land of Canaan, which is what they will originally do uh eventually do in the book of Joshua Now, if you go back and you remember when Abraham was first called to leave Ur of the Chaldeans, he and his father went to Haran, his father dies, and then he eventually comes down to the land of Canaan. in chapter 12. If you remember what he does, he does something very interesting. He goes first to Shechem. Then he goes to Bethel, and then he goes south, continuing to work south, to the Negev or where Beersheba was at. And what does he do in each one of those places? He builds an altar. What's the point? Well the point is obviously worship, but it's it's there's a conquest going on. And in this case, Jacob is being told to go on a spiritual conquest. Establishing an altar, establishing the presence of God, establishing true worship among the pagans that he's living around. In fact, it's not just a spiritual conquest, by the way. This is actually, in a sense, a form of judgment on the people for their idolatry. And because of that, you see Jacob give an interesting command in verses 2 through 4. He commands his family to prepare to go to Bethel. Let's take a look at that. Look at verse 2. Jacob says to his household and to all who were with him, put away the foreign gods that are among you, and purify yourselves, and change your garments. Now I won't focus on verse 3 for the sake of time, but verse 3 essentially just says, when you do that, we're going to Bethel and we're going to worship there. I want to focus on verse 2. There's three things that Jacob says and he tells them to do before they come before a just and a holy God. First, he tells them, put away the foreign gods among you. Now that might shock you to hear that Jacob's family, if you really think about it, the covenant community in covenant relationship with God has idols among them, and yet there it is. Put away the foreign idols among you. Highlight that word, foreign. Now maybe that shocks you. I don't think it should. that they had idols among them in their family and in their covenant community. In fact, when you go back to Genesis chapter 31, when Jacob fled from his father Laban , You might remember that Rachel stole the household gods from her father Laban in Genesis 31. 34 and you remember the story because we went through it. She hid those idols and she sat on them so that he couldn't find the idols when he was looking for them. But it's interesting that Jacob didn't know that she took those idols. And yet she's got these idols. But more than that, I think it's highly unlikely, and many commentators would point out point this out, by using the phrase uh foreign gods, it is likely that when Jacob's Sons killed all the people in Shechem, all the men. It says that they plundered the city. in chapter 34. It's likely that they would have taken these peoples, pagan gods, these little household idols, um, as trophies. And in the uh in the ancient Near East, this is what happened oftentimes when kings would go on conquest and they would take over a city. They would take the gods of that city and take them captive to demonstrate and declare their power and their lordship over these foreign gods. Maybe that's what was going on in Jacob's family, but the point is they had these idols. It defiled them spiritually. And so Jacob tells them, put away these idols. Now, in in the original Hebrew text, that is what is called a causative stem. And what that means is the verb just literally means turning aside, but a causative stem intensifies the meaning. makes it a whole lot more forceful and it literally means get rid of forcefully these foreign gods that are among you No, I want you to think about that. If these are idols that Jacob's sons likely took From their conquest and spoil of Shechem, these were trophies. And these were trophies of their pride, their strength, right? Their prowess in battle. And so the idea is not only getting rid of the idols in a physical sense, but if they're going to do that His family has to want to get rid of them deep down in their hearts as well, which means they are willing to humble themselves by giving up something that means so much to them. That's the idea. Put away the foreign gods among you, he says first. Secondly, he says, purify yourselves. Now again, the the verb in Hebrew that's used here for purify yourselves. has a ritual, uh occultic, a ceremonial term, but it also does have a moral term, a moral um sense to it as well. And again, at this time in history, like the rest of the Old Testament, when you're purifying yourself, it involves some kind of washing with water. You're washing your body with water, which would make somebody outwardly and ceremonially clean, in this case, before the Lord. Now we know from the law of Moses that and from the New Testament that these ceremonial washings were common. in the Old Testament law, they pointed forward to the washing of the heart, the washing of the conscience, or a moral washing of everything deep down in you that's sinful, so that you can come into the presence of the Lord. And Jacob tells him, wash Purify yourselves. And lastly, change your garments. Now what's really interesting to me is you see something very similar commanded of Israel when they are at the foot of Mount Sinai in Exodus 19, verse 10. If you remember, they're about to meet with God, and God says, in three days, I'm going to come down on this mountain and I'm going to give you the law. And we know from Exodus 19 and 20 that the Lord actually did that. And what did they do? They prepared to meet the Lord there. They changed their garments. They washed themselves. And ironically, after the incident with the golden calf, several chapters later in Exodus 33, Moses tells them the same thing. You guys have sinned so horribly. You've completely and spiritually wiped out. Take off your bracelets, your earrings, change your clothes before the Lord while I go up and I plead with him to forgive you. Well, it's the same idea here. The changing of these garments signifies a repentance. It signifies a transformation into a new man before the Lord. Now what's interesting is each of these three things, putting away the idols, purifying yourself, changing your garments. signify that Jacob's family has a very deep spiritual need because of their spiritual condition And that has to be fixed, that has to be solved, that has to be worked through before they come into the presence of the Lord. And what's interesting is in verse 4 they actually listen to him. They give him the idols. Do you see that in verse 4? It's very clear. So they gave Jake to Jacob all the foreign gods that they had. They humbled themselves. And the rings that were in their ears. the jewelry, likely associated with idolatry. Jacob hid them under the terabinth tree that was near Shechem. Now that's a strange thing to do. I mean when somebody gives you something that's important to them, do you find a tree and go bury it? Not likely. But that's what happened here. Why Well, because at that time in history, again, in the ancient Near East, trees, in this case a terebinth tree or an oak in other contexts, trees were symbols of these pagan gods. In fact, if you have an old King James Version of the Bible later in the Old Testament, God will tell Israel, wipe out and cut down the groves. What is that referring to? Well, a grove of trees. Why? Because the trees were the symbol of these fertility gods that the Canaanites worshipped. And so when Jacob takes these household idols, these Foreign gods. He puts them under a tree that signifies the idol itself. What is he doing? Well, he's hiding those idols in a place where his family would not be able to find them and reclaim their idols. In a sense, Jacob is removing the idols from his family. He's burying them, signifying that these things are dead, and his family is dead to these things, never to be found again. So how does Jacob's command here and his action in burying these things, how does this point us to our greatest need and the solution for that need? That's the question we want to ask as we seek to apply this this morning. Well, Jacob's command to his family shows us that we continue to have problems with idolatry. even though we are part of the outward covenant community which we call in the New Testament the church. And so there is a clear um command Or clear impetus in this passage to repent of our idolatry. I mean, Jacob's family and their struggle with idolatry mirrors And reflects the fact that we as Christians today also struggle with the same thing. You know, I'll give you two quotes and they're approximate quotes, but you know, remember St. Augustine once said in the early church, Lord, our hearts are restless until they what? Rest in you. In other words, we tend to try to rest our hearts, our hopes, our desires in some form of idolatry, and it's so easy to do that. What's a lot harder is to submit those idols and give them to the Lord and then rest in him. Calvin, centuries later, in the sixteenth century, once said, our hearts are idle factories. Right. Constantly fabricating something new to latch on to. By the way, this is why the Apostle John ends his first epistle in 1 John 5. 21, and it's a comment that seems to come almost out of the blue. He just says, little children, keep yourselves from idols. Period, stop, end of the letter. Okay. Keep yourselves from idols. Now I want you to think this through. Now, most of us in this room probably don't have some kind of household idol or physical object that we're bowing down to that's in our house, right? But we do have idols that maybe aren't so obvious Like the idol of materialism and living to acquire more and more and more things, resting your hopes and your happiness on that, only to never be satisfied? Others might serve the idols of sex or pleasure or entertainment. Yet others might serve the idols of career and professionalism and status and reputation. Or relationships or how about this? Even sports. I really wrestled on whether or not to say that because you know Super Bowl Sunday is next week and If you're going to watch the Super Bowl, look, I don't want you to feel guilty. You can do that. But we do have to understand that in our culture, in our society, sports is a huge idol. Or how about this? Let me give you one more to consider. This might be a touchy one, but I think it's important for us to realize today. Some people serve the idol of their own children. And put their children and what their children think and what their children want above what the Lord is calling them to give as parents. I remember years ago, I feel weird saying that because I don't think I'm that old, but Several years ago and the first church I was ordained in, we had a family um that would come maybe come maybe once a month. Sometimes it was like once every other month. But they had been they had been members for such a long time. And I remember talking to the father one day, one Sunday, they happened to be there, and I said, I haven't seen you in a while Where where have you guys been? He said, Oh well my son had, you know, this I I forget what he was playing. I think it was soccer My my son had this soccer tournament here and then he had this soccer thing there and this there and so we've been we've been traveling all over the place and I said Well why how are you doing that with a full-time job? Because I knew this guy was an architect. How are you doing this with a full-time job? And he said, well we we do this only the the tournaments are only on Saturdays and Sundays And I thought to myself, wow, okay, so you're putting I should have said this, I didn't, sadly. But I thought to myself, you're putting what your son wants and his ambitions with sports above what the Lord is calling you to instill in your children. What's the root of that? Idolatry. Isn't it interesting that God would call Abraham to sacrifice his son? his only son whom he loved, who he had in his old age and waited a hundred years to have? What a test is he going to idolize Isaac? So it leads us to ask ourselves this morning, what about the idols that you have? Are you willing to put them away? Because that really, the gospel is the solution to idolatry. Idolatry is a heart-level issue. which requires a heart-level solution to this problem. And the only solution that God provides is the gospel. And interestingly enough, the gospel, we can see it anticipated in the very three commands that Jacob gives to his family. And I want to look just very briefly at how the gospel ties into each one of those. The first one, putting away the idols that we serve. You know what the New Testament language is for that? Repentance. If you were in Sunday school this morning, Steve was sharing from Acts 3 and Acts 4. He was looking at the preaching of Peter. And what does Peter consistently say to these people as he's evangelizing them? Repent. Speaking to Jews who had the law in the first century, who went to temple and synagogue, repent. Because even they struggled with idolatry. So there's a call to repentance here that the gospel lays out for us. Turning away from these idols, putting them away. Purification. The waters of purification in the Old Testament pointed forward to the blood of Christ that cleanses from sin and idolatry. Now there's no doubt that Jacob's sons would have washed themselves with water, and they would have been outwardly cleansed. But the gospel gives something so much more. Listen to Hebrews chapter 9 verses 8 through 10 and then verses 13 through 14 He writes this, by this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing, which is symbolic for the present age. Talking about the temple. According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshipper, but only deal with food and drink and various washings. Regulations for the body imposed until the time of Reformation. Fast forward to verses 13 and 14. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God to purify our consciences from dead works to serve the living God. Wow. I think the point is sufficiently clear to see that in order to be purified, we must come into and stand in the presence of God. In order to do that, we have to be purified first. And the purification that we need must be able to cleanse not only the body, not only the physical things that we might do in our sin, but to cleanse the very heart, the desires, the affections that lead us to do those things in the first place. And so what does this call us to do? It's not just repentance, which is putting away the idols. It is also coming to faith in Jesus Christ. And the question I want you to ask yourself as you kind of diagnose where your heart is this morning, as we think about coming to the Lord's table. Is this? What are you trusting in to clean you this morning, to wash you from your sins and the stain of your idolatry? Boy, that's a that's a tough question. And the last thing here, changing the garments. Because when you do come to Christ, when you do repent This changing of the garments is a representation of taking off the garments of sin and idolatry, or in other words, unrighteousness, and being clothed with the righteousness of Christ that comes by faith. What does the Apostle Paul say in Galatians chapter 3? For those who've been baptized have been clothed or have put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's talking in context there about justification by grace through faith, about receiving the righteousness of Christ. Wrapped around you so that when by faith, when the Father looks at you, he does not see your sin, but sees the beauty of the righteousness of his son. Wrapped around you, clothed. What a picture of the gospel we have here. In the very first part of this story, And what we see in verses 1 through 4 is our very first point that is unfolded right before us. It's the response of putting away our idols. But the story goes on in verses 5 through 8. We see in verse 5, the fear of God, when Jacob and his family go to Bethel. Look at verse 5. As they journey on, it says they journeyed, a terror from God, that's interesting, fell upon the cities that were around them so that they did not pursue them. Well, that goes right back to chapter 34. Jacob was afraid that the nations around them were going to be gathered together to destroy them after what they did at Shechem. God protects them. The fear of God, it's not just a fear, it's a terror. Comes upon the people. They don't attack Israel. By the way, remember when I said that building the altar is a lot like going on conquest, in this case a spiritual conquest? When they do the military conquest later on in the book of Joshua, this is similar to what happened to Israel. Do you remember what Rahab the prophet, or the prophet, the prostitute , who I guess prophetically said in Joshua 2. 9 to the spies, she says, I know that the Lord has given you the land Talking about giving the land to Israel. And that the fear of you has fallen on us, that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you. As Jacob goes to Bethel in this spiritual conquest to put this altar in Bethel and declare that this land belongs to the Lord, not the Canaanites? It's a picture of what is to come with his descendants. And that's exactly what he does in verses six through seven. It just says it very clearly, as a matter of fact. He builds there an altar. He names the place El Bethel, which means the God of Bethel, or the God of the house of God. And the whole point is very clear. He prepares a place for the worship of the one true God. But in the midst of this conquest, in the midst of this worship, I want to draw your attention to verse 9. Because this is kind of like a detail that you read this and you're like, what does this have to do with anything in the story? Look at verse 9. And, while they're there, Deborah, Rebecca's nurse, died, and she was buried under an oak below Bethel. And he called its name Alon Bakuth. Now that that is a really curious detail for Moses to mention as part of the story. perfectly honest and tell you of all the commentaries I looked at as I prepared for that, as I scratched my head, um I found that they were scratching their heads too. They're like, well, we're not quite sure exactly why that's there, but it is an interesting aside. Moses had to put that there for a reason. So aside from the little ambiguity that's there, let me just do my best, put it before you, and you can weigh it as best as you can as you deal with God's word. Why is that there? First, here's just a few observations. One, we never learn Of Deborah specifically before this. She's never mentioned before. She's net by name, she's never mentioned after What we do know from Genesis 24 verse 59 is that Rebekah, when when she left home and pot on Aram to go marry Isaac, she did take a nurse or nurses with her. And so in this passage, we are at least told the name of one of these nurses. That's the first thing we we can say definitively. Secondly, we can say definitively she clearly dies in Bethel That's interesting because this is where Jacob originally fled from Esau, as we know, from back in chapter 28. But if you remember, just before he fled and reached Bethel, Rebekah made a certain promise to Jacob at the end of chapter 27 that she said, when Esau's anger had turned away, or simmered down, She was going to send for Jacob to bring him home to his father's house once again. Hmm. And then he ends up in Bethel where God appeared to him. Now here's what's really interesting. Thirdly Rebekah's never mentioned again after this passage. And next week we'll see when Jacob comes home to his father, Isaac's house, but Rebekah's not mentioned. Now, again, it's it's an argument from silence, so we do have to be a little careful here, but it's the implication is likely that Rebecca has already died at this point. Now why do some people say that? And why do I think that there might be something to that? Well, do you remember when Rebecca was trying to get Jacob to go along with her plan to deceive Isaac, to steal the blessings. You remember Jacob's kind of, he had an objection. He didn't just want to do it. Well, I'm paraphrasing him here. Mom, what if dad realizes that it's me and it's not my brother Esau? I'm not going to end up getting a blessing. I'm going to end up bringing a curse upon myself. Do you remember what Rebekah said to him? Let your curse be upon me, my son. It is possible that the curse of that deception fell upon Rebecca and she died prematurely because she's not mentioned after this. And fourthly When she dies , she being Deborah in this case, Deborah is buried under an oak in Bethel. Isn't that interesting? Jacob buried the idols under the Terebinth in Shechem. Now She's buried under an oak in Bethel. Again, the oak is likely associated with the pagan worship of the people of the land. And Jacob names this place Alon Bakuth, which just simply means in Hebrew the oak. Now, for all the significance that we can maybe debate, I think one point is very clear. The point is that while Jacob returns to the place where God originally appeared to him for the purpose of worshiping, that worship is not without an admixture of grief and sorrow. Now that is one thing I think that you can't really debate in out of that passage. He's there to worship. He's there for God to appear before uh for God to appear to him and have fellowship with God, and yet at the same time On the other hand, that worship is mixed with grief and sorrow. Clearly Jacob knew who Deborah was very well. And so the question again is, how does this background inform the way that we come before the Lord in worship today? Now I'm not going to say a whole lot about this, except to say it shows us that even when we follow what God calls us to do, we often come before Him in worship with grief and sorrow in our hearts. Let me just say this very short, very briefly. Some of you here are going through things in your life And it's not because you've done something wrong. Maybe it's something with your job. Maybe it's like some contention in your family. Maybe it's sickness. It could be anything. But when you come into the presence of God, just because you walk through these doors doesn't automatically mean that every care in the world that you are wrestling with just all of a sudden falls off your shoulders. Now sometimes we do have those mountaintop experiences. My experiences, those are far and few between. Some of you are here this morning and you're dealing with things in your life that causes grief and causes a very deep sorrow. And I just want to encourage you that as you're here this morning in God's presence, Just because you feel those things does not make you any less spiritual in God's presence. Doesn't make it make you any less valuable In God's presence, you are still here. And oftentimes the worship of God can be accompanied with grief and sorrow in our hearts. So we see that in our passage here. And that leads to the the last, the second point here. It's just not just a response of putting our idols away. There is a response of coming into God's presence that is not tied to how we feel emotionally. God 's presence is not tied to your emotions or your circumstances. It transcends those things, and He enters into those things, which leads To the last part of our story that unfolds before us, we see the appearance and the promises of God in verses 9 through 13. This is what the passage has been driving at. the whole time. This is what Jacob's life has been driving at this whole time. The appearance of God. Look at verse 9. God appeared to Jacob again when he came from Pod on Aram and blessed him. Again, that points back to Genesis 28, which we've mentioned a few times, where God appeared to him in a dream. But I want to highlight here that God blesses Jacob by reiterating the promises that he's made all along. Look at verse 10. Let's just. Let's just fly through these promises this morning. Verse 10. God said to him, Your name is Jacob. No longer shall your name be called Jacob, but Israel shall be your name. That's the second time Jacob's name change is mentioned. Dr. John Currid. Professor of Old Testament at Reformed Theological Seminary helps us understand why it's repeated here. Why it's the second time. This is what he writes. The first Theophany, when he was wrestling with God, occurred in the Transjordan. In other words, outside of the Promised Land. But now he is actually standing in Canaan and God's promise of a land is validated. It is directly under his feet. So he blesses him with a new name, a new identity, transforms him. In verses 11 through 12, we see that God reiterates the blessing. to Jacob and there's three things that are mentioned here. First, he reveals himself in verse 11. He says, I am God Almighty. Some of you are old enough to remember in 1982 I actually looked it up. This was just before I was born, so I wasn't there for this. Remember Amy Grant? The song El Shaddai? What does El Shaddai mean? It means God Almighty. It's the Hebrew for God Almighty. I am God Almighty. It relates to the fact that God is able to fulfill his promises to his people, and Jacob is getting a foretaste of returning in peace. So the land of promise is kind of like the down payment of, okay, God, you are good on your promises. I can trust you. Then he promises offspring. Goes on to say, be fruitful and multiply. That's a command that is also part of the blessing. A nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall come from your own body. Notice those three things. A nation, singular, we know that's Israel. And a company of nations, some commentators think that that is referring to the Gentiles being included one day in the distant future from Jacob's point of view. I think there's probably something to that. And kings. We know those kings come from David's line. Now, here's what's really fascinating to me Those are all the same things God told Abraham back in Genesis chapter 17. But then not only the offspring, he promises them land. Again in verse 12. The land that I gave Abraham and Isaac, I will give to you, and I will give the land. to your offspring after you. Everything that God had promised to Abraham, Jacob inherits, and those promises will carry forward. to Israel as history progresses. And Jacob's response in verses 14 through 15 is very simple. I'm just going to say he responds by praising God for God's promises. We just see that he sets up a pillar, he pours a drink offering on it, oil, he worships. He praises God for what God promises. So we ask this by way of application. What are some of the specific promises of God that should drive us to worship this morning? Jacob had a reason for worship, do we? Well, the promise of a coming king. This is my summary application here. The promise of a coming king has been fulfilled. And yet we look forward to our final inheritance. Now I'm latching on to, under that offspring thing, I'm latching on to the kings, right? The promised king has come. Of all of these promises of offspring and descendants beyond the stars of heaven, it all culminates in pointing to one coming king, and that king was Christ. He was the son of David, the son of Judah, whom Jacob will say in Genesis 49, the kings will come from, the son of Jacob, the son of Abraham. Brothers and sisters, God has certainly fulfilled his promise in sending the coming king. And I want you to see this morning that the coming and the person and the work of Jesus Christ all illustrate in real time the meaning of the name El Shaddai, which is God Almighty. Do you remember in our first application I highlighted the the um putting away of the idols in repentance, the purification for sin that we all need, and the putting on of the garments of righteousness. that only come to Christ, how could God accomplish all of that? It was only through the powerful work and person of Jesus Christ on the cross, but also in the resurrection. It's interesting to me how in Romans 4. 25, which I was reading in my quiet time yesterday, it ends that chapter talking about the promises made to Abraham. It highlights the death of Christ for our sins and the resurrection for our justification. How about that? How could that possibly happen? Because Jesus Christ is El Shaddai, God Almighty, revealed in the flesh for your redemption and for mine. Put on full display. But you know what? It's not just what God has done in Christ. The last thing we see here is that we still have an inheritance that we are looking forward to. Now I'm latching on to the land promise there that God gave to Jacob because when you get to Hebrews 11. What you find is that Abraham was looking for a heavenly country and an abiding city whose builder and architect was God. In other words, this Canaan that's being promised is an earthly shadow of the heavenly hope that we have. And so why do we worship this morning? We worship because of one what Christ has already done for us, but we worship because of the hope that we have in receiving an inheritance when the King who is Christ returns. That leads us to our third point in this passage, the final point, from verses 9 through 15, the response of praise for his promises. How does all that get put together? Well, if you're visiting, you can look in your bulletin and you can see the sermon idea printed right there for you. Our response to God's call is to put away our idols, to come into his presence, and to offer praise for the fulfillment, and I'm going to add the hope, of his promises in Jesus Christ. That is what this passage is all about. The gospel applied. So the question you have to ask yourself this morning as we close, where is your heart? This morning. Are you trusting Christ or are you trusting an idol? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you. We are so thankful, O Lord, for your word that speaks to the issues of our lives, but speaks to the issues of our hearts. Lord, we ask and pray again that you would wash us with the water and the cleansing of the word, but Lord, that you would prepare us to come and enjoy fellowship with you at a table that we have been invited to. And we pray, oh Lord, that you would help us to love you and to enjoy you more today because of the word in the sacrament. We ask this in Jesus' name.