Well, if you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them as we stand together and turn to Genesis chapter 45, verses 1 to 28. This is the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, Make everyone go out from me. So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, please. And they came near. And he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed. Or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the in the land these two years. And there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me and do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children, and your children's children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have. There I will provide for you. For there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household and all that you have do not come to poverty. And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my mouth that speaks to you. You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt and of all that you have seen. Hurry and bring my father down here. Then he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. Then he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. And after that his brothers talked with him. When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, Joseph's brothers have come. It pleased Pharaoh and his servants. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to your brothers, Do this, load your beasts, and go back to the land of Canaan, and take your father and your households. And come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt. And you shall eat of the fat of the land And you, Joseph, are commanded to say, Do this, take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father and come. Have no concern for your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours. The sons of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them wagons according to the command of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for the journey. To each and all of them he gave a change of clothes, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred shekels of silver and five changes of clothes. To his father he sent as follows, ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and provision for his father on the journey Then he sent his brothers away, and as they departed, he said to them, Do not quarrel on the way. So they went up from out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob. And they told him, Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt. And his heart became numb. For he did not believe them. But when they told him of all the words of Joseph which he had said to them, and when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived. And Israel said, It is enough. My son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you having just heard one of the most moving stories in all of Scripture. Lord, we pray that you would open our hearts to see what it is you want us to see in Joseph, in his brothers, in Jacob. Lord, help us to see a clearer picture of you, Lord Jesus. And that just as moving as this story is, Lord, we pray that you would move us to respond the way that this passage would call us to respond by example. And Lord, we ask that you would move in our hearts through the Holy Spirit this morning. Lord, it is not my words as a preacher that is intended to stir these people. It is your Holy Spirit and your word. And Lord, we pray that you would accomplish the work in us We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the life of Joseph boils over to a feverish pitch at this point in the narrative. If you remember last week, Joseph laid out one of the final tests for his brothers, in which he had his servant take his prized silver cup and put it in Benjamin's sack. Unbeknownst. To any of the brothers. And you remember the penalty that was laid out for the one who had the cup, or who was found to have the cup, was the pain of death. And we saw last week again that when Benjamin, uh who was supposedly to be the culprit was found to have the cup. They went back to Joseph in the city and we we saw Judah's almost perfect intercession for his younger brother, because you remember Jose or Judah was the pledge for his brother's safety. And we in that pri in that intercession, the primary concern that Judah had was that if Benjamin would not come home, because Joseph detained him, their father would die. Interesting, all these son and father dynamics on Father's Day. You really can't make this up. But the point of our passage this morning is pretty simple. And if if you are visiting with us this morning or you're not accustomed to how we do things here, you'll see that on page 5 in the middle, right below the liturgy, you can see the sermon idea that I'll be unpacking from the passage. And it's the sermon idea is this, when Christ reveals himself to us, he forgives and reconciles with us from our sin. And revives our very souls by faith through his own resurrection life That is what this passage is driving us to see, and then will drive us to respond to this morning. So you'll notice that's two points. Our first point in verses 1 through 15 is this. The revelation of Christ, forgiveness, and reconciliation. The revelation of Christ, forgiveness, and reconciliation. We see in verse 3 the story again picking up at that feverish boiling point moment, we see in verses 1 through 3 the revelation of Joseph to his brothers. Now notice in verses one and two the emotional climate of this revelation I said in the prayer, and I said from the beginning, that this is one of the more um moving stories in all of Scripture, and this is a story that is really meant. by the Spirit of God to stir our hearts and to pay attention to that emotional climate. Look at verse 1 as it picks up after they had this meal with Joseph the night before. Verse 1 picks up, then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, Make everyone go out from me. So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. Boy, the emotions just bleed right out of this passage. Joseph could take it no longer. He's heard his brother Judah plead on behalf of his other brother Benjamin, and taking into account how this would affect their father, he can take it no longer. And notice what verse 2 says, he weeps our aloud. The ESV says he wept aloud. The Hebrew literally could be translated, he gave his voice with weeping. Boy, that's pretty descriptive. Verse 2 tells us there's two groups of people that hear this weeping or become made known about this weeping. The first is more immediately the Egyptians. You can imagine he's just sent them outside, they've shut the door, and I don't know, in my sanctified imagination, they're probably wondering what's going on. Why are we being hurried out of the room? And so, you know, like Like children, maybe they close the door and they're they're standing outside the door listening and they hear Joseph, their master, weeping aloud. I don't know if when the last time you heard somebody close to you, and I'm speaking in proximity close to you, weeping aloud, whether you knew them or not. When you hear somebody weep, it really is a moving experience because you're seeing their heart come out. So the Egyptians Hear this, likely standing outside the doors, but notice the second group that hears is the household of Pharaoh. The report comes to the house of Pharaoh. Now, there's something very ironic about that detail there because Joseph is weeping over the presence of his household and his brothers. who are with him, and Pharaoh's household hears of it. Again, very moving, and Yet the brothers' initial response to this revelation in verse 3 may be exactly what you would expect, or maybe not. Depending on how you look at this. You can imagine the brothers that must have been wondering that very moment before Joseph opened his mouth and spoke, what is going on? They're probably thinking the same thing that these Egyptian servants are. I mean this is j they don't know it's Joseph, but this is this is the Lord of the land weeping in front of them. Who are they? They're just lowly shepherds. From Canaan. And in verse 3, Joseph reveals himself and says, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? What a revelation for them to hear those words. I am Joseph. And they heard it in Hebrew. Now, remember, up to that point, according to Genesis 42, 43, a few chapters back, they had been communicating with Joseph through an interpreter. In other words, Joseph has been playing the part all along that he is an Egyptian lord who doesn't understand what they're saying when they're speaking in Hebrew, he's speaking in Egyptian, and some translators they're intermediating between them And now they're hearing Joseph in his own voice in Hebrew in a language that they understand, say, I am Joseph, is my father still alive? Now he's just heard the plea of Judah in the last chapter That if if if if we come home and and Benjamin here is not with us, our father will die. He You would think that he can gather that his father's alive and yet overcome with emotion. He wants to be sure it's my father still alive. And their response is captured at the end of verse 3, but his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. Now clearly they're in shock, which is understandable. It's kind of ironic again. They were just telling Joseph, not knowing who they were talking to, about a brother that they had who was dead, who was no more, because he was torn to pieces. Not realizing they're talking to the very brother that they're talking about. They're shocked. Why would they be shocked? Because they know what they did. That verb dismayed used here could also be legitimately translated that they were alarmed, they were disturbed, or they were terrified. You you plug in any of those words. uh into that sentence and I think it would add some color and flavor to what's going on. Why would they feel that way? Because one, they know what they did, as I just said, but they know that Joseph knows what they did. And all this time they've said here and there up in the narrative, sprinkled about, they believe that the justice of God has found out their iniquity. They're dismayed, they're terrified, they're fearful, they're disturbed, they're alarmed. Why? Because think about it, their hearts must have been beating in that very moment. Standing in front of Joseph, their brother, who's the Lord of the of the land, and thinking that this is finally the moment of our reckoning Joseph is going to take his revenge against us. And it's interesting that our passage begins at this height of the tension, and yet this is really only the beginning. Because we see in verses 4 through 13, this doesn't unfold the way that they expect in their fear. They find in verses 4 through 13, we find the forgiveness from Joseph. of his brothers. Now this is by and large the longest section of this first point And most of it's taken up with Joseph explaining to these brothers what has happened and in the past and what is happening in front of them right now. But behind all of this explanation is the fact that Joseph has forgiven his brothers. And the question we have to ask this morning is, how is Joseph able to forgive his brothers of the horrible sin committed against him? I mean, it's been 22 years. You know, and a lot of those years he spent suffering in slavery and then being thrown into prison. Falsely accused. That is a legitimate question we ask as we work our way through this. How in the world can Joseph forgive these perpetrators against him? Well, we find in verses four through five, as we unpack that question, the need for forgiveness, Joseph repeats himself, likely due to the incredulity of his brothers in verse 4. He again says, I am your brother, but he specifies now Joseph, whom you have sold into Egypt. Now, there's something I want you to notice there as we think about the need for forgiveness. Notice that he acknowledges that they sold him into slavery. I mean, who else other than them would know this than Joseph? But what's fascinating here is he acknowledges their sin against him in verse 5. He says, now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. No, I'm going to stop there. I know I'm cutting that off mid-sentence, but there's a point that I'm trying to make. Joseph, as he forgives his brothers, does not explain away their sin against him as if it didn't happen. He doesn't excuse it. Why? Because excusing sin is not the same as forgiving sin. He acknowledges it. It happened. As they had done beforehand. He does this not knowing Well, beforehand, they didn't know he could understand them. But he forgives them while acknowledging the reality of that sin against him. Now, let's pick up where I stopped mid-sentence in verse 5. We see the providence of God behind Joseph's forgiveness. This continues to answer the question, how can Joseph do this? The providence of God is the short answer, but there's a series of contrasts here that are intended to speak to the heart. of where his brothers are and what they must have been wrestling with in that very moment. Look at verse 5. I'm gonna read the whole thing again, but you'll see the contrast. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. We read that. Why? For God sent me before you to preserve life. Notice that contrast there. Don't be angry that you did this. God did this. You sold me. God sent me. Why? For what purpose? Well, to preserve life. There was a purpose in what had happened. That Joseph was able, um, I believe because God had worked in his heart and revealed it to him, but Joseph was able to divinely discern what God had been doing in his sovereignty through those circumstances. Verses 7 through 9, Joseph makes the same point, but he does so in reverse. It focuses first on what God does. And then them. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. Again, notice the contrast he's drawing. Not you, ultimately, but God. for the purpose of preserving life. And in verse 9, he summarizes the work of God. God has made me Lord of all of Egypt. By the way, if you're really a careful reader paying attention, that really does answer the question, how does Joseph find the ability to forgive his brothers? Now, we need to break that down just a little further here. First, God is the one who ultimately sends Joseph to Egypt. Now, when Joseph says that God sent him in verses 5 and 7 and 8, the verb is used in those three verses. Moses, who wrote this under divine inspiration, uses a an active stem in that Hebrew verb, which means, to make a difficult technicality simple An active verb is used and not a passive verb to communicate that God actively ordained and God actively worked through the circumstances to get Joseph to Egypt and make him Lord of the land. Why? Why is God actively working and doing these things? Because he had a plan. He had a purpose that he was working out. And that purpose was to preserve life, to save Israel or Jacob's family. That was the purpose Now what's my point in highlighting that technicality? Only to say that in this story, in this in this historical narrative God does not passively allow things to happen as if they're outside of his control and he's just simply allowing it. That's not what is going on here That is not what is going on here. The active verbs rather highlight that he is active in his providence, in his sovereignty, in the way he governs and controls all things that happen in the world. And what is the purpose of God's active providence? What is the purpose of his active sovereignty, as we see in this passage? To save sinners. Those brothers were sinners. They had sinned. They did something really bad in betraying and selling off their brother. And yet, what does God in his grace do actively? He's working to save them. Not because they deserve it, but because he is gracious. That's the first thing I want to highlight. God is the one who ultimately sends Joseph to Egypt. The second thing is the brothers are truly responsible for their sin. Again, when Joseph talks about his brother selling him in verse 5, Moses uses that same Hebrew verb stem, which is active. And so despite God's control of all things, I don't know if despite is really the right word, but I can't think of a better word. Despite God's control of all things These brothers are still truly an act they still truly they still actively sinned, and that makes them truly responsible morally before God and before Joseph for what they did to him. Now that begs the question, as you unpack this and think it through. What is the relationship, therefore, between the sovereignty of God and the moral responsibility of human beings? What's that relationship? I'll tell you the mistake that most people make. They think that it's either or It's not either or. It's both and. Why is it both and? Because there is a distinction between the creator above us and the creature below. We're not on the same moral playing field as God. He is Lord, and we are not. This is why it's not either or, it's both and. Now, anything further than that, it's interesting. Someone asked Spurgeon that question one time. If you read enough Spurgeon, you realize he's a cheeky individual. Like he he knows how to answer a question. That will get you to think. Someone asked him, what is the relationship between God's sovereignty and man's moral responsibility? And at the end of the day, Spurgeon, who read five volumes of Puritan theology every week, this was his answer. I don't know. I just know they're both true. They're both in Scripture. We can't ignore either one. But how does all of this relate to Joseph forgiving his brothers? Let's get back to that initial question. How does all this relate to Joe Joseph forgiving all of these brothers, the ten of them at least? He is able to acknowledge the truth of that they sinned against him and betraying him and handing him over to those uh who sold them to Egypt, and yet he also understands the bigger picture to which they in their sin were unaware. Namely, that God was working to save his family through Joseph going to Egypt. That's how he's able to forgive them. This salvation was totally by grace, not because of the sinful brothers deserving it. It was to fulfill, rather, the promise that God had made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And seeing God's purpose in all of this had a leavening effect in the heart of Joseph, so that just as God had grace on his family and on his brothers, So also could He extend grace to them despite their sin. And just as God wanted to save them the whole family, so also did that desire on God's part come to transform and characterize what Joseph wanted for them as well. Wow. I once heard someone say we don't pray to change God's heart. We pray to bring our hearts in conformity to his. What an example. Now we see in verses 14 through 15 the reconciliation of Joseph with his brothers that results Here finally, Joseph embraces his brother Benjamin first. That is his full brother. They had the same mother and father. Right? And then the rest of his brothers. And notice the the phrase weeping comes up over and over again here. Weeping in both cases. Now, he does say when he embraces the rest of them, the idea of kissing all of his brothers in verse 15 is meant to highlight the full forgiveness, the full reconciliation between Joseph and his brothers. Notice the result of this in verse 15 at the end. After that, his brothers talked with him. What's the result of forgiveness and reconciliation? Well, the result here is that there's fellowship. That issues forth from this forgiveness and this reconciliation. These people that were at enmity with one another, that had hostility between one another, have been fully reconciled, fully forgiven, and therefore there is fellowship between them. There's nothing between them that that bars that fellowship any longer. That's the power of the gospel. And the question we ask ourselves is, how does the providence of God in our trials relate to forgiveness and reconciliation? Well, just as Joseph was able to forgive his brothers because of God's sovereign desire to save his family, so also does Christ forgive us because of God's sovereign desire to save sinners like us. Like me and like you. Think about that. As we unpack that application really quick, Christ And the sovereignty of God and salvation. John Calvin speaks in his commentary about this. He talks about this idea of God Using wickedness, or wicked means, in this case the wickedness of the brothers, to bring something good, to bring salvation. And this is what Calvin says in his commentary. But God works wonderfully through their means, in order that from their impurity, by the way, their impurity is referring to the brothers, their impurity, he may bring forth his perfect righteousness. Now that may seem like contradictory to us from our human limited perspective, but Calvin goes on to say, this method of acting on God's part is secret. And far above our understanding. That's true. We see the same paradigm play out in the gospel and in salvation, but the the gospel is something that we were made to understand. Think about it. We stand in the place of the brothers here whose sin has betrayed Christ and sold him off for whatever it w whatever it was that we were hoping to gain through our sin. Right Some of you perhaps are hoping to gain fame or recognition or honor, and you seek to do so through sinful means. Some of you maybe are hoping to get wealthy and you seek to do so through sinful means. Or some of you may perhaps are maybe hoping to derive pleasure through sinful means and manipulating and using and abusing other people for your own base ends. Well, whatever the sin is, right? We have to understand that it costs Jesus being betrayed and sold to suffer death on a cross. Now that's wickedness. Peter talks about that in his Pentecost sermon when he's preaching to the Jewish people or who are hearing them speak in tongues and he's in interpreting that great event to them at Pentecost, but he highlights to them, you know, you have crucified the Lord of glory. Wow. And yet it's through that sin that put Christ on the cross, that wickedness, that horror, that God used as the means by which He saved us from certain death. In other words, when we struggle to understand how God can use wicked means to accomplish something good in our lives, something going through something that's maybe not comfortable. It could be a conflict, it could be a trial like loss of employment, whatever the case may be. When we look at these these things that are trials to us and wonder how can God use these as means to accomplish something good in my life? We have nothing more than to look at the cross of Jesus Christ as the salvation from our own wickedness. But this is not something that you just think of in the abstract. This has to become personal. And that leads us to understand that this whole dynamic of forgiveness that we see in our passage, it's not it doesn't just have this this vertical dynamic between us and God when we were separated from Him through our sin. But then once that vertical side is taken care of, there's a horizontal reality to this as well. The forgiveness that that we receive comes with apprehending God's sovereignty and salvation. This is the horizontal part of this. Now, I quoting commentaries here, and there's some interesting points to make in them. Dr. John Couraud, who's an Old Testament professor at Reformed Theological Seminary. writes this in his commentary. He's got an application section in each of his commentaries that are helpful. And this is how he summarizes his application for our section here. He writes this. It's so good. Yet he responds to his brothers with compassion and forgiveness. He embraces them and loves them. But how could he do that? Something that is so much against human nature, it is simply because he believes in the sovereignty of God. That's kind of what I've been trying to say. He goes on. He understands that God was working through all the painful events and that his purposes are coming to pass. Then he goes on to make this really personal. He says this in his commentary. Dear Christian, is there a person in your life whom you need to forgive? Or from whom you need to receive forgiveness? Take care of it now, so that Christ may be honored. For how can we not forgive others when Christ has forgiven us? It's always a very weighty thing when we're like reciting the Lord's Prayer, Lord, forgive us our debts as we have forgiven our debtors. Like how can you possibly say that if you're holding a debt against somebody else? What you're essentially saying is, Lord, to the extent that I'm holding this debt, hold my debts against me. That is a frightening converse statement to make. And so the question I'm putting before you, brothers and sisters, this morning is, do you have conflicts with people? Is there something that you're holding on to, maybe that you need to let go of? And you need to put it at the cross and leave it there. That's what this passage is driving us towards. If we've received the forgiveness of God in Christ. And we've truly understood what our crime or sin was against him, and we truly understand the depth of the forgiveness and mercy and compassion that we have been given. How could we not respond? By making peace with those around us in the body of Christ as the covenant people, as Joseph does with his covenant family here. But that's not the end of the story. The second part of this in verses 16 through 28 is our second point this morning, the revelation of Christ and revival through resurrection. Where am I going with that? Well, in verses 16 through 24, we see the provisions from the Pharaoh for Jacob. You know, as the story progresses, Joseph must now arrange somehow for the salvation of his family to be enacted out in in real time, in practical measures, right? This isn't just a pie in the sky, I forgive you. Now there's consequences. Good consequences. We see in verses 16 through 20, Pharaoh commands Joseph to give his family provisions. Now I love this. There's some wordplay here going on. In verse 16, it begins, When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, Joseph's brothers have come. It pleased Pharaoh and his servants Now again, they heard the weeping in the earlier part of the chapter, and they probably would have inquired, why is our vizier crying? Right? What's going on? Well they found out his brothers have come. And it pleased Pharaoh and his servants. You know, again, that word can be, the phrase can literally be translated, and it was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants. Now the ESV is certainly accurate in the sense that it's trying to communicate, you know, but I think the choppy literalism of trying to render that from Hebrew to English even though it doesn't sound great, is really beneficial. Why? Because there's a connection that will come at the end of verse 18. Right? This, you know, as they are trying to figure out in Pharaoh's household what's going on with Joseph's household, and they find out his brothers have come You know, we see in verses 17 through 18, when they find out, Pharaoh tells Joseph, Well, bring your father back to Egypt. And look at the end of verse 18, if you have your Bible open. It says, Pharaoh says, I will give you, that is you and your family, the best of the land of Egypt, and you shall eat of the fat of the land. By the way, I love that phrase at the end. You shall eat the fat of the land. Just reminds me like the fat was was reserved for God later in the sacrifices because it was supposed to be the best part of the animal. Thank God for the for Christ, and we can eat that now. But the fat of the land, the best. But when he says, I will give you the best of the land of Egypt in the first part of that clause, again, the best of the land of Egypt is more literally translated the good of the land of Egypt. And I draw that connection between the literal phrases of Pharaoh here to show that Joseph's brothers coming, being good in Pharaoh's eyes. leads to the response of Pharaoh then offering them the good of the land. It's good in my eyes, I'm giving you something good in return. It's an interesting wordplay and it's a generous offer. And it's an incredible offer given the fact that Egypt, just like Canaan, is still in the midst of a famine and will be in the midst of a famine for five more years. Pharaoh had that dream interpreted to him back in chapter 41. He knows that There's still five more years, and yet in Pharaoh's good graces, he's willing to give the best to God's covenant people. And so in verse 9, he commands Joseph. to give his brothers the wagons to go back to Canaan to take the whole family down to Egypt. Now in verses 21 through 24 we see the provisions that Joseph gives to his brothers in addition to what Pharaoh commanded, and it is really interesting. Let's take a look at those details very quickly. Look at verse 22. To each and all of them he gave a change of clothes. Okay. Interesting. Moreover, he gives to Benjamin his full brother, did you notice this also, three hundred shekels of silver and five changes of clothes? It's like all the brothers get one, Benjamin gets five. This is very similar and in keeping with what happened when they enjoyed that covenant meal with him. They all got portions from Joseph's table, but Benjamin got five portions from Joseph's table. My question here is why does he give a change of clothes? What's the significance of this? Why is it important? I'll give you a few reasons. First, the word for change here does literally mean a change of clothes, but I think that there's more to it than just the literal. Yes, the literal, but more. The word is also used in Job 14, 14, where Job, if you remember in his suffering, says this. All the days of my service I would wait till my renewal should come. That term for renewal there in Job is the same word used in Hebrew here for change. And so some interpreters believe that what Job is referring to is a physical renewal of resurrection in the afterlife. And so think about that. In this case, the change of garments would signify a newness of life that is being given to these brothers that results from their forgiveness and their reconciliation. Secondly, we need to keep in mind that when they sinned against Joseph back in chapter thirty-seven Remember when they threw him into a pit? What did they do before they threw him in the pit? They stripped him of his garments that his father had given him in chapter 37, verse 23. Here's what's really interesting, and this is very Joseph is very precise, as God is very precise. The reconciliation has Joseph doing the opposite of what the brothers did to him. In other words, the redemption that he's giving them fits the pattern of reversing the crime of their sin. What a beautiful symmetry we see in God's word and how precise his redemption is. As a side note, some of you think that you've sinned in certain areas of your life, and those areas are broken, and there's no redemption. This is just how it is. You're going to continue in your brokenness. I got news for you. The power of the gospel says otherwise. God has the power to redeem those areas of our lives that we deem the most broken. I've said this before, I'll say it again, I'll be quick with this comment because it's not in my notes, but it is interesting how garments and clothing play such a significant factor. In the story of Joseph. Even when Joseph gets elevated out of prison, first when he shaves, he's given new garments, and then when he's elevated to the right hand of Pharaoh, he's given royal garments, right? Garments signify redemption. That leads here to the end in verses 25 through 28. We see the declaration that revives Jacob. I can only imagine the joy and excitement of all the brothers heading back to Canaan to tell their father Jacob. I mean, think about it. The the guilt that they've been bearing for twenty-something years has now been taken away. They've been reconciled. You can imagine the scene. When they left, Joseph was presumably dead. They all presumed that Joseph was dead. Simeon was imprisoned, and we saw Jacob in his own words earlier. Jacob kind of presumed that Simeon himself was all but lost or dead as well. So he in his mind he's lost two sons, and now Benjamin's gone with them, and Jacob's probably home picking and biting his nails in anxiety. What's going to happen with Benjamin, the last son of my beloved wife Rachel? And now you can imagine the excitement. All of them return. All of them. All the brothers come back. Simeon is there. Benjamin is returned. He sees the joy in his son and the excitement. And what is more is they have good news. The son that he thought was dead is alive. And alive and well. Jacob is getting back all of his family that he considered lost. All of them redeemed. All of them restored. You think that he would be jumping for joy, but that is not what happens. Right? We saw this in verses 25 to 26. When they tell Jacob that Joseph is alive, Verse twenty six ends by saying, His heart became numb. Why? For he did not believe them. All right, let's just pick that apart very quickly. Why does he not believe them? He knows his sons He knows what they're like. He raised them. He's seen them at their worst. He knows that they're cheats. He knows that many of them have been scoundrels and have done horrible things. What track record do they have that he should believe them? He doesn't believe them. But I want to highlight what he's saying here about his heart. His heart became numb. That word for numb can be translated as feeble or cold. And so I'm thinking on looking at this, the numbness or coldness of Jacob's heart is like saying that his heart is simply dead to what they are saying. They're making a glorious declaration, proclamation, and his heart is dead to it I mean we have to understand where he's coming from and why that's the case. Think about it. Joseph went to Egypt at 17 years old. That's when he was sold into Egypt. He was exalted at 30 years old. There were seven years of plenty, which would bring him to 37. And now Joseph has just told them the brothers, that they're two years into the family, bringing him to 39 years old. It has been twenty-two years since Jacob had last seen Joseph. And it's been twenty-two years that Jacob has believed that his son Joseph was dead. Bearing that grief for that long does not just turn on a dime usually. And so his heart is numb. That is until look at verse 27 and 28. He hears all the words of his son, and they he sees the wagons that Joseph has sent. By the way, I did some research into this. Wagons were not all that common at that time in the ancient Near East. They were a little more common among the upper class in Egypt. Which would tell you where would these poor shepherds get all these wagons full of all these I mean, th that was kind of proof and evidence enough that, oh, there's some truth to what they're saying. And look at verse 27. This is beautiful. The spirit of their father revived. What a contrast to just one verse before, dead and cold, now alive and revived. And the last observation I want you to make is an observation of transformation. And it's very subtle. In verse 28 , Jacob's name switches to Israel. Do you see that in verse 28? And Israel said, before it had been Jacob. And Israel said, It is enough. Joseph, my son, is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. Once he's revived in believing that his son lives, he's called Israel. He's transformed fully and finally. He's made alive once again because of the life and the exaltation. of his son. So the question I want to ask as we draw this to a close, how does the provision of God in Christ meant to bolster and warm our hearts through faith this morning? Well, the provision of Christ's righteousness is meant to fill us with confidence and new life as we seek to follow Christ daily. We see the provision of Christ's righteousness in the provision of Joseph and his family. Joseph provides the change of garments to signify the new life and the status of his brothers who had Before him, stood before him, really is forgiven and reconciled. Jesus does the same thing in offering and providing a change of spiritual clothing for us. I want you to think about this. Our natural clothing, as sinful human beings, we are clothed in nothing more than the unrighteousness of our iniquity before God. The prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 64, 6, says this. He says, We have all become like one who is unclean. And all of our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. And normally I wouldn't highlight this, but it is a detail in that text. That word polluted garment means a filthy, bloody, menstrual rag. And if that sounds gross to you, that's how God sees our natural righteousness We need to hear that. But oh the grace, compassion, and mercy of God. He doesn't leave us there. When we come to Jesus Christ, he takes that polluted garment of our soiled righteousness off of us. He replaces it with his own righteousness. So that the Apostle Paul, when he's arguing that we are justified by grace through faith alone, in Christ alone, Paul writes this in Galatians 3. 27. in the New Testament. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. You could translate that, have been clothed with Christ. He is your garment. His righteousness is your garment when we come to faith in him and trust in him for our salvation. And that brings to the last thing I want to say here, the provision of a revival by his resurrection. Just as Joseph was revived through his trust. in the report that his son Joseph was alive and was reigning in Egypt, so also does Christ promise to revive us Revive our dead hearts when we trust that He is risen from the dead and reigning at the right hand of His Father in heaven. Theologians and Bible commentators and Bible students have long called that regeneration. It means going from spiritual death to spiritual life. And again, citing the Apostle Paul in Colossians 3, 9-10, he writes this: Do not lie to one another. Seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator Here there is neither Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free, but Christ is all and in all. Yes. And so like Jacob, we are called to trust that Jesus is alive and that he calls us to himself as we live during the famine of this life with all of its challenges. He provides all that we need to live and come after him. How does this build on the first point? You have been forgiven in Christ. You have been reconciled. You are called to be at peace and reconcile with one another as the body of Christ. Some of you here this morning might be feeling a spiritual malaise in your life. Have you wondered why? What's your relationship with Christ? You may have a verbal profession, and that's great. But what is that relationship really like? Is it characterized by peace and forgiveness with Christ so that you have that with one another? Or are you still holding on to things with a numb heart? To the promises of God. Brothers and sisters, my hope and prayer for you this morning, and my prayer for myself, is that the Lord would enliven our hearts. that we might be warm in our response to him as we live out difficult lives in difficult times with difficult people. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for this redemption and this passage. We have long been waiting this for several weeks as we've been working through Genesis. Lord, we thank you for the gifts of forgiveness, reconciliation. We thank you for the gifts of you reviving our hearts. And making us whole and new again. Father, I don't know as I stand up here where each person's heart is sitting out in the congregation, but you do. I pray, O Lord, that if there are any here who maybe are like Jacob that are numb in their hearts and cold, Lord, that you would enter in with the power of the Spirit and the power of the gospel and the promises in your word and that you would light that fire again in their souls to revive them. And to give them the joy of their salvation. Father, fill us today with your word and your Your spirit. Transform us, we ask in Jesus' name