If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and open to Genesis chapter 38 as we stand together for the reading of God's holy word. Genesis thirty-eight, verses one to thirty. It happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to a certain Adulamite whose name was Hera. Where there Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. He took her and went into her, and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Er. She conceived again and bore a son, and she called his name Onan. Yet again she bore a son, and she called his name Sheila. Judah was in Khsib when she bore him. And Judah took a wife for heir his firstborn, and her name was Tamar. But Er, Judas firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord put him to death Then Judah said to Onan, Go into your brother's wife and perform the duty of a brother-in-law to her, and raise up offspring for your brother. But Onan knew that the offspring would not be his, so whenever he went into his brother's wife, he would waste the semen on the ground, so not as so as not to give offspring to his brother. And what he did was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and he put him to death also. Then Judah said to Tamar, his daughter-in-law, Remain a widow in your father's house till Shelah, my son, grows up, for he feared that he would die like his brothers. So Tamar went and remained in her father's house. In the course of time, the wife of Judah, Shua's daughter, died. When Judah was comforted, he went up to Timnah to his sheep shearers, he and his friend Hera, the Adulamite. And when Tamar was told, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep, she took off her widow's garments. and covered herself with a veil, wrapping herself up, and sat at the entrance to Enayam, which is on the road to Timnah. For she saw that Sheila was grown up, and she had not been given to him in marriage. When Judah saw her, he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face. He turned to her at the roadside and said, Come, let me come in to you for he did not know that she was his daughter in law. She said, What will you give me that you may come into me? He answered, I will send you a young goat from the flock. And she said, If you give me a pledge until you send it. He said, Well, what pledge shall I give you? She replied, Your signet and your cord and your staff that is in your hand. So he gave them to her, and went into her, and she conceived by him. Then she arose and went away, and taking off her veil, she put on the garments of her widowhood When Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adulamites to take back the pledge from the woman's hand, he did not find her. And he said to the men of the place, Where's the cult prostitute who is at Eniam at the roadside? And they said, No cult prostitute has been here. So he returned to Judah and said, I have not found her. Also, the men of the place said, No cult prostitute has been here. And Judah replied, Let her keep the things as her own, or we shall be laughed at. You see, I sent this young goat, and you did not find her. About three months later, Judah was told, Tomorrow, your daughter-in-law has been immoral. Moreover, she is pregnant by immorality. And Judah said, bring her out and let her be burned. As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law. By the man to whom these belong I am pregnant. And she said, please identify whose these are, the signet and the cord and the staff. And Judah identified them and said, She is more righteous than I, since I did not give her to my son Shalah. And he did not know her again. When the time of her labor came, there were twins in her womb. And when she was in labor, one put out a hand , And the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand, saying, This one came out first. But as he drew back his hand, behold, his brother came out And she said, What a breach you have made for yourself. Therefore his name was called Perez. Afterward his brother came out with the scarlet thread in his hand, and his name was called Zerah. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you today and we come into this passage, Heavenly Father, which is a difficult one. It is full of all kinds of complexities and cultural nuances and things that are just so unfamiliar to us. And then there are the things that are familiar to us, Lord, the sin that is so evident in the passage. We pray that you would help us to make um heads from tails of this passage, that you would give us understanding. We also ask, O Lord, that you would open our eyes to see more clearly the gospel of your Son Jesus. And to embrace Jesus in faith because of your word today. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Well, if you're visiting with us this morning, uh you may not know that we are in the middle or coming somewhat close to the end of uh a series throughout the book, the whole book of Genesis. And the last time we were in Genesis a few weeks ago, prior to Holy Week, we left off with Joseph's brothers plotting to sell him into slavery. And then him being eventually being sold into slavery by the Ishmaelites and the Midianites. You can see that in the last chapter, in chapter 37. And next week we're going to return to Joseph's story and see what's going on with him as he begins his time in Egypt. But Moses pauses the Joseph story to focus in on a specific event in the life of Judah. And it's not uh it's it may look like kind of happenstance that it was just put there, but it's not. I I want to be up front and say that the story this week with Judah and Tamar is intended by Moses, the author of Genesis, the human author of Genesis. It's meant to form a stark contrast with what we are going to see next week when we jump back into the life of Joseph. There is a contrast being formed between Judah and Joseph. And interestingly enough, despite the contrast, Both events point us to the gospel of Jesus Christ. So let's jump into our story, which I just read. We're obviously not going to go verse by verse through this, but I want to highlight some things that might be easy to miss. Our passage begins in verses 1 through 5. Laying the context for this particular sin that happens apart from God's people. Notice what verse 1 says. Joseph separates from his brothers. It says specifically, it happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to a certain Adulamite whose name was Hera. Now Adulam is just the name of a place, apparently named after this man, or this man was named after that place, but his name was Hera. Now, again, this kind of makes sense as to why Moses puts it here chronologically. It happens right after Joseph is sold into slavery. But notice what it says that Judah went down from his brothers. That uses a Hebrew preposition that highlights separation. There is a separation that is affected between Judah and the rest of his brothers, the covenant community of Israel. Now your guess is as good as mine as to why Judah decided to leave. I saw one commentary that said he was so disgusted with his brothers after selling uh them to uh you know, the Egyptians in Egypt um that he just had to leave. I'm not really sure I buy that because it was Judah's idea to sell them in the first place. However, the fact remains that he separates from the rest of the covenant community. That's the only fact that you can establish. He left, right? And this means that he does not have the influence of the rest of his family, the rest of his brothers. He doesn't have the influence of his father and that covenant community. to influence how he is going to live going forward. In a sense, he's going to go off and do his own thing, and that's exactly what he does This kind of isolation, as we're going to see, leaves him vulnerable spiritually. And verses 2 through 5 show us how Notice Judah, as he is separated from his brothers in verses 2 through 5, marries a Canaanite woman. Verse 2 summarizes saying, There Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. He took her and went into her. Now, believe it or not, we're not actually told here in this passage the name of Shua's daughter, but if you go to 2 Chronicles chapter 2, verse 3, which is in the midst of nine chapters of genealogy. You try reading through that. What you find is that her name is given as Bath Shua It gives that as her proper name. The name Bethshua just means daughter of Shua in Hebrew. But regardless of all that, notice who she is, notice where she comes from and what is her people group. She is a Canaanite woman. And the way that Judah marries her, the way that Judah takes her is very instructive and illustrative in this story. He sees her and takes her. He sees what is pleasing to his eyes. And based on and judging on what is pleasing in his eyes, and his eyes alone on the outside, he takes this woman, goes into her, and marries her. And as we see in verses three through five, has three sons with her. Now the strange thing about this, and the thing I want you to pay attention to, is this is the first action of Judah after separating from his brothers And his first action in doing this is doing something that his fathers had not done before him. What do I mean? Well, if we go back to Genesis chapter 24, Abraham is getting old, and it's his job culturally to find a wife for his son, but remember what he said to his servant. You shall not take as a wife for my son Isaac from the daughters of the Canaanites. Now again, we've explained multiple times. This is not racism. at play in the Old Testament, there was a spiritual concern. Why? Because the Canaanites were characterized and their culture was permeated by idolatry, which would then poison the s spiritually the covenant people of God in Abraham's family. And so Isaac got a wife from among Abraham's family up in Mesopotamia. You see the same dynamic with Jacob and Esau in Genesis 27 and 28. We know that Esau took uh Hittite women, uh, who are also part of that Canaanite branch or family nationally. Also idolaters, they made Rebekah and Isaac's wife miserable, and they said in those chapters, let's send Jacob away, lest he take from the daughters of the Canaanites. And what are our lives going to be worth living if he does that? And Jacob went to Mesopotamia to his family and found uh Well, found wives. That was not the original plan, was it? But he found at least two wives and then got two other women as handmaids as a result. But Judah does something very different. He does something that his family had never done. He marries a Canaanite woman Now it is an interesting detail on the side to look at verse 3. You see that Judah is the one who names his firstborn son Heir. But verses 4 through 5 actually shows that he must have not been around when they were born because he wasn't the one who named them. It's she who names the sons , Onan and Shelah. But it's interesting that this decision of Judah on his part to marry a Canaanite woman would have an influence in the character of his own children. Don't miss that. Who he chose to marry affected the character of what his children were like. And you see that play out in verses 6 through 11. Where we don't just see the context for the sin. Now we see the challenge of this particular sin and how it's going this sin is going to challenge the the fulfillment of God's promises working themselves out in Judah's family. Take a look at verses 6 through 7, and then again verse 10. You see the death of Judah's first two sons. Now Judah takes a wife for his firstborn son heir in verse 6, and we find that her name is Tamar. Now again, this pattern of choosing what looks good to the eyes seems to be what's going on here. Because Tamar in Hebrew, her name actually means date palm. And if you look at date poems in the Old Testament, they were, she likely had a statuesque figure. She was probably a woman of tremendous beauty. Date palms were meant to be refreshing. They looked at her appearance most likely and said, that's the one for my son heir. And so Air marries her. However, it doesn't last long. We don't exactly know what he did, but we get an idea of his character in verse 7, because it says, But Air, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord put him to death. This is one of the things I love about the Hebrew language is you see these little nuances in the text that are very difficult to see in English, but the word the name heir and the word in Hebrew for evil have the same two consonants in reverse. You see a play on words like his name seems to indicate his character as wicked And again, we don't find exactly what he did, but God put him to death. However, in verse 10, we find God putting to death the second son, Onan. And while we don't know what Eir did to deserve the death penalty from God himself, we do find out what Onan did That's very explicit. Because it kind of in order to understand what's going on here, we need to understand the institute that the Bible calls Leverett marriage. This was apparently a cultural thing, but it also came to be codified in the law of Moses as something to be practiced. among God's people. And this is so foreign to us today, because we would never think to do something like leverett marriage, that I want to take just a moment and explain to you what it is and why it was important to God's people in the Old Testament. Deuteronomy chapter 25, verses 5 and 6 gives us a wonderful summary of what Leverett marriage is. And I'll just read that to you. If brothers dwell together and one of them dies and has no son, or you could say no children, but really no son The wife of the dead man shall not be married outside the family to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go into her and take her as his wife and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. That's what Judah tells Onan to do. The law goes on to say, and the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his dead brother. that his name may not be blotted out in Israel. And that's what we find in our passage. The Lord has put heir to death. Leaves Tamar childless as a widow. And notice the specific wording as Judah instructs Onan in verse 8. Go into your brother's wife and perform the duty of a brother-in-law. That's the same exact wording, by the way, that Moses uses later in Deuteronomy 25. And what does he say to do? And raise up offspring for your brother. Now this debate comes up later in Jesus' ministry in Matthew 22 on Tuesday of Passion Week. I won't get into all the details of of that debate and the ins and outs of the point Jesus makes, but it was about the resurrection And the idea about leverage marriage that I want to submit to you to help you understand why it was important and what it meant is it was meant to point forward as an institution among God's people in Israel to the death and the resurrection of Christ. You're like, what? How? Well, think about it. If a man dies in Israel without a son, his name dies out in Israel. In the inheritance that God gave them in the land, right? The name dies out. But when the Son comes in. The brother comes in, marries the widow, and the first child that he and that widow have together is legally accounted as the son of the dead brother Essentially, his name is resurrected to be carried on in the inheritance among God's people in the land. It's not a mistake in verse 8 when Judah says to Onan, raise up offspring or seed for your brother. In other words, what Judah is commanding Onan to do is to do something that is going to be a picture of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Who would be the seed of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob? Notice that word seed again. Right? His very actions in marrying Tamar and raising up the child are meant to point forward to the redemption of all mankind through the death and the resurrection of Christ. Now, what does Onan do with this? Something very wicked In fact, when you look at verses 9 and 10, you find that this tells us that Onan did go into Tamar, and this was not a one-time deal. This was something that was happening constantly, but notice he was using Tamar for his own personal and physical pleasure And he was doing so ensuring that the responsibility associated with what he was doing was not being fulfilled. Selfish and disgusting. And wicked to use the terms in scripture. He was wicked. So what does the Lord do? Because he's abusing an institution that is meant to be a gospel picture. He's essentially abusing the gospel itself, and the Lord puts him to death for his wickedness. Now the crisis that this really lays out for us in this passage is that now Judah has two dead sons out of three. He clearly doesn't want to give the third to her. He doesn't he seems to be blind to the fact that his sons and their wickedness and their sin has brought death upon their own heads. And somehow he imputes the guilt of that in his own eyes to Tamar. Something must be wrong with this woman. I'm not giving her my third son, lest he die also. Right? And so what does he do? He acts very deceptively of Tamar. Deceit really seems to be a problem in this family, doesn't it, throughout the book of Genesis. He acts these deceitfully or deceptively of Tamar, tells her to go back to her father's house. He essentially implies the promise that he will give Shala to him or to her as her husband when he is old enough and that he will allow her to marry him and she goes home. And stays in her father's house and puts on the garments of widowhood, which was a cultural symbol at that time that she was awaiting her redemption through leverett marriage. Now, the question we have to ask as we take a step back and pause in the story at this point is asking ourselves, how does Judah function like a mirror for us to see our own sin today? That is really what this is driving us to. That was what it was driving the original Israelites to see as, well, as the sons of Judah. How does our forefather in the faith, Judah in the flesh, point out our sin? Well Let me just submit this to you. Judah's sin functions like a mirror for the sins of isolating ourselves from God's people, which then leads to unholy alliances, which then when that doesn't go right leads to deceit. Boy, that's a a lot of that's an avalanche of sin right there, isn't it? Think about that. Uh as we think about application here, the application of separating from God's people Now, I'm not saying that as an application we must separate from God's people. I think it functions as a warning. And this is where the real problem started for Judah. It's the same for us today. When people begin to walk away from the Lord, it usually is manifested first by their withdrawing from the fellowship of God's people. What does the author of Hebrews tell us in Hebrews chapter ten, verses twenty-four and twenty-five? After arguing in all throughout nine and ten that the sacrifice of Jesus Christ is a better sacrifice. And better redemption than anything in the Old Testament, he says this. And now, or and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. You see, brothers and sisters, one of the reasons we continue to meet together on Sundays, on the Sabbath, on the Lord's Day for worship, and and one of the reasons we we are uh encouraged by implication to meet together even during the week. For fellowship, yes, I said fellowship, is so that we can continue to encourage one another and benefit from the blessing of one another each other's presence, each other's influence, each other's gifting. Because look at the reality. None of us lives and exists and breathes in a vacuum Every single one of us is influenced in some way, shape, or form by someone or something. And the question you have to ask yourself is, who are you being influenced by this morning? Are you influenced by God's people within the fellowship of the body of Christ in the local church? Or are you more influenced by the world? Because if you are influenced by the world and you have those kinds of relationships as your closest, most intimate relationships, that is going to affect certain areas of your life. Who your best friends are, what you go out spending your time doing. Or even who you marry, to use the example of Judah here. And boy, we we can just cannot get away from this theme in the book of Genesis, can we? That God's people are called to marry within the covenant community, within the body of Christ. We are called to avoid marrying unbelievers. Why? Well, we see by example here that that has a tendency to shape the character of our children and future generations in a very negative, godless way. But where does it all begin? Separating from God's people. Let's not deceive ourselves, brothers and sisters. Speaking of deceits, the Apostle Paul does say in 1 Corinthians 15, 33, Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. So again, I asked the question by way of diagnosis of our own hearts this morning Ask yourself as you look into the mirror of Judah and his life here, who are you spending time with and how are they influencing you? Very important to ask. Because it leads to our very first point here, God's promises contrast with our sin. Mind you, and mind it well, that the fulfillment of God's promises and working themselves out in your life are not compatible with the sin that we might give ourselves to if we're not careful of those influences. Now the story does go on in verses 12 through 19. We see the subtle designs of deceit. Now, this is the part of the story is probably most familiar to most people where Judah and Tamar, you know, the they they commit sexual immorality, they work out a deal, he gives his identification essentially, his Signet ring, his cords, and and his staff and all that. I'm not actually going to focus on those details as important as they are. I'm assuming that you know that because we read through it. What I want to focus on for our time this morning is a few details and nuances that culturally we might miss today, but that really lend to carrying the story forward. Okay? And so I want to look at the subtle designs of deceit, because that is really what 's going on here. Judah is being deceptive. Tamar is being deceptive. Let's look at the subtleties of how that deception works in verses 12 through 19. We see in verses 12 through 14 the designs related to mourning and celebrating. Look at verse 12. It tells us that in the course of time Judah's wife dies. Okay, that's sad. It does happen. But I want to highlight what it says afterwards. It says, when Judah was comforted. Take note of that. His wife passes away. When Judah is comforted , That's the same verb that is used in Genesis 24, 67, at the end of that long chapter, when Isaac meets Rebekah for the first time and they get married. It says that Isaac was comforted after the death of his mother. When he married Rebekah. Some commentators think that maybe that had culturally to do with some rituals they would go through. Regardless, Judah was mourning. There was a set time for that mourning to take place. And now the passage speaks to comfort. And shows that Judah is willing to move forward from this period of mourning to something else. What does he move forward to? Verse 12. He went up to Timnah to his sheep shearers. He and his friend Hera, the Adulamite. You're probably thinking, so what? They're going to shear some sheep. It's a big deal. Well, culturally, sheep shearing was an activity that was typically done once a year, and it included a tremendous amount of celebration and festivities. You can see that illustrated in 2 Samuel 13, verses 26 to 28. You remember the story. That was the story of another Tamar. David's daughter this time, who is likely named after the Tamar in our story, remember when she was raped by her half-brother Amnon, and Absalom wanted revenge. Absalom was her full brother and the half-brother of Amnon. What does he do? He tries to get all the brothers to go down to the sheep shearing festival where he was going to get them drunk. And when they were drunk and celebrating, then he was going to encourage certain men to rise up and kill Amnon. And that's exactly what they did. This is a tremendous time of celebration. Notice the pattern. Judah goes from mourning to celebration. But here's the irony and here's the deceit at play. Tamar, who lost her husband long before Judah lost his wife, is still in her father's house mourning. Where's her celebration? She should have been given to Shil to Sheila and then bear bearing children, fulfilling God's promise of multiplying seed. Her mourning should have been turned to celebration by now, and yet Judah, in his deceit, and his uh I'll just call it injustice, leaves her to languish in her father's house, continuing to mourn, while he moves on and celebrates. That's an interesting thing. Well, the drama continues to build in verses 14 through 15. You see what I'm calling the designs that blind the eyes. Boy, that's what deceit does, doesn't it? Tamar takes matters in her own hands when she finds out Judah's going to Timnah to shear his sheep or to celebrate with his friends. She knows that Shala is grown up, and she knows that she should have been given to him as his wife, so that she can start bearing children for the family, and she knows that that has not happened. So what does she do with verse 14? She covers herself with a veil, wraps herself up, she sits at the entrance of a place called Enayam, which is on the way to Timnah. By the way, it's really interesting in verse 24 when Rebecca meets Isaac for the first time, she covers herself with a veil using the same exact wording as this passage. What does that do? What's the intention of putting on the veil? It's meant to hide or conceal the face so that the man cannot see who she really is. In other words, he's deceived her, she's going to deceive him right back. You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. You push me, I push you. That's the idea. Clearly the effect is deceit, but here's what's really fascinating. This is where you kind of missed some of the details from the original Hebrew. The place name Enayam simply means two eyes in Hebrew Isn't it ironic that in a place named Two Eyes, which you're supposed to see with two eyes, Judah is blinded because of a veil of Tamar's deceit? One deceit bears another in this passage in verse 15. He falls for it. He thought she was a prostitute. Why? Because she covered her face. And so this is not painting Judah in a good light at all because he sees a prostitute, he wants her, and They strike up a deal, includes Judah giving his identifying credentials. He promises to send a goat. That must have been a cultural thing. Samson did the same thing and In Judges 14, he went to bring a young goat to his wife, right? And they do the deed she conceives by her father-in-law. So these are strange designs of deceit, but also we see the design to hide the shame of sin in verses 20 to 23. Don't miss that. It's easy to just read over, Judah's going to pay off what he owes to this woman, okay. But notice one, he uses his friend to cover over the social shame of being identified as the man who is with the prostitute. That's interesting. Why didn't he go pay himself? He's ashamed. And secondly, when the man can't find the woman, notice Judah's response. I'll just summarize or paraphrase what he says, just essentially let it go. I sent the goat, I sent the payment, you went to look for her, she wasn't there, her loss, we're moving on What's the motive? What is his motive for not wanting to just follow through and find who she really was? He does not want to be laughed at Do you see that in verse 23? He replied, Let her keep the things as her own, these things being his identification. Let her keep it. Why? Or we shall be laughed at. What's the point? Judah cares more about what people think of him than he think than he cares about what God thinks of him. He's not sorry for what he did. Just cover it up. It'll be fine. And so how does Judah's handling of this situation with tomorrow highlight how we tend to deal with our own sins. Let's take let's apply this again to ourselves. Well like Judah we're often blinded to the sin which so easily ensnares us and we try to hide the shame of it. when we become vulnerable. How about that? For an application. Boy, that's probably true. Not probably. It's true of every one of us in this room in some way, shape, or form. Notice the blinding effect of sin. If there's one thing this passage demonstrates in its irony, in its details, for us in start, you know. You know, stark reality here, it is that when we deal deceitfully with others as Judah did with Tamar, outright lying to her with no intention to fulfill his promise. Our plans of deceit tend to blind us. And that blindness tends to lead us to being self-deceived. My point, sin blinds. You remember in John chapter 9 when Jesus healed the blind, the man born blind? That was an interesting question his disciples asked. Master, who was it that sinned? This man? Or or or his parents that he was born blind. That's kind of a dumb question. How can a man sin before he's born, causing himself to be born blind? Maybe his parents did though, and you remember Jesus' answer? None This man was born blind for the glory of God. Gives you a different perspective on suffering. Things like that, doesn't it? But when you look at the chapter at the end, after Jesus heals him, the man is thrown out of the synagogue and all that. Verses 40 and 41 of John 9, some of the Pharisees near him heard these things, being these things, Jesus was saying to the blind man. And they said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, if you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Here's the question. What do you do when your sin becomes evident? Or Obvious to you, or you become aware of it. What do you do? How do you respond? I think the tendency is to hide Due to what others might think. Back in the garden, right? This is not unique to any of us in this room. Back in the garden, Adam and Eve, what did they do? When they hid and it became clear that they were naked, they saw that they were naked, oh no. They hide when God comes looking for them in the garden. You see it here with Judah. And fast forward to us, we tend to be no different. And mark this well, while sin can bring shame, and by the way, it's not always bad for us to feel shame for sin, not all shame is properly placed or dealt with. What do I mean? Well, like Judah, we might tend to feel more ashamed , and we might tend to feel more fear over what others might think of us Or how they might laugh at us because of some of the things we've done. We might feel more like that than we feel the shame of, I can't believe I just did that before the living God. The Apostle Paul talks about this. He talks about two kinds of repentance, doesn't he? 2 Corinthians 7. Verse 10, for godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas worldly grief produces death. What really drives, what do we do with that shame? Are we more ashamed when we just get exposed because of what people think of us? Or are we truly grieved in our hearts that we have sinned against the living God and try to cover it up by our own cunning, our own means? That leads to that third second point of this passage that covers verses 12 to 23. God's promises are not only contrary to our sin and living in sin, they're contrary to our own designs and how to deal with that sin. And that leads to this tension boiling over and the story coming to a conclusion leading into our third point. We see here in verses 24 through 26. The story reaches the boiling point where we see the unexpected grace in an unexpected confession. Now this is where the drama gets really intense. It skips three months later. When Tamara is now found to be with child, this is probably the time when she's starting the show and she cannot hide what has happened any longer. Remember, she's supposed to be at home Um, waiting to be given away in marriage. She's supposed to be chased. Doesn't look like it. She's found to be with child. The accusation is that she is pregnant by immorality. By the way, who could blame them for coming up with that conclusion? It may escape your notice that the word immorality here, when she says she's pregnant by immorality in Hebrew, is the same word. used in verse 15 about when Judah was thinking that Tamar was a prostitute. Immorality is the Hebrew word Zanta and Hebrew the word for prostitute there was used was zona, same basic word What is Judah's response to this? Three months after his own sin , it's incredibly strong. And it's angry and it's vengeful because she's brought shame on his family. What does he say? Bring her out and burn her Wow. That heightens to a feverish pitch. Why? Because she comes as she's being brought out, she brings forward the credentials, his signet, his staff. And his seal. And she essentially says, I am pregnant by the one who owns these. Please identify them Can you imagine being Judah in that moment? Like can you imagine how f like beat red his face must have gotten? Like, oh, I can't hide that. Oh dear God They're mine. He identifies them. We see that in the past. But notice what he does in response. I don't want to just focus on the fact that he got outed. That does happen, and it is pretty humiliating in this story. To have his sin exposed that way. But notice his response in verse 26. Notice what he says. It's an interesting profession or confession, whatever you want, whatever word you want to use. She is more righteous than I. Since I did not give her my son Shelah. Now we have to stand back and admit, as 21st century readers, there's a lot of moral complexity in that passage, in that story. Why? We all know Judah's sin. That's on the surface. But Tamar, if you really think about it, did she deceive Judah? Yeah. Did she lay a trap for Judah? Yeah. Did she commit sexual immorality with Judah, her father-in-law? Yeah. In what way then is she righteous? For Judah to say that? Well, a few things notice He's not speaking of absolute righteousness. He's speaking of relative righteousness. Well, compared to me, she's a lot better off than me. She's more righteous. Why? I should have given her my son. I should have done what God's law says. I should have done something consistent with God's promises that would have led to multiplying my seed. And what did I do? I acted selfishly. As sinful as her actions were, it is interesting that they're consistent with God's promises. Her action led to seed, led to children, or offspring, or whatever word you want to use. Thus her righteousness is greater relative to his. We do not seem to see him care for the promises of God or raising up seed or offspring for his deceased sons. And so his repentance here is forced, but it does stick. Says he doesn't know her again. And by the way, this passage is in the scriptures because later on in the Joseph story, Judah is a transformed man. How is he transformed? God breaks him here. But it was unexpected grace. In leading to an unexpected confession of her righteousness over his. And finally, we see the unexpected grace of covenant children. Now I'm not going to go into all the details. You see in verses 27 through 30, she has two sons. The one that's highlighted is Perez because of how he's born. In fact, the name Perez, which to me is a Mexican-American, sounds like a Spanish name, but it's it is, but It's actually Hebrew as well, and the Hebrew word for Perez simply means breaking forth or or creating a breach. He created a breach. He came out first. He jumped in front of his brother in the womb and was born first. Hmm. This leads us to really ask as we try to wrap this up here: how does the birth of Judah's twin sons by means of sin point us towards the gospel of Jesus Christ? Well, that's the question of the hour, isn't it? Well, how about this? Judah's sons point us forward to the gospel. Why? Because they lead us right to Jesus Christ, literally and chronologically. Let's start there. The seed of Perez points us to Jesus Christ. You can draw a line genealogically from Perez to the Lord Jesus Christ, who is our Redeemer, who is the ultimate seed of Abraham. Let's draw the lines really quickly. In Ruth chapter 4, verses 11 and 12, after Boaz takes Ruth the Moabitis to be his wife, by the way, as an act of leverate marriage. How about that? The people of Bethlehem say, we are witnesses. May the Lord make this woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you act worthily in Ephrata and be renowned in Bethlehem, and may your house be like the house of whom? Perez. Whom Tamar bore to Judah because of the offspring that the Lord will give you by this young woman. Fast forward to Ruth 4, verses 18 to 22. It gives the genealogical list. From Judah and Perez all the way down to King David. Fast forward, just drawing the line in the scriptures to Matthew 1. Verses 1 through 18, I'm not going to read that entire genealogy, but I will tell you in verse 3, Perez and Tamar are both listed leading up to Christ, the Messiah, the son of Abraham, the son of David. Now we can see why this passage in verse Chapter 38 of Genesis is important for pointing us to Christ. Now let's see how the story actually highlights the gospel and what Christ accomplished for our salvation. Now, I'm going to draw out three things here. The three things are the gospel through grace, confession, and righteousness. First is grace. You can see God's grace shine through here because his promise to multiply the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and in this case Judah is not conditioned on Judah's righteousness, on Judah's obedience, on how good of a person Judah is. Judah's a sinner. Does he deserve God's grace in this passage? I don't know about you, but he sounds like a pretty bad guy. The answer would be no. Does he deserve the judgment that he says applies to Tamar? Bring her out and burn her? That should have happened to him too. He should have been condemned. And yet God is gracious. Isn't he? And so we see the gospel demonstrated in this passage through God's grace in fulfilling his promise and doing so in a way by bringing forth a line, a genealogical line that will point forward and lead to the Messiah, who is king, who will one day come, and he will come by grace, not because Israel deserves it. But God is good and gracious. The second thing is confession of sin and repentance Now of course in Judah's sense here that happened in a very publicly exposing and humiliating way, and I am not in any way saying that any of you or me should be publicly exposed. But it is an interesting call to repentance, isn't it? It is an interesting call to confession of sin before the Lord rather than hiding it. Think about what David said in Psalm 51. Talks about confessing his sin before the Lord and the Lord forgiving him. Psalm 32, when I covered over my sin, your hand was heavy upon me. When I confessed my sin , you forgave. Think about the first recorded sermon we have in Mark 111, or I'm sorry, 1. 14 of the Lord Jesus The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Here's the question this morning. Have you confessed your sins to the Lord? Have you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, whom God has given for the salvation of sinners like me and like you? If not, what are you waiting for? Think about what I preached a few weeks ago from Psalm 24. Who will stand? Who will ascend the hill of the Lord and stand in his holy place? If you think you're going to stand one day before God's perfect bar of justice and judgment, where not only will he judge you for your actions, but your thoughts. and your intentions and your motives, which nobody sees, and nobody can judge? Do you really think that you will stand? What are you waiting for? Confess your sin to the Lord. Put your faith in Christ. Who died for sinners and rose again, as we just celebrated. The third component and the last component that points to the gospel here is notice that Judah receives grace through the righteous action of another. His confession that Tamar was more righteous than he was is an important point that we can easily miss. Her relative righteousness, as the means by which Judah received God's grace in providing a seed, only points forward to the absolute righteousness of Jesus Christ. who is the seed, who is the one through whom we receive God's grace through his own death and his own resurrection, of which the lever of marriage, evident in this passage, was only supposed to be a shadow. The shadow is gone. The fulfillment is here. Hallelujah. Thank you for that. It is only through the death and the resurrection of Christ that you and I can be made righteous in the sight of God by faith in Christ that we might escape the just punch punishment and judgment for sin that we all deserve. And in these things, we can see our third point fleshed out in this historical narrative in verses 24 through 30. Our third point is that God's promises come through unexpected grace. Boy, it's a bad sounding passage, but it ends really well in one sense. You put all that together and you get your main idea. God's promises stand in contrast to our sin. They work contrary to how we try and cover our sin, and his promises bring grace in unexpected ways. Have you embraced the unexpected grace of God this morning, despite being a sinner like Judah? Our prayer, my prayer, as I wrap this up, is that no one leaves this room today and goes home without embracing the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we are thankful for passages like this that are stark warnings and reminders, but also calls. To repentance and faith in your son, who is the ultimate seed of Judah, the promised seed of Abraham. Lord, we pray and ask that you would help us to love you more by seeing you more clearly in your word this morning. And we pray your blessing on us as we go from here. In Jesus' name. Amen.