If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and turn them to Genesis 19. We're going to be focusing on verses 1 through 29 this morning. Genesis 19, 1 to 29, and I would invite you to stand For the reading of God's holy word. Genesis 19, 1-29. The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth and said, My lords, please turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night and wash your feet Then you may rise up early and go on your way. They said, no, we will spend the night in the town square. But he pressed them strongly. So they turned aside to him and entered his house, and he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man surrounded the house And they called to Lot, Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them. Lot went out to the men at the entrance, shut the door after him, and said, I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly. Behold, I have two daughters who have not known any man. Let me bring them out to you and do to them as you please. Only do nothing to these men, for they have come under my the shelter of my roof. But they said, Stand back. And they said, This fellow came to sojourn, and he has become the judge. Now we will deal worse with you than with them Then they pressed hard against the man Lot and drew near to break down the door. But the men reached out their hands and brought Lot into the house with them and shut the door And they struck with blindness the men who were at the entrance of the house, both small and great, so that they wore themselves out, groping for the door. Then the men said to Lot, Have you anyone else here? Sons-in-law, sons, daughters, or anyone you have in the city, bring them out of the place For we are about to destroy this place, because the outcry against its people has become great before the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. So Lot went out and said to his sons-in-law, who were to marry his daughters, Up, get out of this place, for the Lord is about to destroy the city. But he seemed to his sons in law to be jesting. As morning dawned, the angels urged Lot, saying, Up, take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be swept away in the punishment of the city. But he lingered. So the men seized him and his wife and his two daughters by the hand, the Lord being merciful to him. And they brought him out and set him outside the city. And as they brought them out, one said , Escape for your life. Do not look back or stop anywhere in the valley. Escape to the hills lest you be swept away. And Lot said to them, Oh, no, my lords, behold, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have shown me great kindness in saving my life. But I cannot escape to the hills, lest the disaster overtake me and I die. Behold, this city is near enough to flee to, and it is a little one. Let me escape there Is it not a little one? And my life will be saved. He said to him, Behold, I grant you this favor also that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken Escape there quickly, for I can do nothing till you arrive there. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar The sun had risen on the earth when Lot came to Zoar. Then the Lord reigned on Sodom and Gomorrah, sulphur and fire from the Lord out of heaven And he overthrew those cities and all the valley and all the inhabitants of the cities and what grew on the ground. But Lot's wife, behind him, looked back. And she became a pillar of salt. And Abraham went early in the morning to the place where he had stood before the Lord. And he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah and toward all the land of the valley, and he looked. And behold, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace. So it was that when God destroyed the cities of the valley, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities, in which Lot had lived. Well, this is the word of God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with a passage like this that is heavy and yet In many ways, is so very familiar to many of us. We've heard the story before. We know it happened. And yet, Lord, we pray that you would take this, your word. That you would open our hearts, our minds, our eyes and our ears. And Lord, that we might receive your word, that we might understand it in a new way. And that we would have eyes to see and ears to hear what this means for us today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, what can you say? We read Romans chapter 1, verses 18 through 32, which if I had to guess, and I Certainly don't know what was on the apostle's mind exactly when he penned it, but my guess is he may have had Sodom and Gomorrah in mind when he wrote that. And we saw the whole structure of that passage, people giving themselves over to idolatry, and God giving them over to a feudal mind. People exchanging the truth of God for a lie, and what does he do? He gives them over to dishonor their bodies with impurity. And by the way, that means sexual impurity. And they continue to exchange God's truth for a lie, and what does he do? He gives them over. to homosexual passions. And then the last thing Romans 1 mentions is a debased mind, which means a mind that doesn't really function on the same principles that a mind is supposed to function. In other words, an unreasonable mind. And there was a list of vices, and you you could almost listen to the reading of that passage. And you can almost hear the description to the last detail of the world that we live in today. The sinful world, the fallen world, and the broken world. It's enough to break your heart. We've just come out of June, which as you know is Pride Month, where we celebrate as a nation debauchery. Sexual immorality, an abomination. We are a nation that has legalized, at least in the courts. So-called gay marriage. Brothers and sisters, this is a passage that speaks to us in a very profoundly prophetic way. In fact, the main idea of this passage is that the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah warns us about compromise on sexual standards It warns us about being indecisive about repentance, and it warns us about the certainty of judgment to come. No doubt this is a heavy passage for any of us to consider this morning. But let's jump in and let's look at verses 1 through 11 as we see the warning about compromise on sexual standards. And to begin, I wanted to actually start with the compromise on the part of Lot. I think there's a few reasons why, but if I had to boil it down to one reason, that's exactly where verse 1 begins. It begins the story with Lot. Take a look with me again at verse 1. The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth. We'll go ahead and stop there before we look at what he says. How do we see compromise on Lot's part here? Well we see compromise in where he lives. Notice there's two there's two details that are given in the first three verses. We just saw one of them. Look where he is seated. He is seated at the gate of Sodom in verse 1. Now looking at the whole context of the Old Testament and what we know from history at this point in the ancient Near East, The gate of any city was the area or the sphere where legal and judicial business was conducted. We see that in Ruth chapter 1, or I'm sorry, Ruth chapter 4, when Boaz goes to the gate of Bethlehem to settle the legal issue of taking Ruth as his wife and receiving. Elimelech 's inheritance. We see it in 2 Kings 7. 18 where there's commercial business being conducted in the gate of Samaria. But here Lot is seated at the gate of Sodom, which means that he had worked his way to an official, officially recognized. socially influential position in that city. And the question you have to ask is, what did he have to do to get there? Now the scriptures are very unclear. But as I think of a man sitting in the gate of this wicked city, I can't help but think about what Psalm 11 says. Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, and this is where it really fits, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. What did Lot have to do? How did he have to compromise to get to that socially recognized position? Because At that time in history, it was really only allowed for kings and the recognized elders and authorities in a city to sit in the authoritative seat in the gate. And that's where we find Lot in this wicked city. So he's seated there, but notice also in verses 2 or 3, 2 and 3, he pleads with these men, my lords, please turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night and wash your feet. Then you may rise up early and go on your way. They said, no, we will spend the night in the town square. But he pressed them strongly That's a very forceful word, by the way, pressing them strongly so that they turned aside to him and entered his house. And, you know, this shouldn't surprise us like Abraham did in chapter 18. He makes them a feast. Near Eastern hospitality. That's what you would expect. But the question you have to ask yourselves, and ask yourselves, and it's mentioned twice here, a house. A house? Lot has a house in Sodom? Well, if you go back to Genesis chapter 13, verses 12 and 13, you find that when he went to Sodom When he's separated from Abraham, because the land of Canaan couldn't sustain them, what we find is he pitched his tent outside of the city, still living like a nomad. Still kind of a temporary residence. Now this has progressed. He's inside the city. Not only does he have a place of influence in the city, he has a home. He's putting down roots and he's investing in this town. And we remember what the basis of his choice was. From Genesis chapter 13, he saw that Sodom was prosperous. It was in a lush, in a fertile valley. It had everything that the creature comforts could want. And so we see his compromise in verses 1 through 3. He goes from being an outsider to being, by all outward appearances, one of the sodomites. compromise where he lives. But we see in verses 7 through 8, we also see compromise on his part on how to avoid sin. Now you've you remember the story. They're about to go to bed, and the men of the city surround the house, and they're banging on the door, demanding that Lot bring out the two men. Why? Well, so that they can have homosexual relations with them. It's Lot's response in verses 7 to 8 to that demand I want to focus on in this part of the message. Looking at verses 7 and 8, he said in response, I beg you, my brothers. Interestingly he calls them brothers. Isn't that? I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly. Behold, I have two daughters who have not known any man. Let me bring them out to you and do to them as you please Only do not do to these men, only do nothing to these men, for they have come under the shelter of my roof. Now, if that if that response sickens you or disgusts you, it absolutely should. For a few reasons. One, it's obvious that his priorities are backwards. Now, there's no doubt that hospitality was a major cultural value in the ancient Near East. In fact, a man's standing in society can be measured by his hospitality. But I don't think any of us can read the Bible and doubt that a man's responsibility to his family to protect and to provide for his wife and for his children, who are the most vulnerable in his house. That is his primary priority. And notice what he does here. In the moral twistedness, the moral backwardness of Sodom and Gomorrah and living there. His priorities likewise are backwards. He puts hospitality before protecting the vulnerable in his family, namely his two daughters, who he's raised. I mean, this is despicable. And if it doesn't anger you, it should anger you Now aside from having his priorities being backwards and doing this, there's another way to look at this By the way, neither of these ways are good. But Old Testament Professor John Curry from RTS Charlotte writes this in his commentary to kind of give a little bit of a cultural background to maybe what was going on in Lot's mind as he was doing this He writes, on the other hand, it is more likely that Lot is attempting to trap the Sodomites in a legal and judicial quagmire. That's interesting. What do you mean? Well he says, according to verse 14, these two daughters are betrothed to Sodomite men , but they are not yet married. They are engaged, but still living in their father's house. Throughout the ancient Near East, betrothal was sacrosanct as marriage. In other words, it was as binding as marriage itself. For example, he writes, the Code of Hammurabi, which is a Babylonian law code, says, if a man bound the betrothed wife of another man who had not had intercourse with a male and was still living in her father's house, And he has lain her in, lain in her bosom, and they caught him, that man shall be put to death, while the woman shall go free Alright, they're translating ancient Near Eastern languages. That's really choppy English. What it means is if a woman is already engaged to or betrothed to a man And another man sleeps with her. The man who sleeps with her, who's not her betrothed, gets put to death and the woman goes free. That's what it's saying. Other law codes are equally harsh, he writes, in exacting capital punishment on the violator. Lot's strategy may be to cause the men to bring down condemnation and judgment. on their own heads within the judicial setting of Sodom itself. End quote. It's interesting context. Can we be positively certain that that's exactly what's going on? No. But it is possible, and he was sitting at the gate where that's where judgment and legal issues were settled. Maybe he was thinking like a judge. I'm going to trap these men, but notice what he's doing. He is trying to reason with sexual sin. And we see in the very next verse in verse 9, the sodomites will not have it. Now, however you look at this. What we have to acknowledge, and this is part of how he's compromised and how this compromise is working itself out in his life, he is attempting to use sinful means, namely giving his daughters over to rape. He's trying to use sinful means to avert a sinful result, which he in his mind assumes is worse. Homosexual rape. In other words, what he's doing, he's trapped between two wicked, sinful options. And he's thinking to himself, I'm going to choose the lesser of two evils. No, you take your pick whichever one you think is the greater evil. We know that they're both evil And he resorts to one. He tries to compromise on how to avoid sin by presenting a sinful response. And so we see Lot in this story is incredibly compromised. And in large measure because of his own responsibility and where he's chosen to live. But We also see, secondly, the sexual sin and the standards or the norms of Sodom and Gomorrah. Look at verse 4. You can see the predatory nature of Sodom's sexual sin. Go back to look at verse 4. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man surrounded the house. Now that's interesting there. The word surrounded the house is language that is usually used in the Old Testament that's used to describe like an enemy that comes and lays siege to a city. For the purpose of starving them out and then destroying them. Right? It's warfare language. This great hostility that they are demonstrating in this passage. And what's really sad is there's not a single man of the city that is exempted. Notice there's four descriptors there to just I mean drive the point home like driving a nail into a piece of wood. Who are doing this? The men of the city. You may ask, what city? The city of Sodom. The men of Sodom. Okay, which men in Sodom? Both young and old? All of them. Lastly, down to the last man. That's frightening. This is gang mob activity. And everyone's involved. And when everyone's involved, how can you possibly protest? Who can stop it? It's not only predatory on their part in verse 4, it is abominable in verse 5. Look at the abominable nature of this in verse 5. They ask, when they come to Lot, they ask, where are the men that came to you tonight? These are men asking for men. For what purpose? Bring them out. to us that we may know them. By the way, that word bring them out in the original Hebrew is in the causative stem, highlighting that there is a forcefulness that they're expecting here. When we talk about sexual activity in the context of force, we have a word in the modern term for that is called rape. That is what they are looking to do. And not just any rape. This is a homosexual gang rape. And it's abominable. Well, why do you say it's abominable? Well, if you go to God's law in Leviticus 18, 22, it calls homosexual activity an abomination. Have you ever wonder what abomination means? Somebody laughed, but I I wasn't joking. I actually had to look it up uh years ago when I was teaching uh an ethics class. in a Christian school, it means something that's hated. And you have to ask, hated by who? Hated by God. This is activity that God hates. He detests. Why does he hate it so much? I'll give you two reasons I won't say too much for the sake of time about them, but why does God hate homosexual activity, particularly demonstrated like this? Well, one, it's contrary to his image and nature. He created man in his image, male and female. They are meant to be created complementary. And then what does he tell him after he creates a male and female? You know, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. Well, it doesn't take a rocket scientist or a genius to tell you that implies sexual activity between the male and the female. That is how they are created. And in that created order In that arrangement that God has made, it reflects his image. So number one, it's contrary to his own image. It's a defacing of his image. It's personal to him. Secondly, it's contrary to the created order. And we don't have to get into all the biology or have time to get into that this morning, but it's contrary to the created order. And so their sexual sin is predatory. It's abominable. And in verses 9 through 11, it's persistent. It's persistent. After refusing, after Lot refuses to bring them out, He goes out there trying to reason with them at the end of verse 9. They they say this. It says, They pressed hard against the man Lot, and they drew near to break the door down. That's burning lust. When it drives a mob to the extent that they will burn or break a door down , To get what they want. That's persistent. And we also see the persistence in verse 11. You remember what the angels did? And this really kind of probably outed them as angels. They lot realized they're not just regular men. I don't know what they did. Did they hold out their hands? But whatever they did, they blinded the crowd at the door. And despite the fact that they have been blinded supernaturally, What does the passage still tell us at the end of verse 11? They still wore themselves out, groping for the door. They have been providentially and supernaturally hindered from carrying out their sin. And what are they still willing to do? They are still willing to grope for the door to fulfill their lust. Persistence. And so we have to take a step back from the story, because there is a natural break in the story and in its flow here. And we have to ask the question, what does it look like to compromise on sexual standards today? And I mean this kind of personally. Compromising sexual standards as Christians can look like either you're in Locke's situation or the sodomites situation. And there is a context and there is a danger of sexual sin. You know, some one of the things you can always ask as you're trying to read something in Scripture. Ask why did the Holy Spirit inspire this and put this in God's word for his people? Why do you think this particular event Was left in Scripture or inspired and put in Scripture for Israel. Well, sadly, this event occurred a second time in Israel's history. If you go back and you read Judges chapters 19 to 21, you're going to find it almost the same story happened But it wasn't with Gentiles, it wasn't with pagans, it was actually with one city, Gibeah, within the tribe of Benjamin, which were they were Israelites. A Levite comes into the city, just like two angels come into this city of Sodom. A man who's not native to that land Another man from the tribe of Ephraim was living in that Benjamite city, brings this Levite into his house, and the men of Benjamin Israelites, God's covenant people, do the same thing that the sodomites are doing in this passage. What happened within a generation of Joshua's death and the conquest of the land, one tribe in Israel essentially became Canaanite. And in becoming Canaanite and doing what happened in Sodom and Gomorrah, they fell under God's judgment, and the other eleven tribes had to go to war against that one tribe of Benjamin and wiped them out down to six hundred men left. Almost the whole tribe was wiped out among God's people who fell under God's judgment. Why? Because they compromised on sexual sin and standards. Brothers and sisters, let's not fall into the trap of thinking, just because we claim to be Christians, that we are fundamentally any better. We can compromise We can go down that slippery slope and fall under the same judgment. We have to take these warnings. Seriously. This is why I read Romans chapter 1, 18 to 32. To remind us, we're living in Sodom. Maybe you're in Lot's position living in Sodom. But there is the danger as well of Christians compromising with sexual sin. I think maybe some of the lessons we can learn from this, and they are lessons by example. Don't put yourself in a situation in which you have to choose between two evil options, especially with respect to sexual sin. Because once you compromise by degrees with respect to sexuality, you are already on that slippery slope that only goes down from there And by the way, I know the passage is about homosexuality, but that applies to all of sexuality comprehensively when we make compromises. It will always lead to sin. Don't ever assume, brothers and sisters, that you are strong enough to deal with the pressure of that temptation within the power of your own flesh, lest you end up like Lot. Lest you end up like Lot. But it leads to the second point here in verses 12 to 22, the warning about being indecisive in repentance. And this is really heartbreaking. You have to really feel for Lot and feel the pressure and the tension that he's in, that it continues to build. In verses 12 through 14 , We see the indecisiveness of not taking God's judgment seriously. Now, in this case, it's not Lot, but it's those he knows. Because in those verses 12 through 14, the angels basically ask them, look, do you have any family, anyone connected to you? If you do, go get them out of this city. Go warn them of the judgment to come, because it's coming. And notice what he does. He goes to his sons-in-laws , the guys that are engaged to his two daughters, right? And he's trying to warn them to get up and flee. And they don't understand what's going on. They are so morally compromised that they just think that he's joking. They mock him, laughing, and they don't take the judgment seriously. By the way, for the record, I'm not sure Lot really, I mean he's taking it seriously, but I don't think he understands the severity of it He doesn't know exactly what is going to come that's going to destroy the city yet. He just knows it's coming. But there's indecisiveness of not taking God's judgment seriously. In verses 15 to 16, there's indecisiveness in lingering. Did you see that? If you actually look back at those verses, the angels are urging him, take your wife and your family and go, so you're not swept away. Look at verse 16, the first three words. But he lingered. Why would he linger? Why would you linger if you were in his shoes? Think about it. He's bought a home in this town. He is he's financially invested there. He's putting down roots Secondly, his family is there. He's about to have two son-in-laws. He's no doubt gotten to know them. If he's going to give them away, I mean marriage, arranged marriages at that time were not just two individuals falling in love, it was a family affair. There's a network of relationships that he stands to lose in addition to his physical home. What about the social position that he's jimmied himself into through compromise, being able to sit at the gate of the city? There's influence. There's authority. There's power to be lost. Everything that he's worked for is coming under the judgment of God. And he's He's understandably buckling under the pressure. I think many of us would too if we were in his shoes. And lastly, we see here the indecisiveness of not receiving the escape from sin in verses 17 to 22. This is the most heartbreaking. So not only is he running to his family and they're not listening to him, not only is he lingering because maybe there's doubt and there's indecision there. Now we see the indecision is stepped up to the next level in verses 17 to 22. Do you realize in that ver in that section the word escape comes up five times? That's the key word. The whole point is to escape, get out, separate yourself from what is under God's judgment. And look at what he says. Not only does he linger in indecision, verse 18 He now he argues back. Oh no, my lords, I can't do this You want me to run to the mountains? How am I supposed to flee to the mountains? You're telling me to get out of the plane because everything's going to be destroyed. And yet, how am I going to make it there? The disaster is going to overtake me. The mountain is not good enough. God 's providence. God's means of escape is not good enough. Let me go to this other city. He's got just a little bit of taste of of the city life, and he's can't quite let it go. Well, again, when you stop here, what does it look like to be indecisive about repentance over sexual sin Indecisiveness about repentance over sexual sin comes when we fail to understand the severity of God's judgment, and many of us do. And will we worry about the cost that it might have in our own lives? By the way, it may not even be your sexual sin. It just may have something to do with your affirming of somebody else's sexual sin. it might cost you. Think about this. Many of us do not consider the severity of God's judgment. I don't think Lot did. He did not know a fire and brimstone was coming. I don't know what he thought was going to happen, but he probably didn't guess that. And sadly, you and I are the same way when we think about the severity of God's judgment. Because why are we like that? Because when judgment is not immediately in front of you and you can't see it with your own two eyes You often tend to think that there's always a little more time to respond for repentance. There's always more time to set things right until something happens that you don't expect and it falls upon you. I remember years ago my brother and I were sharing the gospel trying to share the gospel with a friend of ours that we grew up with, and he was a very close friend, and he was living uh in sexual morality. He had a girlfriend and They were very sexually active. And we were trying to share the gospel. And I remember what he said to me one time, he's like, you know, I understand everything you're saying about the gospel. I I that what the Bible says about salvation. It makes sense. And I actually believe it's true. I said, so what's the problem? Why don't you become a Christian? Give your life to Christ. I'll never forget what he said to me. He's like, because I know that if I give my life to Jesus, I have to stop having sex with my girlfriend. He's like, look, man, it just feels too good to stop I just remember thinking, that's a dark place to be when you know that the gospel's true and you're telling me you know it's true, but your sin is standing in the way. Why does it stand in the way? Because you don't see the consequences and the judgment right in front of you. Ecclesiastes 8 11 says this, because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily, the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil. But do you know what Jesus said in the Olivet Discourse? If he towards the end of Matthew 24 or towards the end of Mark 14, he uses Sodom and Gomorrah as an example to talk about the coming of the day of the Son of Man. When Jesus returns to judge the world in righteousness. And he uses Sodom and Gomorrah as an example to say, look, there were many people in Sodom that woke up that morning and just went to work. Like it was another day. And the judgment fell upon them unawares. Let us, brothers and sisters, consider the severity of God's judgment. But there's always lingering doubts about what we may lose, and I think that's the other thing we see in this passage, where some of us may be in Lot 's position. Some of you This may affect your career, your livelihood, or everything you've worked to build. I remember two years ago. I had a friend back in the Midwest call me up and they were struggling with something and the struggle was they were they had to go through some sensitivity training at work. They worked in an industry that tends to be pretty woke and pretty embracing of things like Pride Month and all of that. And I remember this this friend telling me, like, what do I do? Like I have to go to this training, go through the sensitivity training which is all about um embracing the sexual moral revolution. And this person was a strong Christian. And then they said, and then it gets even worse. After this, I was told by my boss that once we go through the training We have got to write weekly reports and turn them into our supervisor explaining how the work that we're doing is actually helping the cause of sensitivity and championing the rights of sexual minorities. Oh my goodness. And they were like, what do I do about this? And we spent like an hour and a half like working through that on the phone. At the end of the day, and it wasn't right after that training happened, this friend ended up leaving the company. I mean, they were making easily a six-figure income. It was a very lucrative job that they had. And they left that job. They left that company. They knew that they cannot continue to do something that compromises what God's Word says about sexuality. And they took a job at a much smaller mom and pop firm and massive pay cut. Thankfully, they were living way below their means anyway, so they were able to do that, but What will it cost to take a stand? Or maybe like Lot, you have family or people you're connected to who fully support and or are living the homosexual lifestyle. I can't tell you how many conversations I've had with parents, either as a pastor or in the capacity of a Christian Bible school teacher. where people are agonizing over decisions to tell their family or friends that they cannot condone how they live And the fear was always, am I going to lose the person that I love? One of the tough things about this passage that God's word brings right to our doorstep. And it's not an easy question to wrestle with in your soul, is what are you willing to lose in order to follow Jesus and escape from the same judgment that others are under when it comes to sexual depravity? Matthew 10, 37 through 39 says Jesus said this, whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it That's exactly what Lot is in the position of right here. He's about to lose everything for the sake of finding his life But if he clung to the life that he's trying to build, he's going to lose it in judgment. And that leads us to our third point in verses 23 through 29, the warning about God's certain judgment. God's judgment on Sodom is seen in verses 23 through 28. In verses 23 through 25, many of us know the story, we see the judgment of fire and brimstone. Now notice it says two things. It comes down from heaven, telling you that this is not a natural event, and it comes from the Lord. Now, if you read Scripture, particularly the Old Testament, you will find that fire falling from heaven is not a common occurrence. Which tells you this is a very unique judgment. And notice that the fire and the brimstone, or your your translation may say sulfur. I think the ESV says sulfur. These things reflect the nature of bur of the burning nature of lust. Think about how the Bible talks about lust. Lust is like an unquenchable fire. It can consume you and dry you out and destroy you That's exactly what fire and brimstone are a picture of. Their lust had burned and burned them out. And so that's what the punishment comes in the form of. And notice everything is destroyed. Verse 25, everything. Even down to the very ground. The land went from being fruitful and lush and fertile in chapter 13 to the point where you can even go to this region of the Dead Sea now, and it is still barren. Animals don't live there, plants don't grow there. So the judgment of fire and brimstone, verse 26, there's the judgment of looking back. This is tragic. One of the four people, Lot's wife. looks back and you have to understand that her looking back indicates that she is longing for what she left behind. She is longing for what is under the judgment of God. That's where her affections were, really were. I don't think she wanted to leave And then the judgment of it's a judgment like a furnace in verses 27 to 28. Notice the language there. It's very descriptive. Abraham goes out the next morning. And he looks down towards the valley. He would have been somewhere near Hebron. And he's looking down, probably some 30 miles away, and he sees the smoke from the entire valley ascending into heaven like a f furnace. That's by the way, that's not the normal word for smoke in Hebrew. It's like this is smoke that has ash. and soot and all kinds of junk and particles in the air that if you were to breathe it in, it would crystallize your lungs and you would die. This is what he saw. And think about how this goes back to the nature of their sin in the first place. God said that the outcry of their sin had come up before him. And that's why he came down to check it out. Now, just as their sin and this outcry came up before him, now what comes up before him to the heavens is the smoke of judgment. It's a heavy passage, isn't it? But it doesn't end that way, actually. Look at verse 29. Verse 29 is a precious verse. So it was that when God destroyed the cities of the valley, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had lived. Lived. You know what that tells you? What does that point to? Look at the language there. God remembered Abraham. We've seen this language before in Genesis. We saw it at the end of chapter 7 when Noah is in the ark and it's seen the water is covered The earth is covered with water and all hope seems lost. And he's probably been in that ark for about a year and wondering, did God forget me? Is there ever going to be an end to this? God remembered Noah. And when God remembered Noah, it led to God acting on Noah's behalf to save him. And he came out of that ark. We'll see it again in Exodus chapter 2, verses 24 and 25. God remembered Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And he heard the cry of Israel. And what follows right after that, God comes down on Mount Sinai, reveals himself to Moses, sends Moses back to redeem his people. When it says here, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out. I want you to keep this in mind. Abraham is the covenant head or the covenant representative. And it was on Abraham's behalf that God rescued Lot from judgment. And so the question we ask ourselves as we draw this to a close is, what does this passage tell us about God's mercy in the midst of judgment? Well, it tells us that redemption and judgment always go hand in hand. What this means is that God will certainly judge the sexually immoral. That is the point of this whole passage. And in light of that coming judgment, we are called, therefore, as God's people in the midst of a sexually and a perverse generation That is backwards in its values to come out from our sin, to repent of it, and to consecrate that important area to the Lord. And as we do that, do not be like Lot's wife and look back longingly at the sin we left behind. Israel did that when they came out of Egypt. They longed for the flesh pots of Egypt, and God judged them for it. Let's not let's let's put our hands to the plow and not look back, but look forward to the Lord Jesus. whom God has called us to. Because that what we really see, judgment is not the last word in this passage. I want to encourage you with that. Mercy, God's mercy in the gospel is the last word. And despite this being a very heavy passage on judgment against sexual sin. specifically homosexuality, the passage does end on God's mercy. When God remembers Abraham and rescues Lot, that is a picture of the gospel. We see a reflection of Jesus Christ here. Because just as Abraham is the covenant representative whose household and heirs benefit from the blessing of his righteousness, brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ. Is the covenant head of the new covenant, whose righteousness blesses us by grace through faith. It is for the sake of the righteousness of Christ that the gospel goes out to sinners like you and me to a sinful world like we live in. So that we might be called out, we might be redeemed and rescued. Hallelujah, indeed. This is why 2 Peter chapter 2, verses 7 and 8 points to Sodom and Gomorrah and Lot as an example of God's power to rescue those. Who are living under judgment, but God saves them anyway Some of you here. So I think the middle, the center of the passage certainly deals with homosexuality. But I think if we're honest, we can broaden the principles to any kind of sexual sin. And so some of us in this room have lived Have had a past of tremendous sexual immorality. Maybe this weighs heavy on you. Some of you here might even struggle with feelings of same-sex attraction The hope of the gospel is for you. That you too can be declared righteous in God's sight And like Lot, be rescued because of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who offers to you the blessing of his righteousness, because he took the judgment on the cross. I want to end with this. This is why 1 Corinthians 6, 9-11 says, Or do you not, by the way, this church, Corinth, was known for being sexually broken, promiscuous, and very sinful. You read the books, you'll see it. But this is what Paul writes to them. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers Nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But, that but is very important. But you were washed. You were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Now the main point of this passage is clear. The judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah warns us against compromise on sexual standards, being indecisive about repentance, and the certainty of judgment to come. But there is hope. And there's hope in Jesus Christ to be had for all. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, and truly, Lord, this passage is very heavy. And it's enough to cause sorrow in many people's hearts. But Lord, there are two types of sorrow, as your word tells us. There is a worldly sorrow or a worldly grief. That simply grieves because you sinned and you've you're now grieving because the consequences are being stuck to you. But there's also a godly grief, a godly sorrow, Lord, and Paul tells us that it leads to repentance. Lord, if there is any sorrow in this room, any grief, any heaviness of heart and soul, in light of your word this morning, Lord, I pray that you would use that to give them a godly sorrow leading to repentance and faith in Christ. And Lord, let us always remember that regardless of how sinful we may be As our confession of faith said this morning, there is no sin that is too great to not be able to not be forgiven by you. Sexual sin, Lord, your word tells us is not the unforgivable sin. And I pray, O Lord, that the balm of the gospel Would be so comforting, O Lord, to your people this morning. And that we can rejoice because we are not under judgment But we are under grace in Christ. Fill us with that hope. Fill us with that joy today. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.