If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open to Genesis 41. Well, we've got quite a passage this morning ahead of us. Genesis 41, 1 to 57 If you are physically able to stand, I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. After two whole years, Pharaoh dreamed that he was standing by the Nile, and behold, there came up out of the Nile seven cows, attractive and plump, and they fed in the reed grass. And behold, seven other cows, ugly and thin, came up out of the Nile after them, and stood by the other cows on the bank of the Nile. And the ugly, thin cows ate up the seven attractive, plump cows, and Pharaoh awoke. And again he fell asleep and dreamed a second time. And behold, seven ears of grain, plump and good, were growing on one stock And behold, after them sprouted seven ears, thin and blighted by the east wind, and the thin ears swallowed up the seven plump, full ears And Pharaoh awoke. And behold, it was a dream. So in the morning his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. Pharaoh told them his dreams, but there was none who could interpret them to Pharaoh. Then the chief cup-bearer said to Pharaoh, I remember my offenses today, when Pharaoh was angry with his servants, and put me and the chief baker in custody in the house of the captain of the guard. We dreamed on the same night, he and I, each having a dream with its own interpretation. A young Hebrew was there with us, a servant of the captain of the captain of the guard. When we told him, he interpreted our dreams to us, giving an interpretation to each man according to his dream. And as he interpreted to us, so it came about. I was restored to my office, and the baker was hanged. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they quickly brought him out of the pit. And when he had shaved himself and changed his clothes, he came in before Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I've had a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it. I've heard it said of you that when you hear a dream, you can interpret it. Joseph answered Pharaoh, it is not in me. God will give Pharaoh a favorable answer. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Behold, in my dream I was standing on the banks of the Nile. Seven cows, plump and attractive, came up out of the Nile and fed in the reed grass. Seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and thin, such as I had never seen in all the land of Egypt. And the thin ugly cows ate up the first seven plump cows. But when they had eaten them, no one would have known that they had eaten them, for they were still as ugly as at the beginning. Then I awoke. I also saw in my dream seven ears growing on one stalk, full and good. Seven ears withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind. sprouted after them. And the thin ears swallowed up the seven good ears. And I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, The dreams of Pharaoh are one. God has revealed to Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years. The dreams are one. The seven lean and ugly cows that came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty ears, blighted by the east wind, are also seven years of famine. It is as I told Pharaoh, God has shown to Pharaoh what he is about to do. There will come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt, but after them there will arise seven years of famine. And all the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt. The famine will consume the land, and the plenty will be unknown in the land by reason of the famine that will follow, for it will be very severe. And the doubling of Pharaoh's dream means that the thing is fixed by God, and God will shortly bring it about. Now, therefore, let Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh proceed to appoint overseers over the land and take one-fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt during the seven plentiful years. And let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming, and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh for food in the cities, and let them keep it. that the f that food shall be a reserve for the land against the seven years of famine that are also to occur in the land of Egypt, so that the land may not perish through the famine This proposal pleased Pharaoh and all his servants, and Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find a man like this in whom is the Spirit of God? Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Since God has shown you all this, there is none so discerning and wise as you are. You shall be over my house. And all my people shall order themselves as you command. Only as regards the throne will I be greater than you. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh took his signet ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand. and clothed him in garments of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck. And he made him ride in his second chariot. And they called out before him, Bow the knee Thus he set him over all the land of Egypt. Moreover, Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without your consent no one shall lift hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphanath Paneah, and he gave him in marriage Asanath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of An. So Joseph went out over the land of Egypt. Joseph was thirty years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went through all the land of Egypt. During the seven plentiful years the earth produced abundantly, and he gathered up all the food of these seven years which occurred in the land of Egypt and put food in the cities. He put it in every city the food from the fields around it. And Joseph stored up grain in great abundance, like the sand of the sea, until he ceased to measure it, for it could not be measured. Before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph. Asinath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of An, bore them to him. Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh For, he said, God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's house. The name of the second he called Ephraim For God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. The seven years of plenty that occurred in the land of Egypt came to an end. And the seven years of famine began to come, and as Joseph had said, there was famine in all the lands, but in the land of Egypt there was bread. When all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph. Whatever he says to you, do. So when the famine spread over all the land, Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians, for the famine was severe in the land of Egypt. Moreover, all the earth came to Egypt to Joseph to buy grain, because the famine was severe over all the earth. This is the word of the Lord. Let's see what God. You may finally be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we pray, O Lord, that as we sit at your feet to hear from your word, to learn from you, we pray that you would open our hearts. Open our eyes, open our ears, our minds, Lord, to see, to hear, to understand, and to receive your word. But most of all, Lord, we pray that you would give us eyes to see the Lord Jesus Christ and the message of the gospel even in this particular passage in Joseph's life. We pray that history in this passage might be open to us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever had something or looked forward to something where you've waited so long and then the five the time that it finally came was like such a relief and brought such joy. to your heart. For some of you, maybe it was waiting to get married or meet that person that God had led into your life. For others, maybe it was uh a struggle to have kids and then finally when you started having kids uh the Lord brought great joy into your life. As trivial as it may sound compared to those two examples, maybe you're a student and you've been in school all year and you're just like, finally, the school year is about to be over at the end of this week. Sigh of relief. That's kind of what we see in this passage. Last week, if you remember, in chapter 40, we left off. One of the last things I said was, this story does not end well for Joseph. Well here, as history unfolds itself in the life of Joseph, we find not the humiliation, but we see all of that breaking away To the exaltation. And I want to jump in right in because of how long this is, and obviously we're not going to say everything there is to say I'm going to be very selective here. But I want to begin by looking at verses 1 through 7 as we see the uncertainty of Pharaoh's dreams. Now, if you look at verse 1, you see initially the timing of the dreams. Verse 1 begins, the first couple words, after two whole years, and then there's a comma in English, right? Let's stop there. After two full years, or more literally, at the end of two years. Well the point of reference, if you remember, was Pharaoh's birthday in chapter 40. And Pharaoh's birthday, it was the chief uh cupbearer that was elevated back up to his position and the chief baker as we saw last week was hung or impaled uh on a stake for all to see Pharaoh's birthday. Three, this is really two full years have passed. The third year is beginning. By the way, that detail of the third year beginning is going to be important. a little later on, but let's keep going because the dreams are part of the setting of this narrative. You see in verses 1 through 4, the first dream. It's very simple. It's straightforward. Pharaoh dreamed that he was standing by the Nile. Behold, there came up out of the Nile seven cows, attractive and plump, and they fed in the regrass. And behold, seven other cows, ugly and thin, came up out of the Nile after them, and stood by the other cows on the bank of the Nile, and the ugly, thin cows ate up the seven attractive plump cows. That's a pretty straightforward for the most part. It's easy to understand what's going on. We see the same pattern. Joseph had two dreams. the cupbearer and the baker had two dreams. Now it's Pharaoh's turn, and we just heard what the first one was. Now, none of this would have been surprising, even if the the magicians didn't understand what it ultimately meant. The details would not have been surprising. Why? Because in the Egyptian worldview in in ancient Egypt, the Nile was seen as the source of sustenance and provision for the nation. The cycles of inundation helped with drinking water, irrigation for crops, and even for travel. And so the fact that the Pharaoh would be standing on the edge of the Nile as he often would to pour out a libation into the Nile would have made perfect sense. This wouldn't have been strange. In fact, the whole civilization of Egypt was built around this river, and the river itself was personified as a deity. I mean, the Nile was a god that was worshipped. The cows likewise were symbols of an Egyptian goddess that represented agriculture and fertility, and so It's interesting, Kyle and Dalich tell us in their commentary that the details of this particular dream And the symbolism involved should have given an insight into these magicians of what the dream meant, and yet we see that that was not the case. What we do know is Pharaoh ended up waking up in the middle of the night, likely to some alarm, before falling back asleep and having his second dream in verses 5 through 7. Now all the details are fundamentally the same with one exception. We know that now we're talking not about seven cows, whether plump or good and fat or or thin and ugly. We're talking about ears of grain. The one detail that I would say is different, and the second dream kind of exacerbates the meaning of the first, is in the first dream the cows, the ugly ones, ate up the good cows. And that's the generic word you would expect in Hebrew for ate up. But when it talks about the the stalks, the ears of corn eating up the seven good ears, It says they swallowed up. And that that's a different word that's more forceful. It could mean devoured, uh forcefully, meaning that there's nothing left. And again, Pharaoh awakes and realizes it was a dream. And the question we we want to look at Because I think it is important is what is Pharaoh's immediate response? Well, you see the immediate response in verse 8. So in the morning his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all of the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. By the way, stop there. When it says all, I mean that is pretty significant. The fact that this man is so worked up. That he calls all of them. It's pretty indicative. Pharaoh told them his dreams, but there was none who could interpret them to Pharaoh. So what's that initial response? Well it says very clearly, he was troubled. And by the way, it's really interesting. Let me draw a parallel for you to understand maybe how troubled he was or the depth of that troubled soul. This is the same word. The Greek Septuagint, the Greek Old Testament, translates this word and uses the same word that's used in the New Testament in Matthew 2. 3. When King Herod has the wise men come to him and they tell him, we are looking for the king of the Jews. And you can imagine Pharaoh or Herod on his throne sitting there thinking, wait a minute, I'm the king of the Jews, and yet you're looking for someone else. And Matthew 2. 3 says, he was troubled in all Jerusalem with him. This is not just like something that bothers him, like an itch that you can't scratch or something. This is something very profound. This is something that is gnawing at Pharaoh's soul. He is troubled by this, which is why he calls on the magicians and the all the wise men. You know what's interesting though, in my opinion, and I think there's grounds for this, the troubled spirit here is surprising Because who is Pharaoh? Pharaoh's the king of Egypt. Pharaoh's at the top of the totem pole in Egyptian society, which was one of the most powerful civilizations at that time. This is a man who was secure. This is a man whose position, for the most part, was certain. This is a man who lived in relative comfort, ease, and luxury. So for someone who's got it easy from the world's perspective to be this troubled, you know that in hit in the back of his mind, he's thinking whatever this dream means is a threat to my security. That's what he's wrestling with. And so he's thinking, well the gods must be trying to tell me something. We saw last week that If you remember that in the ancient Near East, people believed the gods used dreams to communicate with them. And so when Pharaoh calls in the professionals and they can't interpret him, interpret these dreams, he gets frightened. Now the question we have to ask as we step back to apply this really quick is how do we glean anything from this to apply to ourselves today? Well, I think one of the points that these dreams are working up to is there is going to be a great need for a great salvation, and Pharaoh is unaware of this need for salvation. That's what's going on. But what we see here initially is that the Lord orchestrates all the means by which he is going to work redemption and salvation out in the lives of his people. That's what this is drawing out. Because it's not just Pharaoh. It's not just the Egyptians. Remember last week Joseph's in prison. He's languishing. Remember last week I said that he's able to interpret this dream and he's able to tell what the future is going to be. For the chief cupbearer and for the chief baker, and yet for someone who has such insight into the circumstances and futures of other people, Joseph is yet in the dark about his own life. That's going to change in a moment here, but what we need to see is that the Lord works out the timing of our redemption. I mean the timing here is given very clearly two years after the last chapter. And remember, Joseph's waiting all that time. He's waiting in uncertainty. And yet God decided in his providential sovereignty to wait two years, likely till I'm assuming Pharaoh's birthday, two years after his first birthday last week to answer all of Joseph's prayers to reveal to Joseph what is going on The timing in Joseph's redemption, the timing in Pharaoh's soon-to-be redemption, the timing in Egypt's redemption, and then as we'll see, the timing in even his brother's redemption in chapters to come. Is all perfectly timed by God. And this is true of us today Now, Reformed theologians often use the word monergism to describe that salvation is a work of God's grace alone. From beginning to end, from first to last, salvation is a work of the Lord. Why do we say that? Because God orchestrates the means and the circumstances by which we get saved. And then when we get saved, he orchestrates all the means to sanctify us, to bring us to final glorification and exaltation when we will be with him. And so there's comfort in that detail for us to cling to today, that the Lord is the one who works out redemption in his timing and in his way. I started talking about what are you waiting for? You know, things that you look forward to, that you long for and you long to see God do. Understand, brothers and sisters, whatever those things may be. Right? Finishing school, starting a career, finding a spouse, starting a family, even the details of working through an illness when your body's not not functioning the way that that you think that it should. Understand that the Lord is working out these details in his timing for your redemption I was reading in my quiet time this morning, 1 Peter chapter 5, and it's talking about submission, submission to elders, but uh Peter makes an interesting point. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, and he will exalt you at the proper time. In other words, he's working in the details, in the circumstances. And then when you look at Peter's whole theme of his first letter, it's the to the theme of suffering. God is working in those details. And yet that also brings up the application that there's anxiety that we often experience not knowing what God is doing. Have you ever been there before? Because I know I have. You know, you you're going through a situation, circumstances are not always ideal. Maybe there's relational tension with someone that you know or work with and yet You're waiting for God to work it out. You're praying. You're doing everything you can. And yet you don't quite know what God is doing. Well, let me encourage you here from Ecclesiastes 3. 11. Solomon wrote this. It's after that long litany of, you know, there's a time for this, a time for that, a time for this, a time for that, all the things that Simon and Garfunkel ripped off in that one song, right? Here's the sum and substance of that. He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also put eternity into man's heart. Yet so that he cannot find out what God has done from beginning to end. Pharaoh's anxiety, Pharaoh's troubled soul, is something that many of us this morning can connect to. But as we're going to see in the rest of this passage, we will be called to trust the Lord to provide the means for understanding, the means for comfort, the means for getting through Whatever it is we go through and are anxious for in God's time and by his means. That brings us really to the the the first point of verses one through eight, redemption by orchestrating its means. That's what these dreams were all about. God is orchestrating the means for redemption. And this the story continues on, and this is by far the largest part of the story, and I'm going to summarize More than I explain details here, but we see in verses 9 through 13, the cupbearer remembers his sin and his redemption. Because in verses 9 through 13, the cupbearer speaks up after Pharaoh is there's no interpretation to his dream. He's anxious, he's troubled in soul. And he says in verse 9, I remember my offense today. Now, perhaps the fact that Pharaoh was having two dreams and that it was his birthday triggered this man's memory. Because that's exactly what happened in the last chapter to him. And again, it's interesting, he calls his offense using the Hebrew word for sin, just as he did in the last chapter. It's almost as if to say, I remember today my sin against the king. Because of what's I'm seeing happen in front of me that's triggering my memory. And he ref rehearses everything that we covered last week, so I'm not going to go into detail. He tells that story to Pharaoh. But I want to draw your attention to verse 12. Because it addresses the problem that Pharaoh was having When it says a young Hebrew was there with us, when he's talking about being in that dungeon, in that pit, a young Hebrew was there with us, a servant of the captain of the guard. By the way, here's something interesting detail about that. He calls him a Hebrew. Now, the word Hebrew has only come up a few times in the book of Genesis up to this point, but the most recent time was back in chapter 39 when Joseph was falsely accused. Remember what his wife said when the master came in? You brought this Hebrew in among us. There's almost a sense of like disparagement, even though he's grateful. A young Hebrew was there with us, a servant. of the captain of the guard, when we told him, he interpreted our dreams to us, giving an interpretation, each man according to his dream. So please understand the big problem of this passage is how is the dream going to be interpreted? Well now we have a viable solution. The question is, is it going to work? And the story continues on in verses 14 to 24, as Joseph points to God as the one who interprets dreams. Now I'm not going to go into a lot. There is a lot of repetition in this section. I'm not going to go through all those details. I really want to focus on verses 14 through 16 for the sake of our time this morning. Look at verse 14. Joseph comes up out of prison. Says the Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they quickly brought him out of the pit. And when he had shaved himself and changed his clothes, he came in before the Pharaoh. Again, just like in chapter 37, the prison is called the pit, and again, that should remind us of the pit that Joseph's brothers threw him in. It's interesting that he's thrown into the pit before. He was lifted out of the pit and then exalted in the Potiphers house. Now he's taken out of the pit and he's brought to court. And it is interesting, it mentions that he shaved because he was in ancient Egypt and you know there were a lot of immigrants coming into ancient Egypt from Canaan and And the Middle East at that time, and the way that they were distinguished socially, especially in Pharaoh's court, where the Egyptians were clean-shaven. And the Asiatics, the Canaanites, always had beards. Joseph is being brought into the court. And this is expected decorum at court, but here's the point. Pharaoh, by his power, raises Joseph from the pit. If there's any detail about this section, just remember that. And Joseph, what he does in verses 14 through 15, he glorifies God as the one who interprets dreams, because in verse 15, Pharaoh says to Joseph, I had a dream, and there's no one to interpret it. I've heard it said of you that when you hear a dream, you can interpret it. Now perhaps he thought Joseph was just one of those, you know, some magician or interpreter of dreams like the professional class. in Egypt at that time. Maybe Joseph had a book he would open up and say, okay, this details that, this details that. Does Joseph take credit for it? No. Look at verse 16. Joseph tells Pharaoh, he says, I he basically says, you know, I'm not the one who's going to be able to do this. He says, it is not in me. God will give Pharaoh a favorable answer. That word for God is the generic word because he's talking to a Gentile. But if you're one who looks for patterns in Scripture, maybe one thing you want to include write down if you're a note taker, you see the same story in Daniel chapter 2. Nebuchadnezzar says the same thing to Daniel. And Daniel says almost the same thing Joseph says, no wise man, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show the king the mystery that the king has asked. But there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he has made known to the king what will be in the latter days. So as we're in this passage, understand that verse 16 is the interpretive key. And Pharaoh continues to relate his story in verses 25 to 36. And Joseph interprets the dreams. Now, again, I don't really want to focus on the dreams. I just want to get to the explanation. Look at verse 32. You see the interpretation of the number of dreams. I'm doing this a little out of order just to make sense of it, okay? And the doubling of Pharaoh's dream means that the thing is fixed by God, and God will shortly bring it about. We've seen this before. In other words, what Joseph is telling Pharaoh is that whatever you dreams, the details that I'm about to tell you cannot be changed. This is God's sovereign, immutable will. Okay, let's consider the details. Verses 26 and 29. You see the interpretation of the seven good cows and good ears. He interprets them to be a reference to seven years and highlights that these two dreams Again, because they're certain, there's two of them, they're one dream that points to seven years. Now notice what he describes about these seven years in verse 29. They're going to be full of great plenty Throughout all of the land of Egypt. But if these there are plenty good plenty years of abundance, you can imagine where this is going to go. In verses 27 and 30 and 31, there's the interpretation of the seven bad cows and bad ears. He interprets them to be seven years of famine. And in fact, it takes two verses to describe just how bad this famine is in verses 30 and 31. But after them there will arise seven years of famine, and the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt. The famine will consume the land, and the plenty will be unknown in the land by reason of the famine that will follow, for it will be very severe. The famines were common enough in the ancient Near East, and a famine oftentimes meant a good scale or Section of the population was going to die. So the question is, what do you do? You're being told that you there's something to be saved from. What's the solution? Well, look at verses 33 through 36. I'll just summarize it. But Joseph gives wise counsel. In a nutshell, he says, Find one discerning man, put him over all of Egypt, over all the officers, and here's what you do. Have those officers collect grain in all the cities. Store that grain away. Take one fifth. One fifth from all the good grain, those seven years stored away so that we can survive in the seven years of calamity that are coming. And so what Joseph has done, he's just revealed to Pharaoh the great need that he and Egypt have for redemption. In the face of this coming calamity. They didn't know they had this need, but they're now realizing it. So again, does this have any bearing on us today as we seek to apply it? Well, the Lord must open our eyes to see our need for redemption or salvation, or we will never act on it. Pharaoh would not have acted, as we're going to see, on this advice if he didn't know. He had to know. And so that's really our application, revealing our need for redemption. Keep in mind again that Pharaoh as the king thought he was secure and that all was well. But maybe you're tempted to think the same way today. We live in a society in a world that is far more advanced, far more economically powerful, militarily powerful, and secure than ancient Egypt. Our medical technology is so much greater than anything these superstitious magicians had in their day. Maybe you feel secure today and feel like there's nothing to be saved from. Now, this world may not be crumbling around us this very moment, and so many times when that's happening, we assume that we're okay. But the interpretation of these dreams shows us that even as God orchestrates the means by which we will be redeemed, we still need to see and understand our need for redemption. Because if we do not understand That there is nothing we can do to save ourselves, then we will continue to think that God will simply save us because we're good enough. And what do we base that on? Well, because our lives look like they're in good, decent order right now. Right? Like Pharaoh, we often need someone to open our eyes. And by the way, what Joseph does here for Pharaoh is what the Holy Spirit does for us today. Don't you see that connection? God uses Joseph in a very spiritual way. Jesus says in John 16, 7 through 11, Nevertheless I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is already judged. Brothers and sisters, this New Testament truth fulfills what our Old Testament historical narrative points us forward to, which is our second point this morning. Redemption. by revealing our need for it. It's not just that God orchestrates those details, he does. But then for his people, he does open their eyes to the Holy Spirit to see their need of that redemption. And then we look at the end of this story, at the end of this historical narrative, and we do see Joseph's redemption as well. Look at verses 37 through 45. You see the exaltation and the marriage of Joseph. Again, the highlight of this exaltation comes in the beginning of verse 38, where Pharaoh makes an interesting profession about Joseph. He's essentially asking, can anyone really deny that the Spirit of God is in this man? Are we ever going to find someone who's as wise and discerning as him because of the Spirit of God? Interesting that a pagan king can confess that. And so what does he do? He elevates Joseph to his own right hand and makes him second in authority and power over all of Egypt. There's some really interesting phrases that he mentions here in this particular section. When he does this, he says, if you look at verse 40, you shall be over my house, and all my people shall order themselves as you command. You know, that's a really actually a very difficult phrase to translate in Hebrew when he says, all my people shall order themselves as you command. You know what it actually really says in Hebrew? This kind of sounds strange to modern Western ears, but I'll do my best to explain it. It literally says, and all my people will kiss your mouth. Hmm. You're like what in the world's that all about? Well I don't know entirely, but one thing I can say is if you look at Psalm chapter 2, verse 12, talking about the exaltation of the Davidic king to come, the Messiah. He says, kiss the son lest he be angry. There was an idea of kissing demonstrated homage Honor, submission , respect. And that's what's going on here. He makes him ruler over all Egypt. But notice what he says also in verse 40 at the end. Only as regards the throne will I be greater than you. And then I love verse forty-two. Pharaoh clothes Joseph with a garment of fine linen. Man, there's this garment theme with Joseph again. You know, it's like he had this garment from his dad, and then his his brothers like stripped it off of him. And what did they do? They spilled blood all over it and gave it to his father. And then what is what happens in Potiphar's house? The woman grabs the garment, seizes it from him, he leaves it in her hands. That's his incriminating evidence for being thrown into prison. Joseph has had a lot of bad luck with garments, and yet here he gets the garment of power. Why? Because having the garment of power, he is now seated at the right hand of power. He's been lifted up out of the pit. He's ascended to the right hand of Pharaoh. And he's been made lord over all of Egypt. But that's not it. He gives him a wife in verse 45. Well, first he gives them a name, an Egyptian name, which John Current in his commentary says means God speaks and he lives. Boy, that's an interesting name. And he gives him a wife. Gives him a bride. And so receiving the Egyptian name and taking the bride, the Egyptian bride, Joseph in many ways Becomes an Egyptian through and through, but not quite. We see lastly here in verses 46 to 57 the exaltation fruitfulness and wisdom of Joseph. I'm only going to focus on one thing here. In verses 50 to 52, notice that Joseph has two sons. Notice when they're born. Before, verse 50, before the year of famine came. Isn't that fascinating? What you see here is during the years of plenty and fruitfulness in the land, Joseph is fruitful. Now, it's it may escape your notice unless you're a really, really careful reader, but when you read later in the law, in Deuteronomy, particularly chapters 28, verses 1 through 14 There are two things that demonstrate God's blessing on his , people, fruitfulness of land and the fruitfulness of their wives. Joseph, in the years of fruitfulness, is fruitful himself, and he has two sons. Notice their names. First, Manasseh. Why? For God has made me forget all my hardship and my father's house. So the word Manasseh, the name Manasseh comes from the Hebrew verb to forget. No, what is he forgetting? Hardship in his father's house. He's forgetting what happened and what his brothers did to him. Second, when Ephraim is born, he says, God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. Ephraim simply comes from the Hebrew verb that means to be fruitful. Again, now it's not the affliction of his father's house. Now it's the affliction from Potiphar's house His Hebrew or Canaanite and his Egyptian affliction are all mentioned. And he's contrasting God's goodness and God's blessing with that affliction. Joseph has been humbled more than once. Now he has been exalted. And here's what we have to ask, like I ask almost every week. How do we see the message of the gospel in the exaltation of Joseph? Well, there's a few things, and then that's going to lead to a call on our behalf. The gospel shines through this passage by looking at the work of the Spirit, the exaltation of Joseph in Christ, and the proclamation of that response. Let's break that down. Jesus has the Spirit without measure. This is where we start to make those connections. The first gospel connection is the reference to the work of the Spirit in this passage. Namely, when Pharaoh confesses that the Spirit of God is in Joseph and has allowed him to reveal these things to them. He acknowledged that that interpretation came from God's Spirit. And when we turn to the New Testament, we see in John chapter 3, verses 32 through 34, it says of Jesus, the greater than Joseph, He bears witness to what he has seen and heard. Yet no one receives his testimony. Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this: that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the spirit without measure. Brothers and sisters, understand that just as Joseph had the spirit to proclaim essentially not just the coming calamity, but redemption for the Israelites or the Egyptians. Jesus has the Spirit in greater measure to pronounce the gospel of redemption and salvation to a much wider audience than just national Egypt in the ancient world. And what is really interesting is later in John's Gospel, Jesus says, when he ascends to the Father after his resurrection, as I mentioned a few minutes ago, that he will give the spirit of truth to his disciples and to his people. He did that at Pentecost. So, brothers and sisters, Jesus is the greater than Joseph, who has the spirit without measure. That's the first connection we see to the message of the gospel. The second one is that Jesus is the one who has been exalted to the right hand of the Father. The whole pattern, brothers and sisters, of Joseph being taken out of the pit of the prison and elevated to the right hand Of Pharaoh points forward to the Lord Jesus Christ, who was resurrected from the pit of the grave and death, and elevated in his ascension to the right hand of God the Father. This is why in verse 40 I made it a point to tell you that Pharaoh's statement says, and upon your mouth all my people will kiss. And that's why I drew that connection to Psalm 212, when it says, kiss the sun, lest you be angry and you perish in the way. Why? Because the whole Psalm 2 is about the exaltation of the Son of God, fulfilled in Christ, being exalted to the Father's right hand. And when Pharaoh says in verse 44, I'm Pharaoh, and without your consent, no one shall lift up hand or foot in all the land of Egypt, that anticipates what Jesus says in Matthew 28, 18. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Wow. That's a lot of authority. Fourth is the proclamation of response to Jesus' exaltation. If you look at verse 50, verse 43, Pharaoh issues the proclamation, bow the knee to Joseph. And then in verse 55, when the people are starving and they go to Pharaoh for bread, Pharaoh tells them, Go to Joseph. So here's the thing. Now that Christ has been exalted and we've established that, both from this passage and the New Testament , What is the response? What is the proclamation that we're called to respond to? One, bow the knee. Bow the knee. This is the first application. It's a command. It's a command based on the reality that Jesus Christ has been exalted to the highest authority, just like Joseph had been in Egypt. Again, citing Psalm 2, verse 5, this time, God says In response to the rebellion of the nations against him and his Messiah. Behold, as for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Bow the knee. Philippians chapter 2, verses 9 through 11. The Apostle Paul says of Jesus, therefore God has highly exalted him, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven on earth or in heaven on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of the Father. What is the authoritative application of this this morning? Bow the knee to Jesus and profess that he is Lord, embracing him in faith. That's what it means to kiss the Son. Proclaim that He's the Lord. And the last thing: come to Jesus for the bread that does not perish. Come to Jesus for the bread that does not perish. Just like Pharaoh gave people direction to go to Joseph for bread and to do what he says, this application applies to Christ. Listen to what the prophet Isaiah said in Isaiah 55, verses 1-3, centuries after Joseph. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. He who has no money, come buy, and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, says the prophet. And eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food. Jesus says something very similar in John chapter 7, verses 37 to 39, on the great feast. If anyone is thirsty. Let him come to me, and I will give him living water, so that when he drinks, rivers of water will flow from his belly to eternal life. In Revelation twenty two, seventeen, Jesus says the same thing. He will give you bread that does not perish, and the water will spring up from you into wells of eternal life. What is the point of all this? Bend the knee and come to Christ to be satisfied with life. And you will live. And that is the point, the second point, the third point rather, of our passage this morning. From verses 37 to 57. Redemption by the exaltation of Jesus Christ. The greater than Joseph. Put it all together, what do you get? Well, you can see it in your bulletin. The main idea: God works out our redemption. By orchestrating its means, by revealing our need of it, and by the exaltation of Jesus Christ. Let's end this service and bow our hearts before the Lord in prayer, and then we'll sing our song of response Heavenly Father, we come before you today, and we are so thankful for the greater than Joseph, your son Jesus. Lord, I don't know how people here are hearing the life of Joseph as we go through this, but Lord, as I read through this The life of Joseph in Genesis, it is hard not to love him. It's like David. You read about David, the man after your own heart, and it's hard not to love him. How much more are we called to love you, Lord Jesus, in response? Lord, as we come before you this morning, we pray that you would um Satisfy us with yourself, with the bread of life that has come down out of heaven, as you said in John chapter 6. That we would cling to you in faith. And trust you with our very lives and our salvation in eternity. We pray and we put these things in your hands, Lord Jesus. Amen.