Let's open to Genesis 48 as we stand together for the reading of God's holy word. Genesis 48, 1 to 22. In fact, I was looking at that last lyric we just sang with the choir while I draw this fleeting breath when mine eyelids close in death. What a segue to our passage this morning Genesis forty eight. After this, Joseph was told, Behold, your father is ill. So he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And it was told to Jacob, Your son Joseph has come to you. Then Israel summoned his strength and sat up in bed. And Jacob said to Joseph, God Almighty appeared to me at Lutz in the land of Canaan and blessed me, and said to me, Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make you a company of peoples, and I will give this land to your offspring after you for an everlasting possession. And now, your two sons who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine. Ephraim and Manasseh shall be mine, as Reuben and Simeon are And the children that you fathered after them shall be yours. They shall be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance. As for me, when I came from Padon, to my sorrow, Rachel died in the land of Canaan on the way when there was still some distance to go to Ephroth, and I buried her there on the way to Ephroth, that is, Bethlehem When Israel saw Joseph's sons, he said, Who are these? Joseph said to his father, They are my sons, whom God has given me here And he said, Bring them to me, please, that I may bless them. Now the eyes of Israel were dim with age, so that he could not see. Joseph brought them near to him, and he kissed them and embraced them. And Israel said to Joseph, I never expected to see your face. And behold, God has let me see your offspring also. Then Joseph removed them from his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth. Joseph took them both. Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near to him. And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on the head of Ephraim, and who was younger, and his left hand on the head of Manasseh, crossing his hands, for Manasseh was the firstborn. And he blessed Joseph and said, The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has been my shepherd all my life long to this day. The angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the boys, and in them let my name be carried on, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac And let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. When Joseph saw That his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him, and he took his father's hands to move it from Ephraim's head to Manasseh's head. Joseph said to his father, Not this way, my father, since this one is the firstborn. Put your right hand on his head. But his father refused and said, I know, my son, I know. He shall also become a people, and he shall be great. Nevertheless, his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his offspring shall become a multitude of nations So he blessed them that day, saying, By you Israel will pronounce blessings, saying, Make God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh Thus he put Ephraim before Manasseh. Then Israel said to Joseph, Behold, I am about to die. But God will be with you, and will bring you again to the land of your fathers. Moreover, I've given to you rather than to your brothers one mountain slope that I took from the hand of the Amorites with my sword and with my bow. This is the word of the Lord Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, as we come into your word this morning looking to hear from you, Lord, we pray that you would give your spirit to your people to open their eyes, to open their ears, their minds and their hearts, O Lord, to see and to hear. your word and to understand and to receive Christ in his word Lord, we pray that you would take your word and that you would write the promises of the new covenant onto the tablets of our hearts. Lord, if we need to be encouraged this morning, we pray that you would do that. If we need to be challenged this morning, we pray that you would do that. Take your word and apply it to our lives this morning, we ask. In the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Amen. When we think of The close of one's life, we often think of their legacy. What is their legacy going to be? And I don't know about you, but when I think of the word legacy or even the concept of a legacy, I typically think of looking back on the person's life and then the aggregate net result or impact that their life has on others around them and on the world around them. You know, the questions we ask are things like, did this person have a lasting impact on others around them? But what's interesting to me is as we look at this passage, coming to the close of Jacob's life, And Jacob's life is coming to a close very soon. It's a little different with Jacob. As his life ends, he's not simply looking back only. There is some looking back. But what Jacob has in mind as he thinks of legacy is not backwards, but forwards. It's looking at what God has already done. And based on that, what is God going to do in the presence that will carry his family on into the future? We've seen over and over again in this book of Genesis how God has made a covenant with his people, and we've also seen a few times That this covenant is passed on from generation to generation, from father to son, passing on the blessing to that next generation. And it's with that in mind, that's the whole dynamic of this passage. It's passing something on to the next generation. With that in mind, It brings us to the main idea this morning, which if you are visiting, you will see printed in your bulletin on page 6. The sermonic idea is this. In Christ, we receive the covenant benefits of adoption, blessing, and an eternal inheritance. Now to be sure, those aren't the only benefits of the covenant, but those are the benefits that we see laid out for us in our passage And so, because I'm going to unpack that, let me just repeat that for you. In Christ, we receive the covenant benefits of adoption. Blessing, and an eternal inheritance. Those three things are going to kind of shape the overall main points of this message this morning. And as we unpack that idea in those points, the question that's going to come out of this passage that we want to ask and answer for ourselves is this. How do each of these benefits, namely adoption and blessing and eternal inheritance, how do each of those three benefits transform us in Christ today? What impacts does this have on us? And so as we unpack all of this, let's dive right in We see our first point in verses 1 through 7, the covenant benefit of adoption. And as we begin looking again at verses 1 through 4, we see the covenant foundation of adoption. Now the story is is pretty straightforward. This is years later, after the end of chapter 47. We'll see how long in just a moment, but Jacob is about to die. He's ill. He's experiencing the illness that is going to claim his life. And it's told, Joseph, your father's sick. Now is the time to co-visit your father. And so he does so as his dutiful son. And it's interesting how it says, then Israel summoned his strength in verse 2. and sat up in his bed. This was an illness that clearly was laying him low. But notice what he says. In verses 3 through 4, he points to one specific event that at the end of his life He is harping on. Now, I I don't know about you, maybe it's just because I'm a pastor, but I've seen this even with my certain family members. When they come to the end of their lives They often like to talk about various aspects of their life or seasons of their life as they process through things. Jacob is focusing here on one in verses three and four. Take a look at that. This is what he says. He says, God Almighty appeared to me at Luz, in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, and said to me, Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply, and I will make of you a company of peoples. And I will give this land to your offspring after you for an everlasting possession. What's he pointing back to? Well, if you remember uh the story of Jacob, back in chapter 27, he deceived his father Isaac uh into blessing him. He stole the blessing that was intended to go to Esau. I should say Isaac intended to give it to Esau. The Lord intended otherwise, we know from their birth in the womb. But he feels that blessing and he had to flee. And in Genesis 28, he comes to Bethel and he lays himself down. As you remember, and he had a dream, and the dream was seeing the ladder go from the earth extending to heaven, and the Lord standing at the foot of the ladder. And it was in that dream that the Lord revealed these blessings, these promises as they were, to Jacob. He had just received the blessing from his father, the covenant blessing. And based on that covenant blessing, that covenant relationship with God that he had in a sense inherited, God makes these promises that were given to Abraham first, then to Isaac, and then to Jacob. And notice the two things there that are promised. Two things. One, he's going to multiply them into many descendants. And so He's going to get married and his wife, as we find wives, are going to give birth many times over. There's birth that is being promised, and then the land of Canaan. There's a promised inheritance. Don't miss that. Oftentimes in the Old Testament, when it talks about inheritance, it's not just talking about physical money or silver. or even flocks, it's usually talking about land. And what land? The land of Canaan, the land of promise. Many descendants And Canaan. As we know, those are tied to the covenant that God made with Abraham and Isaac. And now these promises were to be passed on again as they were before from father to son in an ever-expanding family that would soon develop into a nation. But now that Jacob had received the promised blessings from Isaac, the question we ask ourselves as we work our way through this Point by point is who will inherit the covenant blessings from Jacob? Jacob is the father now, not the son receiving, he's the father giving. Who is this father going to give the promises to? You might expect the easy answer would be Joseph or Judah or one of the other brothers But who does this pass on to? And that's where we see in verses 5 through 7, not just that this adoption that we'll soon see was founded on a covenant, but we'll see the covenant recipients of adoption in 5 through 7. It's interesting when Jacob picks up in verse 5. He says, and now, those two words are crucial. He's moving from past. This is what God has done to what God is about to do in the present. And now your two sons who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt are mine. Ephraim and Manasseh shall be mine as Reuben and Simeon are. And then he goes on in verse 6. To say they shall be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance. What we're actually witnessing here is the first part of an adoption that will soon be formalized and take place. Now there's a few things I want you to see that are I think are really important about this adoption that we're going to see work itself out in this passage. First, look at the names of those who are adopted. Notice that Jacob mentions Ephraim and Manasseh. Again, you would expect Jacob to hand off the blessing first and foremost to Joseph. Joseph is his immediate son. But he kind of bypasses Joseph in a sense and goes right to Ephraim of Manasseh. And don't miss the detail. Look at the order he puts the names. If you remember, Manasseh is the older, Ephraim is the younger, and yet Joseph flips the names. That is subtle, but it is intentional, and it's going to play out later in the passage. But moreover, what we see here is that these sons will be counted as Jacob's sons directly. They're not going to be considered any longer Joseph's sons and Joseph's heirs, so to speak. They will be Jacob's heirs. And in fact, Jacob tells Joseph in verse 6 that any other children that he has had, and notice that is in past tense, that's a statement of fact. Joseph had more sons and potentially daughters than just those two, Ephraim and Manasseh. The rest, Joseph, will be counted as your heirs. But these two are special. These two are going to be mine. I will take them on as my own. And they're going to be counted among the other brothers so that it won't be twelve, it will be thirteen. My own sons who will inherit alongside of the other twelve. But notice as well the comparison of those who are adopted. And this is really interesting. He compares them to both Reuben and Simeon. Again, that's not a mistake. He says, Ephraim and Manasseh shall be mine, verse 5, as Reuben and Simeon are. Why would he mention those two? Again, there's a reason why, and it's we need to pay attention to the details here. The reason why is Reuben is the firstborn chronologically. He's the oldest. And as the oldest, Reuben is supposed to be the one who inherits the double portion of the inheritance among the brothers. Reuben is supposed to be the favored. And after Reuben comes Simeon. And so in the case that something would have happened to Reuben, Simeon gets the blessing of the firstborn. But you know the story because if you've trekked with me all this time and have had all this patience all this time, you know Reuben surrendered his right as the firstborn when he went up to Jacob's couch and laid with his father's concubine, Bilhah. You know that Simeon, in a sense, sum uh surrendered his inheritance as the next in line for the firstborn in Genesis 34 when he and Levi went and slaughtered all of the inhabitants of Shechem. And Jacob was upset with them. Well, it's most interesting that those who are the firstborn, the first two-born Who had the right of inheritance and the right of prominence in Israel are now being replaced in a sense with Ephraim and with Manasseh. Don't miss that, brothers and sisters. Jacob is saying that these two sons of Joseph are going to inherit together, in a sense, the blessing of the firstborn. And through them, Joseph himself will inherit the blessing of the firstborn instead of Reuben. Now it's interesting when you read through some of the genealogies, particularly in 1 Chronicles. I believe it's 1 Chronicles chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, in the midst of all these lists of names. You see a statement about Reuben being the firstborn, but then Joseph actually inherits the position of the firstborn through these two sons. Very interesting. So it's really fascinating. You have this promise of of of birth and multiplication in the family. You have this promised inheritance. But in adopting Ephraim and Manasseh, they in a sense receive a new identity in the covenant. And so as we trace the line of covenantal blessing, you can see it goes from Abraham to Isaac, Isaac to Jacob, Jacob to Joseph through Ephraim. and Manasseh. And so the question we ask ourselves, again, as we step back here to apply this, how do each of these benefits, in this case, how does adoption How does adoption transform us in Christ today? Well, as we look at some of these benefits of adoption, adoption is transforms us today as it gives us a new identity that is grounded in the covenant promises of God. Adoption grounded in God's character is meant to transform us into his character. Now I don't always do this, but sometimes I do, and it's helpful. I'll quote the Westminster shorter catechism. And in this case, Catechism 34 defines adoption in this way. Adoption is an act of God's free grace. In other words, you don't earn it. An act of God's free grace whereby we are received into the number and have a right to all the privileges of the sons of God. Where does this come from? Well, remember what I just said. The promise of birth, the promise of an inheritance. the promise of a new identity. Those things in the passage kind of build on one another. We see the same thing today. When we are born again by the Spirit of God, as Jesus talks about in John chapter 3, as we heard about in our assurance of pardon from 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 3 through 5, when we are born again. to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We are born into a new family. We receive a new father, a new covenant father in the new birth. Which leads to our adoption as his children. And when we have this adoption and we have this relationship with God as his children, it gives us a new identity. And I want you to think about how that new identity, rooted in our new birth with a heavenly father, affects the way that we talk about identity today and how people struggle. um around us in the world and maybe even in your families. What are the ways we tend to identify ourselves in in the context in the world we live in with all of the confusion? We tend to identify ourselves by everything that boils down into the flesh. We identify ourselves with ethnicity. But think about it, that is fundamentally of the flesh. We identify ourselves or we build the ground of our identity in things like sexuality And sexual activity, which is of the flesh. We ground our identity in things like our job or our career, but this is fundamentally of the flesh How about this? And I'm not even saying this one's wrong, but it is a reality. We ground our identity in, say, who we are in relationship to. and even married to. But remember, as Jesus says in Matthew 22 to the Sadducees, In glory, in the resurrection, they are neither given in marriage nor are married. And so this is again something that is limited to this world. We tend to ground our identity on all kinds of things that are limited to this world. And we wonder why we come up short, and we wonder why There's confusion, and we wonder why there's no satisfaction in the things that we pursue and make our ultimate sacred holy grail But when we see in this passage worked out that our identity is to be grounded in who we are in Christ As the adoptive children of God, we find that our identity fundamentally as children of God transcends anything. Under the sun. Think about that. It transcends the flesh. It transcends the world. Why? Because our identity is based in our adoption, which is based in the covenant promises of God. And what I want you to understand, brothers and sisters, is the covenant promises of God. are express , they are expressions of God 's character of holiness and love. And purity and all those things. They are the expression of God's character applied to his people. Isn't it always interesting when you get to know certain families, whether at church or you know maybe you have friends at work and you get to know their family? It's interesting to then watch the kids and then see the kids grow up. You know, at first you look at them and you're like, I wonder which which parent this kid looks like. Is it mom or dad? And then you figure that out. And then as they grow up, sometimes they may look like one parent, but they have the temperament uh of of another. Um and then you watch them grow up and you just realize these children are truly the children of their parents, right? They start taking on the character qualities of their parents, the personality traits of their parents. Well, when we look at the covenant promises of God that are the ground in the influence of our adoption And we become adopted through our new birth into the family of God. What we need to understand is those covenant promises are meant to define who we are. That's how we come to look as we mature in the family of God. I want to encourage you this morning that if you are in Christ, you are loved. If you are in Christ, you belong to God first and foremost. And no one and nothing can take that away from you. And if you want something really tangible, practical that you can go do today, even when you leave here. Go home and read Romans chapter 8, particularly verses 29 through the end of the chapter, and talks about the tremendous love of God that he has through those of us who are in Christ for whom there is now no condemnation and nothing can separate us. And it gives you a whole list of things that the world struggles with. And none of those things can separate you from the love of your heavenly Father. Why? Because you've been adopted. Let me just say a word to those few of you here who are single, like me. It can sometimes be very difficult. in a church that is filled with families to feel like you belong. This passage And the implications of what adoption means means that you do belong in the family of Christ. That leads us to our second benefit this morning in verses 8 through 20. It's not just the covenant benefit of adoption as wonderful as that is. Now we see the covenant benefit of blessing. And I I do realize blessing is a pretty broad category, but that really is the kind of the key term here in these verses 8 through 20. So I want to be as close to the text as I can. In verses 8 through 14, we see the covenant transfer of blessing. And so this is the largest section of our passage. And I want to focus on just a few details, because we can't say everything about everything, but I want to say a few details about Jacob transferring the blessing of the covenant to Joseph's. First, look at verses 8 through 11. I'm not going to read the whole thing. It's simple enough. Jacob, to give the big picture, is like his father Isaac before him. He's very dim and dull of sight as he's gotten older. And after explaining this whole, you know, promises that God has made and what this is going to mean, For Ephraim and Manasseh. He sees these two boys, and maybe it was because he hadn't seen them since they were little and they're growing up. But he's like, who are these? Or maybe he was just dull of sight and he couldn't see them. Who are these? And Joseph says, These are my sons whom God has given me here. And Jacob commands him, Oh, bring them near. Why? so that I may embrace them, kiss them, and bless them. That's the first part of the transfer of blessing to them. is that Jacob kisses them and embraces them. This is very similar to what happened with Jacob and his father Isaac in Genesis 27, verse 26. Jacob had to draw near to Isaac. You remember Isaac smelled him. He smelled like Esau because he's wearing the garments. And Isaac kisses him. and then immediately proceeds to give him the covenant blessing. We're seeing the same pattern here. So there's transfer through a kiss and through an embrace. But then there's the transfer through removal. Now look at verse 12. This is a really interesting detail that is easy to gloss over Verse 12. Then Joseph removed them from his knees, them being Ephraim and Manasseh. Joseph removes them from his knees. He bows himself with his face to the earth. Now again, I think a cursory reading might be a little misleading here. And I'll be honest with you, I always misunderstood this until really this week. What did this mean? What's going on? I always got the picture that, you know, he's got these two really little kids and he's probably sitting down and his two sons are on his knees as ch you know, small children are, you know accustomed to doing with their parents and he takes them off his knees and go go to your grandfather, go to your grandfather. You know. That's not really what's going on here. How do I know that? Well a few things. Remember, Ephraim and Manasseh were born sometime during the seven years of plenty before the famine happened. Jacob comes to Egypt in the second year of the famine when he is 130 years old. We saw last week that the total span of his life ends up being 147. Well, he's about to die, so we're talking 17 years later. Ephraim and Manasseh could, it's hard to say, but they're probably somewhere anywhere between the ages of 17 and possibly as old as 22. They are not and Joseph is in his 50s, maybe 56, 57 years old. These two grown boys are not sitting on his knees So what is going on? Well, it's an interesting phrase that is that comes up twice and two other times in Genesis. What does it mean to remove from the knees? What does the knees have to do with anything? Well, if you go back to Genesis chapter 30, verse 3, when Jacob's wives are in this competition for who's going to have more kids than the other? Rachel tells Jacob, Go into my servant Bilha, and the children that she has will be brought up on my knees. That's what Rachel's saying. What is she saying? What she's essentially saying is, go into my servant. The children that you have through her will legally belong to me. They will legally be mine. You see it again in chapter 50, verse 23, kind of summarizing Joseph's life. It says that the children of Makir Joseph's grandson through his son Manasseh, they were born on his knees. What does that mean? Again, it means that legally These children, who are essentially his great-grandchildren, they belonged legally to Joseph as direct heirs. That's what it means. So when Joseph takes Ephraim and Manasseh and removes them from his knees, there's a transfer going on. They are going from his direct ownership. As they are not going to be his legal heirs directly anymore. They're going to become Jacob's legal heirs. And look at how this this plays out in verses 13 -14. Again, this is really interesting how Jacob chooses to lay hands on the boys. And by the way, laying hands is a common thing in the Bible. Um they do it to transfer blessing. Later on, priests and worshipers lay hands on an animal to transfer guilt before the animal is sacrificed. Here there's a transfer going on as Jacob puts his hands on the boys. But you remember how I read this in the beginning? Joseph takes Ephraim on his left, so or Manasseh on his left. So that it's on Jake, he's on Jacob's right, and Ephraim is on Joseph's right, so that he's on Jacob's left. Why? So that he puts his right hand on Manasseh. What does Jacob do? It's interesting. He crosses his hands. He puts the right hand on Ephraim and the left hand then on Manasseh. And the blessing is transferred essentially through a cross. Isn't that interesting? I mean, I honestly I don't know exactly if the cross part was intentional on Jacob's part or he's just like, well, Joseph did what I didn't want to, so I'm going to fix it. How what what was going on in his head, I don't know. But it is interesting how that blessing is transferred through the cross. And with that, laying on of hands in verses 15 through 16, we have the covenant pronouncement of blessing. And again, the substance of this is really something we want to pay attention to. It's going to affect the way we apply this, but there's two benefits that arise out of this blessing. Somebody says in verses 15 and 16, this is the substance of it. The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has been my shepherd all my life long to this day, the angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the boys, and in them let my name be carried on in the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. Notice in verse 15, you see the pronouncement comes with a description of the relationship with God that accompanies this covenant. There's a type of relationship. And he says, he describes God in three ways that are important for us this morning. One, he says, first, the God before whom my father Abraham and Isaac walked. I'm not going to go into all the details, but to walk before God is a covenantal phrase that you see in Genesis 17, 1. God commanded Abraham to do that when he then. gives the sign and seal of circumcision as the covenant. Walking before implies covenant relationship. God is sovereign. We walk before. Second, he says, the God who has been my shepherd all my lifelong to this day. What does a shepherd do? I mean, Jacob was a shepherd, his sons were shepherds. And because of that, they were abominations to the Egyptians. What does a shepherd do? A shepherd leads, a shepherd feeds. The shepherd protects, and the shepherd cares for his people Think of the imagery of Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. Think of Ezekiel 's rebuke of the shepherds of Israel in Ezekiel 34 and the promise that God makes. I will judge the false shepherds who Abandon my people, who lied to them, who led them astray and abused them, and I myself, the Lord says, will be their shepherd. Shepherd imagery. Thirdly, he identifies God as the angel who redeemed him from all evil. Now I can't help but think that that must be a reference to him wrestling with the angel. Um in earlier chapters, you remember he was trying to flee and get away from the wrath of Laban first and then he was figuring out how am I going to be saved from Esau who's going to wipe me out. The angel appears to him. And gives him a new name, and that really marks the conversion point, the redemption point in Jacob's life. So we walk before God, whom we're in covenant relationship with. He is a shepherd, and he is a redeemer. And then he pronounces fruitfulness again in verse 16. Bless the boys and let my name be carried on in the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac. And in doing so, the tribe of Ephraim becomes more prominent, and Manasseh is second. But this leads to the covenant pattern of blessing in verses 17 through 20. You know, we saw, I'm not going to read through that. Joseph protests. No, this one is the firstborn, and Jacob just says, I know. I know. I understand. And then it ends in verse 20 with the summary. As you saw, thus he, Jacob, put Ephraim before Manasseh. This is the pattern, isn't it? We've seen this all over Genesis. Abel gets preferred over Cain, right? Isaac gets preferred over Ishmael. What does God tell Isaac and Rebekah when she was pregnant with Jacob and Esau? The older shall serve the younger. This seems to be how God deals with people in redemption. It's a pattern that really is meant to teach us that God does not always work out his redemptive purposes and plans in ways that we would expect him to in ways that make sense by our finite cultural standards. And again, the question is, how does the benefit of blessing, covenant blessing, how is that meant to transform us today? Well, I think first and foremost we have to understand that the blessing comes at the cross. Yeah, maybe it sounds like a low-hanging fruit application to pick on here, but That is what Jacob did. He blessed them by crossing his hands. And it was at the cross of our Lord and Savior Jesus. And the resurrection, that the Father conquered the curse of sin and offers blessing, the blessing of Christ's righteousness by faith alone to all who come to Christ Why? So that Christ might be the firstborn among many brethren But notice the pronouncement of blessing brings a saving relationship with God through Christ that is described in several ways Again, Christ is the shepherd over our lives. Think about John chapter 10. Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. And he goes on to talk about how, you know, they won't follow a stranger because they don't know his voice. But the sheep, they know my voice, Jesus says. And I call them each by name. And I lead them out to pasture, and I lead them in to safety. It's interesting as I think about the shepherd motif. He says God is a shepherd all his life long. It's interesting Jacob says this as he knows he's dying. That's a tremendous difficulty to face. Some of you are going through some tremendous difficulties in life, whether it's health issues, relational issues with family members. But one of the things this passage is meant to remind us is that Jesus Christ is the chief shepherd who calls each of you by name. Take comfort in that today. When you feel alone, when you feel isolated, when you feel overburdened, when you feel like nobody understands what you are going through. Understand that Jesus Christ is the shepherd who will lead you out into fresh pasture and will come to you, and he will give of himself for you. I had a conversation with a dear friend who's dealing with uh, this is a very young person who's dealing with some very severe health issues, and they were asking me, why would God allow this? What would you say? What did I say? That's probably what you're wondering. I said, I don't know You know, it's really interesting when you look at the scriptures, God does not always promise to rescue us from the difficulties or the suffering. But you know what he does promise, I told this person? He promises to give more of himself during those times as he shepherds us. And I brought this person to Psalm 139. In his book are written every one of my days, when yet there was not even one of them. I did my best to encourage this person as I hope to encourage you this morning. If you're going through difficulty, these days are written for you. Do not miss the significance of these that the shepherd has for you. The second is that God is our great redeemer who saves us from evil. You know, Jacob was redeemed from all of his sins. Some of them were pretty bad. I'm not going to go over all of them this morning. But some of you sitting here have done things you're not proud of. Some of you have done things that the world would define you by. And the fact that Christ is our great Redeemer who saves us from all evil is meant to communicate that just because just like we have been adopted and received a new identity, we are not defined by the things that formerly characterized us. We have been redeemed. Redeemed. Some of you have heard the phrase before, and it's used in a wide variety of ways in the world by, oh, that person's damaged goods. Because of things they've done. Let me just say to you this morning that if you've been redeemed by Christ, it doesn't matter what you have done or even what has happened to you because of someone else's sin. You are not damaged goods. You are precious and redeemed. Because you have a powerful redeemer. That leads us to our final and last section, which is the shortest. The covenant benefit of an eternal inheritance. Notice there's a double inheritance in the land of promise that's given. In verses 21 and 22. In 21, very simply, Jacob promises Joseph, you, plural you, meaning all of your brothers, are going to come back to the land of Canaan. Notice what he says in verse 22, our final verse here. He says, Moreover, I have given to you rather than to your brothers one mountain slope that I took from the Amorites with my sword and with my bow. Now on the surface it looks easy to understand and again it's easy to gloss over. The word translated mountain slope is the Hebrew word, you've heard this word before, Shechem. How about that? It's got several meanings in Hebrew. One obvious meaning it refers to the city that Jacob purchased land outside of at the end of Genesis 33, where he pitched his tent. By the way, that's the same city where Simeon and Levi slaughtered all the people after the rape of their sister Dinah in chapter thirty-four. So, on the one hand, it can refer to a city, Shechem. On the other hand, it can also refer to the shoulders. It's the word for shoulder in Hebrew. And so Jacob is essentially saying that he's going to give Joseph an inheritance between two shoulders. That's kind of what he's saying. And you're like, what does that mean? Well A little geography of the Holy Land is helpful. The city of Shechem is straddled on the border between the tribal territories of Manasseh to the north, Ephraim to the south. By the way, later on, Joseph's bones are going to be buried there at the end of Joshua. This is the same place that Jesus had the conversation with the Samaritan woman. In John 4, 5 in the New Testament. We're being told where Joseph's inheritance is going to be, but there's a double inheritance because the implication of Straddling two shoulders implies that both Ephraim and Manasseh are going to have their own tribal allotments in the inheritance. in the land of promise. This gives Joseph as a whole a double portion of the inheritance which the firstborn always received from his father. But notice I want you to remember what we said last week very briefly. They had already secured an inheritance and a possession in the land of Egypt. Because Joseph brought them there. What's the point? The point is as Jacob speaks these words to Joseph and to his two sons, they're receiving that inheritance is still future. When Moses reads this to them and reveals this to Israel for the first time, they are on the cusp of going into the promised land, receiving the inheritance is still near future, but still future for them. What's being said here is don't get comfortable in Egypt. You have possessions in Egypt. You have um wealth in Egypt. You have security for now in Egypt. Don't get too comfortable. You have a double portion of the inheritance waiting for you. So again, what does this have to do with us today? How does this Transform us in Christ today. Our future inheritance is intended by God to transform how we understand our place in the world, and it is intended to fill us with hope. Our future inheritance, brothers and sisters, is meant to transform our present perspective in this life. C. S. Lewis writes this in his screw tape letters. Prosperity knits a man to the world. He feels he is finding his place in it, while really it is finding its place in him. That's a really interesting quote that gets across the point that Jacob is making as he's laying out for Joseph what the inheritance is going to be. And I want you to think about that. Here today in the United States of America, the temptation for all of us is to fall prey to the mindset that we are home in this world. And our passage this morning challenges any semblance of lasting comfort that we might have or seek for in this world. And by the way, comfort in and of itself temporarily is not bad, but that's not what we are meant to be seeking ultimately. We may take comfort and meaning in our prestige in pleasure or in wealth, but we have to forget when we fall into that mindset, we lose the reality That we are pilgrims passing through this world. So what are you supposed to do? Well, Paul tells us In Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 through 4, if then you've been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Verse 2, how do you do how do you seek? Set your minds on the things that are above and not on the things that are on the earth. You might as well Amend that today, set your affections on the things that are above where Christ is seated. He goes on to just say, for you have died. Just like Jacob was dying. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ and God. And when Christ, who is your life, appears, You will also appear with him in glory. That just leads to the final thing I want to say this morning. Our future inheritance fills us with hope for what God has in store for us. I don't mean to harp on this. I s I say this every talk about this every now and then from the pulpit, but um when my dad died, it changed the way I fundamentally saw my own life. Because he died fairly young, I looked at, we don't have longevity in my family like some of you do here. I started looking at my life and thinking, wow, time is ticking It makes you realize that, you know, you're the things that you have the greatest affections for are meant to be in another world. After all, in Revelation 21, when the new Jerusalem descends from heaven, it will be to a new heavens and a new earth in an eternal state. And I want you to understand, brothers and sisters, the land of Canaan, though it was the land of promise, is meant to point forward to our future inheritance in glory. And I really just want to end by reiterating what Phil had already read, but it's so encouraging from 1 Peter 1, 3 through 5. What a tremendous summary of our main idea. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable. Undefiled and unfading. Here? No. Kept in heaven for you who by God's power Through faith are being guarded for an inheritance ready to be revealed in the last day Where is your hope this morning? Where are your affections? Are they with Christ in heaven, waiting to be revealed? Or are you stuck in this life? Brings us back to our main idea, doesn't it? In Christ, we receive the covenant benefits of adoption. A blessing and an eternal inheritance. Let's pray. Father, we don't have all day to talk about all of these benefits, and yet we could very easily take all day and longer. We thank you, O Lord, for the precious privileges that we have as the sons of God, as the catechism says, through our adoption, our relationship with you. Lord, we pray that you would encourage us this morning to live not only for this world in this world, but to live in this world. For our future inheritance, namely to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever We pray that you would take these promises in your word, write them on our hearts, and seal them to us by the power of the Spirit today. We ask in Jesus' name.