If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and let's open them to Genesis chapter 18. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 15. Genesis 18, 1 through 15. And I would invite you to stand for the reading. Well God's holy word. Beginning in verse one. And the Lord appeared to him by the oaks of Mamreh. as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth, and said, O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet and rest yourselves under the tree, while I bring a morsel of bread that you may refresh yourselves. And after that you may pass on since you have come to your servant. So they said, Do as you have said. And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, Quick, three says of fine flour, knead it, and make cakes. And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to a young man who prepared it quickly Then he took curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared and set it before them. And he stood by them under the tree while they ate. They said to him, Where is Sarah, your wife? And he said, She's in the tent. The Lord said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women had ceased to be with Sarah. So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, after I'm worn out and my lord is old, shall I have pleasure? The Lord said to Abraham, why did Sarah laugh and say, Shall I indeed bear a child now that I am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you, about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son. But Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh, for she was afraid. He said, no, but you did laugh. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning thanking you for this passage. Lord, this is kind of a passage where we might label it as flyover territory. You kind of read through it quickly to get to more important things. But Lord, all of your word is important. All of it has something to say to us. And so we pray, O Lord, that you would help us to see this morning the relevance, the importance. The necessity of this passage for our lives as Christians and as your people today. Lord, open up to us the promises of the gospel. And press them deep into our hearts through this passage and through your Holy Spirit working in our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen Well, admittedly, I was going to try to tackle all of Genesis 18 and 19 this morning when I sat down when I got to my office earlier this week and looked at it and I thought, well, we've got communion. We've got a congregational meeting. We need to break this down into several units. So I've broken this down into four. We're going to take this into smaller chunks. for the sake of time because I really do believe if we look at this piecemeal little by little we can actually do more with less. As I said in the prayer, this is one of the passages it's so easy to read this and to just kind of gloss over it and assume that, okay, this is just moving on to more important things. But I want to draw your attention to the sermon idea this morning that is printed in your bulletin, and it's simply this The faithful response to God's blessings and his promises are to bless others through hospitality and by fully trusting in his promises in Christ. It's those twin themes that almost seem unrelated, but we want to tie them together this morning. Hospitality on the one hand, and trusting the Lord and his promises on the other, that seem to flow one from the other out of this passage. And I want to begin looking at our first point in verses 1 through 8 this morning. And if the first point is the Lord's blessing and hospitality. Take a look with me again at verses 1 and 2, and we see the blessing of the Lord's appearance. And the Lord appeared to him by the oaks of Mamreh as he sat at the door of his tent. In the heat of the day, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth We'll go ahead and stop there before he speaks. This is the beginning of an an episode of hospitality that we see in the life of Abraham, the believer. the faithful one, the friend of God. And what's interesting about this is we see right up front as we look at the blessing of the Lord's appearance that leads to this this episode of hospitality is that hospitality Doesn't always come when it is convenient in our lives. And to top it off, the Lord doesn't always appear or show up in our lives to do an amazing work of grace. At times when it's always convenient for us. Have you ever had the Lord show up and think to yourself, this is just not the time? This is exactly what we see in this passage in verse 1. The Lord appears when outwardly in terms of the circumstances it would seem most inconvenient. to Abraham. I mean think about it. It says in the passage, this was the heat of the day. Now it doesn't take a genius or somebody with a vivid imagination to tell you what that means. Just think of what we've had in the last several days. I mean I went to the park at Freedom Park yesterday. I sat down to do some reading and I was there for five minutes before I decided to just get back in the car and go home. You were better off in the AC than this. The heat of the day. This could have been any time between noon when the sun is at its highest, or If you look at the little, you know, app, weather app on your phone, it seems, my phone says the hottest part of the day seems to be like 4 p. m. Probably somewhere in that time frame. Noon to 4 p. m. And I want you to think about the heat of the summer sun around that time of the day beating down upon the rocks and the sands of the Judean desert. And if you think about it, the rocks in the sand would then absorb the heat and then radiate the heat back outward, and so it's like being cooked from the top and the bottom. You're caught in the middle. This is the most inconvenient time for the Lord to really appear to Abraham as he seems to be trying to rest at the door of his tent under the oak trees of Mamreh. Well we see in verse 2 the high premium of prosp of hospitality that exists in the ancient Near East. And I would argue exists today. Jewish culture, Muslim culture in the Middle East. Hospitality is one of the chief cultural values. In fact, one's status can be almost measured by the hospitality that he would give. Look at the actions of Abraham that really show the premium he puts on this. He's sitting in his tent, then he stands as he sees these men, then he runs to them, and then he bows down to them and Going through all the trouble to do all this in the excruciating heat of the Judean desert, added to the fact that he's about 99 years old, imagine moving that spryly at 99 years old. This is a man that's willing to be inconvenienced, and he doesn't even know who these three men are. In fact, Hebrews chapter 13, verse 2, the author of Hebrews may have had Abraham in this This instance in mind when he wrote, Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Boy, that's fascinating. That was true of Abraham. And the New Testament says it's true for us today. We might just be entertaining angels, unaware of who they really are. And so we see the blessing of the Lord's appearance unfolds into the blessing that calls for hospitality. Look at verses 3 through 5. In verses 3 through 5, Abraham speaks up. He says, O Lord, and that is not the divine name Yahweh. It's just like a term for sir. He said, O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Let a little water be brought and wash your feet and rest yourselves under the tree. Well there was shade from the heat While I bring a morsel of bread that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on, since you've come to your servant. And so they said, Do as you said you would do. What's interesting here is the mention of grace back in verse 3. That is a fascinating statement. He says, if I have found favor, that word favor in Hebrew could be translated grace. If I have found grace in your sight It's the same phrase that's used in Genesis chapter 6 of Noah, but Noah found grace. He found favor in the eyes of the Lord. He says, if I have found grace in your eyes, again not knowing exactly who they are, let me serve you. Now we know, Abraham doesn't know, we were privy as readers, reading this thousands of years later, we know who these three are. You look at the context before and after, this is the Lord. And then two angels that will eventually go down to Sodom and Gomorrah. But Abraham at this point, I don't think, knows that He's just asking for grace and favor in their eyes. But there's more grace and favor than he expects that he's already received. Think about the spiritual blessings he's already received. He's received justification by grace through faith. He's received the righteousness of God by faith. Genesis 15, 6. He's received the blessing of circumcision, the covenant sign and seal of God's promises in his very flesh in the last chapter in chapter 17, 1 through 14. And he's about to receive again the reiteration of the promise that he's going to have a son, and he's going to receive that promise very soon. Those are the spiritual blessings. The material blessings are pretty straightforward. He was made rich by the Lord using Pharaoh back in Genesis chapter 12, who made him rich. He and Lot had more land than could support both of them back in chapter 13. And he under -delivers. Did you notice that when he says, take a look at that again? He says in verse Five, while I bring a morsel of bread. That word morsel of bread could be translated piece of bread, and the idea of a morsel is something very tiny. It's interesting that with all of this material blessing, he underpromises when he mentions that he's going to bring a little piece of bread. Now we'll unpack later in the application how all of these blessings that he's received will point forward to the blessings of the gospel, but just understand that he has been blessed by the Lord. And out of that blessing, he turns around and he looks to bless others through hospitality. And we see that blessing served out in verses six through eight. Again, verse 6. So they said, go do what you said you would do at the end of verse 5. Verse 6, he runs quickly into the tent to his wife Sarah, and he says, quick! Three sayas of fine flour. Knead it and make cakes. Okay, we don't measure things in sayas anymore. Um I did a little cooking this week. I I didn't measure anything in sayas. I used you know, tablespoons and things like that. What is three sayas of fine flour? Well a seya is about six liters of fine flour. Now six liters of fine flour is not no small amount. He says, take three. Maybe because there were three men in the heat, they would have developed an appetite. Who knows what he was thinking. Three sayas of fine flour would be 18 liters of flour to make cakes. Now he just said let a little piece of morsel of bread be given to you. They would have given a lot of bread. He's making a feast. Look at verse 7. Oh my goodness, this is succulent, guys. I don't mean to make you hungry, but verse 7, Abraham ran to the herd. He took a calf. Notice the description, tender and good. Oh, and he gave it to a young man who prepared it quickly. Boy, that that uh that phrase tender there in Hebrew is really, really descriptive. I mean this is the fattened calf. This is the kind of calf that, man, when you slaughter it and you you start cooking it, roasting it, whatever you do to cook it, um, however you prepare it. It's like the well, by the time it's done, the juices are there and the the meat is just, you know, sliding off the bone. And he picks the best for these people, he still doesn't know who they are. He doesn't know this is the Lord. And then verse 8. He he gets curds and milk and I had to look up curds, like what exactly does that refer to in this context? It's kind of like a yogurt type of delicacy that was um, you know, meant for special occasions in the ancient Near East. This is a man who is pulling no stops to give his very best to three strangers that he has no idea who they are. And then look at the humility he demonstrates at the end of verse 8. He stood by them under the tree while they ate. Oh. This is Abraham, the friend of God. This is Abraham, the one who's been justified. This is Abraham, the one who's been blessed This is Abraham, who, according to Genesis 14, was in alliance with some of the Canaanites and went to war and toppled kings. This is a master of all that he surveys. And look at his humility. He stands by these three men to serve them. So the question we have to ask ourselves is, how is Abraham's hospitality towards God in this passage an example for us today? Well I think his example reveals to us that hospitality is one of the proper responses to first receiving the blessing of God and then is rooted first and foremost in the gospel. Now notice I said it's one of the proper responses to first receiving God's blessing. It's not the only one, but it's a big one, and it's very evident in this passage. And I want to draw to you first the gospel basis of hospitality. See, because there is hospitality and then there is hospitality. That's the idea of this passage. Abraham's hospitality, in fact, goes way beyond mere cultural convention, although it included that. His hospitality rested on the grace of God not passing him by. I mean, we've already looked at God's previous blessings, but we need to see how they're fulfilled in the gospel. When he is justified by grace through faith, receiving the righteousness of God is a free gift credited to his account, that points to the very heartbeat of the message of the gospel, according to the Apostle Paul in Romans chapters 3 and 4. And Galatians chapter 2 through 4. In fact, so important is that to the gospel that the Apostle Paul will go on to say in Galatians 1, 8, and 9, that if I or an angel from heaven come to you preaching another gospel other than justification by grace through faith, let him be anathema or a curse. or cut off from Christ. And then he repeats it in verse 9 for emphasis. We see that modeled here. We see the overflow of that here. He received the covenant sign of God's grace and circumcision in Genesis 2. 17. What does that point us to today? Those of us who have been circumcised in our very hearts, that we might become children of Abraham. And it's interesting. Now he doesn't mention the land in this passage, but we've seen the promise of a son and the promise of of the land of Canaan repeated over and over again to Abraham in the last couple chapters. Promise of the land is the promise of eternal life in the heavenly Canaan as our inheritance with God. All of the blessings that we have received are blessings in Christ, and it is those blessings that are meant to be the overflow that calls out hospitality from us. This is why Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And then you know what Paul goes on to do? He goes on in chapter 2 to talk about the division between Jew and Gentile that was healed. Chapter 3, the mystery of the inclusion of the Gentiles, God bringing together those who would never come together in the flesh by his grace to enjoy relationship and covenant with one another. We have been blessed, brothers and sisters, with everything in Christ. And the calling is that we might turn around and be a blessing to those around us. That's what hospitality is all about. It goes beyond mere cultural convention to the heart of who we're called to be. And so there is a call to Christian hospitality in this passage. And it's not just hospitality for the sake of having people over and having a good time and hanging out. As fun, as important as those things are It's hospitality in a way that highlights the grace of God for those around us. Think about what an evangelistic tool that could be for those of us here at Liberty. Now, with this calling comes encouragement in this part of the application. I want to encourage you. This morning from this passage. This week, um I've personally blessed, been blessed with the hospitality of two different families. In two different occasions, namely on Tuesday and then Thursday for the 4th of July. And then I had a third invitation. of hospitality that I unfortunately had to turn down and I really didn't want to, but it was a scheduling it was a conflict with my schedule. That that you know I can't tell you how much joy that gave me to receive those invitations this week as I was looking at this passage and I'm thinking, man, I get to preach this and they're already doing it. Isn't that wonderful? I get to feel like I don't have to shake my finger at you guys. It's like keep doing what you're doing. You're doing great. But it doesn't have to be just me. Invite one another over and be prepared to share the gospel and the blessings of the gospel in your homes with one another, with your friends, with your neighbors. And know that God will work in you and through you to confirm his promises to you in that expression of his goodness. And who knows, you might be the means of somebody coming to know the Lord Jesus Christ in a saving way because of your hospitality. We've been abundantly blessed, saints. What a privilege to be able to turn around and mirror what God has done for us. And that leads to our second point in verses nine through fifteen. The Lord's promises and trust. And that's really the the hospitality event in Abraham's life. Really ushers forth into clarifying the promises of the gospel here. Take a look at verses 9 and 10. We see the promise that he's already given strengthened in verses 9 and 10. They said to him, they is these three men, where is Sarah, your wife? And he said, she is in the tent. The Lord said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah, your wife, will have a son. And Sarah was listening at the door behind him. Now, okay. Let's just be honest. If I was in his shoes and three men that I've never seen before showed up to my door and all of a sudden they asked, Where's your wife? I'd be thinking, how do you know who my wife is? Especially by name You don't he doesn't bat an eye here. She's in the tent. I'd be asking, how do how do they know? I think the fact that that they knew who she was triggered in Abraham's mind a realization of, oh. I think I know who is talking to me. Because they further reiterate the promise that he's going to have a son by this time next year. Who else would have known about that promise? Abraham, I think, at this point, that was where the light went on. I would have loved to see his facial expression, maybe focusing on his eyes like, oh Okay. So he is strengthened here by the Lord and by the Lord's presence. And he realizes that. He's strengthened by certainty. Look what he says here. I will certainly return to you next year. That uses in Hebrew a double verb, which is the same verb repeated over and over again, which is bad English to translate it this way, but it literally says, to return, I will return. And what God is doing, it's a verbal device with words in Hebrew that is meant to just inculcate certainty. This is absolutely going to happen. Abraham, I'm absolutely coming back next year. You and your wife are going to finally have that son of promise. Which think about that. That also strengthens the promise by clarity. Think about it. Think about the timetable that they have been on already. We know that he's about 99 years old. We know from chapter 17, I think verse 17, although I'd have to look again. Sarah is about 90 years old. They've been receiving these promises for the last 24 years, waiting and waiting and waiting. And God finally said, gives them the timetable at this time next year, which is actually in the Hebrew according to the time of life. So think about nine months. That's the time of life. It's been 24 years. Now they have the promise clarified and strengthened because they have the timetable. They know when it's coming. But there's still the problem. Look at verse 11. You see some incidental details, kind of background given in verse 11, that render the promise nearly impossible. Verse 11, now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women women had ceased to be with Sarah. Stop there. Okay, they're both old. Getting on in years. The wording is literally the going in days. It's like the time is marching on and it's not stopping. Like it's it's just not they're not getting any younger. And the way of women had ceased with Sarah. So we have a chronological challenge and timing in their lives. We have a physiological challenge. challenge here. The way of women, it ceases serilikely menopause. I think that's the best way to interpret that. Genesis 31, 35 uses the same phrase almost to speak of Rachel's monthly cycle. So physiologically, she's well beyond childbearing years. And then biologically, we know from Genesis chapter 11, verse 30, she was barren. What a trifecta! They would almost render the promise impossible. And yet, look at her response, which is actually not very flattering, but somewhat understandable, in verse 12. So she laughed to herself, saying, after I'm worn out and my Lord is old, shall I have pleasure? Okay, stop there for a moment. She didn't outwardly look at her response of herself. She did not outwardly show her skepticism, but she laughed within herself. In fact, between verses 12 to 14 or 15, that word laugh in Hebrew comes up four times. It comes up four times in English. She laughs. It reminds you of z exactly Abraham's response back in the last chapter in chapter 17. Remember Abraham laughed and God said, Because you've laughed, your son's name will be Isaac. Why? Because the Hebrew word for laugh is Yitzchak. That's the name of Isaac in Hebrew. She laughs, but her laugh is a little different. It means that she distrusts God's promise. She's reluctant. She even mocks the promise. There's blatant skepticism here. Why? Well, understandably, she's more influenced by her outward and her personal circumstances and how those don't seem to jive with what God is telling her. Market and market well. Unbelief looks at what is naturally possible and rules out any supernatural or divine miraculous working from the get-go That's how unbelief works. And third, it's interesting when you go down to verse 15, when the Lord questions her, she denies it. It literally says that, but Sarah denied it saying I didn't laugh, for she was afraid. Hmm. That's kind of nonsensical if you really think about it. I mean the Lord just really saw what was in her heart because it says she laughed within herself. There was no outward show of this. She's probably just standing there. And she laughs within herself, the Lord knows that. The Lord calls her out on that and she denies it, even though she knows deep down that he knows what's in her heart. Did you know that? That's ridiculous. And she denies it. Look at God's response. First, his first response is not what you would expect. In verse 13, he confronts Abraham, not Sarah directly, confronts Abraham about his wife's laughter in verse 13. She seems to run against the cultural grain of today's standards. Can't she speak for herself? No, not at this point. Abraham is her covenant head. God holds him responsible for what's going on in her heart. Husbands, that's kind of a scary realization, isn't it? But it's there. Second, God confronts Sarah directly after he confronts confronts Abraham. He confronts her unbelief with a question challenging it. Is anything too hard for the Lord? I mean, if you're only looking at the outward circumstances and what is naturally possible in this created order as things naturally work through the laws of nature, um Is anything too hard for me, the Lord, who is above nature, to get her thinking. And thirdly, he confronts her internal laughter, showing that he knows her heart, and he holds her accountable in verse 15 for that unbelief, which is unjustified. He doesn't let her off the hook. You see, in in in ancient Near Eastern culture and and actually Far Eastern Oriental culture today is very similar in the sense that you you oftentimes don't publicly shame somebody. Right? You do not shame and dishonor somebody. They will lose face And that was a cultural no-no, but notice what God does here. He doesn't let her get away with that. He calls her out. No, but you did laugh. So the question by way of application is: how does God's response to Sarah confr uh confront our own distrust and reluctance to believe his promises in Christ today? Well, it shows that he challenges the status quo of weak faith, or in this case, unbelief, and he confronts the legitimacy of unbelief. He doesn't just let unbelief go and say, well, you have your reasons to not believe. No. He challenges it. And like Sarah, our unbelief is something that starts inwardly. It's so easy, isn't it, to come to church on Sundays and just pretend like you have it all together and pretend like you believe and you don't have any struggles whatsoever to believe God's promises. But inwardly we do. And when we allow ourselves to do this and just just run with the status quo, we fool ourselves. Um, believing that we don't really have to deal with the things that truly stand in the way of deepening our faith and trust and even understanding of the Lord and His Word. One of the things I have come across many times as a former teacher at a Christian school and seeing students come back sometimes to visit. Or seeing running into them in public places and realizing that throughout the period of college they've walked away from their Christian faith because it was destroyed. And and I've heard more than one. I've asked them, so what happened? Tell me what happened. Well, I just felt like My church was so closed-minded and it wasn't really safe for me to ask questions that I'm really wrestling with, and so I'm realizing that they weren't gonna answer my questions that I'm really struggling with, I just You go find people that will give you answers and they walk away. Maybe you shared that kind of sentiment this morning. Maybe you feel like deep down that that hey, you know, Liberty Church is not the place where it's safe for me to ask a question. Well, I would like to countermand that from this passage this morning. You should be able to come to any mature Christian around you that you really trust and know here and ask a question that maybe that you're wrestling with. Maybe that question is intellectual. Maybe it's a a theological question, or maybe it's something much more personal. You know, it's it's not as deeply intellectual, but it might be very personal and important to you. You should be able to do that. During the Great Awakening of the 18th century, Jonathan Edwards, John and Charles Wesley, George Whitfield, all these people on both sides of the Atlantic, it was actually common at that point. As the gospel was being preached and gone out, as unbelief was being challenged, as sin was being called to repentance. Do you realize if you read the accounts and the history and the biographies, what you will find is, believe it or not, the church and the pastor's house came to be seen in many of these communities as the academic or the intellectual center Where questions can be worked through, where the state of people's hearts and personal issues can be discussed in what we would call a, I'm not going to use the word safe environment, but let's let's call it a redemptive environment. And when it comes to Christian discipleship and even evangelism, brothers and sisters, we need to be able to return to that kind of a dynamic. Just as the Lord confronted Abraham and Sarah about their la their laughter and their unbelief We should be able to gently and winsomely and redemptively confront unbelief today as well in our midst. Not in a mean-spirited way, but in a way that is honest. A way that stands on God's word. And what is unbelief oftentimes based on? This is the second part of our application. A lot of us, like Sarah, Oftentimes are dictated more our belief or unbelief is dictated more by our outward and personal circumstances. I'll give you one example. I remember one of my students when I was teaching, he made no bones about the fact that he was an atheist. Die hard in the wool atheist. And I I had to be his Bible teacher for two years. Imagine that. He didn't want to be there. His parents really wanted him to come to faith in Christ, and so they put him in a Christian school. They were believers I remember sitting down one day, he was copping an attitude with me, so I called him in and sat him down. I said, okay, let's just shoot straight with me, man. What is the problem? He couldn't give me an answer to that. And I said, okay, so let me ask you this, because the problem actually runs deeper. Why don't you believe In the Lord Jesus Christ. What is keeping you from coming to faith? And you know what he said to me? I didn't actually expect it. It kind of makes sense. He's like, well, you remember this one student that no longer goes here and he lost his father and his father was a strong believer and got cancer at like 50 something years old and passed away? I said, yeah. I saw how hard that was for him and that destroyed my faith. I thought, oh. Hmm. So your unbelief, I didn't say this to him, but the the diagnosis is your unbelief is dictated by the outward and personal circumstances. Don't we often do that? Whether it's times of suffering or even just intellectual challenges, we tend to take stock of circumstances, experiences, or things that we've been told in our lives. And we doubt that the promises of God could really be true in the context of some of these things. And the problem with this is when we focus on ourselves, our experiences, our circumstances, or even our own sense of understanding to determine what is fundamentally true, we automatically discount the character and the power of God from the picture. And what God does to Sarah is something that many of us need, and we need to be asked if anything is too hard for God by definition. We have to remember that the promises of God were fulfilled to Sarah, not only in Isaac, but ultimately in the Lord Jesus Christ. When I think about what's possible and what's impossible, do you remember the rich young ruler? And we'll end on this. Do you remember the rich young ruler in the Gospels? He goes away sad and the disciples and Jesus are talking and he says it's hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter heaven. I don't know which of the disciples said it, but the response was almost like one of despair. Then who could be possibly be saved? You remember Jesus' response? With man it is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. Brothers and sisters, he sent his son from heaven, which is impossible, born of a virgin, which is impossible To live a perfect, righteous life, which is impossible. Sent him to the cross where he took the full wrath of God for the sins of his people, which is Impossible for a human body to bear that. He was buried, crucified, buried, dead for three days, and rose from the dead, which is impossible. And yet all of it happened. When we struggle with our faith, brothers and sisters, let's look back to the promises of the gospel in Jesus Christ. With man, salvation is impossible. With man, the fulfillment of God's purposes and promises are impossible. But with God, all things are possible. Let's take that with us today, this week, into our lives and live it out. Because the faithful response to God's blessing and his promises are for us to bless others. And one of the ways we do that is through hospitality. So that we might fully trust more in the promises of God in Christ as they are displayed in our lives