Well if you have your Bibles, go ahead and open them to Genesis chapter 16. Genesis chapter 16. We're looking at verses 1 through 16 this morning. Genesis 16. I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. Now Sarai, Abraham's wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said to Abraham, Behold now, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Go into my servant, it may be that I shall obtain children by her. And Abraham listened to the voice of Sarai. So after Abraham had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai. Abram's wife took Hagar the Egyptian her servant and gave her to Abram, her husband, as a wife. And he went into Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt upon her mistress. And Sarai said to Abraham, May the wrong done to me be upon you I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the Lord judge between me, you, and me And Abraham said to Sarai, Behold, your servant is in your power. Do to her as you please. And Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her The angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur, and he said, Hagar, servant of Sarai. Where have you come from and where are you going? And she said, I am fleeing from my mistress, Sarai. The angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit to her. The angel of the Lord also said to her, I will surely multiply your offspring so that they cannot be numbered for multitude And the angel of the Lord said to her, Behold, you are pregnant, and you shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has listened to your affliction. He shall be a wild donkey of a man, his hand against everyone, and everyone's hand against him, and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen. So she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are a God of seeing. For she said, Truly, here I have seen him who looks after me. Therefore the well was called Be'er Lahai Roy. It lies between Kadesh and Bared. And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son Hagar, whom Hagar bore Ishmael. Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael. To Abraham. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you to hear from your word. And Lord, because this is your word, O Lord, we pray that you would open our hearts and our minds, Lord, to understand it, to receive it. Lord, we pray that you would seal it Upon our hearts. Lord, we pray your blessing on this time that we would hear from you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the last time we were in Genesis, we looked at one of the highlights in Abraham's life, namely Genesis 15, when God made a promise to him to multiply his children more than the stars of heaven. And if you remember at Genesis 15, 6, and Abraham believed. in the Lord, and it was credited to him as righteousness. This this all-encompassing statement that as we saw last time applies to believers today as we are justified by God's grace through faith where we are counted as righteous by our faith in Christ. That was a unique covenant that God made with Abraham when that happened. Next week we're going to be looking at Genesis chapter 17. An equally important passage where God gives Abraham the covenant sign and seal of circumcision. And if you think about in the life of Abraham, these two chapters function a lot like twin mountain peaks And anyone who knows anything about mountains or hiking knows that between two giant mountains always comes a valley. And that's what we see in this particular passage before us this morning. This passage is the valley. Last week was a mountain peak. Next week, another mountain peak. This week, the valley. And what do I mean by a valley? I mean because in Genesis 15 and 17 are stellar examples of Abraham's faith. And trust in the promises of God. This valley marks a low point in his life, and therefore affecting the rest of his life where we see a lapse. in his faith. In fact, the primary idea of this passage that I want to unpack with you this morning is simply this. We often fail to wait on God's promises by trying to accomplish them ourselves, not owning responsibility for our own sin, which only then reveals our need for grace all the more. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning, you'll see below the liturgy the sermon idea, and I have to confess to you there is a typo in that. It's missing the words. It says we often wait on the promises of God. We are missing the words fail there. So if you take notes, you may want to add the word fail in there. But that idea, let me just repeat again, is really important. We often fail to wait on God's promises by trying to accomplish them ourselves. not owning responsibility for our sin, which then only reveals our need for grace all the more Oftentimes, this is the valley that we find ourselves in. And I want to begin in verses one through six, looking at our first point, the ingenuity of unbelief. the ingenuity of unbelief. Take a look at verse 1. We see the unbelief of Sarai. Now Sarai, Abraham's wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar. Now, of course, we've met Sarai before on a few occasions. But in this particular passage, uh Moses makes a specific mention that she is Abraham's wife. And the reason he says that is to distinguish her from the second woman he mentions in verse 1, whom we meet for the first time in this passage, and her name is Hagar. Now, Hagar's name in Hebrew means the sojourner or the one who dwells as a foreigner. We find that she is an Egyptian slave, which tells us that all the way back in chapter 12, verses 10 through 20, when Abraham and Sarai went down to Egypt to sojourn during a famine. That's probably where they acquired Hagar as a female slave or servant. You remember the Pharaoh enriched Abraham and Sarai greatly by giving them gold and silver and camels and all kinds of riches and Male and female servants. Apparently Hagar was one of them, this sojourner now dwelling with Abraham and Sarai. Now, I want you to imagine with me, as we think about the setting of this story, what was maybe running through Sarai 's mind and even her emotions at this time. Verse 3 tells us that they've been living in the land of Canaan at this point for ten years, which means that they have been hearing the promises of God now for ten long years. Ten years of God repeating at various times as we've seen from Genesis 12 through 15 that he was going to multiply Abraham's descendants beyond the stars of heaven and beyond the sand on the seashore. And you've got to go back to Genesis chapter eleven and remember that It tells us that not only was Sarai beyond the age of childbearing, she was also barren. You've got to imagine from a woman's perspective, every time she hears these promises mentioned She is only reminded of all of the ways that she and her own power cannot help Abraham fulfill these promises. In fact, I I find the commentary from Joyce Mottier. I didn't say Joyce Meyer. Motyer, who wrote a commentary on Genesis, writing from a woman's perspective, I think is really, really valuable to help us try to get at the heart of what's going on in the setting of this passage. She writes this. The more clearly God's promises were spelt out to Abraham, the more clearly Sarai saw herself as the failure. Though she continued to preside over the household, which by this time may have included some of the concubines and their sons. I highly doubt that point, but there you go. And though she was the legal wife, she felt keenly the humiliation of her barrenness. Each passing year diminished her hopes of becoming a mother and of giving to Abraham the son of promise. She saw no answer to her prayers, and may have easily come to the conclusion that she had for some reason forfeited the Lord's favor. Wow. I'll admit, from a man's point of view, it's hard to really capture the emotional gravitas of that, but there it is. And I think there's probably a lot of truth to that. These feelings of failure, humiliation, and diminishing hope led her to unbelief in the promises of God. This is kind of an extension of our point from Genesis 15. Abraham was wrestling with the fact that God's promises didn't match his circumstances, and now we see it with Sarai. And so because of this, she feels the need to take matters into her own hands. And so we see in verses 2 through the beginning of verse 4 the ingenuity of her unbelief. Look at verse 2. And three. You see a legal component to this ingenuity. Look at verse 2. And Sarai said to Abraham, Behold, now the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. stop there for just a moment. I think it's interesting that God makes a promise that he's going to give Abraham children through his wife Sarai, and she turns around and almost accuses him of closing her womb. It's his fault. Jump back into the verse. Go into my servant. It may be that I shall obtain children by her. And Abraham listened to the voice of Sarai. And then you look at the end of verse 3, um Sarai, Abraham's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abraham, her husband, as a wife. Well, on on the surface, this sounds really strange to modern ears. It almost reflects the concept we have today of of having a surrogate mother. But where where our culture is really different is that at that time in history, behind this idea that Sarai is bringing up, To an ancient Israelite reader, this would not be a surprise that she would come up with this idea Because it comes from ancient Mesopotamian law, believe it or not. There were law codes that regulated these kinds of scenarios. In fact, there were laws that allowed a woman who could not bear children to give to her husband a slave girl as a concubine for the purpose of providing a son. So it was a common practice at that time. And according to that law, the concubine who conceives must not forget her place in the legal arrangement of the household In other words, she must not try to secure for herself a position of equality with the first and primary wife. And in the cases that if she tries, let's say she she conceives, and then she tries to secure for herself an equal footing with the main wife who gives her to the husband. The Mesopotamian Law Code said that it was the first wife's duty, social duty, to bump her down by any means and put her in her place. That was the law Now to you it may sound really impersonal, it may sound cruel, but that is the cultural setting in which this is speaking to. Whether you agree with it or not is inconsequential. That is what's going on in this particular passage. And so by presenting Abraham with this idea. Sarai is invoking in this case a legal right. But here's the thing I want you, the observation I want you to come to, as I came to as I was putting this together. While this was legally permissible and common in their day, it reveals a problem in the heart of Sarai. She's trying to utilize what is legally permissible on the one hand to take matters into her own hands and secure the promises of God by her own means. Rather than waiting for God to perform what he promised to do by his own power That was the whole heart of the Abrahamic covenant in the last chapter in chapter 15. God walking through those pieces of the animal, I myself will accomplish this. And so we see here, she does something that is legally permissible and at that time would have would have been seen as morally okay to do But she's doing it to accomplish God's promises. So what does she do? Verse 3. She gives Hagar to Abraham as wife. Now, verse 2 ends with an interesting phrase. I don't know if you caught that. And Abraham listened to the voice of Sarai. Now, if you're a Jewish reader in the ancient near East. Reading or hearing that text read to you, there would have been an alarm that went off in your mind. A red flag. Why? Because the last time we hear uh of a husband in that using that language Listening to the voice of his wife was Genesis chapter 3, verse 17. When God says to Adam after he sinned , Because you have listened to the voice of the woman whom I have given you, and eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil which I commanded you not to eat. An ancient Jewish reader would have heard this phrase, Abraham listened to the voice of Sarai his wife, and he would have thought to himself, oh no, there's a problem coming. Right. There's a problem coming. By the way, it's not just that the problem is with Sarai. Let me just be clear about that. She does have a lapse of faith, but this is really Abraham's lack of faith. Right? He's listening to the voice of his wife contrary to God's word. That's his fault. As the head of the household, he bears ultimate responsibility for that Let's just be clear. But it's a problem. Now, verse 4 tells us he went into Hagar and she Now I'm just trying to draw out some of the linguistic and cultural observations here so you see just how bad this scenario really is. That phrase is really interesting when he went into Hagar. The Bible talks about sexual relations between men and women, and it words it in two different ways depending on the context. Between a husband and a wife in the covenant of marriage, you go back to Genesis chapter 4, and it says that and Adam, I'm Excuse me, Genesis chapter 5, verse 1. And Adam knew his wife Eve. You think of that language of knowing somebody, it highlights the relationality Right? The the intimacy that they enjoy as husband and wife. And it's a good thing But in this case, and the second way of talking about these kind of relations is that so-and-so goes into so-and-so. It's very literal. It's a very impersonal euphemism. And it simply highlights the mechanics of the situation. And I won't say any more than that in describing the euphemism, except to say that it shows how incredibly cold, impersonal this whole arrangement is. We see it like when Judah goes into Tamar thinking she's a prostitute and when it's really his daughter-in-law And she conceives. When Samson in in Judges 16, 1 goes into the prostitute, this is just an arrangement. And that's how it's described here. There's no real love. There's no real relationship. There's no real intimacy here between Abraham and Hagar. This is an arrangement of convenience, and in this case, really not convenience for Hagar. Convenience For Abraham and Sarai, or so they think. It's just transactional And I highlight all that to say that I I really think that all of this just builds the picture for you as to how faithless this is on Abraham and Sarai's part, how cold this is, and just really how bad. And sinful. This really is. And next we see that in light of all of this, we see the mess that their ingenuity and unbelief creates at the end of verses 4 to 6. Now, the plan seems to go, at least according to plan, or the way it was intended, she conceives. But the plan does not full unfold the way that they really expected. It gets messy really quick. In fact If you look at the ending of verse 4, and when she, she is Hagar in this case, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress. Now, I need you to understand that what is about to unfold is not simply two women being catty with one another and just a common jealousy. It's far more profound. When it says that she looked with contempt on her mistress, it means that Sarai was hit Abraham's first wife, mind you, think of that Mesopotamian legal arrangement. Sarai is being subjected to disrespectful treatment and possibly to Hagar chiding her for her barrenness. And I want you to think about this in its context. Since Hagar was now legally transferred to Abraham, that's what happened when she gave Hagar to Abraham as wife, she gives up her right of ownership over this female Egyptian slave gives her to the ownership legally of Abraham. So now Hagar is no longer under Sarai's ownership. Maybe, and I think that this is likely, as many commentators point out, that she probably felt a little bit of freedom from being under the noose of Sarai and now begins to kind of raise her hand in rebellion. There are people, aren't there, that w as soon as they can, they will take advantage of a situation. Um When you let up just a little some of you have seen this with your children. You show, you know, when they're really little, you kind of let things go just a little bit and they see just how far they can go and then they keep trying to push the envelope, right? They take advantage of the situation. And sadly, when people do that, it really shows where their hearts are at, and we see that Hagar's heart is not in a great place either. She takes advantage of the situation and she starts treating Sarai with contempt We can see Hagar's true character, her bitterness, her resentment, all coming out. And this is where the mess gets even worse in verses 5 and 6. And again, we miss the force of this as modern people, but take a look at what Sarai says to Abraham. May the wrong be done to me be upon you. By the way, that wrong is the Hebrew word chamas. Which doesn't sound familiar to you in our current historical climate. Simply means violence. May the violence done to me be on you, Abraham. It's your fault. I gave my servant to your embrace. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked at me with contempt. May the Lord judge between you and me. Wow, that's serious. Again, she's invoking. her rights by going to Abraham because now Abraham is Hagar's owner, so to speak. So she she goes there Because Hagar is breaking what Mesopotamian law and custom said. She's trying to elevate herself and usurp Sarai's place. So remember what the law said. It was up to her to bump the slave down by any means possible. That's what she's doing. What she's doing is good legal order. Now, interestingly enough, do you think Abraham wants to be put in the middle of all this? I mean, who would? You'd rather bang your head through a brick wall. He says to her, look She is your servant, she's in your hand. He transfers her back. You deal with it. I don't want to deal with this And so of course, Sarai, being the sinful person with the same sinful nature that we all have, does what you would expect her to do. She treats Hagar harshly. The Hebrew word says she afflicts her or humbles her forcefully, maybe out of a sense of legal vengeance, and so Hagar does what you would expect her to do, she flees. Which by by the way is illegal at that time. So now she's breaking the law. Now think about this. From a modern perspective, we have to remember there is a difference of culture here, but what an absolute mess. Regardless of your culture or background, you can read this and think this is an absolute mess This is like Jerry Springer on steroids. And what what caused the mess in the first place? Because two people got impatient. And could not wait on God to fulfill his promises, and they took matters into their own hands and made a huge mess. Now the question is, how do we do the same thing today? Well, we do the same thing today by trying to earn God's blessing and salvation by our own good works, our own cleverness, our own devices, our own cultural customs, and what do we do? We end up making a mess. of things along the way. All because we think we know better than God. I want you to understand, brothers and sisters, the sin of impatience while waiting on the Lord. We have the same promises that God made to Abraham and Sarai. We have those same promises given to us. And Abraham's greatest blessing that God gave him was being justified by grace through faith in God's sight. By simply believing the promises of God, Abraham was made righteous. We have the same free gifts offered to us today. We're given the gift of righteousness. We're given the gift of forgiveness of sins. We're given the gift of eternal life. All by faith in Jesus Christ. And yet as we live the Christian life, as we think about, we have these expectations about how God should or could work in our lives. And when God does not work in our lives the exact way that we think or the way that we expect, we often become impatient with Him. Don't you? I know I do. I mean, you find any older person and you ask them, did your life go exactly the way you thought it would go when you were young? They're likely to say no. In fact, if you find an older person who says, yeah, it went exactly according to plan, I'd like to meet them. Because I have not met that kind of person yet. In my experiences, my life has not unfolded the way I thought it would. And when we run into those things, we often become impatient with the Lord. And so the question is, are you impatient with the Lord this morning? Do you have expectations of him that may not be exactly what his word says, but you think you might know better than him? And I want you to understand this morning that impatience with the Lord in his promises And how he is working in your life is nothing less than unbelief in him and his promises. And such unbelief is sin. And what does that unbelief oftentimes lead to? Well, believe it or not, we have to look at the way the New Testament applies this. And the way the New Testament applies this is it applies this unbelief using Sarai and Hagar as the example and Abraham as well, and it applies it in terms of legalism. Now legalism is one of those things that I think in Christian circles people tend to throw that word around willy-nilly. Why do I say that? Because I've met people along the way in my Christian life that if you bring anything up to them about what their responsibility or duty is as a follower of Christ, they oftentimes cry Legalism. You're a legalist. You can't tell me that I have to do anything. And that's not true. I mean, the Bible is all, particularly the New Testament, is very clear that Christians, as disciples of Jesus Christ, have a responsibility to live in a way that is consistent with God's word. Right? But legalism, in its proper understanding , is doing exactly what Abraham and Sarah did in this passage. It is taking God's promises and trying to accomplish them for themselves, oftentimes by doing good works. That in some ways are in accordance with God's law. And the problem is, the moment you fail to believe that God will accomplish his promises for you on his behalf, on your behalf, in his time and in his way is the moment that you begin to rely upon yourself and you're no longer trusting in God, you're no longer believing his promises, you're unbelieving his promises, and you're trusting in yourself. And so legalism, just like Sarah in this passage, focuses on one's own inadequacy and seeks to rectify those inadequacies before God and to do so under our own power, our own strength, and our own means, rather than looking at the Lord to make up for what we are inadequate for. The reality is, brothers and sisters, you and I are not adequate. We are not sufficient to bring God's promises to bear and to fruitfulness in our own lives. You cannot accomplish what only God can accomplish. And the moment that you believe by your actions that you can accomplish what only God can accomplish. You are in sin. You are not trusting God's promises. You are in effect telling God, I am sufficient. You are not And that's what legalism does. It's so deceptive because on the surface legalism looks like you're concerned with the things of God. It appears pious. It appears religious. But deep down it is truly self-centered. I want you to think about this. When we focus on our own inadequacies, we're focusing on ourselves. That's by definition selfish. Right? By trying to rectify our own failures, our own sin by our own good works, is also self-centered. And that kind of a mentality is fundamentally the mentality of unbelief. And so the question you have to ask yourself this morning is you're you're looking at at Abraham and Sarai and Hagar. The question you have to ask yourself by way of application is, do you have a fundamental heart disposition this morning that is seeking to earn God's favor by your own good works? By your own talent, by your own intelligence and wisdom, by your own cleverness, by your own strength If so, this passage is calling you to repent of your unbelief in the promises of God this morning. Boy, that's a pick-me-up, isn't it? I mean I told you right from the beginning this we're in a valley. This is the valley we often find ourselves in. And you know the strange thing is this valley of unbelief often occurs not with people in the world, but with those who name the name of Jesus. And in many ways, do have a saving relationship with him, but they hit this valley and season of unbelief in their lives. And that leads to our second point this morning, verses seven through sixteen. The grace of God in response To unbelief. Now this is really a beautiful thing because God does not deal with them and does not deal with us as we deserve. Let's take a look at verses seven through eight. We see the angel of the Lord graciously appearing to Hagar in verses seven. And eight, the angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shore. Ironically, that's just a main road or highway going back to Egypt. She's going home. She's fleeing. Verse 8, she and he said to her, Hagar. Servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going? She said, I am fleeing from my mistress, Sarai. Now that's really a fascinating thing. Even though she's fleeing, you know, and to get out from under Sarai's yoke and ownership, he still identifies her as servant of Sarai. Now this is the first time we find the angel of the Lord in the past, in the Bible, in Genesis. But it's interesting his question, where are you going where are you coming from and where are you going? She only answers the first one, or the second one rather. She just says where she's going. I'm fleeing from my mistress. Sarai. He continues to graciously respond to her in verses 9 through 12. And in that section, in verses 9, 10, and 11, it repeats the phrase three times And the angel of the Lord said to her, and the angel of the Lord said to her, and the angel of the Lord said to her, but all of it is a gracious comforting response. He gives her a call in verse 9, and it's not what we would expect. He says in verse 9, return to your mistress and submit to her. Now I mentioned that fleeing from her mistress was breaking the law in the ancient Near East. This actually shows that God is concerned for law and social order, not chaos. And it's interesting that That law and that social order and stability, in God's eyes, took a greater priority than Hagar's comfort. That's a startling thing for us modern people to wrestle with here. It's an interesting wordplay that he uses when he says, submit to her. That word submit is it could be saying literally submit yourself under her hand. Again, highlighting her social position. It's a wordplay because that word submit is the same word for afflict. Sarai was afflicting her. Now you're called to go and submit. It's not what you would necessarily expect God to say, but he does. But he gives her two more gracious promises in verses 10 through 12 that I think would really give her heart some comfort, because let's face it, it would be difficult. It would be very difficult to go back and submit yourself to harsh treatment. Despite the fact that she's partially to blame for this because of how she treated Sarai in the first place, but That's another story. Look at verses 10 to 12. This is what he says, second and thirdly. Verse 10, he promises to multiply Hagar 's offspring. And he makes the same basic promise to her that he made to Abraham in the last several chapters. Now, it's not exactly the same promise. It's a promise of temporal, historical blessing. It's not the same eternal blessing that God promises to Abraham. But Hagar's blessing is what we would call common grace, and it comes in relation to her connection to Abraham. In other words, the principle is that believers, Christians, today, we receive promises, we receive blessings, and sometimes those blessings. have a temporary common grace benefit for the people around us. That's the idea. And then verses 11 to 12, now you find out why this is a little more temporal. This is kind of a strange thing. Says this. In verses 11 to 12, behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. Okay, she knew that already. You shall call his name Ishmael. We've seen before names in the Bible mean something. Why is he called Ishmael? Because the Lord has listened to your affliction. Ishmael simply means God listens or God hears. And then he describes what Ishmael is going to be like. It's not incredibly flattering, but it's accurate. He shall be a wild donkey of a man, his hand against everyone, and everyone's hand against him, and he shall dwell over against his kinsmen. The word for donkey there is a specific word in Hebrew, and it just means one of those donkeys that w wanders in the wilderness. Not one of the domesticated kind. that you would put to forced labor in in the field. It's one that wanders and does its own thing and is very stubborn. And because it's stubborn, there's going to be conflict. His hand is against everyone, and everyone's hand against his, and he shall dwell over against, there's opposition language there, his kinsmen. Here's what's really interesting. Just like there was conflict and tension between Sarai and Hagar, there is going to be tension and conflict between their descendants, between Israel, who comes to Isaac. And the Ishmaelites. They're not going to get along. It's interesting how God's, you know judgments and things work out. Consequences that God imposes for things. The consequences always reflect the violation. And that's exactly what we have here. Now the response of Hagar is really, I think, a beautiful one in this case. Her response is to obey the base the voice of the Lord. She goes back. She bears Abraham's son. She names him, well, he names him Ishmael. And that's where the story ends. It's interesting that while Abraham and Sarai failed to believe and trust in God's promises, God steps in and reveals their fail, redeems their failure for his own glory. And so if you felt bad enough on the first point, the redemption is here in the second point. The question is, how does God redeem our failed attempts for his glory today? Well, the principle is that God has already redeemed our failed attempts, which we call sin, by sending his son. the Son of Promise, so that we might become children of God through him. I want you to see that in this passage, believe it or not, God's grace is on full display. And it's on full displays it's realized in the gospel. You see, the problem we saw in the first section was trying to take the thing, take things of God's promises into our own hands. and trying to fulfill them ourselves. And again, the Apostle Paul picks this up. He picks this event up in Genesis 16 in Galatians chapter 4 verses 21 to 31. And I want you to think about this. He contrasts Sarah and Hagar in various ways. And I want you to think about this. Sarah represents the new covenant while Hagar represents the old covenant. Sarah represents the promises of God accomplished by faith, while Hagar represents those who try to earn their salvation through good works, and this is the nature of how their children came into the world. Sarah represents the freedom of the gospel as the freed woman and the wife of Abraham, while Hagar represents the slavery and bondage of the law for those who try and earn their salvation through the works of the flesh. And just like God's, just as Abraham and Sarai had to wait for God to fulfill his promises in sending a son, Look, God's people had to wait for for the Messiah to come. They waited hundreds and like a thousand of years or so for God to send his Messiah in Jesus Christ. And let's face it, we're waiting today for God to send his son the second time to come and fully realize all of the promises in their totality. And God does this in sending his son that we might receive the blessing of Abraham, which is our salvation. And so what I want you to see here is God's grace is never just this bare grace offered in a vacuum. God's grace is given with a call of the gospel. Paul summarizes his argument in Galatians chapter 4, verses 28 and then 31, saying this. Now you brothers, talking to Christians, like Isaac, are children of promise. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. That should hit us And bring relief. Is what that should do. The call this morning is for you to come to faith in Jesus Christ, the fulfillment of God's promises. And the that fulfillment on his terms. Do you know what John writes in the very beginning of his gospel? John chapter 1, verses 12 through 13. But to all who did receive him, him is Christ. Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. In other words, we become the children of God when we are born again by the Spirit of God, evidenced by the coming to faith in Jesus Christ. Now, I want you to think about this because some of us are are in the position of Abraham's children according to the flesh. Some of us in this room have been born into covenant families and have yet to put our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Some of us in this room right now are riding on on the capital of their parents faith. And depending on the age of of some people, that's fine. But there always comes a point where we have to own that for ourselves. Where we have to submit ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ. Some of us are born into believing parents, just like Ishmael had been born to a believing father, but had not been born again. The call this morning from God's Word is, brothers and sisters , to encourage repentance of sins , faith in the Lord Jesus Christ So that we might receive the promises of God to Abraham, namely the forgiveness of sins. Eternal life. Maybe you're here this morning and you too have not come to faith in Christ yet. Maybe you are not yet resting in God to fulfill his promises on your behalf. Maybe you feel burdened. Maybe you feel weary. Jesus offers a call. Come to me, all who are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Maybe you're like Hagar this morning and you're afflicted in the circumstances of trying to go your own way Come to Christ. You too can become a child of God, a child of promise, a son or a daughter of the freed woman For your good and for God's glory. But it brings us right back to our initial point, doesn't it? We often fail to wait on God's promises by trying to accomplish these things ourselves when we don't have to, because Christ already has. By not owning our responsibility for our sin through repentance. And when we fail to do these things, brothers and sisters, we remain in the valley, which only reveals our need for grace all the more. What are you waiting for? Come to Christ. He's at the top of the mountain. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning. I this speaks to every one of us in this room, O Lord. Even those of us who've come to you already in saving faith, we often Try to do things our own way. We're often stubborn, impatient. We often get frustrated with ourselves, O Lord. looking to ourselves and our own failures, not realizing the grace that you offer. I mean Abraham and Sarai and Hagar, Lord, they had every um they had done everything in their power to earn a harsh response from you, and yet you show grace How much more grace through the Son of Promise in the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, help us this week to truly surrender ourselves to you, to patiently wait for you to work things out in our own lives according to your word and your will, and to continue to trust you. Oh Lord, until you send the Son of Promise again to gather us up at the end of time, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.