If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and open them to Genesis 49. And let's stand together for the reading of God's Holy Word in Genesis 49, verses 1 to 33. Then Jacob called his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what shall happen to you in the days to come. Assemble and listen, O sons of Jacob. Listen to Israel your father. Reuben, you are my firstborn, my might And the first fruits of my strength, preeminent in dignity and preeminent in power, unstable as water, you shall not have preeminence Because you went up to your father's bed. Then you defiled it. He went up to my couch. Simeon and Levi are brothers. Weapons of violence are their swords. Let my soul come not into their counsel. O my glory, be not joined to their company. For in their anger they killed men, and in their willingness, willfulness they hamstrung oxen. Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce And their wrath, for it is cruel, I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel. Judah, your brothers shall praise you. Your hands shall be on the neck of your enemies. Your father's sons shall bow down before you. Judah is a lion's cub. From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He stooped down. He crouched as a lion, and as a lioness, who dares rouse him? The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. Binding his foal to the vine, and his donkey's colt to the choice vine, he has washed his garments in wine, and his vesture in the blood of grapes His eyes are darker than wine, and his teeth whiter than milk. Zebulun shall dwell at the shore of the sea. He shall become a haven for ships, and his borders shall be at Sidon. Isakar is a strong donkey crouching between the sheepfolds He saw that a resting place was good and that the land was pleasant, so he bowed his shoulder to bear and became a servant at forced labor. Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Dan shall be a serpent in the way, a viper by the path, that bites at the horse's heels, so that his rider falls backward. I wait for your salvation, O Lord. Raiders shall raid Gad , but he shall raid at their heels Asher 's food shall be rich, and he shall yield royal delicacies. Naphtali is a doe let loose that bears beautiful fawns. Joseph is a fruitful bow, a fruitful bow by a spring. His branches run over the wall The archers bitterly attacked him, shot at him, and harassed him severely. Yet his bow remained unmoved, his arms were made agile by the hands of the mighty one of Jacob From there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel. By the God of your Father who will help you, by the Almighty, who will bless you with blessings. of heaven above, blessings of the deep that crouches beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb. The blessings of your father are mighty beyond the blessings of my parents. Up to the bounties of the everlasting hills. May they be on the head of Joseph and on the brow of him who was set apart from his brothers Benjamin is a ravenous wolf, in the morning devouring the prey, and at evening dividing the spoil. All these are the twelve tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them as he blessed them, blessing each with the blessing suitable to him. Then he commanded them and said to them, I am about to be gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite. in the cave that is in the field at Makhpella, to the east of Mamreh, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham brought bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place. There, they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. There they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife. And there I buried Leah the field and the cave that is in it where were bought from the Hittites. When Jacob finished commanding his sons, he drew up his feet into the bed and breathed his last. And was gathered to his people. This is the word of the Lord. Speed of God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time in God's Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you in this passage. Which admittedly is a lot of material. But Lord, we come before you to ask your blessing. Not just blessing on the reading of the word, but blessing on the preaching of the word. Lord, truly we can't say everything there is to say about this passage, and so Lord, we pray that I pray that you would help me to lay this out clearly in a way that points forward to and glorifies your son Jesus. and lifts him on high. Lord, speak to our hearts this morning. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Making a will and a testament long before one dies, or let me just say it like this long before it is expected that you will die, is something that is crucially important and a wise thing to do in our day and age. Think about it. We spend our lives working and accruing wealth and savings and possessions and land and property and in some cases houses, many houses. And all of these things, as we all know, are worth something in this world. The l the last thing I think any of you who have children would want is to one day pass away And everything that you spent your life working and laboring for, to just simply go to the government to have them come in and confiscate all of these things and uh portion them out the way that they think is It should be done. No. Rather, any person who loves their family wants what they've worked for to be passed on to their children, to the generations that follow them. And so the will or the testament legally protects what you have been given by the grace of God and by his providence so that your children receive what you leave for them. That's kind of the idea here in this passage. It is a last will and a last testament of a father to his children as he is about to go the way of all the earth. In fact, our passage this morning Being a last will and a testament has this main idea in mind. Our focus on God's covenantal blessing should be on Christ as our King. The restoration of lost blessing secured by the death and the resurrection of Christ. By the way, if you're visiting with us this morning and you've never been here, you can find that main idea printed on page 5 of your bulletin. right at the end of our liturgy. But let me let me state that idea once more. That is what we're going to unpack this morning. The main idea of Genesis 49 is that our focus on God's covenantal blessing should be on Christ as our King. The restoration of lost blessing secured by the death and the resurrection of Christ. Those three things. Let's begin to unpack that here in verses 1 through 12 as we look at our first point this morning, blessing through Christ as king. And I want to begin by looking at verses 1 through 2 as we see the prologue of blessing. The word prologue just means first words, right? Or words that come before. Look at verses 1 through 2 with me again. Then Jacob called his sons and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you what shall happen to you in days to come. Assemble and listen, O sons of Jacob. Listen to Israel, your father. Now this comes right on the heels of Genesis 48, as you remember last week. Jacob met with his son Joseph. Obviously they are in Egypt, and Joseph brought his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, and Jacob blesses them, adopting those two sons as sons of his own. In other words, legally they are no longer Joseph's, they belong to Jacob. And perhaps Jacob at this point knew that time was of the essence And that he was about to die, and so he calls all of his sons in. The language is very formal. Gather yourselves together. Assemble. Listen. To your father Israel. Notice here we see the prologue of the days to come in summoning his sons He says something really interesting that I want to draw your attention to. If you have your Bible, look at the end of verse 1. He says, that I may tell you what shall happen to you when? In days to come. In days to come. I want to draw your attention to that phrase in days to come because different translations render that differently and do so legitimately. For example, the King James Version of the Bible uh renders that phrase in Hebrew in the last days Now, it's a legitimate translation. It might be a misleading way to put that overall. And I say that because most of us, when we hear in the last day, In our day and age, the time period right before the return of Christ. That's often what we think when we hear that phrase, the last days. But what's interesting is that is that phrase only occurs, that I'm aware of, after studying this, one other time in the first five books of Moses. It occurs in Numbers 24, 14, if you remember, when Israel is on the cusp of going into the promised land to take it under Joshua. They come across the Moabites who hire a prophet whose name is Balaam to come and to curse Israel. And one of the things that Balaam, the son of Baor, this prophet, says to the king of Moab who hired him in Numbers 24, 14, he says, and now, behold, I am going to my people. Come, I will let you know what this people, what Israel, will do to your people, the Moabites, in the latter days, using the same exact phrase in Hebrew. What's interesting is the way that Moses uses that phrase in the latter days really signifies all of the days following that will lead up to the coming of the Messiah. And we know from the New Testament, the Messiah comes twice. He comes 2,000 years ago, which that's already in the past. And he will come again. He came the first time to deal with sin. He will come the second time to take his kingdom and reign in a kingdom that is realized in the new heavens and the new earth. And so let the scriptures kind of correct the way that you understand the end times here. Okay? We often again we often think of the end times as a little sliver of time chronologically at the end of history, right before Christ returns. The end times has a much broader connotation in the Old and the New Testaments. Okay? And so Jacob is telling them essentially I'm going to tell you guys, my sons, before I die, in my final blessing, all the things that will happen to you. to your tribes, to your people, leading up to the coming of the Messiah. Everything that he is about to say is intended to point in some way, shape, or form to the Messiah. Now that leads us to looking not just at the prologue of these days to come, but the pattern of these blessings. And by the way, that word blessing really is the overarching theme of this passage, isn't it? What is Jacob intending to do? Pass on blessing. But notice the pattern here. Now I'm going to admit something right up front. I am not going to go through every single one of these twelve sons and their blessings. We just simply do not have the time this morning to do all of that, okay? Um if you will look, uh you know, I I would just put this before you if you're really that interested, here's what you can do. You can take the the birth narrative in Genesis 30 and 31 of all 12 of these sons, okay, compare that to this passage. Then compare that to Genesis, I'm sorry, Deuteronomy 33, when Moses blesses all twelve tribes. And then what you do is look at what is said about each tribe. And then do a study and carry out what happens to each tribe through the rest of the Old Testament. That is your homework. Good luck with that. Okay? And you might understand the strain that I put myself under sometimes to be here. However, what I'm going to do this morning, for the sake of our time, there are two sons in this in this blessing passage. There's two sons that have the longest blessing. Now if you look, most of these sons have one verse, some might have two or three, but there's two that have five. And those two are not accidental. I believe Moses, as he's writing this, is intending for us to focus on these two sons. The other sons kind of are built around them. So we're going to look at the focus. And that is Judah. and Joseph. If you look, Judah from verses uh 8 through 12 is focused on and then Joseph is focused on from verses 22 through 26. Five verses each. And we're going to focus on those two, and I think that's intentional because If you remember the structure of Genesis 37 to 50, we've been seeing the ascendancy of these two sons. within the family of Jacob, right? Mostly Joseph, but Judah began to rise to prominence And we're going to focus on those two this morning. So I want to look at verses 8 through 12 with you as we see the blessing of a coming king through Judah. Now, interestingly enough, after setting aside Reuben and Simeon and Levi, who were the first three, uh the oldest, really, from Leah, he sets them aside essentially. Jacob proceeds to bless Judah. And I do want to look verse by verse at what he says to Judah because it is so crucially important for us to understand the importance of this. and appreciate how this is fulfilled. Notice verse 8, you see a kingly and a poetic preeminence of Judah. Look at verse 8. Judah, by the way, that is addressing him, Judah, your brothers shall praise you Your hands shall be on the neck of your enemies, and your father's sons shall bow down before you. Why do I say that that's a poetic um you know, kingly blessing there. Well, it's poetic because of the name Judah and what it means. If you go back to when he was born. Judah means he is praised or he praises. It has the idea of praise. And notice what he says, Judah, whose name means praise, your brothers will praise you. In other words, you are finally going to live up. To the name that I gave you when your mother bore you. That's what Jacob is essentially saying. His brothers are going to praise him. Why will they praise him is the question. Well, notice the language about his hand being on the neck of his enemies. What does that mean? Well, that means essentially he's going to conquer. He's going to prevail. It's got a military connotation. It's got warfare language behind that. And there's several examples of that in the Old Testament. Just kind of skimming through some things in a cursory fashion here. In the wilderness wanderings with Moses, the way Moses laid out the tribes of Judah and the first or the tribes of Israel in the first couple chapters of Numbers, what we find is Judah. is the largest tribe and therefore Judah is the first to go up uh go out to war when called upon to go to war. You see that in Joshua 15. You see it in Judges chapter 1. Judah was the first to go up and take their inheritance by going to war against the Canaanites with Joshua and even immediately after Joshua's death. But most importantly, this is actually pointing to King David, who comes from the tribe of Judah. You might remember that David was the one whom God made a covenant with that his children, his generations, his sons, his descendants are going to rule on the throne forever. And what's interesting is after God makes that covenant with David, in 2 Samuel chapter 7, particularly verses 12 through 16, The next two chapters, chapters eight and nine, uh kind of recount David's conquest of all the nations around him. He goes to war against the Philistines and subdues them, the Moabites, the Ammonites, the Syrians, and so on and so forth, the Edomites. He brings them under his subjection and his rule. He conquers the enemies. And so it was to David of the tribe of Judah that all Israel, his brothers, would one day bow down to. And that is exactly what you see in verse 8. Your fathers Sons shall bow down before you. Again, interestingly enough, um There's some semblance to the blessing of Isaac to Jacob back in chapter 27. It's a little different. He says, your mother's sons will bow down to you there. But we see the same phrase in Genesis 37, when Joseph has this dream, his father's sons bow down to him. What Jacob is telling Judah here is that what was fulfilled literally and historically in Joseph will be transferred eventually to Judah. Your father's sons will bow down to you. But look at the imagery here in verse 9 as we move forward, the kingly imagery of a lion. In verse 9, Judah as a lion's cub. From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He stooped down, he crouched as a lion, and as a lioness, who dares? It's almost like a challenge, right? Who dares to rouse him? Now that's interesting. The imagery of a lion was a common one in the ancient Near Eastern history. um history and literature and art. It was a common imagery of kings. First of all, you see it in ancient Near Eastern literature filled with tales of Assyrian kings coming and Killing lions with their bare hands. Now, I tend to think there was some embellishment there. Um, I mean, that's after all what kings and politicians do, they embellish themselves in propaganda. But I want you to think about the imagery of a lion for just a moment. You remember Judges chapter 14, when Samson comes across a lion. And the Spirit of the Lord rushes upon him and he tears this thing apart with his bare hands. Which is an incredible imagery to think about and imagine what that must have looked like. And Samson, being a precursor to King David, David talks to Saul in in 1 Samuel 17 as Goliath is taunting the armies of Israel and blaspheming the name of the Lord. David tells Saul, look, I will go out and fight this Philistine. Your servant as a shepherd Out in uh caring for my father's sheep, when a lion or a bear would come, I would grab that animal by its mane and strike it down The king and his strength being symbolized in a lion. And that's that's the kind of the second point. A lion is the symbol of royal power and royal strength in the ancient Near East. And so just as the lion crouches in its den, feeding on its prey, so Judah will rest. after conquering the enemies of God's people, and there will be no one who will be able to stand and to rouse him. What an incredible imagery we're being given here. And then we we continue on in verse 10. We see the kingly promise. of Shiloh. Notice what verse 10 says. The sh the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler staff from between his feet. until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of all the people. Now j just a few few things to note here. Notice again the royal language of kingship. Now, there's more to this than you would think. What do I mean? Well, let's put this into the context of the whole book of Genesis. Okay? Where are we at at this point in Genesis? We are in the second to the last chapter. We're at the end, almost, but we're at the end. What happened at the beginning of Genesis? Do you remember Genesis 1. 28? When God creates man in his image, what does he say to him? What's the first thing God said? Well, one, he blesses him And then we see the blessing is worked out in several commands. Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it and take dominion. And he talks about all the things you're supposed to take dominion over, right? Well, what happened in in two chapters later in Genesis chapter 3? Man fell into sin, and it's not that the dominion was entirely lost, but it was significantly compromised. I mean Adam was supposed to have dominion over the ground, now the ground has dominion over him and death. His work is paralyzed and compromised and fraught with toil and pain and sorrow and suffering. And so we need to put this language of kingship in its bigger context in the book of Genesis. What was lost, God is beginning through this promise to restore. Please understand that context. Adam was made as a king to have dominion over all creation. Someone's going to come from Judah who is going to take that dominion that Adam lost And it is really interesting. You see that coming through here, the line of Judah. God promised Abraham that kings would come from he and Sarah back in Genesis chapter 17, if you remember. God also made the same promise to Jacob in Genesis 35, 11. And now you see that more specifically, the king, you would probably expect him to come from Joseph, because Joseph's ascendant. to you know the right hand of Pharaoh in his ruling Egypt, and yet God throws a little bit of a curve, doesn't do what you would exactly expect. No, the king is going to come from the line of Judah. Interestingly, notice this says, secondly, notice this says that the scepter shall not depart until tribute comes to him, the way it's rendered in the ESD. Now the Hebrew literally, you could translate it also says, until Shiloh comes. That word tribute that the ESV renders as tribute in Hebrew. Um is the Hebrew word Shiloh, and if you know anything about your Old Testament history, Shiloh became the place or the city in which God's tabernacle came to dwell. um later on in Israel's history before it was moved to Jerusalem in David's time. Now, I actually I'm not going to get into all the little nuanced interpretations and details. Again, we don't have the time and honestly It's not that important. What the important point to note here is that this is a clear messianic prophecy, and that is understood by both Jewish and Christian interpreters. That this is a messianic prophecy. Now, I will tell you the interpretation I take, and we'll just move on, but I understand this difficult phrase in Hebrew to mean until when he shall come to whom it belongs. There are many interpreters, both Jewish and Christian, that understand it in that way. So who what what is that talking about? Until when he, who's he? Well, he is the one who's going to rule from Judah. Until when he shall come, to whom it, what is it referring to? It is referring to kingship. In other words, the kingship was established by covenant as history marched on with David, that God made with him. And that historical kingship would then lead to the coming of the Messiah. The Messiah is the one to whom kingship and rule belongs by covenant. And so that's an interesting phrase there. This king is also going to be the Messiah. And third, notice that the Davidic king shall have the obedience of all the peoples. Now I'm not going to Camp out too much on that except to say that the word peoples there, just as in English, also in Hebrew, is plural, indicating that this extends beyond just the nation of Israel. It extends beyond the twelve tribes. This kingship will bring the obedience of all nations. Again, this goes back to the promise that God made to Abraham. You know, all the nations and families of the earth will be blessed through your seed. And we're seeing that narrowed down. Now that seed is going to be from the tribe of Judah, the king, to come. And then verses 11 through 12, you see the kingly prosperity of Judah. Again, I'm not going to comment too much on that except to say It is interesting the imagery of like washing his garments in wine and his vesture in the blood of grapes. Most commentators I would agree with are are kind of indicating that there's going to be so much prosperity in this man's kingdom that the wine is going to be so plenty of us you don't even need to wash your clothes in water. You can do it in wine. How about that? I mean how much does a bottle of wine really cost? Why does it cost so much today? Because, you know, wine is hard to make. It takes a lot of time. There's going to be so much fruitfulness in the Messiah's kingdom that, I mean, it's almost like hyperbole here, right? But the point of all this blessing for the end times, and again, understanding that in much broader terms, is that kingship and dominion that are lost, that was lost by Adam will be re-established In the son of David, in the son of Judah, the son of Jacob. And it is the re-establishment of that kingdom that we will find our blessing in the blessing of Judah. So the question is, what does this mean for us today? How does this shape Christian living today? Right? Well I think it boils down to this, the blessing of a coming king to restore what was lost in the fall reveals to us that our lives are redeemed to build Christ's kingdom. There is a building of that kingdom today, and we are called to participate in that. And so I just want to put two questions before you by way of application. And you can diagnose where your own heart is at with these. But the question, first one, is whose kingdom are you building? Whose kingdom are you building as you sit here this morning? You are not redeemed to build your own kingdom in this world. And yet, how many of us live as if we rule over our own little kingdom that we are building? You see it in all different kinds of spheres of life. And it's not just like corporate executives or even celebrity pastors that seem to build a brand name for themselves. It's not just People like that. It's it's common everyday people that seem to be building their own kingdom. Where does where does that mentality come from? Well, I think it comes from the heart of sin and rebellion against God from Genesis chapter 3, ultimately, but you see it expressed in different ways. You know, I don't remember exactly where the quote comes from, but I believe it comes from sometime around the writing of the Magna Carta in England in the Middle Ages. You know, every man is the king of his own castle. the king of his own home. It kind of is that mentality that we're we're here to build our own kingdoms. We're here to live for ourselves. We're here to do what we want to do and no one else can tell us otherwise. How many of you live like that today? Do I live like that today? Maybe more than we want to admit? Yes? The second diagnostic question is, who are you serving? And it's related to the first one, whose kingdom are you building? Well, you build the kingdom of the one you serve. You might be wondering this morning, what does he mean by serving? I don't serve anyone. Well, we all serve someone or something. We were made to serve as an image bearer. And so the question is, what are we serving? You remember what what Jesus said at one point? You know, man cannot serve both God and mammon, or another sub mammon's an old word for money or wealth. What are we serving? And the question is, if we say we're serving the Lord, how are we serving to build his kingdom? Again, that's another third diagnostic question I want you to wrestle with this morning. I haven't said this in a while, but we've been thinking, at least as a session, About missions and evangelism this year. And the question is: is God has gifted you, children of the King, redeemed by grace? How has God gifted you to build the kingdom of the one who will bring restored blessing, namely Christ? Because what does this blessing of Judah really point to? It points to Christ. He's the fulfillment of that. It's his kingdom we're called to live for, not ourselves. What's the Christian confession of faith from 1 Corinthians chapter 12? Jesus is Lord. What does that mean? That means he has lordship over our lives. And so it's something to wrestle with as we think about how these promises apply. But secondly, we move forward to verses 13 to 27. Our second point is blessing through restoration. Blessing through a king that's coming from Judah, namely Christ. Blessing through restoration. I want to focus again very narrowly here for our time on verse 18. The blessing of restoration comes from the Lord's salvation. Look at verse 18. It says this, and it comes at the end of Jacob's blessing of Dan. It says, I will wait for your salvation, O Lord. It's kind of interesting how that's worded. He's addressing Dan. Dan is, and he's talking to Dan about Dan in the third person, and all of a sudden he switches to the first person. But I will wait for the salvation of the Lord. What what what is this all about? Well, again, interestingly enough, as Reuben, Simeon, and Levi had kind of negative connotations to what Jacob said to them. Judah's the first to receive a positive blessing. All the other brothers that follow have a positive blessing set about them. Dan 's blessing highlights conflict. Which is really interesting. I mean you could look at it right before verse 18. Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Dan shall be a serpent in the way, as a viper by the path. that bites the horse's heels so that its rider falls backward. That's warfare language. Again, conflict. Huh. It highlights conflict, but it ends looking in hope to the salvation of the Lord through that conflict. And so as we move to look at Joseph's blessing and the restoration that follows, let's connect Joseph's restoration with the salvation that's elicited in verse 18. But let's jump forward to verses 22 through 26. Blessing characterized by the restoration of all things. Okay, let's look at verses 22. Let's start there. What we really see with Joseph is there's restoration of fruitfulness of prosperity. of posterity, excuse me, and the land. There's two kinds of restorations here. The restoration of family, the restoration of of being fruitful and multiplying, and the restoration of the land and its fruitfulness. Look at verse 22. The fruitfulness first of posterity. Joseph is a fruitful bow. A fruitful bow by a spring. His branches run over the wall. The idea of being a fruitful bow has to do with God's Blessing in multiplying his descendants. Again, jump back to Genesis 1, 28. Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. Right. Now the fall certainly compromised that. We know that because I mean Abraham's wife was barren. Isaac's wife was barren until God supernaturally intervened. Rachel was barren until God supernaturally re intervened. But this language, we see the same kind of language in Psalm 128. 3. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house. Your children will be like olive shoots around the table And then you look at verses 25 and 26 here in Joseph's blessing here. It speaks of the blessing of breasts in the womb. Those points to the blessing of motherhood, the blessing of your father being beyond the blessing of Jacob's parents means that God is going to multiply the families following Jacob and following Joseph. beyond the experience of Abraham and Isaac and even Jacob, whose wives did suffer barrenness. And that was fulfilled historically. We know this because when Moses brought Israel out of Egypt, the tribe of Manasseh , Numbered 32,200 men. Ephraim numbered 40,500 for a total of 72 ,700, right? Think about it, that was the most second most populous group in Israel by about 2,100 men, and this number only counts the soldiers. From 20 years old to maybe 50. It didn't include everyone in those tribes, which this was bigger. Fruitfulness of posterity. But there was also fruitfulness of the land. Look at verse 25. It mentions the blessing of heaven above. Verse 26 says, up to the bounties of the everlasting hills. What's the implication there? This is covenantal language. It comes up again in Deuteronomy chapter 28, talking about the covenantal blessings. God is going to bring the reins. In their seasons, it's going to fall on the hills, and the hills are going to be fruitful, bringing the produce of the land in abundance. Now again, think about how that contrasts with what happened in Genesis 3, particularly verse 17 through 19, when God judges Adam. He's like by the sweat of your brow, you know, you will work the ground. It's going to bring weeds and you're going to have all kinds of toil and pain and suffering. And cursed is the ground because of you. You know what this blessing is for Joseph? It's actually the first glimmerings of the reversal of the curse on creation. It's not meant to just point forward to something historical, although it does. I mean, if you look at a map at where Joseph's tribes ended up historically in ancient Israel, they were in the most fertile part of the of the promised land. The greenest part in contrast to say the deserts of Judah, right? Very barren. It's meant to point forward to something much more. So again, as we look to apply this and just take a step back, the blessing of restoration can be seen in the work of Christ. First bringing salvation through the cross, and then when he returns to restore all things in the new heavens and the new earth. Isn't it interesting that when you put these two blessings of Judah and Joseph side by side, all the stuff that God had blessed Adam with in the beginning that was lost in the fall or compromised is in the process of being restored. Judah's blessing focuses more on the dominion aspect. Joseph's blessing focuses more on the fruitfulness in the land aspect. And we see that played out first in the restoration of blessing in salvation at the cross, and we'll see the resurrection in a moment, but When did the restoration that Christ started begin? It began in his first coming, when he lived a perfect life that Adam failed to live, when he went to the cross to pay the penalty of death that Adam and subsequently all of us deserved. for our sin. The conflict that 's mentioned here in Dan that leads to that statement, I will wait for the salvation of the Lord, is really the conflict that begins with sin. Right? And Christ's conflict with sin culminated at the cross, where where Paul writes in Romans 8. 3 That God did what the law was powerless to do by sending his son in the likeness of human flesh, so that what? He may condemn sin in the flesh. Victory, salvation from the Lord. But that's not the only restoration we will experience, is it? It's the restoration of blessing in the new heavens and the new earth. The whole fruitfulness of posterity in the land here will fully and finally be realized and fulfilled when Jesus returns. And while the fruitfulness of Canaan was truly literal, while it was truly historical in fulfilling God's promises, To Joseph in that literal sense, it also points forward to the restoration of all creation that we read about in Genesis 21 and 22. And if you want homework this weekend, go read those chapters and marvel. And relish in those promises of the vision of our eternal inheritance This is a hope that was meant to encourage Joseph, brothers and sisters. This is a blessing that is meant to encourage us and whet our appetite. for glory one day. And that makes it all the sweeter when when we look at the suffering and the issues that we go through this side of creation. There are some of you here that have chronic health issues. There are some of you here that have labor and toil in your jobs and that just tax you to no end. There are some of you that are dealing with uncertainty that stems from the fall of man into sin. This blessing is not just meant to point us to the work of Christ that He has once done two thousand years ago. It's meant to point us forward to and what our appetite for the work that he's going to one day complete when death and sin and suffering and tears will have no place and they will be done away with So how is that secured? Well, look at verses 28 through 33, our third point, blessing through the death and the resurrection of Christ. Interestingly enough, you see the blessing through the death of Jacob. And that you know our final point really looks at his final moments of his life. And it is interesting. You see in verse 28. a trifold use of blessing. I mean it says this. All these are the twelve tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them as he blessed them, blessing each of them with the blessings suitable to him. Notice That word blessing in either noun or verbal form comes three times in one verse, telling you that is the highlight of this passage. The highlight is blessing. Blessing. But we also see in verses 29 through 32, sometimes blessing also comes under a shadow. The burial commanded at his death. He, I'm not going to read that. You heard me read it. He commands them, bury me in Canaan. In the tomb that Abraham bought. Bury me in a tomb. Why? We've covered this. We covered this with Sarah's death in chapter 23. We covered this with Isaac's death as well. When they put their body in the ground in the tomb in the promised land, it is a action expressing faith. that one day, despite death, God is going to be faithful to his promises to them, and they want to be there in the land that he promised them to receive their inheritance when they rise from the dead. And then in verse 33, it just ends very matter-of-fact. When Jacob finished commanding his sons, he drew up his feet into the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his people. That's pretty straightforward, but the importance of this one verse at the end of Jacob's life is to draw our attention to the fact that once the covenant head, once the covenant representative dies, then the blessings he pronounced pass on to his covenant heirs. In other words, Jacob had just been just given them his last will and his testament, and that testament goes into effect at the death of the testator, or the one who made the will or testament. And so we see that Jacob's death and the passing of the blessing points us forward to Christ, who secured all these promises for us, and the blessing of the covenant in his own death and resurrection. I want you to understand, brothers and sisters, just like Jacob had to die as the testator for his sons to receive the blessing in a legal and fulfilled sense. So also is Christ the testator who dies to secure the promises of God for us. You remember I began this whole message this morning talking about inheritance, your last will, and your testament in a legal sense that will pass on to your children. And that does not go into effect until you die. The same is true of Christ and the benefits of the new covenant. Listen to what the author of Hebrews says. In Hebrews chapter 9, verses 15 through 17. Therefore, he, Christ, is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance. Since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where there is a will involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at death Since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Hmm. What that means is now that Christ has died. And risen again, those promises are secured for us. The promise of the coming King, the promise of the restoration of all things, broaden it out to the new covenant, the promises of the forgiveness of sins. have been secured by Christ for us. And it is by faith and faith alone. In what Christ has done, that we receive these blessings, and that we have a share in the eternal inheritance, which is the same inheritance that all twelve of these brothers received by faith. And so ask yourself, have you claimed by faith the inherited, the promised inheritance that is held out for you? And if not, why not? Because our blessing is secured by Christ. Now there's some of you today here that struggle with insecurity, I'm thinking more spiritual. Not necessarily things pertaining to this life, and talking about an insecurity about your salvation or your standing with God. This passage is designed by the Holy Spirit. to speak to our hearts this morning and to give us security that Christ will not lose of yours what is committed to him. Think about what Paul says in Philippians. He says, you know, I am confident in this very thing that that which I have committed to the Lord he will not lose. Why does he say that? What does Jesus say in the Gospel of John? All that are in my Father's hand cannot be taken out. He also says, All that the Father has given me, I cannot lose, but will raise up on the day of resurrection. And in light of the resurrection of Christ, listen to what Paul says. Listen to what he writes in Romans 8, 34 to 35, and then I'm going to skip to verses 37 to 39. For those of you who struggle with assurance. Who is to condemn? Good question. Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised. Who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? No. In all these things we are more than conquerors to him who loved us. For I'm sure Then neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth. nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Because we have a king who is reigning currently and will come again, because we have a promise of restoration of all things, including these bodies of ours that break down over age. And sickness and health issues, all these things that give us warning. Because of all these things, we have a secured promise from God. that nothing will separate us from his love and he will make good on his promises to bless us. Isn't that encouraging this morning? Again, I began this message talking about the importance of a will and a testament as one faces the prospect of death at some point, and we all will, if Christ tarries. And as a child of God through Jesus Christ this morning, I hope that you leave here with confidence that you certainly have an inheritance in glory that no one can take away from you. If you do not have that confidence, and you want that confidence, come talk to me or one of the elders after church today We would love to talk with you about what Christ has done. But it brings us right back to our main idea, doesn't it? Our focus on God's covenantal blessing. should be on Christ as our King, the restoration of lost blessing in Christ, and secured by his death and resurrection. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning. We are so grateful, Lord, for the precious promises of God. in Christ. Lord, we pray that you would seal our hearts with these things and give us a confidence that grows not in our own ability but in your faithfulness and And teach us, Lord, on this day, the Lord's day, to rest in those promises through faith. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.