Well, brothers and sisters, if you have your Bibles with you, I would encourage you to open them to Genesis chapter 10. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 32 this morning, and I would also invite you to stand. For the reading of God's Holy Word. Genesis chapter ten, beginning in verse one These are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood. The sons of Japith, Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshek, and Tiras. The sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah The sons of Javan, Elisha, Tarshish, Kitim, and Dodanim. From these the coastline people spread in their lands, each with his own language, by their clans in their nations. The sons of Ham, Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. The sons of Cush, Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Rahama, and Sabtica. The sons of Rahama, Sheba, and Dedan. Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on earth to be a mighty man. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. Therefore it is said, like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord The beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erech, Akkad, and Kalnah in the land of Shinar From that land he went into Assyria and built Nineveh, Rehobothir, Kalah, and Rezin between Nineveh and Kalah, that is the great city. Egypt fathered Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Neptuhim, Parthrushim, Khalsuhim, from whom the Philistines came, and Kathtorim. Canaan fathered Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth, and the Jebezites, the Amorites, the Gergeshites, the Hivites, the Archites. the Sinites, the Arvidites, the Zemerites, and the Hamathites. Afterwards the clans of the Canaanites dispersed And the territory of the Canaanites extended from Sidon in the direction of Gerar as far as Gaza, and in the direction of Sodom, Gomorrah, Adma, and Zeboim as far as Lasha. These are the sons of Ham by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations. To Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber , The elder brother of Japheth, children were born. The sons of Shem, Elam, Asher, Arpaksod, Lud, and Aram. The sons of Aram, Uz, Hu, Hul, Gether, and Mash. Our Pakshad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber. To Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Jochtan. Gachtan fathered El Modad, Shelaf, Hazar Maveth, Jara, Hadaram, Uzal, Dikla, Obal, Abimael, Sheba, Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All of these were the sons of Jotan The territory in which they lived extended from Meshah in the direction of Sheffar to the hill country of the east. These are the sons of Shem by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations. These are the clans of the sons of Noah, according to their genealogies, in their nations, and from these the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood. This is the word of God. You may be seated. Speaking of our time together and let's pray and give thanks that I pronounced all those words correctly. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you and we are thankful for your word this morning. Lord, as we read through all these names that for many of us in the modern day, in the modern age, these names mean very little, if anything. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes to see what your purpose was in revealing this to your people and how this applies to us, how this speaks to us. in our own day and age. Lord, we pray that you would enlarge our hearts this morning through the preaching of your word. Lord, that you would Share your heart with us, O Lord, and that you would encourage us and remind us of the tremendous promises that we have in Jesus Christ through something like this, the table of nations. And prepare our hearts, O Lord, to come before you and partake of your table in the Lord's Supper this morning. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. One popular but untraditional gift to give around Christmas time or even on birthdays, more recently, is something called Ancestry. com. Maybe you've heard of it. Now, admittedly, this is not an advertising commercial. They're not paying me to mention them from the pulpit before a hundred plus people. But in recent years, people have really taken to looking back into their family tree. And I began thinking about this as I as I was looking at this table of nations this week and wondering Why is it that that something like ancestry. com would be so popular in our day and age? Why do you think that this is? I can give you my best guess, and and I will. M my best guess is that, you know, since around the early nineteenth century or the early 1800s The United States as a country, as a new country, saw an influx of people coming together, mostly from different parts of Europe. And as time marched forward, these different groups began to mix together so that by the time you get to the nineteen eighties and nineties when I was a little kid in school, You know, sitting in social studies class, they would talk about America being the great m uh you know mixing pot, melting pot of these different peoples. Now interestingly enough, and I don't know what year this happened or what gen what you know several years this happened, but in our present age today The focus is not as much on America being a melting pot of different cultures into one nation as much as they tend to encourage different minorities that come to the United States to maintain their ethnic identity from the nation that they came from. No, it's not my purpose this morning to comment on which approach is better. Quite frankly, for the purposes of our passage, I don't care. But it does lend to people looking back and trying to remember where their roots come from. Because most people in this country are like me. They are a mix of a a multitude of nations of people that came to this country and intermarried as time went on and produced people like me who have a background in multiple countries. And so I do think that that lends itself to creating a market for tracing one's family tree back to the old country or countries, wherever those countries might be. Because I think at the root of it, we all want to know where we come from. And that does bring us to our passage this morning. Doesn't it? Because it doesn't matter what nation, tribe, language, or family we come from, we can trace our ancestry ultimately back to one of these three sons of Noah. In fact, this is not really a genealogy, as I kind of assumed it was when I started preparing for this this week. This is actually a table of nations. And I want to observe right up front that this is not a table that identifies really all of the modern nations of the world. If you were to look at a globe today or a map today of the world. But it's a representative table of nations in the world that existed in biblical times when God led his people out of Egypt. by the hand of Moses into the desert to inherit the land of Canaan. This is a snapshot of the world at that time. And I think we need to understand that coming into this. And then it doesn't take a genius to know that those nations then have since given birth to the nations that we have in the present time. In fact, the primary idea of our passage, and if you're visiting with us this morning, you'll see this at the end of the liturgy, we tend to print our sermon idea right there in the bulletin for you to follow along. But the main idea of this passage this morning, as far as I can tell, and as best as I can do, is that the table of nations reveals the scope of redemption, the reasons for judgment. And the church's purpose in the world today. Those three things. And that's what I want to unpack with you this morning. And I want to begin with our first point in verses one through five. the scope of redemption. Now it begins very clearly in verse 1. These are the generations of the sons of Noah, and then it gives us three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood. Now notice he begins with the last listed son, first, the sons of Japheth in verse 2. Now in verse 2 we see these Gentile nations summarized the sons of Japheth Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshek, and Tiras You'll notice if you count, there are seven names listed there. And I think these seven names are symbolic of the fulfill of the fullness. of the fulfillment of God's promised blessing to Japheth when we look back at chapter 9, verse 27, just a few verses before. You remember when Noah awoke from his drunken stupor? He cursed Canaan, and then he blessed Shem and Japheth. And he ended on Japheth. May God enlarge Japheth. Let him dwell in the tents of Shem and let Canaan be his servant. Well here we see in this list of these seven nations that come from Japheth's line, the fulfillment of God's promises to enlarge Japheth around the globe. He's enlarged them and made nations out of them. And we see these nations were the Gentiles that were on the earth largely at the time of Israel's Exodus. Now these nations are traditionally and linguistically understood by most Bible students and commentators to be the nation the Gentile nations of the Indo-European world. And so when you think about how far and wide these nations spread. We're talking Europe into Russia, Iran, and even into India. the Indo-European Gentile nations of the world. Now it gets specific in verses 3 and 4. We go from the summary in verse 2. to two of his children being elaborated on in verses three and four. Take a look at verse three. Very simply, the sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, Ripoth, and Togarmah. You were you're wondering, okay, who are these people and why does it matter? Well, Gomer is simply the people group that settled north of the Black Sea in what we think of as Ukraine. Ashkenaz is usually identified with the Scythians that Paul mentions in the New Testament. They inhabited the area of also modern-day Ukraine and southern Russia. and into Eastern Europe and even all the way down into the area we call today as Iran. That's a pretty wide stretch of people uh that come from this one son of Japheth Many of these Gentile nations. In fact, I kind of find it interesting. Ashkenaz really stuck out to me because maybe you've heard of the term before, Ashkenazi Jews. There's two two types of Jews out there in the world today, at least by two different terms. Ashkenazi is one of them. The other one is Sephardic. Ashkenazi Jews are typically known as Jews that come from Eastern Europe. Uh Russia, Germany, Poland. Well, why are they called Ashkenazi Jews? Because they're they're living in this area by um one of Jephthah Japheth's grandchildren by the name of Ashkenaz. And so this is a wide swath of people, and then it gets this this is like northern Europe, but then It goes south in verse 4 with the Gentile nations from Javan. And take a look at that in verse 4. The sons of Javan, Elisha, Tarshish, Kitim, and Dodanim. Now I'm going to be quick here. I'm not going to go into a whole lot of detail in any of these. But Javan is typically identified as Greece. In fact, if you go to Daniel chapter 8, verse 21, you might remember there was a vision that the prophet Daniel had when he was in Babylon. He had a vision of a ram that had two horns that represented media in Persia in that empire, and then there was a goat that showed up on the western horizon that had one one uh horn that represented a great king and that Goat came and threw down the ram. Well, what was the interpretation of that vision? The goat represented Greece. And in Daniel chapter 8, verse 21, it uses the name Yavon. We know that that was fulfilled when Alexander the Great came with the Greeks and toppled the Persian Empire And so we see Yavon is Greece, Elisha is not the prophet in this case, but the Greek-speaking island of Cyprus. Tarshish. Sounds familiar if you remember the story of Jonah. In Jonah chapter 1, the prophet went to flee. He didn't want to go in the direction of Nineveh. He fled to Tarshish Jumped on a ship. That was either a port city in southern Spain or possibly Tarsus, where Paul was born in southern Turkey today. Kitim is likely the Romans, and Dodonim are the Greek speakers who inhabited the island of Rhodes. And so what you see in this big picture of Japhet here and his descendants, you see the Gentiles, and notice what how this is described in verse 5. From these In other words, this is not all of them. This is just the beginning. From these, the coastline peoples spread in their lands, each with his own language. by their clans in their nations. The key word there is spread. They spread out. Now, the question we have to ask ourselves is how would the Israelites in Moses ' day have understood this? Why would this have been important for them? I mean, in fact, if you look at a map of the ancient world, these are the nations they would have been least familiar with. These are the ones furthest away from them and most mysterious. But despite that, because they are Japheth's descendants, through Japheth their father, they passed through the waters of the flood, as we've been looking at in the last several weeks. Just as Israel passed through the waters of the Red Sea when God judged Egypt And so these nations, through their father Japheth, have experienced God's redeeming activity, his redeeming work of them. Israel here, I think, is being reminded that their redemption occurred within the context of the nations of the world. This isn't just some some myth that's a religious story that has been told. This is something that is grounded in factual history. In fact, if you go back to Exodus chapter 9 verse 16, what was the purpose of the Exodus? What does God tell Pharaoh through Moses? For this purpose I raise you up that my name may be great among the nations and my name proclaimed among them. And so I also think that there's a warning here. There's a warning by example of how fast these Gentile nations turned From the knowledge of the living God, which they through their ancestor Japheth experienced in God's redeeming work, they turn from that to idols. And you don't have to look far to understand how how quickly that happened. I mean you can think of like Greek mythology Roman mythology, Norse mythology, so on and so forth, you know, Canaanite mythology, all of these different nations, right? They had the knowledge of the living God, and they turned away from that knowledge. And the Apostle Paul chronicles that in Romans chapter 1, verses 18 through 28. They exchanged the knowledge of God for a lie. They exchanged the truth of God for idols. Right? So the question we have to ask ourselves as we step back from these first five verses is what does Japheth's lineage teach us about the heart of God that should challenge our hearts today? Well, his lineage shows that God's redemptive heart is for the nations that spread abroad through the globe, throughout the globe. Now in in this room, because of just where we're living geographically in the world, in the United States, and the history of the United States, most people in this world, in this room, though not all, are descendants of Japheth. And are in fact in covenant with God through Jesus Christ, his Son. Now I want you to think about that. Why would that be encouraging to you this morning? Well, it's encouraging because it demonstrates that God has been faithful to his promises. Again, going back to chapter 9, verse 27. May God enlarge Japheth and let him and his descendants dwell in the tents of Shem. We talked about last week how the ultimate descendant of Shem is the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is through Christ that you have this bringing together of Jew and Gentile in one tent. Under one Savior, under one shepherd, through one means of salvation, God has been faithful to his promises We see that evidenced here in this room that many of the descendants of Japheth, you, me, are in Christ. God has enlarged Japheth into many Gentile nations in the world today. And I believe that this challenges our perspective in the same way that it would have challenged Israel's perspective. coming out of Egypt when they were redeemed. Because let's face it, when we are s the way we tend to preach the gospel today, at least in America, it it's almost purely on individualistic terms, isn't it? Now there is certainly an individual component to salvation. We each have to come to Christ and respond to the grace that is being offered to us. No doubt about it. But the tendency is to think that and focus inwardly on what God is doing for us. And yes, he has done marvelous things for us. But we also miss the fact that God's heart is not only for us who are already in the tent of Shem, who are already in Christ. But God's heart is for those who are spread abroad, to use that key word from verse 5, and those who are currently not in covenant relationship with Him, but are part of the nations. Isn't this interesting? Most of us forget that when God called Israel out of Egypt and brought them to the promised land, he put them there for the sole purpose of being a light to the nations. And you know, there's really only one time I can think of where Israel was a tremendous light to the nations. It happened to be in my quiet time yesterday morning when I was reading in 1 Kings chapter 10, the Queen of Sheba coming from a great distance to hear the wisdom of Solomon. to see the temple, to see the splendor and the majesty of his kingdom. And it took her breath away to see how God was worshipped in his temple. You know, if the church is the same way, brothers and sisters, we're not a temple located in one physical geographical location, but we are the temple now spread abroad throughout the globe. But why are we here? Is it only for us? Is it only so that we have an inward focus on ourselves? And to seek our own blessing, or is it to share the blessing of Shem that we have partaken of with those around us? That's the idea here. We are called like Israel to be a light to the nations And we have to ask ourselves this morning, and boy, this brings tremendous conviction to me personally. Let me just take that up front. We have to ask ourselves, do we have the same heart for the nations this morning that God has? Do we have the same heart as individual Christians? And do we have that same heart as a corporate church for the nations around us? Now we just had we just had two missionaries here sharing what God is doing not just in them but through them in Cameroon, Africa last week. And God does raise up some of us, doesn't he, to go abroad. But you know what God has also done in this country? It's kind of unique. He's brought the mission field to us by bringing the nations to our doorstep. Do we have a heart for those? Some of those people from those nations you know because you work with them. You go to school with them. Do you have a heart for them? As they are without Christ. Well, how might we fan into flame a heart for the nations that God has in this passage? Well, I think that heart can be fanned into flame by realizing that those whom we're called to have a heart for are cut off currently from God. It is interesting to me. I have mentioned very briefly how these nations very quickly went from the knowledge of God to serving idols, exchanging the truth for the lie. But you know, it's really interesting that despite that, God in his sovereignty obviously knew that was going to happen. That was decreed. And yet, despite that unfaithfulness, that turning away from him historically, he still loved them enough to make promises to include them in sending his son. And so oftentimes we get discouraged when we look at the world around us and we we see how lost it is. Can it ever come back? Are people even that redeemable? Well, guess what? He redeemed you. He redeemed me in our disobedience. And many of us have done terrible things in our sin. And yet God still loved us enough to send his son. As we look at God's love for us and how we've received that, That should fan into flame those who for a heart for those who are without Christ. The Apostle Paul says in Ephesians 2 about the Ephesian Christians, That before they came to Christ, and I quote, they had no hope and were without God in the world. God still has a plan to redeem those who so easily forgot him. Let's remember that. Let's not give up on people. I don't know about you, but in my experience in doing evangelism, I haven't always had the greatest success rate of of leading people to Christ, but the few people that I've gotten to lead to Christ tended to be the people that I least suspected would come to him. They were often the most broken people. They were often the people that that you look at them you're like there's no way that person is going to come to Christ. And then they did. And it's always the people I would look at them and say, oh, they're they're they're like right there on the edge. And I I don't get to pray with them to come to Christ. Let's remember, brothers and sisters, God still has a heart for those who have walked away from Him. Maybe you're here this morning and that's you. You've walked away from the Lord and you're just here visiting. God has a heart for you. You haven't sinned or done anything that makes you beyond the scope of his redemption. And we see that in this passage. A remarkable heart for the nations. But that also leads us to our second point. It's not just his heart of redemption for the nations. There are also reasons for judgment. Because that's the other corollary to redemption is judgment. Look at me in verses 6 through 20 We see the building of human empires in verses 6 through 12. Now he moves from Japheth To Ham. And you remember last week Ham was the one who sinned against his father by exposing his nakedness. His son Canaan was cursed. Just like Japus, we see a summary in verse 6 of his sons. Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. Now, Put, you may be wondering, what does that mean? Well, that's that's just modern-day Libya. And but he does comment at length on Cush, Egypt, and Canaan. Let's begin with Cush here, because what we find in verses eight and nine, is we find uh the founder of an empire. And we get to verse 9, 8, and 9 through verse 7. The sons of Cush Seba, Havilah, Havala, Sabta, Rahama, and Savtaka, the sons of Rahama, Sheba, and Didan. So These are people that spread throughout Southern Arabia and parts of Africa. But what we see here in verse 8, Cush fathered Nimrod. Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on earth to be a mighty man. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. Therefore it was said, like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord. Let's stop there. First of all, we want to ask, well, what is Cush referring to? Well, most of the time in Scripture, particularly the Old Testament, when you read of the name Cush, It refers to the land that is south of Egypt, which makes up modern-day Sudan and Ethiopia in Africa. But there are a few scholars that argue that in this case, Cush likely refers to a group of people called the Kassites who lived and ruled over Mesopotamia around the same time that Moses was leading Israel out of Egypt. Now take your pick. I don't think it really matters which one you choose. Probably the more popular option is we're talking about parts of Africa and Southern Arabia. But the question is, who is Nimrod? We meet a guy named Nimrod. Who is Nimrod? Well, it may interest you to know that his name is related to the Hebrew verb that means to rebel. Which tells you something about his character. His name means the one who rebels. And look how he's described. He is the first one to be called a mighty man after the flood. Okay, what is a mighty man? Well, that Hebrew word is also used in Genesis 6. 4 to talk about the children from the Uh you remember the daughters of men and the sons of God, they bore the mighty men of renown. Right. And what was the idea there? Well they they were warriors. They they were those who took part in the exploits of war and conquest and bringing violence and death. to others around them, usually for their own sake of lust for power This Nimrod, this rebel, is the first one to be a mighty man, to be like that after the flood. And it's interesting, it says he's a mighty hunter before the Lord. Now, this could possibly mean that he liked to hunt game and animals, right? But I think in context, what he's talking about here, this was a hunter of men. This was a man who hunted the lives of others to either kill them or bring them into subjection under his rule and authority. This is a man out to build an empire and a kingdom. And when it says he was a mighty hunter before the Lord, that preposition before the Lord could legitimately be translated in opposition to the Lord. Setting up a kingdom contrary to the purposes that the Lord had laid out for humanity. And you see in verses 10, the beginning of verse 10, the beginning of his empire. Notice there's four cities there mentioned in southern Mesopotamia. Babel. This kind of gives you a clue. We're going to the Tower of Babel next week, right? Kind of becomes Babylon. Babel. Eric, Akkad, Kalnah. And by the way, this is the first time that this is the word kingdom is used in the Hebrew Bible. And then he goes from there. You think this man would be satisfied with four cities, because if you think about it, at that time in history Usually these cities, each city had its own king. And so a guy amassing several cities and ruling over them, you know he's doing something that's never been done before. But he's not just satisfied with these four. He's got to have four more. Look at verses 11 through 12. You see not just the beginning of his empire, you see the building of his empire. Now he goes to four more cities in northern Mesopotamia or in Assyria, Nineveh, Rehobothir, Kala, and Rezin. Now the question again, brothers and sisters, why is is Moses, why is God inspiring Moses to take the time to tell the Israelites about this when they're coming out of Egypt and about to go into the promised land? What's the point? Well, Mesopotamia at that time exerted a wide and far-ranging uh influence politically, culturally, and religiously over the land of Canaan were Israel was going. And so what God is essentially doing here, there's a warning implicit in the text. Do not become like these people. Do not become power hungry. Do not be hungry and lustful for riches and wealth and let that drive you. Don't be cruel. is what he's getting at. Now you see that, but you also see in verses 13 through 14, um God point um God pointing back to the persecutors of Israel. Did you see that? Again, I'm not going to go into tremendous detail here, but Egypt fathered, and it gives a bunch of names. Israel was coming out of Egypt. They would have understood the danger of their influence because at that time in the world you had two superpowers and Israel was going to be living in the middle of both of them. Mesopotamia to the north, Egypt to the south. Both were idolatrous. Both exerted tremendous economic, political power and influence. And so there's warnings here. But then lastly, we see in verses 15 through 20, the nations that are under a curse. We see in verses 15 through 18, the eleven Canaanite nations. Why is that important? Well, you go back. To Genesis 9. 25, cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers. And then verses 19-20 give really the borders of their territory. And that was the territory that God had given to Israel that they were about to go in and take I'm going to continue the tradition that Jared started in Sunday school this morning and quote from Matthew Henry. This will be the third for you, those of you who are in Sunday school, this will be the third time you've heard a Matthew Henry quote this morning. Matthew Henry comments on the significance of Canaan in the land that they ended up in. Listen to this. It's a long quote, but it's worth hearing. By this account, it appears that the prosperity of Canaan were numerous and rich and very pleasantly situated Talk about the land. And yet Canaan was under a curse, a divine curse, and not a curse causeless Note those that are under the curse of God may yet perhaps thrive and prosper greatly in the world. For we cannot know love or hatred, the blessing or the curse by what is before us But by but by what is written within us. Citing Ecclesiastes 9. 1. The curse of God always works really and always terribly. But perhaps it is a secret curse. A curse to the soul, and does not work visibly, or a slow curse, and does not work immediately. But sinners are by it reserved and bound over to a day of wrath. Canaan has here a better land than either Shem or Japheth, and yet they, being Shem and Japheth, have a better lot, for they inherit the blessing. What's he getting at here? Well, Mesopotamia and Egypt have power and influence. The Canaanites, if you go back to Genesis chapters 7 and 9, or I'm sorry, Deuteronomy 7 and 9. God tells the Israelites before they go into the land of Canaan, these nations are larger and stronger than you. They were more sophisticated. They were in the land of promise, a land to be desired, a land flowing with milk and honey. From an earthly perspective, the Canaanites looked like they had God's blessing in an outward way. Everything seemed to go their way. And yet they were under God's curse. So the question we ask is, what do we see in Ham's descendants that speaks to the Christian life today? Well, the character of the world that needs redemption can be summarized by people who seek to build their own kingdoms at the expense of others And their prosperity often blinds them to the true nature of the spiritual state they are in before God. Isn't that interesting? Now, we need to understand as Christians that we are a kingdom of Pete, God's people, among the kingdoms of the world. Like the Israelites, we have to acknowledge that we are a spiritual kingdom. That spiritual kingdom is not fully realized, it's not fully visible. One day it will be When Christ returns. But until that time, we're a kingdom, we're people of dual citizenship. We are born again to a spiritual kingdom, but we continue to live in the kingdoms of this world. And think about it, like Israel dwelling between the Egyptians and the Mesopotamians, we dwell today between very influential and powerful cultural forces that are seeking to draw us away from the living God to the idols of this world. You know, something happened this week if you were watching the news that makes this very evident because the threat, brothers and sisters, is not always what's out there. The threat is what comes in here among us as God's people. It should not surprise us that unbelievers don't live like Christians. That should not surprise us. What should surprise us is when people who claim to be Christians and profess faith in Christ begin to live like the world So what am I talking about that happened this week? Well, I heard about it. I think it was Thursday. The United Methodist Church had their general conference in Charlotte, North Carolina. And if you've been following what has happened there, it's really tragic. Over the last several months, there was a massive exodus. of congregations that are more conservative-minded, wanting to stay true to biblical roots, that left that denomination over the influence and the issue of the LGBTQ agenda. Now what's what's really sad is now that all these conservatives that want to hold to what Scripture says about sexual um values and sexual um boundaries and commands. Now that they're gone, it did not take the progressives in that denomination long to uh vote overwhelmingly to change the language of their standards to allow for the full inclusion of of LGBTQ plus. clergy, marriages, and so on and so forth. And so the question going forward in their in their circles is, well, what happens if you have a pastor who's still in those those um ecclesiastical communions that don't affirm those things and refuses to do a wedding? That's the question on the table. Is he going to be disciplined now? But do you see the tragedy of what has happened? The values The moral revolution of the world has crept into the church so that now you cannot in good conscience call what was once a church a true church. An apostasy has occurred. And we need to understand as God's people, as kingdom people, We have a authority that is objective in God 's word. It's not cultural authority. It is an authority that transcends time. and history and cultures and applies to people all over the world. Because, as we said in our first point, God has a heart. for people of all nations, languages, tribes, and tongues And we have to remember, brothers and sisters, look, what looks like blessing from the world's perspective, what looks like victory from the world's perspective, may not always be a blessing. I think Matthew Henry's comment on that is so important for us to take to heart Because with the influence of the world creeping in, not just corporately on congregations and denominations, but in our individual lives. The pressure being brought upon us in various sectors of different people's careers Things that look like blessing, things that look like success May actually be the means of undoing our relationship with the Lord It's easy to look at prosperity and see blessing from the world's vantage point. But you know what? The Lord gives abundantly sometimes to the wicked in a way that hardens the heart. And blinds the eyes from seeing their true state before the Lord. When we talk about being missionaries to those around us, in our schools, in our jobs, we need to understand that these are the kind of things that we need to be praying against for the people around us. Because the blindness is real. But we're not called to worldly success. We're called to faithfulness. And that leads to our last point, and I will try to make this one quick. Verses 21 to 32, the purpose of the church. in the world. Now I'm really only going to focus on one thing here in these last couple verses. Take a look at verse 21 and then I'm going to jump down to 24 25. To Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, children were born. Skip down to 24. Arpaksad fathered Shelah and Shelah fathered Eber. To Eber were born two sons. The name of one was Paleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Jochtan. Now, Shem's descendants, if Japheths are the the Indo-European Gentile nations Ham 's descendants, including the Canaanites, kind of largely you know, center around the land of Canaan and and and into Africa. Shem 's descendants and nations spread much throughout the Middle East. I mean Elam mentions Elam, that's just east of Babylon, that's modern-day Iran. Asher is north of Babylon, that's modern day Iraq and eastern Syria. Northern Iraq and eastern Syria Lud is likely the Lydians in modern-day Turkey, and Aram is the Syrians in Syria. But notice the importance of Eber. He's mentioned in verse 21 and 24 and 24. He's the key figure here. If you if you there's you don't have to remember all the names, just remember that one name, Eber. His name means one from beyond. In this case, beyond the Euphrates, likely talking about where Abraham was from. And it's his name that the word Hebrew comes from. That's why you remember that. He's the father of Abraham. He's going to be the father of Israel. And if you actually research the name Hebrew in the Old Testament, it's often a word a term that is used of God's people by those outside of God's people, the outsiders. So again, how does this little short section with the little information I just gave you on Shem's descendants, how does that inform how we understand the purpose of the church in the world? Well, it reminds us that we're called to be a blessing to those on the outside to bring them in. And it reminds us that our true home is from beyond the world we currently live in. Isn't that interesting? We're called to mediate God's blessing to the nations. We've already talked about this. It circles around our application in the very first point. Now again, many of us are tempted to think that we are as Christians and the church exist for ourselves alone, but I just want to pound that nail once more and remind you we are called to be a blessing to those around us. We're not called to be inward looking. We're called to be outward looking. And that is a challenge for Christians and churches. I was actually so glad Jared was in 1 Peter 3 this morning because verse 9 says this, do not repay evil for evil, reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless For to this you were called, so that you might also obtain a blessing. See how this meant to snowball in our favor? And for the blessing of others. But it requires us to remember, you know, one of the ways that we are most effective in being a blessing is remembering that this world is not ultimately not our home. Isn't it? The New Testament argues in many places over and over again that those who are born again, those who have come to faith in Christ, they're the children of Abraham, the Hebrew. Isn't it interesting that Romans chapter 2, 25 to 29, Galatians 4, 21 to 28 both argue that Christians who come to faith in Christ Whether Gentile or Jew are the children of Abraham and use the language of being spiritual Jews? Because we've been circumcised in the heart. And given a new heart? There's continuity here between the old and the new covenant peoples of God. We're not two people. We're one people. And on that note, we can look to our father and his example in Abraham in Hebrews 11. It tells us that he was looking for a city that had foundations whose builder and designer was God. He was looking for a better country, not just the physical land of Canaan. He was looking for a heavenly one. And so just as this table of nations situated all of these people, including God's people, and their inheritance after salvation. With the Ark and Noah. Look, we Christians, there's a pattern here. We are also looking for our eternal inheritance. We've been saved by grace through faith in Christ. We've been saved from God's judgment. The promises that we have eternal life. The promises that we are going to be with Christ forever in glory. And the extent to which we're going to be able to be a blessing to the nations around us will depend on how tied to the world you are and I am. And so what's our purpose? Our purpose is to be the means by which God blesses the nations and brings them into the household of Jesus Christ. Not by those who are tied to this world, but by those who have a burning hope and a burning zeal for where we're going. Brothers and sisters, that's what this table of nations is all about. It's about the spread of God's grace and his glory among the nations. And that's where we're going to continue to drive in the next couple weeks as we keep working through this.