If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them as we stand together and turn to Genesis 44, verses 1 to 34. Genesis 44. 1 to 34. This is God's word for God's people this morning. Then he commanded the steward of his house, fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack. And put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, with his money for the grain. And he did as Joseph told him. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys. They had gone only a short distance from the city Now Joseph said to his steward, Up, follow after the men, and when you overtake them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good? Is it not from this that my Lord drinks, and by this that he practices divination? You have done evil in doing this. And when he overtook them, he spoke to them these words. Then they said to him, Why does my Lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing. Behold, the money that we found in the mouths of our sacks we brought back to you from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold from your Lord's house? Whichever of your servants is found with it shall die. And we also will be my Lord's servants. He said, Let it be as you say. He who is found with it shall be my servant, and the rest of you shall be innocent. Then each man quickly lowered his sack to the ground, and each man opened his sack, and he searched, beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they tore their clothes, and every man loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city. When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there. They fell before him to the ground. Joseph said to them, What deed is this that you have done? Do you not know that a man like me can indeed practice divination? And Judah said, What shall we say to my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves? God has found out the guilt of your servants. Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he also in whose hand the cup has been found. But he said, Far be it from me that I should do so. Only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my servant. But as for you, go up in peace to your father. And Judah went up to him and said, O my lord, please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's ears, and let not your anger burn against your servant, for you are like Pharaoh himself. My Lord, ask his servant, saying, Have you a father or a brother? And we said to my Lord, We have a father, an old man. And a younger brother, the child of his old age. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children. And his father loves him. Then you said to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him. We said to my Lord, The boy cannot leave his father. For if he should leave his father, his father would die. Then you said to your servants, Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall not see my face again. When we went back to your servant, my father, we told him the words of my Lord. And when our father said, go again, buy us a little food, we said, we cannot go down. If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down. For we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us. Then your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons. One left me. And I said, Surely he has been torn to pieces, and I have never seen him since. If you take this one also from me, and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs in evil to Sheol. Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant, my father, and the boy is not with us, then as his life is bound up in the boy's life, as soon as he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die. And your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant, our Father, with sorrow to Sheol. For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life. Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord, and let the boy go back with his brothers For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would find my father. This is the word of the Lord. Let's begin our time in the Word with prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. Lord, as we enter into this story, Lord, we are nearing the climax of this drama in this family. Lord, we pray that you by your Holy Spirit would empower us, O Lord, to walk with this family through what we are seeing presented in front of us. And Lord, as we learn to observe, as we learn to see, as we learn to process what is going on, as we learn to feel the gravity, oh Lord, of what is before us in this passage. We pray, O Lord, that you with equal intensity by your Spirit would show us more of your Son Jesus. That we would understand the gospel and cling to him all more tenaciously because of what we see in your word this morning. We ask. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. Well, I've said it before, and I will say it again. This is one of the most dramatic stories you will find in all of Scripture. It is one of the stories that moves and tugs on the heartstrings in a way that few other things in Scripture do. and the depth that it does. And we see the drama nearing its conclusion as I just prayed in this particular passage. And without further ado, I just want to draw your attention to the main idea of the passage. And if you're visiting here with us this morning, you will see on the bottom of page Actually the middle of page five. We print the sermon idea there for you to see as you think through what's being shared from the passage. And this morning our sermon idea is this. The Lord proposes our purposes our trials not to punish us, but to work for our good and to drive us to Christ Jesus, who then intercedes for us. So this main idea is meant to get us to see what God's purposes and trials are, not to punish us. But to work for our good and to drive us to Christ Jesus who intercedes for us. Our passage this morning really breaks down into two main points. And the first point in verses one to thirteen is the one who draws out our repentance. And we see this begin to unfold before us in verses 1 and 2, where we see the test to gauge the brother's repentance. Last week, if you remember when we left off, the brothers had come back to Egypt the second time During this famine, the grain had run out that they had secured from their first visit, and Jacob, their father, sends them back. And they bring Benjamin back, and they end up being presented before Joseph, and Joseph presents a wonderful feast for them. They're in Egypt. Now little did the brothers know, all it seemed like it was going well on the surface, but little did they know that Joseph was not finished testing them yet. And I don't know about you, but a surface-level reading of this passage of this particular family drama, this might sound like something cruel that Joseph is doing. to torture his brothers with tests that, if you really pay attention to the details, these tests only exacerbate their anxieties, their fears, their uncertainties. However, Proverbs 20, verse 5 says, the purposes of a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out. And that really is what these tests are all about. It really is what Joseph is doing. He's trying to draw out of his brothers and out of their hearts what is really there under the surface. And so let's take a look at the details and see how he does this. We see in verses 1 and 2 a familiar test, but with a new twist. The drama unfolds. Then he, being Joseph, commanded the steward of his house, fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack, and put my cup, the silver cup. in the mouth of the sack of the youngest with his money for the grain. And verse two ends by saying, and he did as Joseph had told him. Now we've seen a test very similar to that before back in chapter 42, the first visit the brothers when they came down to Egypt, Joseph sent them back with the money in their sacks. But the new twist here is he takes Joseph's prized possession, his cup, as we see here, a silver cup. And he puts it in the sack of the youngest. He puts it in Joseph's, or I'm sorry, Benjamin's sack. Now the Hebrew word for cup here is a different word, and it really means, it could also mean a drinking bowl, and it carries m a little more significance than what you might think of when you think of like maybe your favorite coffee mug that you use every morning to drink your coffee as you're getting ready for work or reading your Bible or doing whatever it is. you do first thing in the morning. It it's a little more significant than that. In fact, uh several Old Testament scholars, Kyle and Daylich and their commentary and A Near Eastern scholar by the name of E. A. Spicer in his respective commentary talks about how these particular bowls, these goblets, were used in the ancient Near East for the specific task of divination. Now when you think of divination, you might think of like casting a spell, uh trying to predict the future. You might think in modern terms of like going and Seeing someone who deals with tarot cards or reads the palm, and that's exactly what you have in mind here with divination In fact, what the owner of these cups or these bowls would do in ancient Mesopotamia and Egypt is they would pour clean water or maybe oil. into the cup or the bowl, and they would look at the appearance of the liquid inside for representations of future events. Kind of similar to what you would think of like reading a palm. Sometimes they would drop little pieces of gold or silver and watch the little ripples and See what the ripples of water or oil might look like, and they might draw some conclusion from that to discern later future events. In fact, Joseph does mention divination later on when he confronts his brothers. But that's the idea. He takes something that you would expect an Egyptian lord to have. and put it in the sack of the youngest brother. In fact, that's the twist. The test involves Benjamin. It's put in Benjamin's sack. And again, this seems very cruel on the surface, doesn't it? I mean, this is Benjamin is Joseph's full brother. If you know the family history, which is filled with a lot of drama, you know that Jacob had four wives. Two of them were technically servants. The other two were sisters and they were technically his wives and he had children by all these four women and but This particular brother, Benjamin, is his full brother. And the question is, why does he do this? Why does he do something that sounds so cruel on the surface? Well, the answer is bound up in the purpose that Joseph has for this test, and I would submit to you the purpose that God had. for this test. Let me give you just a few reasons to think through that might explain why Joseph might do this. First, remember that back in chapter 43 last week in verses 1 to 14, Judah pledged himself to be the boy's safety. He pledged himself to the father, to Jacob. And that's an important background detail, which I don't think Joseph at this point knows yet. He will find out later, but he doesn't know that just yet. But that's the first important detail I want to draw your attention to that answers this question of why he does it. God in his sovereignty knows what he's doing. Secondly, remember again, as I just said, that Benjamin is Joseph's full brother from their mother, Rachel. And you've heard me read the story already, what Jacob said. He had his wife, gave him two sons. Rachel was the wife that Jacob loved. And so with, from Jacob's perspective, with Joseph gone and dead, Benjamin is the last son. of the wife that he loves. Technically you can use that term, it's his only begotten left. Hmm. That gives a special prominence. An affinity that Joseph would have for Benjamin, knowing that this is my full-blooded beloved brother. Thirdly, going back to Genesis 37. If you remember, why did Joseph end up in Egypt in the first place? Because the brothers were envious, they were jealous of the special and specific love That Jacob had for Joseph as the oldest son of his beloved wife, Rachel. It was out of envy and anger That they ripped and stripped Joseph of his garment that his father gave him, threw him in a pit, and proposed first to kill him, and then when they decided later that wasn't going to profit them, they decided to sell him. And then they got beaten to the punch and he got sold anyway by someone else. But it was out of envy. It was out of anger. Fourthly, out of their envy and anger, they were willing to rid themselves of Joseph for their own benefit. The question really was going to be: are they going to do the same thing to Benjamin? Knowing that Benjamin is now the prized, beloved son of his father. Do you see how the test is beginning to Takes shape here. Joseph is trying to draw out a response from these brothers to determine, have these men changed after all these years? Is there any repentance or remorse over what they've done to me? And are they going to do the same thing to him that they did to me? That's what's going on. Joseph's trying to reveal where their hearts are. And so the drama continues in verses 3 through 5. The test intensifies on the brothers. Joseph, like like a master planner, is spinning the web here. In verse 3, when the morning came, we find the brothers take their donkeys. They plan to go back to Canaan, up to Canaan. to their father. And in verse 4 we find they've not gone far from the city. Now the steward from verses 1 and 2 was clearly in on this ruse as he Seems to be the same person Joseph tells to fill their sacks from verses one and two. Now he tells them, confront the brothers. And this is what I want you to say to them. He he commands the servant up and follow the men. But this is what I want you to say to them. Why have you repaid evil for good? Is it not from this that my Lord drinks, and that by this he practices divination? You have done evil in doing this. Now I want you to pay attention to that in verse 4. There's this kind of intensity of the theme of good and evil. Don't miss that accusation. Why have you repaid evil for good? Why am I pointing your attention to that? Well, because there's an important relationship between good and evil that we see all throughout the book of Genesis. It goes all the way back to chapters 1, I'm sorry, 2 and 3. You remember when God puts Adam and Eve in the garden? He puts the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the middle of the garden, and he tells them in Genesis 2, verses 16 to 17. Do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil which is in the middle of the garden. The day that you do so is the day that you will certainly die. Remember that test? Interesting that there's a test back then of good and evil. And what's interesting is not only did the Lord test Adam and Eve in this sense, he gave them all good things. In a sense, God provides them all the trees of the garden, except for that one, and what do they do? They repay his goodness or evil by sinning against him. All the way back in Genesis chapter 3. Here we see Joseph testing his brothers here, and he accuses them essentially of the same thing. But there's a different nuance here, where Adam and Eve were certainly guilty, because they actually did sin. It only appears, or will appear, that Benjamin Is the one who sinned. It's actually not true. Joseph knows that Benjamin has not sinned. Which but it leads us to what Joseph is going to say at the end of this book. In Genesis chapter 50, verse 20, after Jacob passes away, and the brothers are fearful of, well, what is he going to do to us? Is he going to suddenly remember what we did to him now that dad is gone and dad can't protect us? And Joseph. says to them in Genesis 50 verse 20, what you meant for evil. God meant for good. Notice how that applies here to this test. What appears to be done in evil, and I say appears to be done in evil because it is a test, Joseph as the Lord of the land, means for their good. But these brothers don't understand that yet, do they? Because they're about to be caught in the middle of the trap or the test. Secondly, the servant mentions the cup of divination, and interestingly enough, I've already said what that cup is used for, but Here's the thing. The word divination in Hebrew is the same basic word that's used in Genesis chapter 3 verse 1 that means the serpent. Isn't that interesting? That the first test had to do with something that would give knowledge, a test and a trial and a temptation, to take something that would give knowledge. As a cup of divination here is supposed to do. And now you have another test where something is being taken that is supposed to give special knowledge that really only comes from God By the way, as a side note, I really don't think Joseph actually practiced divination Let me kind of just say that up front. Um can I prove that? No, but I mean the scriptures present him as a a very godly man, a wise man in whom God was present with even in his worst hour. But it would make sense that an Egyptian ruler such as he and a son-in-law of Potaphara, the priest of An, would have that kind of a relic. It would make sense to the other Egyptians. So they probably think that he does, but I don't think he really did. And lastly, you see the accusation at the end of verse 5 that they have done evil in doing this. Now the question is going to be, how do they respond? To the test. How do they respond to that accusation? Well, you see the response in verses 6 through 13. You see a response that demonstrates responsibility and repentance. Which is different for these brothers, isn't it? As the steward overtook them in those verses, verses 6 to 13. Things go as you would I would assume imagine. He accuses them, they deny it. In fact They say, you know, as we unpack several of the details in verses nine through ten, as what they begin saying is they take the ultimate responsibility. Notice what they say in verse 9. Whichever of your servants is found with it shall die. And we also will be my Lord's servants. I mean this is like one of those things to put it in like modern parlance and the way kids talk today when one of them is guilty of something and it's f friends find out and he's so ashamed of what he's done, he doesn't want to want to get out that he did it and he says, I didn't do that. I swear to God, I hope to die. I swear on my mother's grave I mean it's those are strong words, right? You're kind of invoking the ultimate curse on yourself when you say those words, and that's what they're doing here. But notice that is a strong and a confident denial because in their minds, they're like, we didn't take it. We know we didn't take it. And yet it's fascinating that even when they say this, Benjamin is included in that assertion. They don't single Benjamin out So out of their mouths they lay out the death penalty for the one that has the cup, and they lay out the penalty of perpetual slavery for the rest. And it leaves you wondering if you're paying attention as a reader at all, are Jacob's words from Genesis 43, 14 going to come true? If I am bereaved of my children, then I am bereaved. Is that going to come true? Well, you see in verses 12 and 13, the ultimate demonstration of repentance Verse 12 tells us what happened. Verse 13 shows the response. Verse 12 says this, and he, the steward, searched. And beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest, and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack, you can only imagine the drama, the intensity, the anxiety of that situation, starting with the oldest. One sack after another being opened and the contents laid out. All of a sudden you get to the youngest and oh, it's there Oh, we just said whoever , if whoever hand this is found, let him be put to death. And now this is Benjamin, the son of our beloved father. Look at their response in verse 13. Then they tear, they tore their clothes, and every man loaded his donkey and returned to the city. I imagine they did that with great haste, but notice that they tore their garments. You know what's fascinating about that response? It demonstrates their repentance. It demonstrates that they are changed men. How? Well did they tear their garments when Joseph was taken away and they and I mean Reuben did because this it was gonna fall on him Jacob was going to blame him. None of the brothers seemed to care. In fact, they cacotted a lie. However, with Benjamin. They tear their garments. And what's more is at the end of verse chapter 37 when Jacob finds out that Joseph had died because he was given his bloodied garment. What is Jacob does? Jacob tears his garments in grief. So now the brothers, at their potential loss of Benjamin, they do the same thing in a form of godly grief. They tear their garments. And so what does that tell you about their repentance? Well, again, commentators Kyle and Dalitch say this. It would now have been seen how they felt in their inmost hearts towards their father's favorite, who had been so distinguished by the great man of Egypt. Whether now as formerly they were capable of giving up their brother and bringing their aged father with sorrow to the grave, or whether they were ready with unenvying self-sacrificing love to give up their own liberty and lives for him. And the commentators conclude, they stood this test. They're passing the test. That brings up the question for us as we think about how to apply this today. What does this show us about our own trials that we undergo today? The things that test us. It reminds us that our trials and difficulties are not always because we did something wrong. But because God uses them to refine us, to sanctify us, and to produce in us the fruit of repentance in our own hearts and lives today. I want you to think about that. Do not jump to the conclusion and assume that God is punishing you when things don't go your way. Now, I do want to say on the front end to be clear and up front about this that there are times when we might go through something difficult because of a stupid or a sinful choice that we have made Life is full of examples like that. You go down a tear down the road here on Liberty Road at 100 miles an hour when the speed limit says 45 or 50 and the police pull you over. Don't be shocked when they drag you out of your car, slam you against it, cuff you, and take you in and book you. Right? Stupidity or sin and consequence, right? To give one example, right? The apostle Paul says this in Galatians 6, verses 7 through 8. Don't be deceived, he says. God is not mock mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. And while that's a general true statement, and there is a warning for us today, our passage this morning balances that out by reminding us that we cannot always jump to the conclusion that just because we're undergoing a trial, a difficulty, or just because we're suffering something that we don't understand automatically means that God must be punishing us. Some of you are in those kind of situations this morning. Some of you are dealing with health issues. And those health issues are not because you did something sinful. But you have those issues. Some of you might be dealing with something at work. A trial Maybe it's a relationship at work, or maybe your job is asking you to do something that you and your conscience know that you cannot do as a Christian. Is it because you did something wrong that you are suffering that trial? No. But understand that these trials are great opportunities for us to examine our hearts before the Lord. These are trials that God will use to sanctify us, to refine us, to strengthen us in His presence. And in some cases, as we examine our own hearts, maybe to bring us to a place of repentance. Like Adam and Eve that I mentioned who paid God evil for the good that he gave them when they sinned against him. Like the brothers who treated Joseph wickedly initially. Every one of us in this room in one way, shape, or form, has also sinned against God and against others in our lives. But the gracious encouragement I want to give you from this by way of application that we see from Joseph's life Is that God can take even wicked or sinful things or sometimes stupid things that we've done, and He can turn them around for our good Any trial that we undergo, God can use that to shape us, to be more like Christ But sometimes he uses these trials to accomplish in our hearts what is necessary to see and to receive the good that he is redemptively working out in our lives. Sometimes we're like the brothers here. We're in the midst of the trial. It's revealing where our hearts really are. And yet we don't quite know or understand exactly what God is doing. But we can trust that he is at work to bring to the surface what is really in our hearts. And here's the thing. Trials will do one of two things in your life. Either one, they will harden you. Or two, they will soften you. You know what you do with hardened clay when you try to bend it? breaks. But a heart that is soft before the Lord can be remolded. In such a redemptive, restorative way. And that's what's that's what's going on in our passage Because the drama continues with our second point in verses 14 to 34, the one who intercedes on our behalf. We see a marvelous picture. here at the end. By the way, Martin Luther once said of this per second part of this passage That this is the perfect example of what intercessory prayer is meant to be before God. God. Well we see in verses 14 to 17, we see the intercession of one who bears guilt. Don't miss that. The intercession begins when they get back to Joseph's house. They went back to the city. What do they do first? They fall to the ground before Joseph. And they begin to plead with him. Because Joseph asks them, how could you do what you did? How could you do this? It's a good question. But you see in verse s in the beginning of verse 16, you see a litany of questions that seem to propose, presuppose Notice the questions come when Judah begins addressing Joseph here in the beginning of verse 16. There's three of them. What shall we say to my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves? Notice how the questions are kind of the same question, rephrased a little differently, repeated one after the other in rapid succession. That's meant for emphasis. It's meant to show how desperate Judah really is. And notice all three of these questions are rhetorical, and all three of them seem to propose an element of guilt. It's really fascinating because in this one instance these brothers know that by and large that they are innocent of the true crime and yet they seem to ask questions that propose guilt because they're There's something deeper than just this one event going on. Huh. Again, it's rhetorical. It communicates to Joseph very forcefully that there's nothing in their power, particularly this last question. There's nothing in their power that they can do to bring out a legal verdict that will result in a state of innocence before Joseph as their judge. When they ask how can we clear ourselves That's a hopeless phrase. And they know it. And while they're all presumably guilty, I say presumably, It's important for us to observe here that Judah is the one who speaks for the group of brothers. I told you before. That here at the end of Genesis, the two people that really rise to prominence are Joseph and Judah as leaders in this family. They both point forward to Christ in their own unique ways. Judah here. Look at the end of verse 16. You see the divine quality of their guilt. This is the kind of deeper sense of their guilt that I was just referring to a second ago. Look what he says. God has found out the guilt of your servants. Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he also in whose hand the cup was found Now because he's talking to uh what he perceives to be an Egyptian pagan, he doesn't use the divine name Yahweh, he uses the generic term Elohim, which means God. Even a pagan can understand that. But what's interesting is he attributes everything that's befallen them up to this point to God's justice finding them out. Later on, Moses is going to say in Numbers chapter 32, verse 23, it says, be sure your sin will find you out. That's how God's justice works. And these brothers are afraid because now they believe God's God has found out their sin. They can't hide. Judah asks for leniency. Instead of Benjamin being put to death, he just simply says they've all become his servants and he asks that they all become those servants, including Benjamin. But notice Joseph's response. It may sound harsh on the surface, but again, there's more graciousness to it than meets the eye. He responds more lenient than their request. Look what he says in verse 17. Far be it from me that I should do so. In other words, no. I'm not going to take you all into slavery. He goes on. Verse 17. Only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my servant. But as for you, go up in peace to your father. You have the same principle here that Joseph is laying out that through the suffering of one , the many are made free. Right? Substitution. That's the idea. You go home. Now, sometimes you can see, as you see here, leniency and grace can sometimes exacerbate a situation even further. And that is what we see. Joseph's proposed solution here doesn't sit well with Judah. Look at verses 3. In verses 18 to 29, you see an intercession that includes a confession. Now, I'm not going to take Time to go through every verse there. It's it just rehashes all the details that we already know. He's telling Joseph the backstory. and some of the interaction that he's had with their father that Joseph had had no way of knowing because they were back in Canaan. But I do want to focus on verses twenty-seven through twenty-nine where j uh Judah tells Joseph what their father had said to him. specifically. And I recount that because Joseph doesn't know it yet, but this is going to be the tipping point in his decision in how he's going to relate to his brothers going forward. Judah tells Joseph, then your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons, one left me? And I said, surely he has been torn to pieces, and I have not seen him since. If you take this one also from me. And harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs in evil to Sheol, meaning the grave or the abode of the dead, right? Now, the beauty in this account is that Joseph can clearly discern that the brothers care deeply about their father Whereas when they betrayed him back in chapter 37, they gave little thought to the welfare of their father and how he would take the news of their getting rid of Joseph. And yet here they're of a completely different disposition altogether. And this leads to the final appeal of Judah's intercession that Martin Luther said this is the perfect example of what intercession before God should be. Because this intercession concludes with a plea for mercy in verses 30 through 34. Notice that Judah pleads for mercy on two counts. Take a look with me. Mercy one for their father. Look at verses thirty thirty-one and then thirty-four In 30 and 31, Judah argues that his father's life is bound up in the boy's life. This is the rationale for pleading with Joseph that if they return home and Jacob doesn't see Benjamin, Jacob will die in sorrow. By the way, that term sorrow can be translated as grief. It could also be translated more strongly, and I think this would be appropriate here. Our father will go down to the grave in agony. Agony. I mean, some of you who are parents understand this. Just the thought of losing your children would put you in agony. That's the idea. Verse 34 sums it up. For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil. There's that word again. I feared to see the evil that would find my father. By the way, before closing out that point, I do want to highlight for you the language that Judah uses here, because back in verse 16 He told Joseph that God had found out their guilt. And because of what they did to Joseph, it was justly deserved. But in this case, Jacob has done nothing wrong for this evil of losing his other son to find him out. That would be unjust. So that's the first count that he pleads for mercy. The second count in verses 32 and 33 is because he is the legal pledge for Benjamin's safety. Judah reveals to Joseph that he has the pledge in and Benjamin's being returned safely to his father. And so he pleads Take me as the substitute for my brother who appears to be guilty. Let Benjamin's guilt be imputed to me And so you can see here that Joseph has very successfully, with this final test, he's drawn out the contents of his brothers' hearts. He sees that they are repentant. They were not willing to lay anything down for him when they stripped him of his garments and he was sold into slavery in Egypt. They were cruel, they were hard-hearted, but here it's totally different. They are transformed men. Judah particularly is ready to lay down his life. For the redemption of his baby brother, Benjamin. So we ask the question: how do we see the gospel of Jesus Christ in this? We see Judah standing as the substitute in guilt, in guilty Benjamin's place, and interceding with Joseph as pointing forward to Christ, who is the substitute for our true guilt in the cross. And his standing before the Father to continue to intercede for us today. That's how we see the gospel in this. Jesus is the greater substitute than Judah. I mean, everything about the message of the gospel intensifies what we see in this powerful story. Just as Benjamin was supposedly guilty, we are actually guilty. as those who if have in fact sinned against the Lord. Just as Judah stood as Benjamin's pledge for safety before both their father Jacob and Joseph, who would be their judge. So also is Jesus the pledge of our safety before God the Father. And just as Judah confesses the guilt that God found out , And spoke before Joseph, representing all the brothers, so also did Jesus Christ actually bear the legal guilt for our sin on the cross. This is why Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. 21, For our sake he made him, that's Christ, to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Christ took the guilt that was imputed to us, so that we might have the righteousness that is imputed to him Judah was willing to pay the penalty for Benjamin, but interestingly enough does not actually do so. Right? But Jesus actually bore the penalty for our sin before the Father, taking the full judgment on our behalf so that we do not have to. And why did he do this? So that we, like Benjamin, might be returned safely to our heavenly Father in our own salvation. Hmm. But it's not over. That's not quite the finished work of Christ, is it? Why do I say that? Because Jesus is the greater than Judah that intercedes for us. Just as Judah passionately intercedes for his brother Benjamin, Christ intercedes for us before his Father. I'll give you two examples of this One, you see it in John 17 before Jesus goes to the cross. He prays for his disciples that God would preserve them in the world and not take them out of it. but preserve them in it. And then at the end of that chapter, which uh commentators call the high priestly prayer of of Jesus, he prays for all of those who will come to faith because of the testimony of the disciples. That's us. Yes. Ooh. He prayed for us. But it's not just that he prayed for us historically, which he did in John 17, as we read earlier in Hebrews chapter 7, particularly verse 25. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives in his resurrected glory to make intercession for them. Do you often think the fact of the fact that Christ intercedes for you today? We talk about sharing prayer requests with each other so we can pray for one another. How about this? Christ prays for you. What about that? And so what's the call in all of this? The call is to come to Christ. And the call is for every anyone universally. It is for those who have already come to Christ. continue to come to Christ and is for those who have not come to Christ to now come to Christ. That's the idea. Brothers and sisters, those who are believers in Christ, don't miss the fact that the application is still for you For those of us who are already believers, we already acknowledge every week here at Liberty that we continue to wrestle with and fall into sin of all kinds. That's why we we do a confession of sin. It's always in bold. It's always in bold because it's true, right? We continue to wrestle with sin of all kinds. Maybe you're like Joseph's brothers. Maybe you you struggle in thinking that God can forgive you for what you did. Maybe you lied this week. I don't know. Maybe you committed some form of sexual immorality this week or went on a website that you weren't supposed to go on. Maybe you treated someone wickedly or shamefully this week in how you you talked to them. Whatever you've done, the good news of this passage this morning, however you continue to wrestle and struggle with sin. The call of this passage is to come to Jesus and confess those sins and receive grace from him, knowing that he stands before the Father and intercedes for you, and he stands ready to forgive. Right? For unbelievers, those of you who are sitting here this morning who maybe have never put your faith and your trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, the application is the same. You come to Christ. You have the same need as those of us who have already put our faith in Christ. But there's one difference. If you are not in Christ, you are under a just judgment from the Lord. And at the end When he comes, whether it's tomorrow or a hundred years from now, you will stand before the judgment seat of God And what are you going to do then? Are you going to argue your plea before the eternal judge? And try to stand on your own righteousness. The call is to come and put your faith For the first time in Christ Jesus as the greater than Judah, who will gladly stand as the pledge for your safety And transfer the punishment you deserve to himself, which he already fulfilled on the cross. And he will do this so that you may go free in peace. to your heavenly father fully reconciled. Whichever one of these two describes you The big idea is still the same. The Lord proposes our trials not to punish us. but to work for our good and to drive us to Christ Jesus who intercedes for us. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. We are so thankful that we have Jesus Christ, our advocate Lord, I think of what your word says in 1 John chapter 2. My little children, I'm writing to you these things. Why? So that you may not sin. But What if we do? But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation. The one who took the wrath for our sin, and not only for our sin, but for the sins of the world. We thank you, O Lord, for a greater advocate, a greater intercessor, a greater savior than Judah. And Lord, we pray that you would teach us this week to continue to cling to Jesus. Knowing, O Lord, that He will ensure that we come safely home to you whenever that is. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.