I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy word. Genesis 29, verses 1 to 30. Pay careful attention. This is God's word for us this morning. Then Jacob went on his journey and came to the land of the people of the east. And as he looked, he saw a well in the field, and behold. Three flocks of sheep lying beside it, for out of that well the flocks were watered. The stone On the well's mouth was large. And when all the flocks were gathered there, the shepherds would roll the stone from the mouth of the well, and water the sheep, and put the stone back in its place over the mouth of the well. Jacob said to them, My brothers, where do you come from? They said, We are from Haran. He said to them, Do you know Laban, the son of Nahor? They said, We know him. He said to them, Is it well with him? They said, It is well. And see, Rachel, his daughter, is coming with the sheep. He said, Behold, it is still high day. It is not time for the livestock to be gathered together. Water the sheep and go, pasture them But they said, we cannot until all the flocks are gathered together and the stone is rolled from the mouth of the well. Then we water the sheep. While he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, for she was a shepherdess. Now, as soon as Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of Laban, his mother's brother, And the sheep of Laban, his mother's brother. Jacob came near and rolled the stone away from the mouth's well, and watered the flock of Laban, his mother's brother. Then Jacob kissed Rachel and wept out, wept aloud. And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's kinsman and that he was Rebekah's son. And she ran and told her father. As soon as Laban heard the news about Jacob, his sister's son, he ran to meet him and embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his house. Jacob told Laban all these things, and Laban said to him, Surely you are bone of my my bone and my flesh. And he stayed with him a month. Then Laban said to Jacob, Because you are my kinsman, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall your wages be? Now Laban had two daughters. The name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance. Jacob loved Rachel. And he said, I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter, Rachel. Laban said, It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to any other man. Stay with me. So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of the love that he had for her. Then Jacob said to Laban, Give me my wife, that I may go into her, for my time is completed. So Laban gathered together all the people of the place and made a feast. But in the evening he took his daughter Leah and brought her to Jacob, and he went into her. Laban gave his female servant Zilpah to his daughter Leah to be her servant. And in the morning, behold, it was Leah. And Jacob said, What is this that you have done to me? Did I not serve with you first for Rachel? Why then have you deceived me? Laban said, it is not so done in our country to give the younger before the firstborn. Complete the week of this one. And we will give to you the other also in return for serving me yet another seven years. Jacob did so and completed her week. Then Laban gave him his daughter Rachel to be his wife Laban gave his female slave Bilha to his daughter Rachel to be her servant. So Jacob went into Rachel also, and he loved Rachel more than Leah. And served Laban for another seven years. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning again to yet another familiar passage. And Lord, we pray that you would give us eyes to see. and ears to hear, Lord, what you are doing in Jacob's life. Lord, this does not look good. It doesn't sound good. And yet, Lord, we know that you are a good God working all things after the purpose of your glory and for our good and our redemption. And so, Lord, we pray that you would just help us to see how this points us So the hope of the gospel out of such brokenness this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Wow, this is quite a passage. It comes immediately upon the heels of where we left off at the end of chapter 28. You remember Jacob was in Bethel on his way north to Haran in Mesopotamia. And in Bethel he has this, his first religious experience, his First encounter with the glory of God and the the ladder that went from earth to heaven and the Lord standing above it and angels ascending and descending and realizing that this is the house of God. And you remember the promises that God made. I'll summarize one of them because it relates to this passage. One of the promises that God gave out of the three that I mentioned last week is I will be with you. And how amazing that promise was, because Jacob is leaving the land of promise, and he's going essentially into exile to a foreign country. To find a wife. I mean, the real catalyst, as you know, was the anger of Esau, who wanted to murder him. And yet He's goes to Mesopotamia essentially to find a wife. Now this passage is loaded. With divine irony. In fact, if you're visiting with us this morning, you'll note on page 6 of the bulletin, right after the liturgy, we do print the sermon idea for you to see there. But that that sermon idea, I think, is pretty pointed in this passage. Divine irony leads to experiencing strangely familiar situations And it demonstrates that what goes around comes around. That is exactly what we're going to unpack and see in our passage this morning. And so there are two kind of sub-uh points to make that idea of verses 1 through 14 and then 15 through 30. This is a two-point sermon this morning, and our first point is simply this. Divine irony. in the familiar. Now, I don't know about you, but when I was growing up, I I heard over and over again The story of how my parents met and how they fallen fell in love. I I heard it from both of their perspectives. They You know, when each side tells the story, they're telling not just what happened, but what they're thinking and how they're feeling at various you know points of the story. And Um, I don't know about you, maybe you're not like this. I to me it never got old. And then then hearing it from my grandparents' point of view is a whole nother experience, but there's no doubt in my mind that Jacob was probably a lot like me in this sense. He probably had heard the story. growing up, probably from Isaac, which if you remember from jet Genesis chapter 24, Isaac's perspective is is kind of narrow because he only comes in at the end. But Rebecca had a much fuller account to give. If you remember in chapter 24, she's in Haran and Abraham sends the servant up and he meets Rebekah and all that. She was part of the whole drama that unfolded. And because Rebecca had a closer relationship with Jacob than she did with Esau, there's no doubt in my mind, she probably shared with her son, you know, the inner workings of that love story and how it unfolded. He would have been familiar with with all of that. And so what we see here as we see God's divine, not just irony here, we we're going to see God's Providence, his presence clearly at work in a way that I think Jacob would have recognized, being familiar with the story of his parents. And I w I 'm gonna you know keep drawing your attention back to Genesis 24. If you're one of those who needs to constantly look back, that's fine. Keep your finger on Genesis 24 for the first part of this passage. But I want to look at what is familiar here about God's irony. We see in verses 1 through 3 the familiar well. We see first a description of this well. Jacob comes in verse 1 to the end of his journey to the land of the people of the East. In other words, this is east of Canaan, just a little bit northeast, but he had to cross the Euphrates River to get to Haran. Now outside of the city, verse 2, we see very clearly, he looked and there was a well in the field, and there's three flocks just lying there waiting to be watered. But notice that there's a stone on the well's mouth, and the stone was large. In fact, between verses 1 through 3, you see the mention of this large stone three times. Three mentions in three verses tells you the stone is kind of an important description of this particular well. Now the real question is, is this the same well that Abraham's servant met Rebekah at in chapter 24? And the short answer to that is I don't know. I looked at some of the commentaries and I thought, wow, that would be really convenient and really lend to my theme of familiarity here, but I don't know. There's no mention of a large stone in chapter 24. There is here, and it's made a big deal of. Most commentators that I read as as I'm looking at the description of this well talked about how this was likely a well that had that stone because the animals would likely come right up to it and just drink right out of it instead of drawing water for in and putting it in a trough. And so the stone would kind of stop the animals from just constantly going to the water. But what's interesting is that functionally, this is a large stone that would have taken more than just one man to roll away. Well, how do we know that? Well. It's in the details at the end of verse 2 and 3 when we see the description of the people's custom of how they would use this well. It says the stone on the mouth's well was large, and when the flocks were gathered there, the shepherds, in the plural there, would roll the stone from the mouth of the well and water the sheep and put the stone back in in its place over the mouth of the well. Now the reason Moses wrote that in in verses two and three before he gets to the The main action of the story is you need to know that because it will come up in the discussion that Jacob has. But here, this gives us not just a background of why there were flocks there in the first place. They were waiting to be watered. But I want you to draw your attention to the fact that again, this story is familiar. This is exactly what happens to Abraham's servant in chapter 24. He comes to a well outside of the city of Haran. And a familiar well leads to a familiar search in verses 4 through 8. Now this is largely a dialogue here between Jacob and the shepherds who presumably were there with their three flocks that were already by the well He finds that they're from the city of Haran when he asks them where they're from. So he knows he's in the right place I mean, his mother and his father told them to go to Haran in Mesopotamia. So when he hears that, he's thinking, okay, I'm in the right place. And once he finds that out, notice what he's asking for. In fact, he asks them in verse 5, do you know Laban, the son of Nahor? Now again, Nahor would have, well, wasn't hit Laban's father, it was really his grandfather. He was the son of Bethuel, who was the son of Nahor. But Nahor would have been a kind of a bigger name, a patriarchal name, and they would have been more familiar with that. And what do they say? Yes, we know him. Great Then he asks, is it well with him? In verse 6. That's an interesting way to translate that. It really should be translated. Is it peace to him? Is he a man who is living in peace? And they say, Yes, he is living in peace. And then they continue to say, and look, his daughter Rachel. is coming with the sheep. So he's he's looking first and foremost for Laban And again, you can see the parallel here with what happened in chapter 24. servant of Abraham comes to the well and you remember he was praying. He knew what he was looking for. He prays, Lord, let this, this, and this happen, and and let the woman do this, this, and this, and I will know that it is her. And he goes to the well looking for what he had prayed for. Now it's interesting here, Jacob's asking for Laban, but if you keep in mind What his parents sent him here to do, Jacob has an expectation already in his mind. Remember what his father said? Do not marry one of the Canaanite women. But go and take for yourself a wife from where? From the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. That's why he's asking for Laban first, because where Laban is at, the daughters will be. And where the daughters are, he will find at least one of them, in one of them his future wife. Jacob knows what he's looking for. Now here's what's fascinating. If you look at verse 7, Jacob brings up something. He says, Behold, it is still high day. My my assumption there is that's probably noon or close to noon when the sun is at its highest. It is not this is not a question, this is a statement. It is not time for the livestock to be gathered together. Water the sheep and go, pasture them It's really fascinating to me that that he finds out he's in the right place. He finds out that they know Laban. And not only do they know Laban, they know his daughter. And his daughter, Rachel, the younger one, happens to be coming. to water the sheep. Now, I don't know how far off she was. She was clearly close enough for Jacob to see her coming. And and this is what he says to them. I mean, this really kind of reveals to you what Jacob's intentions were, although I'm not sure these other men really picked up on the cue, wink wink. Cough, cough. What he's essentially saying is, look, guys, do what you need to do here and scram. I want to talk to her alone. I want her all to myself. That's what he's essentially saying. And of course, they tell him, well, we can't do that. They refuse. That's not the custom, Jacob. You foreigner, you should know better. Well That leads to verses 9 through 12, which I'm calling here. This is a familiar love story in a lot of ways. Kind of like a Hallmark movie, I suppose. They're all patterned on the same, you know, the same event exactly happens. I don't know, somebody's dog gets shot, somebody feels bad for someone else, and they fall in love, or something like that. There's a lot of familiarity here in this particular story. And we see first in verse 9 the familiarity of Rachel. Look again in verse 9. While he was still speaking with them, as they just told him she was, Rachel came with her father's sheep. For she was a shepherdess. Now, Jacob is not an idiot, he's a cunning Man, he's in some cases, as we've seen, a deceitful man. He knows how to work things to his advantage, but even Jacob would have recognized immediately. The parallels of what was going on here, having known as his parents' love story. Wait a minute. Mom came to a well She's coming to a well. There's something going on here. And and learning who this beautiful woman was that he's seeing before him as Laban's daughter. You can imagine because of the expectations that he had already built up um on the trip, this must have excited him. I can imagine that his heart must have started to race. Now what's interesting about Rachel is her name actually means a you lamb. Like a small little lamb. You think of a small little lamb, you think of something that's really cute and adorable And Rachel does not fail to live up to that kind of expectation. She is a shepherdess, which is kind of ironic. A woman whose name means you lamb is is tending sheep. Jacob probably would not have been lost on that fact, but we see also a familiar response A familial response, rather, on the part of Jacob in verses 10 through the beginning of verse 12. Now notice. Verse 10 begins by highlighting what happened when Jacob saw Rachel, knowing that she was the daughter of Laban and the flock that she had with her. Notice how those verbs just sequentially build in rapid fire succession. What this tells you is Jacob did not wait. Remember Abraham's servant just kind of stood there for a moment, just like watching Rebecca and thinking, okay, is she gonna do what I prayed for and he's trying to discern whether or not the Lord had really prospered his journey or not. Jacob's not like that. Maybe he's a little more impulsive. He springs into action. He does not wait. First, what does he do? He draws near and rolled the stone away. That's interesting because he breaks the custom of the people. Talking about being insensitive to the you know local values and mores and all that. He he he goes right for it. He doesn't wait for them as they told him in verse 8. He just Just goes for it. But I want you to think back to verse 3 when it said that the shepherds in the plural would roll away the stone because of how large it was. Jacob here single-handedly rolls away the stone. Now I don't know about you, but this this is a tremendous demonstration of God's presence in his life while he's in here, and you're thinking, why do you say that? Well, I don't I don't know about you, but you know, when a guy turns 40, I'm 42, when a guy turns 40, he starts waking up feeling certain things that he never felt in the morning. You can go to the gym and and really throw out your back or or uh strain a muscle a lot more easily than you did when you were in your twenties and your thirties. Jacob's clearly here in his forties. And he's pulling off single-handedly what took several men to do. Now I cannot also I also really just can't Um discount the idea that there's probably a measure of showing off going on here, like, oh my goodness, look at this woman. Hey, watch what I can do. You know, there's gotta be that going on. But he rolls the stone away. Secondly, in verses 10 to 11. He waters the flock of Laban, his mother's brother. Then Jacob kissed Rachel and wept aloud. Now to you, you're probably thinking, wow, that's really forward. Well, sort of, I suppose. But what's really fascinating about the these kind of three responses in rapid succession is that in Hebrew the phrases he watered, he kissed, and he lifted up his voice. Actually, the idea of lifting up his voice is very crucial. It doesn't actually say that in the ESV. It says wept aloud, but the aloud is really lifted up his voice. All three of those statements utilize the same exact Hebrew letters. So that the original Hebrew audience, hearing Moses read this to them or reading it for themselves, would have picked up on that alliteration. All those words sound relatively the same. And what that tells you is those three actions Draw their attention to the intimacy and the importance of the moment. Not only has Jacob sprung into action, he is taking charge and he's doing this intentionally to communicate. something to Rachel. And then thirdly, verse 12, he comes out. It tells us that he literally tells Rachel who he was, which if which, as you can imagine, would prompt her to run home. Look, I am, he doesn't use this language in the text, but I'm essentially your cousin. I'm Rebecca's son. Rebecca being your father's sister. She runs home. Now again, think of the parallels with chapter 24 with his parents' love story, with Abraham's servant. Rebekah also ran home. To tell her whole household about the servant of Abraham and what he had come to do. All of this is very familiar. It would have been familiar to Jacob. It's familiar to us as we read it. If you read through, you're just like, this all sounds the same. What's the point? The question we want to ask ourselves to apply this is how does God use familiar situations and divine irony to reveal his work in our lives? Well, I think the short answer to that is God will often use what is familiar in our lives to quietly work. In such a way that requires us to draw near to him to see the nuances of what he is doing if we're going to understand his work in our lives. I want you to think about that for just a moment. In working through the familiar, it requires us to reorient the way that we examine our own lives. In twenty plus years of doing ministry, I don't know that I've actually met anyone Who claims to be a Christian who has not wondered at some juncture of their lives, what is God doing? Have you ever asked that question? Maybe recently. What is God doing? It's a really important question. And if people are mature in their faith, what they do is they go searching in God's Word for the answers. But here's one of the things I've also noticed about a lot of Christians, and I've seen this in myself at times, and I've had to try to make corrections and pray through that. But oftentimes people tend to want to take the scriptures and conform the scriptures to the shape and the pattern of their lives and their experience. Do you see what that what that's all about? It's really kind of a self-centered, me-centered kind of way of approaching the scriptures In fact, I've met many people who are not believers who have told me along the way that, well, I tried reading the Bible once, but it just didn't make sense to me. Okay, well I I can certainly understand that. And and when I dig to see what they really mean is, well, it just didn't really fit my experience. You know, it didn't really work for me. Well, okay. It's because it's not meant to. We're supposed to have a complete reorientation. when we are in covenant relationship with God, where it's not the scriptures that conform to the pattern of our life. It is our lives that are meant to be brought into conformity to the pattern of God's word. In fact, if you read any of the stories in the Old Testament or the New for that matter, um it doesn't matter who you're talking about, Noah, Moses Jacob, Joseph, as we'll see when we get there, David, Solomon, Hezekiah, it does not matter, Jeremiah. Every person's life in the scriptures as they are presented is meant to point you to the Lord Jesus Christ. You will see contours of Christ's life, his person, his ministry, his work in each of those persons' lives that are presented in the scriptures. What's the per what's the point? The point is oftentimes God works through familiar day-to-day experiences that we have. And we start seeing patterns in our lives as we prayerfully look back and try to understand what God has done and where we're at now. And what we will find is that over time, if we're walking with the Lord, he does not conform to us. He conforms us to him. We talk a lot in Reformed circles about the doctrine of predestination. But did you realize that one of the main texts that is often pointed to in Romans 8. 29 communicates that principle? For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined. Why? For what purpose? To be conformed to the image of his son. Why? So that Christ might be the firstborn among many brothers. Or you go to 2 Corinthians. Chapter 3, verse 18. It talks about that's the big picture in that chapter, is talking about the new covenant and the ministry of the new covenant that we now live in. We are ministers of a new covenant. Not of the letter, but of the spirit, for the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. And what does it say as the final crescendo of the new covenant? We are being transformed from glory to glory. Or you go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the great love passage. We know in part now, but one day we will know fully when we are conformed fully to the glory of Christ. Brothers and sisters, all of that to say that our attitude has to often be changed from a self-centered attitude to a God and Christ-centered attitude. That as we wrestle with the things that happen in our lives, the spectacular things and the mundane fundamental things. Are we looking and asking the Lord, Lord, how are you conforming me to the image of Christ? And another question that you might have to ask yourself this morning, which is a very personal question, is Whether or not your life bears any resemblance to the Lord Jesus Christ presently. Those are tough introspective questions to ask. And you really, if you're going to ask those Um there it's best to start in prayer with the Lord. But you know that's exactly what God is doing in Jacob's life. He is conforming him to the glory of the seed that will come from him many years later. He's conforming into the image of Christ. And we want to look at that as we see the the second point here in verses 15 to 30. The second point I'm calling divine irony and the deceivers justice. Now, okay, we're taking a little bit of a turn here because now the comparison is not necessarily with what happened in Genesis 24 with his parents' love story. Now we're comparing this chapter with what happened in chapter 27, where Jacob deceived his father and his brother to get and steal the blessing. And excuse me, this is where things really, in my opinion, get interesting. Look at verses 15 to 20. You see the deceiver 's wages Now in verse 14, which I didn't highlight in detail, it just simply says Jacob stayed one month with Laban, his father-in-law. And so, you know, Jacob is not like, you know, some people that will live in their mother's basement for free and play video games all day. Laban is expecting him to do something. And so he asked him a question in verse 15, because you are my kinsmen, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me what your wages shall be. No. On the surface, it sounds like he's really looking out for Jacob. Jacob, you need a job. I can help with that. Name your wages. What is it? It's an interesting question. Verses 16 to 20, or really 16 to 18, kind of break that narrative. They break the dialogue by giving Kind of a full background picture because it's going to tell you what Jacob's wages are. But notice the description of how they begin to negotiate these wages. Beginning in verse 16. Now Laban had two daughters. The name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance. In the beginning of verse 18, Jacob loved Rachel. Rachel. Boy, notice those descriptions. That is interesting. Um Many have interpreted the weakness of Leah's eyes to mean that she was ugly or had something inherently undesirable or unattractive about her appearance That's a possibility, but I'm going to just level with you. I I'm not sure it's a certainty And why am I saying that? Well, I'm saying that for a few reasons, actually. The word that's translated in the ESV is weak, the Hebrew verb ver uh word rakut. It could mean weak, but it could also mean soft or delicate. And this could possibly mean that she had delicate eyes or or that when you looked into her eyes, there was a softness there. that may have had its own appeal and attractiveness when you gazed into them. You know, like some people have attractive eyes or, you know, pretty eyes or something like that. I think of Proverbs 6. 25 when it's giving the warning about the adulteress. It's like, you know, don't don't get fooled and tricked into her bosom, and don't let her eyes Captivate you. Any man knows that you can look deeply into the eyes of a woman And very easily get lost there. That may be the case with Leah. I'm trying to give her the best benefit of the doubt. But I I think i it is a possibility and I uh the other reason I think that that may be what the author is getting at, uh interpreting that in more of a positive sense than a negative sense, is the way that he contrasts her description with Rachel. If you look at at the way Rachel is described , it goes on to say in in verse 17, but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance. Now in English that is really smoothed out because that's how English grammar works. You don't want to be too repetitive. But in Hebrew it's very repetitive. It repeats beautiful twice, and it simply and literally says, she was beautiful in form and she was beautiful in appearance. Form being she had all the right curves as a young lady, and her face, the total package, not just her eyes, was beautiful. And so while one positive thing, just one, is said of Leah, Rachel gets praise for two things. I think that's what the contrast is that 's going on there. Jacob settles on his wages in verses 18 to 20. He literally tells Laban that he will serve him seven years for his daughter Rachel as a wife. Laban, of course, agrees, and Jacob does so. Now again, this sounds like a nice deal until you understand later what Laban is up to But I want you to notice the description here in verse 18. I'm sorry, not verse 18, verse 20 at the end. So he served seven years for Rachel, and this is what I want you to see. And they seemed to him but a few days. Why? Because of the love that he had for her This is not just a passing crush. This is not just an infatuation that is temporary. You know, we don't we we've got nothing told to us about what happened in those seven years except that Jacob served and he was living in Laban's house, which meant he had day-to-day interaction with this woman. Without being able to act like a husband to her. And yet his love never waned, and it never waned so much so that all of that time was like just for him a few days. I think that says something about the quality of Jacob's love for this woman. You know, he's willing. He doesn't have a dowry That was something different about Abraham's servant at least had camels full of, you know, carrying loads of treasure and jewels and gold and garments and wealth, and Jacob comes empty-handed And so if he's gonna if he's gonna marry this young woman and he's got nothing in his hand, he's gonna have to work off that dowry. And seven years is a long time. Even by those standards. Rachel must have been exceptional, not just in beauty, but probably in character as well. But you see in verses 21 to 27, this is where it all begins to fall apart. I call this the deceiver's justice. Because verse 21 picks up seven years later. It's very clear. Jacob says to Laban, give me my wife, that I may go into her, for my time is completed. The seven years, Laban, are over. What's the main point? Well the main point is that it was when it was time for him to consummate the marriage with his bride Rachel, Laban switches out Leah Rachel for Leah. So that when Jacob awoke the next morning, he was married to Leah. You can imagine the shock that this man got in the morning. And it really on the surface sounds kind of funny, but it is really not. I mean, you can really understand his protest. Why did you deceive me? There's something I've always wondered about that, and I had a conversation very recently with somebody who asked me exactly what I've always wondered. How in the world did he go through this wedding feast and then marry this woman? And did not know that this was not his wife. It's not like they were twins and could have been confused. One was older than the other. How did this happen? I'll give you my best answer. I don't know. I'll give you some ideas that I think are are plausible or likely. I mean If there's no secret in that day and age, you know, they would women would wear veils. And in some cases, they would wear the veil until the marriage was consummated because they could not you know, bare their face before um men that are not their husbands. That's a possibility. Um was it dark in the tent? I don't know. How much wine did Jacob imbibe at the feast? I don't know. There are any number of plausible explanations. All we know is this man was deceived. Whether it was his fault for not recognizing or not, or circumstantial, he was deceived. Boy. Start making the connections, people, to chapter 27. And you'll see what God is doing here. Remember back in chapter 27? Believe it or not, it was Rebecca, the sister of Laban. You can start to see a kind of a family trend here. It was Rebekah who came up with the cunning plan to deceive Isaac in his blindness to get him to give the blessing to Jacob. It was Jacob who went in and took to his father's tent and took advantage of Isaac's blindness to steal the blessing away from Esau. Ironically, what's really fascinating about all this, if you go back to chapter 27 about the deceit, about the blessing. Jacob in supplanting his brother basically replaces what should have gone to the oldest with the youngest. Laban does the opposite. It should have been the youngest that was married here to Jacob, and he replaces the youngest with the old. Laban took advantage of Jacob's seeming blindness. And here's what I want what I want you to draw your attention to. In all of this. God is sovereignly working in Jacob's life to bring justice for what he's done Isn't that fascinating? Everything Jacob did in chapter 27 is done to him here. The deceiver gets deceived. What goes around comes around. And what's even more fascinating is I'm not exonerating Laban. Laban is like he's a slug. I mean the way he treated Jacob is absolutely low. And I had to wrestle with this myself as I was as I was preparing this this week because you know you read the story like this and you just you just want to punch Lavin right in the face. Like, how dare you do this to a guy? But then you start thinking back and if you're really fair and honest, you're like, okay, but you should really feel the same way about Jacob. Jacob did the same thing. And God is working in Jacob's life to reveal his sin to him. It's interesting to me that through this deception of Laban on Jacob, it is Laban's sin That seems to fulfill the justice of God in Jacob's life. Let that sink in for just a moment. God used the injustice and sin perpetrated by one to fulfill his justice in the life of someone he was in covenant relationship with. It is so far outside of the norms of how human beings think of justice. And we find the deceiver's final reward here in verses 28 through 30. Um, and I'll just summarize that. He ends up coming striking a deal with Laban. Okay, I will work another seven years for Rachel, and I will just complete the rest of this wedding week. Of seven days? That's how they man, you some of you complain about having to plan a wedding and catering for one day of wedding celebration. These guys had to do it for seven. Jacob had to go all the rest of those seven days, and then finally gets Rachel as well. But I want you to understand that, you know, it's not all's well that ends well here. He serves those for those last seven years, but he had two wives. And as you will find, so in other words, he's really not any better than Esau, who took two wives to himself. His married life was not a happy one. It's not a happy one. And so I want let's step back really quick and just say, how do we see the hope of the gospel in all of this brokenness? And what warning do we find? As believers. Well, the whole justice of this passage points to the justice of the cross and the warning that our sin If not dealt with by Christ , will find us out. Think about this. The divine justice on Jacob parallels and points forward to and anticipates the divine justice of Jesus Christ. Part of the first application, the application I gave in the first point was that our lives are meant to be conformed to the image of Christ. We're called to take up our cross daily and to follow him. Right? Some of us think that our lives are so special that God is doing unique things that only He does in our lives. And that doesn't mean that, you know, every one of us has the exact same experience, but what we have to acknowledge is that God is driving us to the same point. and that is the image of Christ formed in us. But how does he do that? How did he secure that? Well, like Jacob, the Lord Jesus Christ, left his heavenly father in glory to come to the world to secure a bride for himself. Think about that. Just like Jacob had to leave Beersheba for Haran. Like Jacob, who had divine justice poured out onto him by means of the sin of Laban. Which was pretty scandalous. So also did the Lord Jesus Christ have divine justice poured out on his head for our sins when he went to the cross. I mean think about that. You you read the gospels, you know, the the the um deceit of the Jewish religious leaders to get him to the Romans and then He gets caught up in this trial before Pontius Pilate and quote unquote succumbs to the political machinations of Rome. Sin, sin, sin leading to the cross. And if you're honest, you read the Gospels and it looks on the surface like injustice, doesn't it? But what's fascinating is God's justice in Jacob's life. God's justice in the cross is accomplished through what on the surface looks like in justice. And yet in the cross, it is where God's justice is fulfilled for His people. I think that the question in verse 15, name your wages, is a really interesting way to phrase that. Why? What are the wages for what Jacob has done? Well, spiritually, it's death. We see that in Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death. But The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Now, Jacob is paying for his sins, so to speak, in a historical, temporal sense. He's not paying for his own sins in an ultimate spiritual sense. Christ did that for Jacob Christ does that for us. And it was done through dramatic irony. But there is a warning in this passage, isn't there? It's the warning that our sin will find us out Our sin will find us out. There are people that that that claim to be Christians who, you know, you ask them why are So help me understand when did you come to Christ? So I walked down an aisle. And then you look at their lives and their lives don't look anything different than the world around them. You have to wonder, are they truly converted? Maybe, maybe not. But Paul writes something very Pointed in Galatians 6, 7 and following. And I think the example of Jacob makes this point. He says, do not be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever one sows, that he will also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will reap, will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows to the spirit will reap, will from the spirit reap eternal life. You know what's sad is as we continue through the life of Jacob, we're going to continue to see that principle work its way. Until Jacob is finally broken of all of his pride, all of his self-righteousness, all of his trust in his own cunning and deceitful schemes. And he's brought to his knees in the presence of God and fully gives himself to God. Well, brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you this morning that if there are sinful patterns in your life, give those things to Christ. Knowing that he has paid for them at the cross and fulfilled God's justice. Because if you do not, Paul makes it very clear in 2 Corinthians that for for all men who sin. And that's all people, really. It's a catch-all statement. Some people's sins go before them and are evident. In other words, it's obvious that they're in sin and they're just not listening. And for others, their sins follow behind them and will one day be revealed. And if not in this life, all things will be revealed on the day of judgment. But we have an opportunity today, don't we , to lay those things at the foot of the cross and to ask the Lord to continue to work in our lives. Like he worked in Jacob's, to see the hope of the gospel deepen, and to see us patterned and conformed more and more to the image of Christ. That's what this passage is about and driving us to. It's the divine irony that leads to our experiencing strangely familiar situations that must be examined in light of the glory of Christ in our lives. But it also demonstrates that if we're not careful and we trust in ourselves rather than Christ, boy, what goes around comes around when it comes to sin. And that's a frightening place to be. Let's go ahead and close our time in the Word with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, uh, this is indeed truly a sad passage. It's not one that leaves us without hope because of how it points to the gospel and how Even Jacob, though deceived by his uncle, even in that deceit which he deserved from an earthly perspective, points forward to the cross. But Lord, we ask that you would help us to take the warnings that Scripture gives us and to take them very seriously as your people. Let us not become slack and apathetic in our relationship to you. But Lord, we pray that you would fill us with your spirit this morning. morning that you would continue to give us a heart and a passion to continue to seek your loving face. In Christ Jesus we pray. Amen.