I would invite you, if you have your Bibles, to take them and open them to Genesis chapter 20. Genesis chapter 20, we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 18. And for the reading of God's word, I would invite you to stand. Genesis chapter twenty, verses one to eighteen. From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb and lived between Kadesh and Shur, and he sojourned in Gerar And Abraham said to Sarah his wife, said of Sarah his wife, she is my sister. And Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife Now, Abimelech had not approached her, so he said, Lord, will you kill an innocent people? Did he not himself say to me, She is my sister? And she herself said, He is my brother? In the integrity of my heart, and the innocence of my hands I have done this. Then God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart. And it was I who kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her. Now then, return the man's wife, for he is a prophet, so that he will pray for you, and you shall live. But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours. So Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things. And the men were very much afraid. Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you that you have brought on me in my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done. And Abimelech said to Abraham, What did you see that you did this thing? Abraham said, I did it because I thought there is no fear of God at all in this place, and that they will kill me because of my wife. Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, though not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. And when God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, This is the kindness you must do to me. At every place to which we come, say of me, he is my brother. Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants and gave them to Abraham and returned Sarah, his wife, to him. And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you. To Sarah he said, Behold, I have given to your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It is a sign of your innocence in the eyes of all who are with you, and before everyone you are vindicated. Then Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, and also healed his wife, and Female slaves, so that they bore children. For the Lord had closed all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning as the children of Abraham by faith in Jesus Christ. We pray that as we look at this passage, this story, this history of this event of his life, Lord, we pray that you would use your word this morning as a mirror, O Lord, into our own lives, into our own souls. And Lord, in that, we pray, O Lord, that you would reveal More clearly, your Son, Jesus Christ, that you would make more clear to us, Lord, this morning, the message of the gospel, the beauty of the gospel. And Lord, that you would prepare us to come to your table in the Lord's Supper. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this is a story of deja vu, isn't it? We have seen this before This is the second time in the book of Genesis that we have seen this very thing happen. And believe me, it is not the last time we will see this happen. Abraham has done this before. And because we've seen this before, I just want to jump right in, get to the sermon idea, and unpack this story for you. Now we while we've seen it before, there are details in this account that we have not seen before that kind of tweak a little bit of the message. in the application for us. But as you can see, the sermonic idea is very clear. God's faithfulness is revealed when our faith is tested by his sovereign conviction of sin, and by pointing us to his grace in the gospel. Those are the three ideas that unpack God's faithfulness. Let me just say that again. God's faithfulness is revealed, three things, when our faith is tested, it's revealed by his sovereign conviction of sin. And it's revealed by pointing us to his grace in the gospel. Let's just unpack this this morning with our first point in verses one and two. We see God's faithfulness When our faith is tested. It's a very interesting dynamic here. Let's look at the background of this testing of Abraham's faith in verse 1. Look again at verse 1. From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negab and lived between Kadesh and Shur, and he jer sojourned in Gerar. Period. Let's stop there. Now that's a lot of places that you probably don't know off the top of your head. Where that's at on the map, and that that is okay. When it says that he from there he journeyed, well you have to ask, where is there from? Well he's coming. from a place called the Oaks of Mamreh, which was near the city of Hebron. Now the question you have to ask yourself is why did he leave? Because last time we saw the same event in Genesis chapter 12, verses 10 through 20, which I'm going to refer back to. every now and then this morning. Last time Abraham went to Egypt to sojourn there, where the same event occurred, it was because there was a famine in the land. But in this particular passage, we are actually not certain why he left. Now there's a few arguments from silence that we can make, a few observations. We know that God did not command him to go down to Gerar. We don't know if if there was a famine there might have been. What we do know is when we look at the context Abraham is coming from a situation where he just saw the judgment of God fall upon Sodom and Gomorrah. Maybe that had something to do with why he went down south to Gerar. Now where was Gerar? Well, it was right next to Egypt in the northern part of the Sinai Peninsula. The only thing we know is he leaves on his own initiative. And what we're about to see unfold in front of us in this passage It is something that happens because Abraham and Sarah put themselves in the situation that they find themselves in, which will then become a very dire situation. This was their initiative. Right? Now the geographical background is pretty simple. He sojourns in Gerar. That's all we're told here. What may interest you is that the word Gerar and the Hebrew word for sojourn are roughly related, and so there's a play on words in the Hebrew and You can kind of translate it to say, Abraham sojourned in a land called sojourning. So you got Abraham sojourning in the land of sojournings. But what we find here is really kind of fascinating. As a sojourner in the land of Gerar, that verb has a very unique nuance to it of sojourning. It means that he is not a citizen there. And because he is not a citizen in Ger in the city of Gerar, which we see in verse 2 has a king, he does not have the rights and the privileges that a citizen would be expected to have in that city. Well this was a time when usually there wasn't just territories, it was city-states. You know, each city had its king. And Abraham comes to Gerar as a sojourner in the land of sojournings, and as a sojourner he does not have the rights and the privileges of a citizen as a sojourner. Now many of you in this room may not know from personal experience because you were born in this country, being uh born into uh being a citizen here, but I know from talking to people I used to minister to when I was in a Spanish church context that, you know, when you're not a citizen of a country, there's always this lingering fear In the back of your mind, it was wondering what could happen to me in this foreign place. How might I be taken advantage of? Might I have to be you know move around from place to place before I can really find my niche? And you've got to understand that that's probably some of the mindset that is factoring into Abraham's the way he reacts in this situation and what he does. Because we see the crisis unfold that tests his faith in verse 2. Look at verse 2. And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. And then the second sentence is kind of like the follow-up of that, and Abimelech, the king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. Sarah. Huh. Okay. So there's a lie that undergirds this crisis Faith, as we said before, this is the second time he did this. He did this back in Genesis chapter 12, but in that passage he gives us the reason why he does it. We don't see that reason stated here because it's assumed, but let's be thorough and let's go back. And you see the reason in Genesis 12, 11 through 13. As they're going to Egypt, we're led into the dialogue between husband and wife as they figure out how they're going to live in Egypt. And Abraham says this, I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance. That's a nice thing to tell your wife. And when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife. Then they will kill me, but they will let you live. Say that you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake. And what do you see there? Well, you see fear. Very clearly, you see fear. And behind that fear is really the question: where will I find protection? Where will I find a refuge? And so he's not really trusting in the Lord here, again. He's trusting in a solution of his own devising, a solution of his own means. It really shows that in his heart, deep down, Abraham, the believer, the man of faith, going back to Genesis 15, 6, is demonstrating himself to be a man of tremendous unbelief. He does not trust God to protect him. Interestingly enough, what did God say in Genesis 15. 1? Abraham, I am your shield and your great reward. He's not trusting that God is his shield. You go back to Genesis 18, verse 14. God had promised that within a year I'm going to return to you, Abraham and Sarah, and you are going to have a child. He's not trusting that God has the power to return to him. And more importantly, well I don't want to say more importantly, but secondly, let's just say that. He is failing his wife when she is most vulnerable. What is the calling of a husband? To provide and to protect. Is he providing for his wife here? No. Is he protecting his wife? No, certainly not. And why would I say she's most vulnerable? Well You could make an argument, as Cap Mar John Calvin and Matthew Henry do, in their commentaries, that Sarah at this point may be pregnant already with Isaac. Now you can't really be certain with 100% accuracy, but that is certainly a possibility. And if she is indeed with child already. Think about how not only is she most vulnerable, now he's putting the safety of the covenant child that God had promised to them in jeopardy. And we see what happens very clearly. The same thing that happened in Egypt happens again. Abimelech, the king of Gerar. By the way, his name means in Hebrew, it's a compound word. It means, my father's king, my father is king in the land of sojournings, right? Takes Sarah into his harem. Now that wording is really important. It's the same wording we find in 2 Samuel 11, verse 4, when David, remember he was on the roof of his house? And he looked down and he saw Bathsheba bathing and seeing her. He was attracted to her because she was beautiful. And what did he do? He sent and he took her. Same thing. It's kind of the thing I guess you would expect an ancient Near Eastern king to do, but this is what he does. And what they've done now is Abraham and Sarah have put themselves by their own initiative, by their own fault and responsibility, into a situation that only God, in a supernatural deliverance and response, can save them from. I mean they they backed themselves into a corner. And so we have to ask ourselves by way of application this morning how Does Abraham's situation shine the light on us when it comes to repeated sin? Because that's exactly what's happening here. Repeated sin. Well, I think the idea is that repeated sin comes when we outwardly put ourselves in situations for sin to happen. And inwardly, when we fail to trust that God will fulfill his promises to us. I mean, what is the reason that we continue to some of us we all have sins that we struggle with over and over and over again. We call them besetting sins. Every one of us in this room has those kinds of sins in their life. No one is exempt. Why is that? Well, I think one of the first reasons that we often fall into the same sins over and over and over again is because we put ourselves in situations for sins to happen Why do we do that? Well, it does not take a rocket scientist or a psychological genius to tell you that human beings by nature are creatures of habit. Every one of us has our own habits. Some of you have found that out very painfully, especially when you get married and you find out all the habits you've accrued up to that point in your life, now it's some of those habits you have to really break. Because you're married and it doesn't work anymore. And unfortunately, many of us, the habits that we tend to form over the years are tied to issues in the heart that overflow out of the heart. So think about this as we pick up sinful habits In which we tend to return to the circumstances that lead us into the sins that we repeat over and over and over again. And we do exactly what Abraham in this passage does. We put ourselves in those situations. And so one of the things you need to ask yourself this morning by way of application is what are the compromising situations that I put myself in with whatever sin I tend to wrestle with? And those are things to maybe take before the Lord, confess those, and pray over those. But the the other side of the coin here is Abraham is failing to trust the promises of God, and we do the same things. Why do we struggle with the same sins over and over again? It's not just outward circumstances. There's also an inward heart condition that begins with unbelief. We doubt that the power of God is sufficient over our sins. We doubt that the power of our sin was broken at the death of Christ. On the cross where our sin was condemned in the flesh, as Paul says in Romans 8. 3. And think about it. When we put our minds on the things of the earth That really shows and nurtures these desires that we have that are rooted in sin and unbelief. Think about what Colossians 3. 3 says. Well 3. 2 says, set your minds on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth. Why? For you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. And when Christ, who is your life, appears. You too will also appear with him in glory. Why do we tend to fall into sin over and over again? Because we have our minds on the things of the earth. We have our minds on the things of the flesh, not on the things of heaven where Christ is seated and where our life is hidden in God. And think about that. What does that do? We're saved. Our life is hidden in heaven, but if we're focusing on the things of the earth, it creates a disparity And an inconsistency in our lives. And it is something that gains traction and then just happens over and over and over again. But that leads to the way that God deals with our repeated sin in verses 3 through 13. And that's our second point this morning, God's faithfulness in confronting sin. Well let's take a look at this. It breaks down into two sections. There's two different confrontations here. The first is a confrontation between God and Abimelech, and then the second one is Abimelech then confronting Abraham, but in every step of this process, sin is being confronted. Let's take a look at verses 3 through 7. We see God confronting Abimelech's sin. We see the verdict that God gives on Abimelech 's sin in verses 3 and 7, the beginning and the end of this Confrontation, so to speak. Look at verse 3. But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man. Well that's not something anybody really wants to hear. Especially from God. Behold, you are a dead man. Why? Because look what you've done, Abimelech. You have the woman that you have taken, she is another man's wife. Huh. And then you see verse 7, he repeats it when he's kind of telling them, now return, now then return the man's wife. That's kind of telling him what repentance looks like. Return the man's wife. Why? For he is a prophet, so he will pray for you and you will live. But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die. He repeats the same verdict there. You and all who are yours. Boy, that's those are tough words. But God tells him, you know, return this man's wife. Now you see in ancient Near Eastern law codes of different kinds , like the Mesopotamian one, the law of Hammurabi. Adultery was punishable by death. Now I shared this two weeks ago when we were talking about Sodom and Gomorrah. what Lot may have been trying to do there by giving his daughters who were engaged to other men It is very highly likely that Abimelech would have known, as a king who was responsible for the law in his country, would have known that adultery, sleeping with another man's wife, was punishable by death. This this statement, this verdict, you were a dead man, would not have surprised him. The question is, why would the pagans even realize that adultery was punishable by death and was a problem? Well, even the pagans outside of Israel understood that the family was the most basic building block of society. And at the heart of the family is the marriage between a husband and a wife, which is signified by sexual intimacy. And so even the pagans understood, even just thinking logically. that if the family is the centerpiece, the basic building block of society, and the centerpiece of that is the marriage, if you attack the marriage, you undermine the basic building block of society, thereby weakening the entire society. By the way, that's true. That is entirely biblical. And the pagans understood it. Which is why, because they they knew that stability of society, at least from a legal civil standpoint, was their primary responsibility. They're going to deal very harshly with any attack on society. Like adultery. Death. Abimelech, you are a dead man. But this is really interesting because the plot thickens a little more in verses 4 through 6, because God acknowledges that Abimelech's motives are pure. You can see the protest. Now Abimelech had not approached her. That's an important, important observation. So he said, Lord, will you kill an innocent people? Look at verse five. Did he not himself say to me, She is my sister, and she herself said, He is my brother? Look at this. In the integrity of my heart, and the innocence of my hands I have done this Notice how he pairs those two things together. The heart and the hands. The hands only do what the heart Leads it to do. And he's saying, Look, I've done this with the integrity and innocence Which is really kind of interesting to me because he acknowledges he's not denying that he's done something wrong in taking another man's wife. He he knows that if that's really the case, I've I've messed up. But he's arguing that my motive. was pure. And God acknowledges his motive to be pure in verse 6, even though he did something wrong. And God reminds him that even in this, Abimelech, I am sovereign in my providence in all that you do and all that happens to you. We see that in verse 4. He didn't touch her. Why? Because verse 6 says, God tells him, I did not allow you to touch her, so that you would not sin against me. Huh. So Abimelech gets confronted. He knows what he's got to do. Verse 7, he's got to return this woman to her proper husband. But he doesn't just leave it there. He turns around in verses 8 through 13. We have the second confrontation. He confronts Abraham of his sin. And he does it with three questions. And there it's like a law court. When he says in verse 9 that he calls Abraham, that is legal language when you're talking about a king. He's called him to trial. He's calling Abraham to account. Look at the question. First first one, verse nine. What have you done to us? What have you done? And notice what Abraham answers this in verse 11. Abraham said, I did it because I thought there's no fear of God at all in this place. And that they will kill me because of my wife. We go back to verse 8. You can see that his assumption was way off And the men, when Abimelech tells them about the dream and what God has said, all the men were very much afraid. That's a superlative in Hebrew They were as afraid as afraid could get. And Abraham walks in and thinks, these people have no fear of God? They clearly do. So he's not justified on that account, okay? Secondly, in verse 9, how have I sinned against you? In other words, there's this mindset that, well, I sinned against you, okay, you'll sin against me. This is how it works. It's revenge, right? And what have I done to you that you would do this to me? Look at verse 12. He gives new information. She's my half-sister. She is my sister. The daughter of my father, just not the daughter of my mother, and then she became my wife. You know what that is? That's a half-truth or a half-lie, however you want to splice that. Let's face the facts, brothers and sisters. The greatest lies are closest to the truth. It's often what is not said. Why is that the greatest lie? Because they're the hardest to discern. Third question, what did you see that you did this? In other words, are you an opportunist? Did you see some kind of weakness in us to exploit? That's a question in verse 10. Verse 13, he gives an answer and it really makes them look really bad in my opinion. He says, And when God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, This is the kindness, the word could mean love, this is the love you must do to me, Sarah. At every place to which we come, say of me, he is my brother. In other words, what he's essentially saying is, look, it's not you, it's me. It's not that I saw some opportunity to take advantage of with you. This is how I deal with everybody. That doesn't make him look any better. This is a general principle we treat everyone this way. Hmm. Well, what are we supposed to do with this confrontation of sin by way of application Well, I want to drive home to you that God faithfully confronts sin through the inward conviction of the Holy Spirit and the preaching of his word. Those are very simple applications, I think. But the fact of the matter is, let's face it, none of us likes to be confronted with our sin The Bible uses language like sin stinks in the nostrils of God. I mean, you know, why is it that we hate being confronted with our sin? Because it stinks. And it's like It's like putting a dirty diaper like under your nose and saying, smell it! You don't like that. It's embarrassing. But the Lord sets up two ways that we're called to be confronted, and the first one is the conviction of the Holy Spirit. Believe me, when he went to sleep that night and God appeared to him in a dream, there was no way he was escaping that type of conviction from God for his sin. And if we're honest, neither can we escape the conviction of the Holy Spirit. Look at what Jesus says in John 16, verses 7 through 11. I won't read the whole thing, but he does say that when the Holy Spirit comes, he will convict the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. And I said this a few weeks ago as well. This is one of the means that God uses to bring sinners to repentance and to faith in Jesus Christ so that they are forgiven and redeemed and restored. Now, if you're here this morning and you have experienced the conviction that comes from the Holy Spirit, particularly from maybe repeated sin in your life. This is actually good news for you. Because it indicates that God is indeed at work in your heart, that He is not done with you, that He's got a purpose for this in your life. It shows that he's not given up on you, despite how you might often emotionally feel after the failure again. That God has not done with you. We live in a world in which you do not talk to people about their sin. If you make them feel bad about their sin, you are being abusive. And God 's word runs counter to that lie in our world. Right? Because this is how God deals with us. He doesn't let us hide from the shame, the guilt. He deals with it. But he brings conviction For the purpose of repentance and restoration. It's never just to point the finger and make you feel bad. That's not the point. The point is repentance. But that's the inward part of conviction. The outward part of conviction is the preaching of the word. What I do, or what Jared does, or what Phil does, or anyone else who would stand in this pulpit would do. That's what the word is. Abraham was called to account by Abimelech as the king. And I want you to understand that the preaching of the word, week in, week out, from the pulpit. Is nothing less than God as king calling us to repentance over our sin and to faith in him every week. I love that quote by Tim Keller when he says the gospel is not like you know ABC or 123, where it's like, you get this done, okay, what's next? No, the gospel Is relevant. Faith and repentance is relevant over and over and over through the Christian life. Martin Luther said the Christian life is one of continual repentance and faith. And that's what the preaching of the word is this morning. And so for our purposes this morning, it's meant to get us to examine ourselves, to confess the sin of our hearts and our lives before we come to the table of the Lord's Supper. Well what does what does Paul tell us to do in 1 Corinthians 11? You know, examine yourself to see if you have faith. To discern the body and the blood of Christ in the supper, it requires self-examination. So I would encourage you to use this time for that. Because it leads us to the hope that we find of the gospel in the last verses of this passage. Our third point in verses fourteen through eighteen is that God's faithfulness comes in the grace of the gospel, and then you always see God's grace in some very interesting places in his word. Places you wouldn't expect, and this is an example of that. Let's look at verses 14 through 16. We see that Abimelech's grace towards Abraham and Sarah actually points toward the gospel. 14 through 16. Let's take a look at that once again. Abimelech took sheep, oxen, and male servants and female servants and gave them to Abraham, and returned Sarah, his wife, to him. And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before you, dwell where it pleases you. To Sarah he said, Behold, I've given your brother. Kind of some sarcasm there. A thousand pieces of silver. It is a sign of your innocence in the eyes of all who are with you, and before everyone you are vindicated. Notice what he does here. We see the grace of citizenship from the king. When he tells Abraham, My land is before you, that's a surprising statement. Because last time Abraham did this In Genesis chapter 12, the king of Egypt threw him out of Egypt. This is a different king. This king says, no, no, my land Not your land, Abraham. My land is before you. You live where you want to live among us. What he's doing, he's granting Abraham the full rights and privileges of a citizen. You see the grace of an atonement price given. Look at that. A thousand pieces of silver. Now I have to be honest, you know It says he took sheep, oxen, male servants, and female servants and gave them to Abraham. You know, is a thousand pieces of silver what that was worth, or did he give a thousand pieces of literal metal silver to him in addition to that? I don't know. But what I do know is the purpose of it was an atonement price. Isn't it fascinating that Abraham and Sarah are really the two that are ultimately guilty here? I mean Abivelech did do something wrong. He's he's not ultimately guilty, he's more immediately guilty or approximately guilty, however you want to put that. But they bear the ultimate responsibility. What does he do? He turns around and takes the ultimate responsibility by paying the price. for them. Then lastly we see here the grace, I'm calling it the grace of a covering. He says, it is a sign of innocence. Did you see that when he was talking to Sarah? In verse 16. A sign of your innocence in the eyes of all. Actually, the original Hebrew says it's a covering for the eyes. It's a kind of a term that's used in a negative sense elsewhere in the Old Testament to talk about how a bride covers the eyes and perverts justice. for those involved. It's the same thing, but in a positive spin. My redemption price given for you, Abraham and Sarah, particularly you, Sarah. This is meant to cover the eyes of all of those who might judge you as guilty and condemn you. It 's meant to cover your sin from their eyes. And what's the result? Resulting in her vindication In other words, she is being legally declared as justified, as righteous. Justice has been completed and fulfilled for her. That's amazing grace in verses 14 through 16. And then you see in verses 17 through 18, God's grace towards Abimelech now. Abraham prays for Abimelech, and his household was healed. I think it's really interesting. It's a side comment. I think it's really interesting that Sarah was originally barren. And yet God promises fruitfulness to her through Abraham's faith in his promise. And yet when the c when the covenant is compromised, what is the result? Barrenness on the part of Abimelech's family So that when he actually repents of his sin by giving Sarah back, um, kind of upholding the covenant Pointing forward to the gospel, Abraham prays, and what does God do? He gives him the blessing of the promise of Abraham. Fruitfulness. So the question is, how do we see the hope of the gospel for failures? In the response from Abimelech. Well, all of the elements of the gospel are present in his response to Abraham and Sarah's sin. And that calls for our response today. What don't you think about this? Look at the elements of the gospel. Every one of the things that Abimelech does points forward to the work of Christ and the gospel in some way if we have eyes to see it and ears to hear it. Let me walk you through those this morning. There's only four. The first one is Christ is the king that has authority to change our status. Now I mentioned earlier very briefly that this pagan king's name was my father is king. Think about how Christ is the greater Abimelech. Christ is the son of King David and therefore inherited the right to rule on David's throne. But even more than that, he's also the son of his heavenly father. Who sits in heaven, as Psalm 115 says, our God is in heaven and does whatever he pleases. He is the son of the king. And because of that, after his death and his resurrection, Jesus said in Matthew 28, 18, this is like the prologue to the Great Commission, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. So Christ is the greater Abimelech. He's the greater, my father is king. Secondly, Christ has transferred our citizenship. Just as Abimelech gave Abraham all the rights and privileges of a citizen over his in his kingdom, in his land, so Jesus Christ has done the same for us through his perfect life, his work in the gospel, his death and his resurrection. What does Paul say in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13? Now remember he's writing primarily to Gentiles who are not Israelites. He says this, remember that you At that time, talking about before Christ came, you were separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers of the covenants of promise. having no hope and without God in the world. Wow, that's a pretty grim, dire situation. But now in Christ Jesus he says, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. He goes on to say in verse 19, so then you are no longer strangers and aliens or sojourners. But you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Maybe in an election season like now, we need to remember what Paul said in Colossians 1, 13 and 14. He being God has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in whom we have the redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Well, how Christ secured that transfer of our citizenship is the next connection. Thirdly, Christ has paid the price of atonement. Just like Abimelech gave 1,000 pieces of silver for the redemption and atonement of Abraham, or particularly Sarah, but by implication Abraham. Do you realize that even more so did Jesus Christ pay the redemption price of your atonement for your sins in order to cover you? I say more so because 1 Peter 1 verses 18 and 19 says, You were ransomed with the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ like that of a lamb without blemish. All of you here this morning who are in Christ, you have been purchased, you have been redeemed with something that is far more precious. Far more valuable than Abimelech's silver. You have been redeemed with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. This is why Paul says in Romans 8. 32 God has given us Christ. And if He's given us Christ, don't you think He'll give us all other things? He's given the most valuable thing to Him for you. That's how valuable each and every one of you sitting here are this morning. Young or old, weak or strong, rich or poor, you've been purchased with something more valuable. than silver. This is why Jesus said at the end in John 19, 13, when he finished paying the price, it is finished. The purchase is complete. Which leads us to our fourth and final connection before our call of response. Christ is the basis of our justification. Just as Abimelech vindicated Sarah as free of guilt and legally righteous before everybody else in their eyes, Christ did the same thing. The covering that he provided was his own righteousness. This is what justification is all about. When Paul is arguing about justification, by grace through faith alone, apart from works that we do, he summarizes in Genesis, uh Genesis, Galatians 3. 27, for as many of you as were baptized into Christ, Have put on, or you can translate that, have been clothed with Christ. What have you been clothed with? His righteousness Why? So that when God, the judge, looks at you, you have been covered. Or you can say his eyes have been covered in a sense. He doesn't see your sin that repeats over and over again when you come to Christ. He sees the righteousness of his son. You are not guilty in Christ. What amazing good news And trust me, I know what it's like to fail over and over and over again in a besetting sin and have that emotional cloud come in, but the gospel breaks through those clouds. You are not guilty. You have been justified in Christ. So what's the call this morning? The call for those of you in this room, and I would put myself in this category, who continue to struggle with sin. And sometimes seem to despair because you fall into the same old things over and over again. What's the call? To continue to come to Christ. the greater than Abimelech, for a greater vindication by his grace through faith. Come to faith, those of you who struggle. Come to faith, those of you who are convicted by the Holy Spirit. Christ stands more than ready, more ready than Abimelech. To receive you. His grace is far greater. That's why we see our main point here. God's faithfulness is revealed when our faith is tested, and it will be. God's faithfulness is revealed by his sovereign conviction of sin by the Holy Spirit, and he does give that to those he loves. And God's faithfulness is revealed by pointing us to his precious grace, worth more than gold and silver, that is revealed in the gospel. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning and we know that we have needs. We know that we need grace. And we thank you, Lord, for passages like this in Genesis, Lord. We stand in awe and amazement. At the fact that someone could do something so much, so horrible like Abraham and Sarah. A man putting his wife in danger. In another man's harem. Despicable sin. And not for the first time. And yet, grace shines through for sinners like that. What about us? Lord, we pray that you would cleanse us by the precious blood of Jesus this morning. Wash us that we might be clean as we come to the table of the Lord's Supper. And as we do so, Lord, we pray that you would bless us this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.