If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's turn to Genesis chapter 37 and stand together if we're physically able Genesis 37, 1 to 36. This is a very familiar story, and the temptation is to just listen and gloss over the details, but pay careful attention to what God is saying to us. this morning. Genesis 37, 1 through 36. Jacob lived in the land of his father's sojournings in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought a bad report of them to their father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than any other of his sons because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a robe of many colours. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him, and could not speak peacefully to him Now Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. He said to them, Hear this dream that I have dreamed. Behold, we were binding sheaves in the field. And behold, my sheaf arose and stood upright. And behold, your sheaves gathered around it and bowed down to my sheaf. His brother said to him, Are you indeed to reign over us? Or are you indeed to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Then he dreamed another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Behold, I've dreamed another dream. Behold, the sun and the moon and eleven stars were bowing down to me. But when he told it to his father and to his brothers, his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I, your and your mother, and your brothers indeed come and bow ourselves down to the ground before you? And his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in mind. Now his brothers went to pasture their father's flock near Shechem. And Israel said to Joseph, Are not your brothers pasturing the flock at Shechem? Come, I will send you to them. And he said to him, Here I am. So he said to him, Go now and see if it is well with your brothers and with the flocks, and bring me word. So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. And a man found him wandering in the fields. And the man asked him, What are you seeking? I'm seeking my brothers, he said. Tell me please, where are they pasturing the flock? The man said, They have gone away, for I've heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan. They saw him from afar, and before he came near to them, they conspired against him to kill him. They said to one another, Here comes this dreamer. Come now, let us kill him and throw him into one of the pits. Then we will say that a fierce animal has devoured him, and we will see what has become what becomes of his dreams. Well, when Reuben heard it, he rescued him out of their hands, saying, Let us not take his life. And Reuben said to them, Shed no blood. Throw him into this pit here in the wilderness, but do not lay a hand on him, that he might rescue him out of their hand to restore him to his father. So when Joseph came to his brothers, they stripped him of his robe, the robe of many colors that he wore, and they took him and threw him into a pit. The pit was empty, there was no water in it. Then they sat down to eat, and looking up, they saw a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead with their camels bearing gum, balm, and myrrh on their way to carry it down to Egypt. Then Judah said to his brothers, What profit is it if we kill our brother and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. And let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother, our own flesh. And his brothers listen to him Then Minnite traders passed by, and they drew Joseph up and lifted him up out of the pit and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. They took Joseph to Egypt. When Reuben returned to the pit and saw that Joseph was not in the pit, he tore his clothes and returned to his brothers and said, The boy is gone, and I, where shall I go? Then they took Joseph's robe and slaughtered a goat, and dipped the robe in the blood. And they sent the robe of many colors and brought it to their father and said, This we have found. Please identify whether it is your son's robe or not. And he identified it and said, it is my son's robe. A fierce animal has devoured him. Joseph is without doubt torn to pieces. Then Jacob tore his garments and put sackcloth on his loins and mourned for his son many days All his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted and said, No, I shall go down to Sheol to my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. Meanwhile, the Midianites had sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning. We thank you for this passage that you have laid before us, Lord. And as I said before I read it, though it may be familiar to many of us, Lord, I pray that you would open our eyes. Lord, help us to see in this passage as if looking in a mirror, to see our own hearts. And where our own hearts might be in relationship to you and to others this morning. But we also pray, Lord, that you would use this passage. to point us forward to Jesus Christ. Lord, to impress upon our hearts the message of the gospel in a fresh and a new way this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Crimes of passion. What comes to mind when you hear the phrase, crimes of passion? Now maybe this is my own immaturity, but I think of either, you know, certain types of novels that are read, maybe there's a murder mystery or or TV shows that we might watch where there's a crime and a murder that is set before us and the whole show unpacks the background that led up to the murder and and exposes the motives that were underlying the crime. Again, I don't know about you, I tend to find those Kind of shows really fascinating because they really do show a glimpse of the human heart and the machinations of how anger and malice and all these things work uh that are so common to all of us. Maybe we may not have murdered somebody, but we understand what anger is and bitterness, and so you can see as a Christian watching this, boy, if I don't check this, this is where this could potentially lead. This is what we find in our passage this morning, a crime of passion. A crime of passion. And what I want to do is just jump right into this story. And let's begin to unfold it as we progressively work our way to the big idea at the end. And so I want to begin in verses 1 through 2 as we see hatred among the generations of Jacob. Take a look with me again at verses 1 and 2. Jacob lived in the land of his father's sojournings in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Actually, I want to stop there. We see these generations of Jacob, this statement, these are the generations of, has been repeated over and over again throughout the book of Genesis. drawn attention too many times. This is the eleventh time that we see it, and it's the last time that we will see that phrase in the book of Genesis. And what what it means is this actually begins the twelfth and the last section of the book. And look at where the setting is located. Jacob lived in the land of his father's sojournings in the land of Canaan. It's interesting that this phrase, these are the generations of, in this case Jacob, gives way to what is going on in Jacob's family in the land of Canaan. We've met his family before. We've met all 12 of his sons and one of his daughters, Dinah, back in chapter 34. But here we see the drama intensify in the Holy Family. And in fact, we get introduced in verse 2, as verse 2 continues on, to Joseph and the sons of the concubines. Look at verse two as it continues. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought a bad report to them of them to their father. We see a description of Joseph and then a description of the brothers. But look at Joseph here for just a moment. Again, we've we've met him before. He's here a 17-year-old teenager, which the phrase there, the boy. with his brothers. That word boy in the original Hebrew could mean anyone from a a child of infancy all the way to someone who is of a marriageable age. Now in Jake in Joseph's case we're given his age. specifically 17 years old. He is young. He is inexperienced. And if you know anything about 17-year-olds, whether a boy or a girl, he's probably a know-it-all. In fact, that's gonna, I think, factor in because aside from his brother Benjamin, who's also his younger brother from the same mother Rachel. He's the next baby of the family. And you can think about those relational dynamics among brothers, sometimes the younger one or the baby in the family. gets trounced and trampled on and picked on by the older brothers. That may be what's going on here. But we see a description here also of not all of his brothers in verse 2, some of them Namely four, the sons of Bilha and Zilpah. Now, you don't have to go back to Genesis 30. I'll just tell you who those brothers were specifically. Bilha's sons were Dan and Naphtali, and Zilpas were Gad and Asher. And so he got four brothers out pasturing the flock, and Joseph the youngest with them. For whatever reason, in verse 2 tells us he brings a bad report to Israel or Jacob their father. We don't know exactly what happened. Were they picking on him as older brothers? often do or or was it something that they did that had nothing to do with him, but they just did something wicked and evil and he's witnessing it and runs and tells his father. We don't know, but we know the report was bad And so this breeds hatred among Jacob's sons. Hatred continues to grow. In verses 3-4, we see hatred among competitors for a father's love. It's not just hatred among Jacob's generations, there's a reason. Now look at verses 3 and 4 as that unfolds before us. Now Israel, Israel is another name for Joseph, or I'm sorry, Jacob. Now Israel loved Joseph more than any of his sons. Because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a robe of many colors, but when his brothers saw that their father loved him, More than all his brothers. They hated him and could not speak peacefully to him. Notice the repetition there about Jacob's love in verse 3 and verse 4. Israel loves Joseph more than his other sons. Verse 4. When his brothers saw that their father loved him, Joseph, more than all of his brothers. In both verses you see a comparative preposition that is used. And that's a technical term that gives way to the insight that there is competition among these brothers for Jacob's love and approval. Again, i if you are a young man or a man in general, you know what that is like, especially if you have brothers. You want your father's approval. And fathers, when you approve of one son more than another, it can breed contempt among your sons. And that's exactly what you see going on here. There's competition among these brothers for Jacob's approval, and clearly one of those brothers is winning, and it's it's Joseph. Now, why is Jacob loving his son Joseph more than the others? Well, verse 3 tells us because he was the son of his old age. Now this is really interesting because, you know, when when we saw the story of of Joseph's birth back in Genesis chapter 30, what we saw if you remember, was his mother Rachel, who by this time has passed away. Rachel was barren. And in a cultural milieu, in a cultural climate of that day where a woman's worth and status among the nations was often measured by how many children she had, a woman who is barren. tends to feel a little bit of shame and that's exactly what happened. It took uh Jacob and Rachel a long time before they finally conceived and bore Joseph. He's the son of his old age. And if you remember, Jacob had four wives. Not that he wanted it that way, but that's how it ended up. And Rachel was the wife that he loved. So here Joseph is the oldest son of the wife that Jacob loved most and the wife that Jacob lost first. It kind of makes sense. I mean, it's not fair, but it makes sense why Joseph is the favored Son, the son that is loved. And look at the results in verse 4. Once again, it just builds. They hated him, and they could not speak peaceably to him. Now I think what Moses is doing as he writes this, he's building that contrast between Jacob's love as a father on the one hand and the hatred that the brothers expressed towards Joseph. On the other hand, love and hatred is what's going on in this family. And that hatred among those Jealous for honor. Look at verse 3. There's kind of a statement here that I think many of us have maybe misunderstood the significance of. And he, he being Jacob, made him, being Joseph, a robe of many colors. Hmm. Well you're like, well, what's so interesting about that? Well, I mean we make all kinds of movies and plays, right? You know, what is that one play, Joseph and the Amazing technicolor dream coat and the whole focus of the play is this multicolored garment. Well, I don't mean to burst anybody's bubble, but I think that actually misses the point of what the Hebrew is actually saying here. Now, certainly the Hebrew word ketonet does mean a robe. That's fine. But the the word that's translated of many colors in just about any English translation that I looked at, I think misses the mark. It literally means flat of the hand and the foot. That's what that word means. And you're like, well, what 's the point? Well, that word is only used in one other passage, and it's 2 Samuel 13, verses 18 through 19, which describes the daughters of King David. They had a certain kind of garment that had long sleeves that went down all the way, and the garment went down all the way down to the ankles near the feet. And it was slender. And it was a garment that was reserved specifically for the daughters of King David in Israel. Particularly while they were still virgins before they were given away in marriage and then came under the household and the headship of their husband But when they were under the household and the headship of the king, they wore these garments. In other words, this idea of a garment of many colors is really a garment that is long and flowing. It is a royal garment. That's the point. Now think about this for just a moment. Where's the relationship between these sons? Well, they hate Joseph because he's the favored and loved one of the father now. But now he has a garment that distinguishes him as, so to speak, the heir, a parent. of their father. We've seen this before. Isaac and Ishmael. Isaac got the covenant promise. He inherited the father's blessing. Jacob and Esau, Jacob receives the Father's blessing and is the heir And by this garment, it signifies the honor that was going to be given to Joseph as the favored son and the likely heir of Jacob. Now you begin to understand where this hatred and this jealousy comes from. And the question we have to ask ourselves as we step back. to try to seek to apply this to ourselves, how do we see jealousy and maybe hatred rear its ugly head among the people of God today? Well, just a few passing comments by way of application here. We can see jealousy among God's people today when we foster a spirit of competition seeking honor and recognition among other men or women. As the case may be. And the question we have to ask ourselves to kind of diagnose where our hearts are at this morning in light of God's word is: where are you looking for approval from? How about that? For a diagnostic question. Now, as best as I can tell, this seems to be the impetus for the hatred and the jealousy of of the brothers of Joseph. They seem to be looking for the honor and the approval that comes from man, in the case, in this case their father, which is not really ultimately going to satisfy them. Now, I want to be clear here that the passage itself does not say that the approval of Jacob is necessarily bad. But I think any of you sitting here who have had more than one child knows that if you tend to love one more than another. The ones that are not loved are going to sense and perceive that, and it's going to cause problems in your household, problems of jealousy, problems of hatred, problems maybe of competition. And that's what's going on here. But the question for us to diagnose where we're at today, as we look at our own hatred, our own jealousy, is You know, are you looking for approval and honor from men this morning? Where does hatred and jealousy of other people come from? That spirit of competition. Why do we compete with one another? Because we want to be recognized. We want to be honored. We want to be loved. And these things we we could see this at work. And by the way, let me just say there is a healthy competition to have at work. Like if you're in sales, you might be competing with your coworkers to see who can sell the most. And so on and so forth. But you could be looking more for the approval and the honor that comes and the glory that comes from men. More than the Lord. Maybe it's looking for glory or approval among your friends. Or maybe, and this is probably one of the worst and sinister ways that this happens. is looking for honor and glory and approval among the people of God to get recognition for yourself rather than seeking to glorify God. Perhaps you want to be seen. Perhaps you're sitting here this morning and you want to be seen in a certain way by others. And when they don't see you the way that your pride almost demands, you get angry with them. Or when someone else gets the recognition that you desire, it's easy to be jealous. But the passage this morning, as we look at these brothers, and we look at the situation that Joseph is in with them, with their father , What this is meant to do is to put a mirror before us to see our own hearts and to gauge, well, where am I this morning? Where am I seeking approval? Where am I seeking glory from? Because if you're sitting here this morning and you're struggling with hatred, you're struggling with jealousy or bitterness towards somebody else, there might just be an idolatrous root. that is in your heart that needs to be exposed. And the passage in an indirect way through this narrative calls us, if that is us, this morning, to repent. And repent, if nothing else, because of where this passage is going to go and how this story is going to develop. And that's where it continues in verses 5 through 11. The story does continue. I mean, our first point is hatred and jealousy, but building on that We see in verses 5 through 11 the dreams that lie behind a conspiracy. Now I'm not going to read through those dreams again in 5 through 11. You heard them when I read them before, but I want to draw your attention again to the repetition of the dreams. Joseph had two dreams, didn't he? One had to do with the sheaves, the other had to do with, you know, the the sun, the moon, and stars. Now what's interesting in this last section of Genesis, from verses 37, or I'm sorry, chapters 37 through chapters 50. You have three incidents in this last section where there are dream sequences, and all three instances contain two dreams. And in each of those dreams, in each of those instances, the two dreams communicates the same truth. We see it here. Joseph has two dreams. In Genesis 40, you'll remember, and we'll see this in a few weeks, when Pharaoh, when Joseph is in the dungeon, and Pharaoh throws the chief cupbearer and the baker in prison with Joseph. Each one of those men have two dreams, ha have one dream each to make two dreams, and it really communicates the same thing. And then in the very next chapter, Genesis 41, the Pharaoh has two dreams which Joseph will interpret. And that doubling of the dream is really important because what Moses is communicating here, and we see this in Genesis 41, 32, Joseph says this to Pharaoh, the doubling of the dream means that it is certain. Whatever is going on in those dreams, God will definitively bring to pass. So, what's the meaning of the dreams? Well, if you look at verses eight and ten, you can see very clearly what the meaning of these dreams are that Joseph's having. In verse 8, you you have the question, it's almost a crush question of incredulity from his brothers. Are you indeed to reign over us? Are you indeed to rule over us? You can almost hear the anger in that. In verse 10, you see a similar question, but now on the lips of their father Jacob, shall I and your mother and your brothers indeed come to bow ourselves to the ground before you? And the result is very clear again in verse 8, and this time in verse 11. In verse 8, they, being his brothers, hated him even more. Now I I've you know brought details out of the Hebrew text for you to see before. It is interesting to me that the way that this is translated It really says more literally, they continued yet to hate him. And that verb continued sounds like Joseph's name in Hebrew. Kind of like an interesting wordplay. You know, they they really hate. this brother of theirs. And then verse eleven uh caps capstones this, they were jealous of him. So notice you see the the development of this hatred into jealousy, but that jealousy then develops into a conspiracy in verses 12 through 24. And again, there seems to be a lot of things that come in twos in this particular passage, and this is no different. There's two stages to this conspiracy as it develops. In verses 18 through 22. They there's first a conspiracy to kill Joseph. Remember that? Let's kill him. Throw him in the pit and let's see what comes of this dreamer's dreams. Now Ruben convinces them, no, no, no, don't kill him. Just throw him in the pit. Now, what's interesting is not in this passage, but chapters later in Genesis 42, verse 21, the brothers are arguing amongst themselves, years later. When Joseph's already in Egypt. And they talk about how they they point back to this event and they acknowledge that Joseph's soul was distressed And then he begged them not to do this to him, but they clearly didn't listen. You heard the story when I read it. They stripped him of his garment. And they threw him in the pit. And later on you find that he's begging them with tears and distress in his voice and in his soul not to do this to him. And they don't listen because they're heartless. Why? Because they're blinded by their hatred. They're blinded by their jealousy of him. And so the conspiracy continues. They throw him in the pit And as the story marched on, in verses 23 through 27, they see the Ishmaelite traders come in, as you heard me read, and and Judah of all people, Judah, number four in the birthing order. who is the father of the Jews, comes up with a bright idea. Hey, hey guys, let's not kill them. What what pro What good is that gonna do us? What profit is there if we kill him? I got a better idea. Let's sell him. He is after all our brother. We can't kill him, right? But we can sell him Selling to the Ishmaelite traders. And so as they see these people come in, there's time for them to sit down and eat lunch, and they eat lunch and while they're eating. They find that there's some disappointment in this conspiracy in verses 25 to 28 because somebody else beats them to the punch. The Midianites come, they pull them out of the pit, they sell them to the Ishmaelites, the Ishmaelites Bring them down to Egypt. But notice how much they sell them for. Twenty shekels of silver. That's interesting because in Leviticus 27. 5 , the law of Moses values a boy from age five years old to twenty years old at twenty shekels of silver for his redemption price Exodus 21, 32 values a slave at 30 shekels of silver. So it's interesting that Joseph is valued appropriate to his age, but he's valued less than a slave in the eyes of his brothers and in the eyes of these traders. And what we don't realize yet, or as brothers don't realize when they find, are going to find them missing, The Midianite traders didn't realize this. Joseph didn't realize this at the time. God is fulfilling his promise through this wicked plan, this wicked conspiracy. How so? Well, if you go back to Genesis chapter fifteen, verses twelve through sixteen, when God made his covenant with Abraham, he promised that his descendants would be strangers in a foreign land and be servants or slaves in that land. That's what Joseph is the beginning of. Joseph is being sold as a slave, going to a foreign land in fulfillment of God's promises, and those promises will ultimately give way to a tremendous redemption for his people. And so again, stepping back from the narrative to apply this, we ask ourselves today, what does this development of hatred into jealousy and conspiracy have to teach us today? It shows us that it is only in the absence of the Lord that our hatred and jealousy can develop into doing things that can hurt or destroy brothers and sisters in the Lord. Where does that application come from? Well, if you look at the passage very clearly, there are two words that you do not find in this chapter You do not find the generic term for God, Elohim in Hebrew, and you do not find the specific name of God, Yahweh. Anywhere in this passage. From a human perspective, this conspiracy happens in a context in which God or the Lord seems, again from a human perspective, to be absent from the scene. Now, of course, I know theologically we can argue, well, God is everywhere, so he's not really absent, is he? Well, no, but they're certainly living that way, aren't they? I mean, have you ever looked at Psalm 14, verse 1? The fool says in his heart, there is no God, and then it goes on to explain how the fool who says in his heart there is no God how he lives He lives as if there is no God that he's going to give an account and a reckoning to. And that's exactly how these brothers respond. Now, what I mean here, as I apply this to us, is it is possible for us today too to live our lives in such a way in which we operate as if the Lord is not present in our lives. We make decisions. As if the Lord is not present. We treat people as if the Lord does not see how we're treating them. And we operate on motives. As if the Lord does not see the heart. And in this case, when it comes to nurturing hatred and jealousy for others in our hearts. Mark this really well. Our hearts then become a place in which the Lord will not be pleased to dwell. You remember what Jesus said when he was going to the cross, before he was going to the cross in the upper room discourse in John 14? He talks about those who love him. are those who obey his word and actually live it out. And he says, look, anyone who loves me, the Father will love him. And I and the Father will come. And we will make our abode, or we will make our dwelling inside of him. Right? And then he goes on to talk about the Holy Spirit Who is going to come after he ascends to heaven, after his death and resurrection? Here's the point. You cannot sit here this morning, whoever you are, and claim to be a Christian, and somehow nurture this root of bitterness, hatred, jealousy. Or even conspiracy against the brother or sister in the Lord, and expect the Lord to dwell within you. The Apostle Paul makes the same point in Ephesians 4. 30. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit with whom you are sealed for the day of redemption. And then he follows by talking about put away these things. And he makes a list. Bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander, malice. And he exhorts them instead to be kind to one another, tender-hearted with one another, and forgiving one another. I think these things are really important for us to take into account as we think about coming to the table of the Lord's Supper this morning. is where are we? Because the second point here in verses 5 to 28 is really hatred and conspiracy. We saw hatred and jealousy. That gives way to hatred and conspiracy. But the story's not over It gets still worse. In verses 29 through 33, we see what I'm calling here the garments of deception. This is a fascinating little section of the story because you have uh three different people and three different garments mentioned. And something that happens to them. In verses 29 and 30, it focuses on Reuben's garments. In verse 29, he comes, he sees the pit is empty, he tears his clothes. Now that's not something we do culturally today, but back then if somebody was in great distress, uh they would tear their clothes in that cultural milieu. But what is it that's distressing Reuben? We'll take a look at verse 30. He returns to his brothers and says, The boy is gone, and I, where shall I go? Now when you look at those words, does he really care about what's happened to Joseph? No, and he only cares about what happens to Joseph in the sense that he cares more about what it means for him Notice the selfish nature behind his grief. He's not concerned about the crime that he's committed against his brother. He's more concerned about the consequences that he is now going to face when the crime is exposed. So Reuben's garments are torn. indicating a selfish grief. Joseph's garments in verses 31 and 32, his robe that they took off of him. Notice what they do here, and this is really fascinating. Then they took Joseph's robe and they slaughtered a goat and dipped the robe in the blood. And they sent the robe of many colors and brought it to their father and said, This we have found. Please identify whether it is your son's robe or not. Why is that interesting? Well, the slaughtered animal represents, in this case, in every sense of the term, a substitutionary sacrifice. Now, albeit this is this is all deceptive, how this works. But the death of that animal is the substitute representing Joseph. whom they are trying to deceive Jacob into believing is dead. And the blood of this animal is meant to cover over the sin and wickedness of the brothers. Again, albeit deceptively. Isn't that interesting how this sacrificial animal functions in the story? And his blood being splattered all over Joseph's robe. And the last thing we see in verse 33 is Jacob's garments. When Jacob hears the news and he recognizes What has happened, or at least in his mind, what has happened, he tears his garments. But notice he's not like Reuben. His grief is not selfish. It is unselfish His grief and his sorrow is over the perceived death of his son. And we see in verses 34 through 36 the grief that comes from that deception. It's an inconsolable grief. Notice the wordplay there between rising up and going down. His sons and his daughters rise up to comfort him. And what does he say in response? No, I will go down to Sheol or the grave or the abode of the dead. I'm going to go down to Sheol where my son is. And all the while the Midianite and Ishmaelite traders take Joseph down, they sell him into slavery in Egypt, and that is where our story ends. this morning. Now the question we have to ask ourselves, how does this point to the message of the gospel? I've said it before. I'm saying it today. You will undoubtedly hear me say it again, unless we point to Christ. We're not gonna we're going to miss the riches that this passage has for us. Here's how it points to Christ. The gospel is pictured by the hatred of Joseph's brothers, their conspiracy to get rid of him, and the deception leading to a substitutionary sacrifice. Let me unpack that for you. The hatred of Joseph's brothers and the gospel. Now in this passage, and you're going to see me do this throughout this whole narrative of Joseph's life in this last section of Genesis. Joseph is a figure who points forward to, who anticipates and pictures the coming Lord Jesus Christ. In almost every way. Just as Joseph, think about this, was the youngest, or in this case near youngest, because Benjamin. Near youngest of his brothers, so was Christ, at least chronologically, younger than the men of the Sanhedrin, who were the Jewish religious leaders of their day. And just as Joseph's brothers hated him and were jealous of him and could not live peaceably with him, So did the Jewish religious leaders in the first century hate Jesus Christ. They were jealous of Jesus Christ, and they could not speak peaceably with him, according and according to the flesh, they were the older brothers. Why did they hate him? Remember who he claimed to be? He claimed to be the son of the Father. Making himself equal with God, which gives him more preeminence and honor than them, just like Joseph had against his own brothers in our passage. So you see the steam build. We also see the conspiracy to get rid of Joseph points forward to something more. It points forward to a conspiracy to kill Jesus. You know what is fascinating to me? The Gospel of Mark has 16 chapters, right? 16 chapters When you get to chapter 3, verse 6, I mean that's pretty close to the beginning. Chapter 3 verse 6, after healing the man with the withered hand on the Sabbath day, this is what that passage says. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him how to destroy him. Right from the beginning of his ministry. You have these older brothers, the Jewish religious leaders, out to destroy Jesus, going out with the Herodians and conspiring. How are we going to accomplish this? A lot like Joseph's brothers in our passage. And just like Joseph was ultimately sold to the Gentiles. to do with him as they pleased for twenty shekels of silver ultimately, so was Jesus sold for thirty pieces of silver by Judas. to be handed over to not just the Sanhedrin, but then to the Gentiles and the Romans to do with him as they pleased. And we know what they pleased. Or what pleased them, rather, it ended up being Jesus being scourged and crucified. And here we see the deception. This is the third thing. The deception leading to a substitutionary sacrifice. Just as there was the blood of the substitute sacrifice representing Joseph. albeit a deceptive sacrifice, that was meant to cover the sin of his brother, so also was Christ The sacrifice that was actually shed representing sinners. Now there is a difference here between Joseph and Christ in the sense that Joseph was not actually killed in real life. Christ really was. But I'm highlighting the nature of the substitute here. And the response to the cross of Jesus Christ, where he was offered as a substitutional sacrifice. for the sins of his people can only be responded to in one of two ways. You can only hear this and respond one of two ways. What's the first way? Well, first we could either be like Reuben. We could respond and grieve and be distressed over what our sins will cost us as a consequence. And not really care that Christ went to the cross for sin Paul calls this worldly grief in 2 Corinthians 7. 10. I'll quote that in a minute. But the point is worldly grief does not focus on the pain that one actually causes to someone else. Have you ever had someone apologize to you and you knew instinctively this person is they don't even know why they're apologizing They have no idea how what they did affected me. They're only apologizing because it's uncomfortable for them now. That's worldly grief. And like Reuben and the brothers, they some of us will only seek to cover our sin by our own sacrificial ingenuity. But when we do that, we end up deceiving ourselves, don't we? We try to deceive others. We end up trying to deceive ourselves Ourselves as well when we know better. But God is not a father to be deceived like Jacob was, even if we deceive ourselves into thinking that we can deceive him So we can either respond by being distressed over the consequences of our sin, or we can respond like Jacob with true grief, true distress over what our sin has done in putting Christ on the cross. And that's what the Apostle Paul means when he talks about godly grief in 2 Corinthians 7. 10. And I'll read that now. It says, for godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas worldly grief produces death. Now that's true sorrow for sin. When you look at Christ on the cross and understand why he's there and why he went there. We read before, right? Father , if it's possible, let this cut pass for me. Mark it well. He did not want to go to the cross because of how lovely or wonderful you are. He went in obedience to his father. That's what real love is. It's doing what is right and necessary and beneficial for someone else, regardless of how it makes you feel. And I would couple this repentance with looking to Christ in faith as the substitution that willingly died for your sin and for mine. Faith and repentance, these are the twin responses to the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ, of which Joseph is a point or two this morning. And that leads us to our third point. We've seen hatred and jealousy. We've seen hatred and conspiracy. Now this is hatred that leads to deception. And that really unpacks our main idea in conclusion. Hatred unchecked. can lead to jealousy that festers into conspiracy, which leads to a deception, not just of attempted attempting to deceive other people. But ultimately a deception of ourselves. There is danger when we do not look to Christ As the solution to our anger, our hatred , our bitterness, our competition with one another. Because at the end of the day, we are called to live for the glory of Christ in Christ alone. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning, and we are thankful, O Lord, that you did send your Son, a greater than Joseph. Loved by you, the Father, so that in him, through faith in him, we can be clothed in his righteousness, as Michael prayed earlier. So that when you see us, you see Christ. We thank you, O Lord, for loving us enough to send your Son. to do what was not comfortable, what was not convenient, but what was best for our redemption. Oftentimes, Lord, your ways and the way you work, it doesn't look like it makes sense to us. on a human level, but we thank you, O Lord, that you are in the process of redeeming sinners like us so that we might be saved, so that we might be forgiven of our sins. And so that we might have the hope and the promise and the security of eternal life with you one day. We thank you for these things in Jesus' name. Amen.