Well, brothers and sisters, if you have your Bibles, I hope that you do, go ahead and stand with me and let's turn in those Bibles together to Genesis chapter 13. We're going to be looking this morning at a very interesting passage, verses 1 through 18. Genesis 13, verses 1 through 18. As we think about our title, The Quarrels That Separate Brethren, our passage begins thus. So Abraham went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negeb. Now Abraham was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold, and he journeyed on from the Negeb as far as Bethel to the place where his tent had been at the beginning between Bethel and Ai To the place where he had made an altar at the first, and there Abraham called upon the name of the Lord. And Lot, who went with Abraham, also had flocks and herds and tents. so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abraham's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. At that time, the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land. Then Abraham said to Lot, Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take to the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if you take to the right hand, then I will go to the left And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere, like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt in the direction of Zoar. This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other. Abraham settled in the land of Canaan while Lot settled among the cities of the valley and moved his tent as far as Sodom. Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord. The Lord said to Abraham, after Lot had separated from him, Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward, and eastward and westward. For all the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth, so that if one can count the dust of the earth Your offspring also can be counted. Arise, walk through the length and the breadth of the land, for I will give it to you. So Abraham moved his tent and came and settled by the oaks of Mamreh, which are at Hebron, and there he built an altar. To the Lord. Well, this is the word of the Lord. You may be seated. Let's begin our time together with a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we come before you into this passage as part of being in your presence to sit and to hear from you. And so Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes. We saw twice this idea that Lot lifted up his eyes, and then Abraham was told to lift up his eyes and to look at the promises and the blessings that God had given. Lord, in like manner, give us eyes to see. As we lift up our eyes and we look to Christ, the fulfiller of the promises, Lord, we pray that you would bless us this morning. In your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, as you no doubt know. I, for one, am getting all kinds of text messages in my phone almost on a daily basis, having to do with some kind of an election announcement or political announcement. And you see it not just in your text messages. When I jump on YouTube, I see it all in all the commercials for YouTube. I see it on Facebook. And the sad thing is, particularly with Facebook, and that's the only social media platform I'm on, and I I try to not be on it too long on a daily basis. Otherwise I find myself getting upset with things that I read and see and conversations I see happening. But it's really sad to me that almost for anything you can see people splitting hairs over almost nothing. And you read the comments section under under anything and you find it devolving into quarreling. What is it about the human nature that just seems to devolve into quarreling so naturally? You know, I don't know exactly, but this passage does have something to say about that. And this is really the centerpiece of this passage. It deals with the human issue of quarreling, right? The main idea here, as we see, as we'll unpack chapter 13 of Genesis, is that quarrels can lead to separation between Christians. Because they have the power to reveal where our attitude and true values lie while also clarifying God's promises to us. That's an interesting idea. Quarrels can lead to separation between Christians because they have the power to reveal where our attitude and true values lie while also clarifying God's promises to us. And so those two ideas are how our passage is going to break down. We're going to see the first point in verses 1 through 13, which is going to be a Admittedly, a longer point. And then our second point in verses 14 through 18, we'll look at how those promises get clarified as a result of a quarrel. So let's begin with our first point in verses 1 through 13, the separation that comes from quarreling. Now, if we look broadly at verses 1 through 7, we see the circumstances are rich for quarreling. Look at me again at that. Our passage this morning picks up right on the heels of Genesis chapter 12 and to do a very quick snapshot review of Genesis Chapter 12, we saw that Abraham got this call to go from his land and his kindred in his father's house to the land that God was going to show him. We saw in verse 7 of chapter 12 that that land was Canaan, right there in the Middle East. So Abraham went there, he journeyed through the land, and then he ends up going down to Egypt as a result of a famine. And we we looked at last year how that was really Kind of almost a prophetic snapshot of what was going to happen to Israel later on in their history. A famine in Jacob's time was going to lead him and all of his household down to Egypt. where they would dwell for four hundred years, like Sarah being taken into captivity into Pharaoh's harem. Israel was enslaved. It was not allowed to go until God unleashed plagues. That's exactly what happened in chapter 12. God afflicted the house of Pharaoh with great plagues so that he sent them out. with great wealth. And so Abraham, just like Israel would do later in their history, plundered the Egyptians and left Egypt with great wealth. And so, right on the heels of leaving Egypt at the end of chapter 12 , chapter 13 begins, Abraham comes up from Egypt. Look at the let's look at the circumstances here in verses 1 through 2 and also 5 highlight Abraham's riches. Think about how this these verses set the stage. So Abraham went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had. And lot with him into the Nagab. Now, if you don't know what the Negab is, it's actually pronounced Negab with a V It's just simply the southern part of the Holy Land, which is largely desert. Abraham goes to the Negev, the south. It's the Hebrew word that means south. And it tells us in verse 2, an interesting observation. Now Abraham was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold. Well that shouldn't surprise us because back in chapter 12, verse 16, the Pharaoh enriches Abraham with all these things, everything that he could possibly want, because he lied about his wife, saying she was his sister. But what's also interesting that Moses draws to our attention in verse 5 of our passage here, verse 5 says, and Lot By the way, who's not been a major main character thus far? He's been on the s on the side, but now he's brought to the center of the stage. And Lot, who went with Abraham, also had flocks and herds and tents. Stop there. Now, if we're honest, this great wealth is nothing short of the tremendous blessing that God has given to both Abraham and through Abraham, Lot. It's consistent with his covenantal promises to Abraham. And I want to be careful here. We have to nuance this very precisely. When you look at verse 2 and verse 5, and it highlights and describes the great riches and wealth that Abraham and Lot have, this is not to say that wealth is a bad thing. In this case, it's clearly tied to the blessings that God, covenant blessings that God had given to Abraham and to Lot. The Bible never communicates the message that wealth or being wealthy is a bad or a wicked thing. Now what Paul does nuance later about wealth. is he says that the love of money is the root of all evil. It's not wealth itself. It's the love of wealth. And we need a nuance and clarify that because Abraham here is clearly a man in covenant relationship with God. He's proven to be faithful in many ways, although we did see some unfaithfulness last week. But largely the scriptures look at him favorably, and he was a wealthy man. And so you cannot just assume that because somebody is rich or wealthy that they are inherently wicked or evil. Kind of challenges the mindset that many have today, doesn't it? But we need to clarify that. In this case, the wealth is the blessing of God on this covenant people. But the scriptures are not Dishonest here with riches can come tremendous danger spiritually. And that's what comes out in this passage. And I want to look first at the circumstances of the internal danger. There's an internal danger that's produced here, but there's also an external danger to be aware of. First, the internal danger in verses 3 and 4 and 6 and 7. Verse 2 and 4 simply tell us that Abraham, after returning to the Negev, went back to the place of Bethel and Ai, where he had built an altar back in chapter 12. And he goes there again, and we see that he calls upon the name of the Lord. So far, so good. That's not a bad thing. But verse 6 tells us two things. Actually, let's look at verse 6. So we saw in verse 5 Lot is also wealthy, and 6 tells the result of that, so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell. together. Let's stop there. First, the land cannot support both of them dwelling together because they are so wealthy that their possessions take up most of the land. And we have to keep in mind that contextually wealth, including gold and silver, which we can understand in our day and age, the dollar was once based on the gold standard, we understand that But wealth in that time also included animals and livestock, sheep and goats, cattle. And those animals need a place to graze and to eat and to drink. Now think about it. In any given location, anywhere in the world, there really is only so much pasture to graze in. There's only so much water that those animals can consume. And if the need is greater than the supply, to use economic terms, it puts a tremendous strain on the natural resources of that land. Now add to that the weight that there really recently was just a famine that drove Abraham to Egypt in the first place. Right? And so there's a tremendous strain on the land. There's not enough. And when there's not enough, Abraham and Lot Stand to lose much wealth if their animals die from a lack of nourishment. There's a danger here. There's a danger to to what they've accrued that God has blessed them with. Are they going to lose it or are they going to steward it wisely? Now, second in verse 7, we see an inevitable response. Take a look at verse 7. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abraham's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. Actually want to stop there really quick. Now, that strife should not surprise you I mean, if Lot has these herdsmen that are responsible for taking care of his wealth, and Abraham has the same thing, they're each going to be concerned about their master's welfare and their master's interests. But when there's conflict, how is it resolved? That's the question that comes up. Now the word translated strife here. I want to draw your attention to that one word. It's the word that stands behind the quarreling, right? Why are they why are they quarreling? Because there's strife. In Hebrew, there's several shades of meaning that that word can take on. It can include physical combat, which I don't think is what is in mind here. It could also mean verbal combat, which would include quarreling, chiding , contending with one another. Now I think that that's probably more likely what's going on. They're verbally fighting who's going to get access to the the pasture and the water and the resources of the land. But there's a third nuance that that word, strife, in Hebrew can take on. And I think it actually deepens our understanding and gives us an appreciation for how this conflict is going to be resolved. The third way that this word can can kind of take on a meaning is having a legal, judicial significance. A conflict that has a legal and judicial significance. And you're thinking, well, why is that important? Because it gives a technical sense to this conflict. And I think we need to understand the technical sense of this conflict if we're going to understand how this works out. I want you to think about this technically in one sense legally. In this case, God has promised the land to Abraham back in Genesis 12, verse 7. God never promised the land to Lot per se And so technically speaking, Abraham and his herdsmen have a covenantal priority over Lot. And what is his in the land? Lot is only benefiting in the land through Abraham. If you really want to be technical And yet Lot's herdsmen are clearly arguing and fighting against with one another, against Abraham's herdsmen. With whom God is primarily dealing with. Now, I think that nuanced meaning will help us understand and appreciate in a moment Abraham's response all the more But before we get to how it's resolved, I also want you to understand the other side of the danger they're facing. So there's internal danger. They're infighting amongst one another. What makes that so dangerous is the external danger that you see in verse 7. Look at the end of verse 7. At that time, the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land. That's a strange name, isn't it? Parasites. We're not talking about parasites. This is a name for a people group. Although you kind of wonder if God's word calls you a par like sounds like a parasite. That's not really good, is it? The Canaanites and the Parasites are dwelling in the land. Now we know from other parts of Scripture that there were Seven nations in that land, and I think parasites in this case is kind of like a catch-all for anything that's not specifically Canaanite, but they are representative of the enemies of God's people. They are representative of the seed of the serpent, to use that continuing seed language that we've been tracing through Genesis, the seed of the woman, the seed of the serpent, right? The seed of Canaan and the seed of Shem. And so on and so forth. There is external danger here, and it's not just militarily, it's spiritual Which would which makes it so important to notice why Abraham is putting a a an altar where Bethel and Ai is at and calling on the name of the Lord in the midst of these pagan idolaters. Now again, I I tried to you know make a big deal about the strain of all of these animals, their wealth being represented in animals and livestock, and the strain that we're put on the land. between all their great wealth in such a small space, but now you add to it the external threat. These nations also have the same wealth. And you better believe when people start competing over land and wells and water in the Middle East, where it tends to be dry, things can get violent and things can get dangerous. Right? It doesn't take much to shed blood over who has rights over water or l or Grazing for their animals. And so there's an external danger here. I mean, not only are they infighting amongst one another, they're infighting in a context where there's outward danger. That could come and wipe them out if they really wanted to. And so we need to understand all sides of the danger here in the circumstances. These people might see Abraham and Lot together as a threat and attack them. And so it's interesting that staying together in this case seems to heighten the threat to them from those on the outside. Now that leads to two different approaches to dealing with this quarreling, which we see in verses 8 through 13. Now, I want to be just really up front about the solution to deal with quarreling. The solution is not what you would expect. You would think that their strength in numbers and they should stay together because of that outward threat. But that is not how Abraham thinks, and that's not how Lot complies. They must separate. I want to state that up front. What is this what is the solution to this quarreling? Well, in this case We need to separate. That's the solution. Now, I don't really want to focus your attention right now and our attention this morning on the fact that they separated. I want to focus our attention this morning on the manner in which the separation was carried out, because that manner is how we're going to apply it. in just a moment. So I want to look first at the approach of Abraham in verses 8 and 9 and then verse 12. Abraham's approach We see in those two verses, eight and nine, where he says to Lot, Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take to the left hand, I will go to the right. If you take to the right hand, I will go to the left. Now, I want to just draw out just a few things here that reveal where Abraham's heart is as he is looking to work through this quarrel and find that solution. First, He puts the whole thing into perspective when he says, let there be no strife, and then he gives the reason at the end of that clause, for we are kinsmen. Now that is a really nicely refined translation of a very rough Hebrew phrase. In the original. A literal wooden translation would be something like this. For men , brothers are we. We don't really talk like that today, but the whole point is he's highlighting the fact that we are brothers. Why should we not fight? Why should there be no strife between us? Because we're brothers. We're family. Some of you might take a step back and think, well, that's really the reason to fight. We are family, right? That's not what Abraham's thinking here. You know, he's not notice what he does. In other words, the relationship that they have is more important to him as he approaches the conflict. The relationship is the priority. In his mind. That's the first fact he highlights. He's not focused on the fact that legally or technically He has the greater right to the land because the promise was to him. He could have said that. He could have said that's a lot, right? He could have said, look, this is my land. He doesn't do that. He doesn't focus on the fact that he's the one who's essentially being wronged here in this conflict, and he is. He starts with their relational context as he thinks about resolving the conflict and the quarrel. Let there be no strife because we are family. We ought to love one another. That's his priority. Secondly, now this is a minute detail, but it is so crucially important in how we're going to apply this. In English, Abraham puts Lot and his herdsmen first and him second in verse 8. Look at verse 8. This is kind of a really tight nuance, but it's important. Let there be no strife between you, he mentions lot first, between you and me, between your kinsmen and my herdsmen, or your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. Now, the way he says that in translated into English, now that is really good English grammar and syntax, right? That is proper English, which is why it's translated that way. But the way that it's translated puts the onus of responsibility on Lot by mentioning him first. In Hebrew, proper Hebrew syntax and grammar actually requires the reverse. What it should say in Hebrew is this, let there be no strife between me and you, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen. He switches it. In Hebrew, it's just backwards But it's important because in Hebrew, by putting himself and his herdsmen first, Abraham is taking the responsibility, and dare I say, the fault or the culpability. for the quarrel in the first place, even though he and his herdsmen were not the ones to start it. That is an interesting detail. So not only does he not press his legal claim to the land, but puts the relationship first. He then takes responsibility for the conflict as if to say, this is my fault, this is my responsibility as the covenant, uh the person God made the covenant with. That's interesting. And lastly, notice how, this is kind of in the background, but notice how he defers to Lot in giving him the selection of the portion of land that he wanted. Boy, that's a gamble, isn't it? That is a gamble. I mean he just lays it out like in this really open scenario. Okay, if you go right, I'll go left. You go left, I'll go right. You take your pick. Do what you want. Now, why that's a gamble as we go back to chapter 12, verse 7, God promised to give them the land of Canaan. Now from a human standpoint it's a gamble because you don't know exactly what Lot is going to do in the moment. But actually what it what it shows, if you really stop and think about it, um Not only does he have the right to the land, but he demonstrates grace in not demanding his own way to resolve this conflict. He demonstrates faith and trust in the Lord. That is so profound because he knew he could give Lot the choice, but God would providentially direct things in a way to protect his covenant promises. God will do what is right. to protect the promises he made to Abraham. So while from a human perspective it looks incredibly risky, can you truly trust another sinner It shows not a trust in that sinner to make the right decision. It shows a trust in the Lord to govern all things, to bring about his greatest glory in fulfilling his promises. Wow. Wow. I mean and because of Lost's choice, we go down to verse 12. It says that Abraham does dwell in the land of Canaan. So the Lord did direct things. to resolve in a way where his promises were going to be fulfilled and held true. So that 's an interesting way to look at how Abraham, where his heart is really at, is he dealing with a quarrel, as he's dealing with strife, is he dealing with conflict that does lead to a separation. That's one approach. Let's look at the approach of Lot in verses 10 and 11 and then verse 13. It's almost the mirror opposite. Notice what verses ten and eleven say. And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere, like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt in the direction of Zoar. And then there's this parenthetical comment, right? Kind of indicating where we're going when we get to Genesis 19. This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. You remember that story? I mean he rains down fire and brimstone out of heaven, and it's essentially destroying the land. I mean that land is not fruitful to this day. There's a reason there's so much salt in the Dead Sea, you can go in there and float to the top. It all goes back to that judgment, but this was before that. Notice the description. It was well watered, like the garden of the Lord. That's the wow. Reminds you of Genesis chapter 2 in the Garden of Eden. Like the land of Egypt where they were just at in the in chapter 12, the Nile River Valley is very fertile and very green in an otherwise very deserty and dry area. So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other. By the way, this this really this is a side note. It's not in my notes, but it is an interesting observation. You know, usually when you see people going east, it's it's not a good thing Made me kind of wonder how did I come east from the Midwest, you know? I'm just kidding. I I am so glad to be here with you guys God's done it to me three times. He must be teaching me something. I went east to North Carolina for seminary. I went east again to Pennsylvania, and then I came east again to Maryland. But usually in the Bible, whenever they go east, right, Adam and Eve, when they got kicked out of the garden, they went east. When Cain kills Abel and God sends him out, he goes east. Right? When they leave the ark and they go to the plain in Shinar and build the Tower of Babel, they went east. Right? When When Israel is faithless against God in their land later in their history, they go east in exile. He goes east. All right. What does this tell us about his approach? Let's look at what informed his decision because verse 13 picks up and says the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord. So first we see in verse 11, it makes clear that Lost's choice from a worldly point of view makes a lot of sense. Don't miss that. It's well what do they need? They need more land. Why? Because his wealth is going to starve and die if they don't. This this decision seems to make sense. He looks at the land in the Jordan River Valley Plain, and it's green, it's lush, it's well watered, it's Like the Garden of Eden, there's room to for and grass for his flocks to graze. They're not gonna go thirsty. He's not gonna lose any of his wealth. This is a great investment. Don't miss that. It's a great investment from a human standpoint. But what's the problem? The problem is he's judging by what he sees with his eyes. That's a problem. Second, in verse 12, this is kind of, again, one of those subtle nuances, but it says Lot chose for himself That reveals a selfishness and putting himself in his own interests first. Think about how that is the near opposite of Abraham's attitude in taking responsibility for the quarrel. Lot's just like, let me just wash my hands and get out. It shows he's looking off for number one, and in addition to that, he's deciding based on a worldly criteria. Thirdly, verse 13. reveals that he goes east in the direction of Sodom, despite knowing that the men of Sodom were wicked men, as the scripture says here great sinners against the Lord. In his decision, which from a worldly economic perspective on his wealth looked like a good investment, actually put him in spiritual danger. He compromises himself spiritually. By taking up with sinfully wicked people for the sake of pursuing what he thought was going to benefit him in the flesh and for his own comfort and to give him an inheritance that that he thought was going to be better than Canaan. Which is not based on God's promises, is it? It's based on the flesh. Notice a totally different manner of solving a quarrel between two brothers. So as we take a step back from this, as we try to apply this to ourselves today, As we think about quarrels, as we think about people separating for all kinds of petty things, what does this teach us? Well, it teaches us that while separation is not always ideal, our response to quarrels with other believers Must be fueled by the gospel, otherwise we will end up, like Lot, compromised by the world. Okay, well what do you mean? Well the gospel requires a response like Abraham's to conflict I'm going to take I want you to just take a step back out of their immediate context. Let's look at the big picture. I want us to see how Abraham's example is incredibly Christ-like in how he handled the conflict and quarrel with his relative Lot. Why don't you think about this? This is more than just what would Jesus do? Okay? This is going to lead us to ask the question, what has Jesus done? That should influence what we should do. Like Abraham, it's the relationship first and foremost that Christ was after when he chose to redeem us. What do I mean by that? Well, our sin in Adam is what broke the covenant relationship with God in the first place in the Garden of Eden in Genesis chapter 3. And the Apostle Paul makes it very clear in Romans 5 10, for while we were enemies, that's a relational term, isn't it? While we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. I'm sorry, I read that wrong. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, how much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life The gospel is about reconciliation, isn't it? You go to uh 2 Corinthians. Chapter 3. We have the ministry of the New Covenant as ministers of the New Covenant, and that's all of us, not just me. We are ministers of a new covenant. We are ministers of reconciliation. Relationship is the primary thing we should have in mind, because that's what Christ had in mind when he's resolving a conflict and a technically a legal quarrel between God and man. What's the end game? What's the concern? That they may be brought back together in covenant relationship. And so, like Abraham, the conflict of sin that the gospel heals is relational first and foremost. That's why John 3. 16 says, God so loved the world, love again is a relational thing, that he sent his only begotten Son, so that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. So okay, relationship, first and foremost, when we are dealing with conflict, the gospel brings us to relationships. Secondly, Like Abraham, Christ takes the responsibility upon himself for the quarrel of sin between God and man. Think about that. He took the penalty of sin, becoming sin himself, according to 2 Corinthians 5. 21, so that we might become the righteousness of God. in him through faith. He takes that responsibility legally upon himself in the gospel. And thirdly, in taking that responsibility, he did not demand his legal right as the righteous party with a claim to innocence. Can you imagine if he said in the Garden of Gethsemane on the way to the cross, remember that prayer, you know, Lord? Let this cup pass from me. But and he's sweating blood as he's saying this. But not as I as as I will, but as you will Submitting himself to the will of the Father. Can you imagine if he turned that around and said, Lord, oh I was sweating blood here. This is killing me already. Spare me. I have the legal right. I'm the innocent one. Punish them. They deserve it. Can you imagine if he did that? He doesn't do that. He did not demand his legal right, but essentially surrendered his legal right, becoming the servant of all to bridge the gap of sin which was the issue between God and man. So, in light of what Christ has done in the gospel, how should this affect the way that we approach conflict as brothers and sisters in Christ? We are spiritual kinsmen. Well, there are things that the gospel requires of us in working through conflict. If the relationship you have with other believers and being reconciled to them is not your primary concern in the midst of conflict, And if I do this, then look, then we're not we're falling short of the gospel. Love covers a multitude of sins. By the way, both the Old and the New Testaments say that. If that is not your Mo, your fundamental presupposing attitude to conflict. Then I would encourage you to remember and look back to the fact that Christ had every right to alienate and isolate you in the conflict that he had with you in your sin, and he didn't do that. Remember that. Remember the gospel. We are not called to constantly blame others. For the conflicts that we have, and we're called to be willing to shoulder the responsibility of letting love cover a multitude of sins. What about this one? I find this one particularly convicting. If you are not willing to lay down your claim to a right that you might have legitimately, even when you were wronged. Then I would encourage you to look to the gospel of Jesus Christ, where he did just that By the way, all these conflicts, they they come up in all sorts of areas of our lives, don't they? I mean, let me bring it home, literally home. Think about your marriage. How often How often have you just pressed your claim that no, I'm right? And I'm not going to give up because I'm right. And you have this conflict in your marriage and it doesn't get resolved. Right? How often do these things happen at work? Or with your friends? Or I've seen this happen in congregations or sessions. Of churches. Conflict gets very bitter. Because we don't have an attitude like Abraham, who had an attitude like Christ. And we weren't willing to live out the gospel. When we want work through conflict in a gospel saturated way, always looking to Jesus Christ, and asking the Lord to apply the power of the gospel to change our hearts, when we do that, we come to understand that there is no way that that our wives, uh maybe our siblings or our husbands or our siblings or our co-workers or our brothers and sisters in the fellowship in the covenant community of the church. or fellow elders or fellow deacons or whoever it is. There's nothing that anyone on this earth could ever do to sin against you That matches the way that you have sinned against the Lord. Boy, if if you let that hit you, it is incredibly humbling. Boy, I'll tell you. This beat me up this week. You don't just like to study a passage all week Marinate yourself in it? Know what it's saying and have no idea how to put it together until the last minute? That's what happened to me this week. Take a , I want to encourage you guys, in your conflicts, in the quarrels that you have with one another, take a step back. And look at the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did in the gospel. And then go to him in prayer and maybe confess pride or arrogance. or something that might be there in your heart with your attitude and say, Lord, make me more like you. Can you imagine if every one of us in this room, and I realize this is highly idealized, but can you imagine if every one of us in this room was willing to defer like Abraham deferred to Lot? If we were willing to defer to other people and give them what they wanted, every conflict you would have You wouldn't have to worry about what you want because you can trust that the Lord is working in the heart of the other person to give you what you want and you give them what they want and everybody works through that conflict in a gospel way, laying down They're right. Do you realize what the formula for discipleship is in the church? This is one of my theme verses. The very night the Lord got a hold of my heart, he pressed this on my heart. If anyone wishes to come after me, let him do what? Deny himself. That's the first thing. Let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow. Oh, that the cross would permeate the way we deal with conflict and strife with one another. Otherwise, what's the other option? We could do what Lot did, but the worldly response of Lot always leads to compromise with the world. What is so hard about doing what Abraham did, I'll tell you why. We most of us tend to look at conflict as in terms of worldly a worldly viewpoint. We look at self-interest like Lot did. We look at what's easy like Lot did. We look at what looks beneficial for us. Selfishly, like Lot did. And look where it leads him later in Genesis. Living in Sodom. Losing his family. Wow. All because he made a bad choice in response to this quarrel. But you know what? I will say there is something about quarrels that can be tremendously refining. There can be sometimes something to separation That is very clarifying. Which is why our brother Don, for the uh assurance of pardon, read that verse in 2 Corinthians 6. 16 to 18. It's calling them to come out and separate from the world. That's what's clarifying. That leads to our second point this morning in verses 14 through 18. The separation that clarifies God's promises. Now this is going to be a lot shorter because you know 13 verses is a lot you know more than four. But we see in verses fourteen and fifteen and then verse seventeen we see the promise of the land. There's two kind of aspects of his promise that come out here. First is the promise of the land. Verses 14-15 says, The Lord said to Abraham, after Lot separated from him, Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward, and eastward and westward. Just like our call to worship this morning. Remember that? It mentioned all the geographical directions. For all the land that you see, he says to Abraham, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. Now keep in mind where he's at geographically. He's at he's between Bethel and Ai, kind of right in the middle of the Holy Land. And it's it's kind of high up in the mountains and the hills. So it's it's in a high place. He it's elevated, so he can he can survey the land in every direction, and then God goes even further. than just looking. He says in verse 17, he tells Abraham to walk through the length and the breadth of the land. What is going on there? Why walk through it? Well, Dr. John Curry, I believe he's now retired, but he was an Old Testament professor at RTS, Reformed Theological Seminary, says in his commentary, such walks are sometimes symbolic. He says examples exist of monarchs who take a ceremonial walk in territories to demonstrate their ownership and authority over those areas. And so again, by doing this, what God tells them in verse 17, Abraham once again Demonstrates that his actions are acting out in the faith and the promises that God has given to him. So he gives them the promise of the land, but he also gives them the promise of offspring in verses. 16 in verse 16, and then we see him settle in verse 18. Verse 16 says this, I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth. So that if one can count the dust of the earth, your offspring can also be counted. And then Abraham in verse 18. This concludes. So Abraham moved his tent and settled by the oaks of Namreh, which are at Hebron. There he built an altar to the Lord. That's interesting because in the context of the previous quarrel and separation from Lot, this promise of land and offspring are clarifying because believe it or not, Lot's descendants become the Moabites and the Ammonites. I don't know if you knew that. But they do. They become these two other nations that will give Israel all kinds of problems in their history living next to each other. But this promise, this separation, keeps Israel distinct from the nations around them, even from Lot's descendants. And so much so was that God's intention that even in Deuteronomy chapter 9 and then verse 19, when Israel comes out of Egypt, just like Abraham did, and they go into the promised land. Just like Abraham went back to the promised land, God tells him on the way, do not bother or harass the Moabites or the Ammonites, because I am not going to give you any of their land. The land that those nations are living in, I have given that to the descendants of Lot. And we see it here why that is. God is keeping them separate so that he might fulfill his promise and clarify those promises to Israel as God's chosen people in the Old Testament. Now that leads us again to take a step back and ask by way of application this question. How do these specific promises of land and offspring apply to Christians today? Well, these promises speak to our distinct identity as the children of Abraham and the hope that we have to come. Well what do I mean? Well, I want you to think of this promise of offspring and Christians today. Now there's no doubt that historically God's promises applied first and foremost to the nation of Israel and the Jews in the Old Testament That's why God deals mainly with them in the Old Testament. That's why the Old Testament is written in Hebrew. Historically, they were the people physically descended from Abraham. By the way, when you get to to the book of Deuteronomy in Joshua, it mentions how none of the promises that God had made to Abraham had fallen short when he had multiplied them into a great nation and brought them into the land of Canaan, and they took it over. Historically speaking, we have to keep that in mind. But we also have to keep in mind what the New Testament does with these promises, because there is a principle that I want you to remember. Scripture interprets Scripture. Right? And so the new what the New Testament says about these promises and how it applies it is also very important for us today. The Apostle Paul in Galatians 3, 7-9, says this. Know then that it is those who are of faith who are the sons of Abraham. Now, writing to Galit to the Galatians, keep in mind Ga-a-h Paul is writing to a largy Gentile church. Right And that passage continues. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. By the way, that goes back to Genesis 12. 3, which we looked at last week. So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man. Now, historically, Israel and believing Jews did receive the promises first. But those promises went out and were expanded historically to include the Gentiles as well. This is why Paul says to the in Romans 1. 16 to the Jew first, then to the Greek, implying the Gentiles. Galatians 3. 29 concludes, and if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. Now I'm not going to trace every single thing that Paul says. My point is very simple. The promises that God made to Abraham to multiply his offspring more than the dust of the earth includes Jew and Gentile. And that's what the church is made up of, isn't it? Believing Jews and believing Gentiles. We are the children of Abraham. And so this morning the point is that you too can be a child of Abraham by faith, which gives us an incredible identity that is grounded in the promises of God, which are always redemptive. Let's take this right back to the problem of quarreling that we saw in our first point. Have you fallen short there this week? Have you ever fallen short of that? Have you sinned? Yes, you have. We all have. Does that mean you have to be defined by it? No. You can be defined and identified by God's promises by coming to faith in Jesus Christ, who fulfills the promises of God to Abraham. We become partakers of that. Now, the next thing I want to tackle with you is the promise of land and the Christian's great hope. This is one that I think often confuses a lot of people, even many in the Reformed camp. What do we do with the promise of the land? Well again, if we allow Scripture to interpret Scripture as we should, then we see that this promise speaks to our eternal hope that we have as Christians. Where do I come up with this stuff? Right. The book of Hebrews. Hebrews eleven Verses 8 through 10 and then verses 13 through 16. Let me quote that at length because it makes the point for us. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he went to live in the land of promise as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. Now pay attention here. For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations whose designer and builder is God. That tells you that he's looking beyond just that physical land to something more that God is going to provide. He goes on in verses 13 through 16. These all died in faith. Talking about Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar. And having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, for people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. Now that's interesting. I'll stop there. Comment. He, they're in the land of promise, and yet they're seeking a homeland. Telling you that even though they're in the land, they're not quite home yet. Well, where is home? If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country. That is a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. So how does the New Testament interpret and apply the promises of the land that God made to Abraham to Christians today? It means that the land of Canaan is a type or a shadow that is fulfilled in something else. It points to something more complete. The land promise has been expanded to include all the nations of the earth. Now think about this. It goes right back to the promise that God made in chapter 12, verse 3. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Right from the beginning, while these promises are made to Abraham and we're going to have a literal fulfillment in his physical seed in the Old Testament with Israel, they were always meant to be expanded. Always. You go to Psalm chapter 2, verse 8. After God installs his king on Mount Zion and says, You, you know, you are my son, I've begotten you today. He says, ask of me, saying this to Christ, this applies to Christ. Ask of me, and I will give the nations as your inheritance, and the ends of the earth as your possession. Think about Daniel chapter 2 verse 35. Nebuchadnezzar has a dream. He sees a statue, but it has various parts that represent all these earthly, worldly Kingdoms that have dominion over all the known inhabited earth. What happens? A stone, like a stone cut by human hands, is thrown Hits the statue, crumbles it, the stone becomes a mountain and fills all the earth. This is the Davidic kingdom. This is why Jesus says in Matthew 28, 18, immediately before giving the Great Commission to make disciples of all nations, Christ says, all authority and power in heaven and on earth is given to me. The promise of the land has been expanded to include all nations, and who is the ultimate possessor? Christ as king. Now some of our friends may say, wait a minute, that's replacement theology. That's spiritualizing and abusing the promises of God. Is that well, do they have a point? Does it spiritual spiritualize? The promises of God and relegate his promises to some imaginary pie in the sky spiritualizing abuse? The answer is no. Here's why. Because it will be fulfilled in the new heavens and the new earth when Christ returns and all things are restored. That's why. And at that time, the earth is going to be just as literal today as it is today. It's going to be just as physical. But it's going to be restored? It's going to be glorified? How is that not literal? How is that spiritualizing the promise? It's not replacement theology, it's expansion theology. This is the most literal God-glorifying fulfillment that we could ever hope for. And it speaks to the hope. brothers and sisters that you and I have. Because God is a promise -making God. He will forgive, He will fulfill his promises. Are these promises, becoming the sons and daughters of God, and receiving one day an inheritance from him that will never perish away, are those the sum and substance of your hope this morning? In Christ? I hope so. And it brings us right back, doesn't it, to our initial point. Quarrels can lead to separation between Christians. Because they have the power to reveal where our hearts and our attitudes and values really are. Where are your hearts? Where are your attitudes this morning? But it can also clarify the promises of God for us. So that as the things of the world fade away from our affections, We have a clearer picture of Christ and the blessings that he offers through faith in him. Let's pray Heavenly Father, what a challenging, challenging passage this morning. We pray, O Lord, that where there is quarreling, where there is strife among us, O Lord, if there be any in our families, among our friends, maybe in this church Lord, we pray that you would let your spirit descend upon us. Give us the heart of Christ. Give us the heart that is demonstrated by Abraham in this passage. As we learn to love each other well, crucifying ourselves, following Christ, bearing our cross, Lord, let us apply the gospel to these things And as we do, Lord, clarify the promises more specifically that we might love you more and treasure you more this week. week. We ask in Jesus name. Amen.