If you have your Bibles, go ahead and take them and let's open to Genesis chapter 42. We'll be looking at verses 1 through 38. I would invite you to stand for the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. Genesis 42, beginning in verse 1. When Jacob learned that there was grain for sale in Egypt, he said to his sons, Why do you look at one another? And he said, Behold, I have heard that it that there is grain for sale in Egypt. Go down and buy grain for us there, that we may live and not die. So ten of Jo of Joseph's brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt. But Jacob did not send Benjamin, Joseph's brother, with his brothers, for he feared that harm might happen to him. Thus the sons of Israel came to buy among the others who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. Now Joseph was governor over the land. He was the one who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed themselves before him with their faces to the ground. Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he treated them like strangers and spoke roughly to them. Where do you come from? He said. They said, from the land of Canaan to buy food. Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him. Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamed of them, and he said to them, You are spies, for you have come to see the nakedness of the land. But they said to him, No, my lord, your servants have come to buy food. We are all sons of one man. We are honest men. Your servants have never been spies. He said to them, No, it is the nakedness of the land that you have come to see. And they said, We your servants are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan. And behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is no more. But Joseph said to them, It is as I said to you, you are spies. By this you shall be tested. By the life of Pharaoh, you shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here. Send one of you, and let him bring your youngest brother, while you remain confined, that your words may be tested whether there is truth in you. Or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies. And he put them all together in custody for three days. On the third day, Joseph said to them, Do this and you will live, for I fear God. If you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain confined where you are in custody, and let the rest go and carry grain for the famine of your households And bring your youngest brother to me, so your words will be verified, and you shall not die. And they did so. Then they said to one another, In truth we are guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the distress of his soul when he begged us, and we did not listen. This is why this distress has come upon us. And Reuben answered them, Did I not tell you not to sin against the boy? But you did not listen. So now there comes a reckoning for his blood. They did not know that Joseph understood them, for there was an interpreter between them. Then he turned away from them and wept And he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. And Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain, and to replace every man's money in his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey. This was done for them. Then they loaded their donkeys with their grain and departed. And as one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place, he saw his money in the mouth of his sack He said to his brothers, My money has been put back. Here it is in the mouth of my sack. At this their hearts failed them. And they turned trembling to one another, saying, What is this that God has done to us? When they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan, they told him all that had happened to them, saying, The man, the Lord of the land, spoke roughly to us, and took us to be spies of the land. But we said to him, We are honest men. We have never been spies. We are twelve brothers, sons of our father. One is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. Then the man, the Lord of the land, said to us, By this I shall know that you are honest men. Leave one of your brothers with me and take grain for the famine for your households and go your way. Bring your youngest brother to me, then I shall know that you are not spies, but honest men. And I will deliver your brother to you, and you shall trade in the land. And as they emptied their sacks, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack. And when they and their fathers saw their bundles of money, they were afraid. And Jacob, their father, said to them, You have bereaved me of my children. Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and now you would take Benjamin All this has come against me. Then Reuben said to his father, Kill my two sons, if I do not bring him back to you. Put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you. But he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he is the only one left. If harm should happen to him on the journey that you are to make, you would bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin our time with a word of prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we come before you in the name of your precious Son, Jesus To ask your help as we come into this passage, as we look to hear from you. Lord, we pray that you would keep us humbled at your feet, learning and hearing from your word, that our hearts would be receptive. Lord, we need the Holy Spirit to open our eyes that we might see Jesus more clearly and that we might hear the gospel out of this particular passage of Scripture this morning. Lord, we thank you for the life of Joseph and how instructive it has been and how it will continue to be in our lives here at Liberty Church. Lord, I pray that you would help me to be humble as a preacher as I open your word. Lord, I pray that you Would magnify the glory of your son Jesus through the preaching of your word this morning. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. Well, most of you have heard of the literary phrase before, and they lived happily ever after. Now, it's usually associated with, I think, a love story of some kind, but I suppose it can apply to other types of stories as well. And last week, if you remember, when we left Joseph, he was exalted to the right hand of Pharaoh. He had become the Lord of the land of Egypt. We saw that he had gotten married. Pharaoh had given him a wife. And then his wife had given him two sons during those seven years of plenty. And those sons helped him to forget the affliction of his father's house as well as his affliction in prison, which was kind of how he described the meaning of their names, if you remember that. Now, I don't know about you, but that sounds to me a lot like happily ever after to me. It seems that all's well that ends well, right? Well, somewhat, but not really. Not quite. The Lord may have redeemed Joseph But the Lord was also about to work to redeem the rest of Joseph's family, the family of his father Israel. And in order to do that, the Lord sends a famine, as we saw again last week, that famine was coming. And in this episode in the life of Joseph. The only part of God's redeeming plan for Israel as a family was to reconcile them as a group to the one brother that they had betrayed. And so that's why this is not quite all 's well that ends well. That's why this is not quite, and they all lived happily ever after. Yes, Joseph is a success. But there's still work that has to be done in the redemption of this family. In fact, as we unpack the history in front of us this morning, I want us to put I want to put the big idea before you of this passage up front this time, which is this. We live by coming to Christ, repenting of sin, and trusting in the one Son of the Father to deliver us. Now, if you're visiting with us this morning, you can turn the page over onto verse 6 of your bulletin, and you'll see that sermon idea laid out for you. in case you forget that. But that's the idea we want to unpack this morning in this passage. We live by coming to Christ. Repenting of sin and trusting in the one Son of the Father to deliver us. So as we unpack that, let's jump right in. Our first point in verses 1 through 14 is life. to fulfillment of God's word. And we see in verses 1 through 5, more narrowly, the famine that comes to pass. Again, if you remember Pharaoh's dream that we looked at last week and Joseph's interpretation from chapter 41, you'll remember that there was going to be seven years of plenty that came. in which uh Egypt was prosperous, uh the land was fruitful, and and Joseph had counseled, uh, take a fifth of of what comes in that those years of plenty, put them aside in these store cities. So that we're not destroyed and we don't perish in the seven years of famine. That's what we saw last week. And we're within the seven years of famine in this context. In fact, later in the narrative in chapters to come, Joseph will tell his brothers that they are two years into that famine by this point. And so what that means is last week we saw Joseph ascended to the throne, ascended to the right hand of power, right hand of Pharaoh, when he was about 30. This would place Joseph around 36 to 37 years old, which means he's then the Lord of the land of Egypt at this point for about six to seven years. And that's where the story picks up in verses 1 and 2. It begins easily enough. Jacob hears a rumor that there is grain and food in the land of Egypt. And, you know, I have to kind of laugh at what he says in verse 1 to his sons, why do you look at one another? In other words, why are you standing there inactive, doing nothing, looking, you know, at each other with your hands in your pockets? Truly something a father would say to his sons, isn't it? But he ends up sending them to the land of Egypt. That's what he says. Look at verse 2. Notice what he says here. Behold, I've heard that there is grain for sale in Egypt. Go down and buy grain for us there. Why? What's the purpose? What is Joe Jacob's Central concern at this point, that we may live and not die. That's a key phrase. If you'll notice, I cleverly put that as the title. Very creative of me. However, it's not the only time we're going to see that phrase in this particular passage. But that's Joe Jacob's Tram um deepest concern. He wants to ensure the survival of his family. And the problem here is his sons aren't doing anything about it. So he takes the leadership and sends them. But we see something in verses 3 through 5 that kind of explains or describes a nuance in Jacob's decision in sending his sons. We find he does not send Benjamin, as verse 4 says, Joseph's brother, with his brothers, for he feared that harm might happen to him. Again, as we just read through this passage, the idea of sending Benjamin and Benjamin's role in this narrative, again, is central , and Jacob is not aloof to that. He's concerned. Why is he concerned? Well, think about it. He's the only surviving son of he and Rachel, at least from Joseph's per Jacob's perspective. Jacob is assuming at this point that Joseph is dead. And so this is the last, in one sense, you can say, his only begotten son left of Rachel. This is his beloved son. He's not letting him go. And so verse 5 says that he they went to buy grain among the others who came. Ten of them. Ten sons went to buy grain, among the others who came. Now it would not have been uncommon for people from Canaan to come down to Egypt during a famine. Such things did happen historically with regularity in Egypt's history during times of famine. But when they get there, something happens to these brothers that they do not expect and could not have foreseen happening to them. And we see this in verses 6 through 14. You see that the dream of Joseph comes to pass. Look at verse 6. The brothers, it says, Now Joseph was governor over all the land. He was the one who sold to all the people of the land, and Joseph's brothers came and bowed themselves before him with their faces to the ground. Wow, that's tremendous humbling of these brothers before him. Whether you want to say fortunately or unfortunately for them, they don't quite understand. What's going on yet? In verses 7 through 14, you see Joseph, his recognition of his brothers and his treatment of them. Now, as they come, it's not unnoticed by Joseph. Why? Because he's the one selling the grain. He's the one selling the food to the people coming to him. Which is really an interesting observation because this shows that Joseph is not one of those people that will just sit high and mighty on the throne and keep his hands clean from the hoi poloi. He gets down and dirty into the mess, and he is interacting with the common people, even as he is the Lord of the land. Now notice the comments in verses 7 and 8 about how he recognizes them. Because this is really interesting. In verse 7, Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them. Uh hold on to that word, recognized them, but he treated them like strangers. Hold on to that word, that phrase. And he spoke to them roughly or harshly. if you will. Now I highlight that for you because Moses uses the very same word to highlight a contrast here. The verb recognized and treated them like strangers in Hebrew is the same exact verb that's used in two different Hebrew stems to give two very different meanings. Now, if you were a a Jew or an Israelite in the Old Testament times, you were hearing this read to you, or you were reading it yourself, you would have picked up on that that um uh play on words there. On the one hand, Joseph recognizes them. But on the other hand, he uses the same verb to communicate the opposite point that he treats them with severity. It's kind of a strange literary device in this particular passage. And it's meant to draw our attention to the fact that Joseph is being very intentional. and very calculated in how he is dealing with his brothers. Again, verse 8 completes the idea using the same verb to say that Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him. That is such a fascinating, in my opinion, a fascinating family observation. Because again, on the one hand, if you think about it, it's been like twenty years since they've seen each other. And the last time they saw each other, they were stripping his robe off of him and dumping him in a pit when he was 17 years old. Now he's a grown man. He looks like an Egyptian. He's probably shaved bald. His beard is gone, as we saw last week. He doesn't look like the brother that they remember. No wonder they don't recognize him. But on the other hand, after 20 years, it is amazing that Joseph still recognizes them. They must have aged pretty well. But he recognizes them. And secondly, notice what he says in verse 9. And Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamed of them. Now by the way, that seems like Moses is just writing this almost glossing over the point very quickly, but it is this detail that forms the center of all of this drama. And not just the drama this week, but the drama in weeks to come. It is that one verse Joseph remembered, verse 9, the dreams that he had dreamed about his brothers. In other words, this takes us back to Genesis 37 when Joseph had those two dreams that his brothers would come and then bow themselves down to him And the dramatic and and if you want to say the divine irony in this history is that it was their jealousy and their anger in the first place in response to these dreams. that led him to being sold into Egypt, where he was then elevated to the position of authority to which they now bowed down to in their time of need. And it is ironic because they do not know that their actions are in fact fulfilling the dreams that God had prophetically given to Joseph about their future. Now, I do find it interesting here, thirdly, that Joseph treats them very harshly, accusing them of being spies to see the nakedness of the land. Now again, here the nakedness implies insecurity, the vulnerability of the land, even the weakness of the land and the nation as they are going through a famine. Now it's interesting, this may have been a problem in terms of Egypt's foreign policy. I don't think Joseph is just shooting out of left field with this accusation. Because Egypt at that time in their history was known for having a lot of Semites coming from Canaan or Palestine coming in and And taking advantage of some of the benefits of the land, as Joseph's brothers, among many others, were doing in this situation. In fact, what's really fascinating to me is later in Egypt's history, Semites from Canaan came in and took over Egypt, perhaps during a time of famine, according to many scholars. and ruled over it from about the year 1650 to 1550. That's called the Hyksos invasion of Egypt In other words, Egypt was ruled by foreigners who came from the area of Canaan or Palestine. And so Joseph, being the ruler of Egypt, would have probably known of these domestic challenges from the outside and looking at his brothers uses that as a pretense to put them to the test. Because that's what he does. He reiterates in verses 9, 12, and 14 for emphasis the charge that no, you are spies. Talking to them harshly, right? And in verses 11 and 13, you see that they answer that they're not spies, they're the sons of one man. Now verse 13, they sort kind of submit to him some family background. They add details about their family. They add that there are twelve brothers in total. They add that they have one brother who's the youngest who has not come with them, but is back in Canaan with his father. And lastly, they add that there is one who is no more. Kind of a way to say that he died. He's no more. And the dramatic irony, again, is that they're talking to the one that they're saying is no more. So the question we ask ourselves by way of application is how does this passage up to this point Highlight one of the greatest needs that we have as human beings. That's the question we want to pull out of this passage. Well, it highlights that we all have a need of reconciliation with God. Which is then demonstrated oftentimes through reconciliation with other people. Sin requires reconciliation between the party that sins. And the party that was sinned against. Now again, in the overall life of Joseph and his brothers The ten brothers are the ones who have sinned against Joseph, and Joseph is the one who has been sinned against. And as we've seen this last few weeks, Joseph takes on the role of pointing forward to Christ in his humiliation and then in his exaltation. If you remember, these last couple weeks I've been trying to build that paradigm slowly and piece by piece with you that Joseph is a type or he anticipates or points forward to or shadows Jesus Christ, who is to come. He's been sinned against by his brothers. His brothers have sinned. And now that he's exalted, the drama does not end. He has to be reconciled with his brothers Again, that's why this is not a happily ever-after yet. And so the same is true of us today. Now that Christ has been exalted to the right hand of the Father, and he is King of kings and Lord of Lords with all authority in heaven and on the and on earth, as Matthew says in Matthew 28, 18. We have to understand today that our sin, all of it, has ultimately been done against him. Christ is the offended party , which means that none of us, at the end of the day, are innocent. We are all offenders. And moreover, you can broaden that out from just talking about Christ, the person of Christ. You can broaden that out to God in general to say we have sinned against God. And our great need, just like Joseph's brothers here when they come to him, is that we need to have reconciliation if we are going to hope to be saved. Reconciliation is a massive part of salvation. We're being reconciled to God. Think about what Paul says in Colossians chapter 1, particularly verses 19 through 21. He talks about how through Christ God is reconciling all things to him. Things in heaven and things on earth. Brothers and sisters, understand that the reconciliation component of salvation is not just simply about you and Jesus. It is about that, no doubt. But there is a wide scope that God has in mind as he thinks about reconciliation. And when he talks about In Colossians chapter 1, that salvation is about God reconciling all things to him in heaven and on earth, that gives a cosmic scope. to reconciliation, to redemption that you and I get to be a part of in Jesus Christ. Praise God. Thank you. That leads us to our second point in verses 15 through 28. Life through testing and repentance. Hmm. In verses fifteen through twenty-four we see the first test that leads to repentance. By the way, you're going to see a pattern laid out in this section. There are two tests laid out, and those tests lead to two responses from these brothers. The first test that leads to repentance, we might expect Joseph to want to just take revenge. He's in a position to do that. He could have just looked at his brothers and arrested them and just said, put these men to death. They're criminals. But that's not what he does. Look at verses 15 to 17. There's a test first of confining all of the brothers. He doesn't consign them to death. He confines them essentially to prison. Notice what he says. He lays out this test in verse 15 by saying, by this you shall be tested. And then he uses an oath formula I mean when we make oaths or promises, right? We always swear by something greater than us, like uh the author of Hebrews said in Hebrews 6. This is what he does when he says, As Pharaoh lives, that's an oath formula. So what's the test? Look what he says in verse 16. Send one of you. Let him bring your brother while you were while you, in the plural, all remain confined, that your words may be tested. Then he put them all together in custody for three days. Now, this is just my conjecture. You can take it or leave it if you'd like, but My assumption here again is that why three days? Well, I think that he spent three years in that prison. Perhaps it was three days to give them a foretaste of Or a back taste of what he had experienced for three years. But three days he puts him in prison. But what the principle I want to pull out of that for you is that What Joseph is essentially doing in this test is he's essentially saying that it is by the means of one you will all be saved. Notice that principle. By the means of one, you'll all be saved. So send one of you. The rest of you are confined for what you've done. But that's not really where the test ends. He changes the conditions here in verses 18 to 20 and then verse 24. After three days we find that he modifies these terms. Now pay attention to the fact that he says the same thing in verse 18 that their father said in verses 1 and 2. He says in verse 18: Do this and you will live. That would have triggered something in their mind. Wait a minute, Dad said that. Do this and you will live. Why? For I fear God. That was probably not what they expected to hear. In other words, what Joseph is essentially communicating to them is this test, what I'm doing to you, is not arbitrary. I fear the Lord. Essentially, what I am doing is what God is doing to you through me. Hmm. That's interesting. He uses the generic term Elohim, God. He doesn't use the divine name Yahweh. He doesn't want to trigger off to them just yet who he really is as part of the really part of the covenant community. He is kind of passing himself off according to their assumption as an outsider. But again, despite changing the terms, the the terms change from okay send one of you, all of you remain confined to okay, all of you go, one of you remains confined. But the principle remains the same. You will be saved by means of one. And what does he do in verse 24? Simeon is the one who is bound before them. Boy, that must have, I mean, really, what that's what verse 24 says. He took Simeon and bound from them. In other words, there's a forcible separation. Take that one out from the group. You can imagine the Egyptian guards coming in, grabbing him, manhandling him, right in front of his brothers, pulling him away from them. Maybe they're trying to reach out and hold on to him, and what do they do? They bind him before their eyes. I can't imagine how terrified these brothers must have been. I mean, think about this. The drama in this is rich. And if you stop and think about it, it's really family drama. He binds them before their eyes. It's by means of binding one that the rest were made free. The principle remains the same, even though the circumstances of the test change. Now notice what the response is. We got to test what's the response of these brothers. In verses 21 through 24, we I 'm I'm looking at this as seeing there's repentance on the part of these brothers and on the part of Reuben specifically as the oldest brother for what they've done. What do I mean? Well, look at verses 21 and 22. You see the repentance of these confession that shows repentance. of these brothers. Verse 21 gives a general sentiment of all the brothers when they kind of say collectively, in truth we are guilty concerning our brother. By the way, that word in Hebrew for guilty has to do with legal guilt. It's actually the same word when you, later in the law, when you bring the guilt offering to the Lord. We are guilty concerning our brother. Why? In that we saw the distress of his soul when he begged us and we did not listen. This is why this distress has come upon us. Notice the parallel terms. We notice the distress in our brother. Again, highly dramatic emotional memories. Of listening to Joseph, perhaps cry out to them back in chapter 37, begging and pleading with them not to do this. They didn't listen. The distress of his soul, that is why this distress has come upon us. Notice that principle of retribution there. Right? They understand what they've done. Verse 22, Reuben gets very specific, almost exonerating himself. He reminds them that he warned them not to sin against the boy. And did they listen? No. And so what is he saying? So now there comes a reckoning for his blood. By the way, that that word in Hebrew for reckoning, it's the same word that's used in Genesis chapter 9, when God says, you know, when one man sheds another man's blood, uh the murderer is to be put to death. For I will require a reckoning, right? Judicial response. Notice what they're thinking. Their thinking is patterned or based on ancient the ancient Near Eastern mindset. Uh the saw justice based on the retributive principle. You punch my out, I punch yours out. That's the idea. What I do happens to me. What you do to me happens to you. That's the idea. We call it the retributive principle. It sees suffering as a consequence for sin, but it's nothing more than an impersonal principle of cause and effect. Again, you read the book of Job. This is the assumption behind Job's three friends. You're suffering, you must have sinned. Cause effect But notice how that's an impersonal principle that they see that they think that governs the universe. They understand the guilt of their sin, but what they do not understand is the heart of God, even for them as sinners. They're seeing this as punishment, they're not seeing anything redemptive in its value about what's going on And that's where Joseph's response in verses 23 and 24 are so crucially important for us to narrow in on, which we're going to look at this and unpack it in our application, but I'm going to say this in passing. Joseph's response is not verbal, but it's what he does. Notice what he does. He turns aside to weep. He hears his brothers reasoning through this. Remember, they don't know that he can understand. There's an interpreter there But Joseph's response, when he has every right to be angry, when he has every right to put them to death, when he has every right to take vengeance, and he's in a position to do it and has the power to do it, that's not what he does. He turns as he hears this and he weeps What a picture of his heart. He's been betrayed. He's been sinned against. He's been left to die. He was going to be sold for profit by his brothers, and now he's looking at them and he knows that they are the ones responsible for all of this hardship. in his father's house. They're the ones ultimately responsible for the affliction that he's experienced in the land of Egypt. And yet he weeps. Why? Because he sees their repentant hearts and it moves him. He knows that reconciliation still has to happen. And so what he does by this test is meant to prepare them for that reconciliation to come. But that repentance came first. Now there's a second test that leads to repentance in verses 25 through 28 He set them free. He's going to send all of them but Simeon back. And just before they head back, Joseph gives them one more test, but this is a test that they're unaware of. The first one they were aware of. The second one not. What does he do in verse 25? And Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain and to replace every man's money in his sack. And to give them provisions for the journey. This was done for them. In verses 26 to 28 , they're on the way back, they're in a lodging place. And one of them finds the money in in their sack and it says their hearts failed them. And this is what they say. What is this that God has done to us? Again, they demonstrate that they don't understand the way that God deals with his people. Is God behind this? Yeah, in one sense, sure. Why? Because He's sovereign and He governs providence. But does God mean this for their judgment and punishment as they suppose? Again, the broader scope of this entire family narrative in this history, we have to answer no. God does not mean this Testing for their judgment. He means it for their redemption. He means it for their reconciliation. He means it for their salvation. But at this moment, they don't quite know what God is doing. John Calvin, the 16th century reformer, was noted as saying at one point, and you'll forgive me, I can't remember the citation exactly of what commentary it was in, but He makes the comment, it is very dangerous to try to read providence. Why? Because we don't often know what God is doing like these brothers. But what we can say definitively is they miss the heart of God because they're thinking in a legalistic sense. They miss grace for law. Now before we get to the application, just one more thing. Notice that these two tests are laid out. There's two tests, and after each test, there's an overall confession of repentance over their previous sin. So what does this show us about how God works for the salvation of people today? People like me and people like you. Well, God is working in our lives to produce the fruit of repentance, which is motivated by seeing the heart of God in Christ. And that despite our misunderstandings. Think about that. God's providence works in ways to bring us to repentance. It is so important for you and I this morning to see that just as God used Joseph, to reveal the hearts of his brothers, to reveal their sin. So often does God do to us in order to reveal where our hearts really are. And he does this to lead us to repentance. Now, like Joseph's brothers, some of you in this room have done some incredibly sinful things in your life Maybe like Joseph's brothers planning to kill Joseph initially, you hated someone in your heart. You may not have committed murder. But remember what Jesus says in Matthew 215, verses 21 through 26. He calls those who hate their brothers unjustifiably murderers. You've heard it said, you shall not murder. But I say to you, everyone who is angry with his brother is guilty of murder. Maybe like Joseph's brothers looking to sell him for profit. You have taken advantage of brothers and sisters in the Lord in a way that dug a pit under them without them knowing it. Perhaps you have manipulated and plotted with others against a brother or a sister for your own comfort, for your own convenience, or maybe even for your own prominence, as Joseph's brothers did to him. Perhaps like Judah did with Tamar, maybe you have committed sexual morality, using others for your own base ends and pleasure. The list can go on and on. I'm just using Joseph's brothers as the paradigm here. We have seen God providentially work in Israel's family up to this point. And he does this to drive home to them, and drive home to us this morning, first, that we have a need of repentance over sin. And secondly, to show us that God is often working in ways unbeknownst to us to bring us to a place of repentance. And mark this well. God really doesn't open our eyes to see the full picture all at one time. Because if if he did, it would drive us to despair. He's very gracious with how he deals with us, how he opens our eyes little by little through circumstances and relationships to bring us to those points of repentance. Why? Because the heart of God is revealed in this passage in Joseph. And again, I said in verse 24, it seems like a passing comment that Joseph weeps. At his brother's statements, but it reveals the heart of God in Christ for us when we are trapped in our sin. And yet we un and we understand that we're guilty. And mark this very well. It is possible to have a repentant heart in a godly sense and understand that you're guilty for sin. Right? It's not just facing the consequences, it's understanding what you've done to this other person. That is entirely possible to have that kind of repentance and still misunderstand grace. Still miss God's heart. Right? Because what does the law do? The law brings us to a point of repentance. The gospel shows us, and grace shows us the solution. I love what Paul says here in Ephesians 4:30. Because we we have to see that forgiveness comes when we're reconciled to God whom we've offended and grieved with our sin. What does Paul say in Ephesians 4. 30? Do not grieve the Holy Spirit within you, with whom you are sealed for the day of redemption. And then you know what's fascinating? The next two verses, 31 and 32, he talks about sins, relational sins that many of us often commit between one person and another. He goes on to say, let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. In other words, reconciliation is the means by which we are redeemed and saved. But it often comes when we finally see what the heart of God is for us, even in our sins. And how he deals with us as his people. He's not just looking to SWAT you when you mess up. There's grace. But what stands in our way of coming to Christ? What stands in our way of bowing to him for redemption? Well, there's a danger of misunderstanding how God deals with us as his people. Like the ten brothers and like Reuben, we often misunderstand how he deals with us. We often assume that God deals with us in this really cause-effect, in this mechanical, and this impersonal manner. And think about it. I mean, this is the idea that God 's reckoning presupposes his judgment. I'm suffering this. Think about what they said. What is this that God has done is doing to me? How often do we function that way in our relationship with God, even though we confess Christ? Well, I did this and this is happening to me, so I must, God must be punishing me for doing this. Understand the consequences for certain things is not the same thing as punishment. Sometimes God uses those consequences in a very gracious, loving, gentle way, again, to bring us to repentance. But the question I want to ask you this morning is, how many of you this morning think of God in this retributive way? How many of you, like Joseph's brothers, are more influenced by the world and the culture and what the culture says about justice and punishment? Then you are influenced by what the Bible says and what the gospel says about this and looking to Christ That's what this is calling us to. Well, what drives us to repentance? It's seeing the heart of God. What does Peter say in 1 Peter 3, verse 8? Don't count slowness As many count slowness. What's wh why is God seemed slow in fulfilling his promises? Because he wishes that none of you uh remain unrepentant. I'm paraphrasing this of course. But he's working so that all of you come to a point of repentance. That's God's desire. That's his wish. What does John say in 1 John chapter 4? You know, those who are more concerned, again I'm paraphrasing this, those who are more concerned about punishment don't understand love. Perfect love casts out fear. And all that leads us to our third point this morning in verses 29 through 38. Life through the Son of the Father. Now, I'm not going to focus on verses 29 through 35. It's just repeating the story of what has already happened and what we've already covered. I want to focus at the end here on verses 36 through 38. You see Jacob's response as a father. Jacob perceives that he has had a plight as a father. Look what he says in verse 36. He says to his sons, You have bereaved me of my children. Boy , nine of them come back, and that's what they hear from their father. You have bereaved me of my children. Joseph is no more. Simeon is no more. And now you want to take Benjamin too? Oh, I can only imagine the frustration that he's feeling. All this has come against me, he says. Now again he believes that Joseph is dead. We know that's not true, but he believes that. And the words show, by the way, he words this, that he believes that if Simeon is not dead, he's as good as dead and probably going to be dead soon. Right? That's not really true, but he perceives it that way. And now you want to take Benjamin, my only begotten of Rachel, my beloved son. Notice the contrast here that he says, You have bereaved me of my children. He's talking to his children, but notice he's creating. A distinction. And notice Reuben's proposed solution sounds foolish. Verse 37: kill my two sons if I do not bring him back to you. Well, that sounds harsh. But again, think about how this demonstrates how permeated they are with this retributive principle of justice. Okay, Father, you've lost two sons. You've lost Joseph and you've lost Simeon. Uh give me this one also, and if I miss, if if he doesn't come back, kill two of my sons for the loss of the two that you've already lost. Of course, Jacob doesn't acquiesce to that in verse thirty eight I'll summarize his answer by saying a resounding no. He will not send his only begotten son named Benjamin to redeem Simeon or the rest of the family for that matter. He's going to hold on to what he has out of fear And by the way, that's the tension this passage ends this week. We're not resolving the tension this week in this family drama. You've got to come back next week and the week after to hear that. But what do we do with this by way of application? Well, Jacob's unwillingness to send is only begotten Left from Rachel, his only begotten son for the redemption of his family is a contrast to what we find in the gospel. And this brings it right back around to that principle of the rest will be saved by means of one. This is the gospel by way of contrast. You can contrast what Jacob does here with two different people The first one that I want to highlight is back in Genesis 22. You remember God tested Abraham by calling him to sacrifice Isaac, his only begotten son. Right? And he did that. But here Jacob is being called to give up his only begotten son in Benjamin, but he is unwilling to give him up. You see the contrast here between Jacob and Abraham. The other contrast here is probably the more obvious one, is the contrast with God the Father, who did not hold back from sending his only eternally begotten Son in Jesus Christ for the redemption of all of his people. You've heard the passage before, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that Whosoever shall believe in him shall not perish, but have everlasting or eternal life. It brings us this brings us right back to the first part of this passage where the brothers came to Joseph to buy bread. They came to the one son who had the power of life and death in his hands. They bowed down to him. They acknowledged his lordship over their lives. And the same is true for us today. And the question you have to ask yourself, whether you are a believer who needs to come to Christ continually for strength. To continue living the Christian life and for fellowship with God? Or whether you are not a believer, you've never professed Christ, and you need to come to Him for life, the question is, will you come? Will you confess that Jesus is Lord of your life today? We have a tremendous promise in Romans 10, 9 If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And that brings us right back, doesn't it, to the main idea of Genesis 42, which I said right from the beginning. We live by coming to Christ, repenting of sin, and trusting in the one Son of the Father. Who has given for us to deliver us. Praise God for the gospel. Then when we fail, Christ succeeds. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do come before you. We are thankful for Jesus, and we're thankful for how He continues to come up in the life of Joseph in Genesis. We thank you, Lord, that you have given us these historical narratives from Genesis early on in the scriptures to just hammer into our hearts the promises of the gospel. to continue to clarify for us the picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray this morning for each person here Whether believer for many years or those who have yet to come to faith, that you would continue to clarify our view of the glory and the majesty and the power of Jesus Christ and the love of God in him, that we might love you all the more and draw closer to you. Even as we go out from here today, we ask this in Jesus precious and recognition