If you have your Bibles, I would invite you to take them and let's turn to Genesis chapter twenty-three and stand for in honor of the reading of God's holy word. Genesis twenty-three is 20 verses. We're working through those this morning. Genesis 23, beginning in verse 1. Sarah lived 127 years. These were the years of the life of Sarah. And Sarah died at Kiriath Arba, that is, Hebron, in the land of Canaan, and Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. And Abraham rose up from before his dead and said to the Hittites, I am a sojourner and a foreigner among you. Give me property among you for a burying place that I may bury my dead out of my sight. The Hittites answered Abraham, Hear us, my lord. You are a Prince of God among us. Bury your dead in the choicest of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb to hinder you from burying your dead. Abraham rose and bowed down to the Hittites, the people of the land, and he said to them, If you are willing that I should bury my dead out of my sight, Hear me, and entreat for me Ephron, the son of Zohar, that he may give me the cave of Makpella, which he owns. It is at the end of his field. For the full price, let him give it to me in your presence as property for a burying place. Now Ephron was sitting among the Hittites, and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham. In the hearing of the Hittites, of all who went into the gate of his city, know my lord, hear me. I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is in it. In the sight of the sons of my people I give it to you. Bury your dead. Then Abraham bowed down before the peoples of the land. And he said, And he said to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, But if you will hear me, I give the price of the field. Accept it from me that I may bury my dead there. Ephron answered Abraham, My lord, listen to me. A piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that between you and me? Bury your dead. Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver that he had named in the hearing of the Hittites, four hundred shekels of silver, according to the weights current among the merchants. So the field of Ephron in Makhpelah, which was to the east of Namre, the field with the cave that was in it, and all the trees. that were in the field throughout its whole area were made over to Abraham as a possession, in the presence of the Hittites, before all who went in at the gate of his city. After this, Abraham buried Sarah, his wife, in the cave of the field of Machpelah, east of Mamreh, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. The field, the cave that is in it, were made over to Abraham as property for a burying place by the Hittites. Well, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today and we come to this passage which has some gravitas to it, has some Emotional weight and seriousness to it. Maybe it's a story we've heard before, or maybe it's one that we've read and we're just never paid much attention to. One way or the other, Lord, we pray that as we Sit at your feet to hear from your word. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes to see, open our ears to hear, open our minds to understand, and our hearts to receive gladly. from your word this morning that we might see and know Jesus more deeply and come to love him more passionately because of this word of yours. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, when someone dies, we are often forced to take a step back for a moment and contemplate the context of events that brought us to the place that we are. uh that we are in as those left behind by those loved ones. It's never easy. And anyone who knows or has studied the process of grief knows that everybody grieves a little differently. Everybody processes what happens a little differently. In stepping back to contemplate the context of events that have brought us this morning to the death of Sarah in our passage, we need to begin by taking a step back. And looking backwards in time to what has brought us to this moment. Now, in chapter 21, you'll remember she gave birth to Isaac when she was 90 years old at the beginning of that chapter. In chapter 22, we're not exactly told when it happened in the life of Isaac. Was he five? Was he ten? Was he fifteen? We don't know. We just know he was old enough to know what was going on, but Abraham nearly sacrificed Isaac, their only son, the child of promise. And if you remember from last week, the Lord graciously stepped in. And spared his life right at the moment of decision. But it's interesting, and in receiving him back, the author of Hebrews said, that was really a picture of the death. And the resurrection of Christ, which led to God reiterating the promises that in Abraham, in Isaac, in their seed, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And now in chapter twenty-three, years later, Sarah dies In other words, there's this huge swath of their lives we are largely ignorant of, and we don't know what happened, but we know that we get to the point where Sarah passes away. But as we always are forced to do when we lose someone we love, we have to look forward and figure things out. It's not just looking back, it's asking the question, where do we go from here? That every one of us has to wrestle with when these things happen. What comes next? Now for Abraham, we can kind of cheat and look forward to the next chapter, which is a sneak preview of next week. When we look forward, he will arrange the marriage of his son Isaac in chapter 24 so that the promised covenant seed will continue the demonstration of God's faithfulness and grace. But for now, we are in this valley of Sarah's death. And that brings us to the main idea of our passage this morning, and it's this the hope of resurrection as we face death offsets the despair we often feel by pointing us to God's promises and to the victory of Christ over the grave. Let me say that again. The hope of resurrection as we face death offsets the despair we often feel by pointing us to God's promises. and to the victory of Christ over the grave. That is what I believe this passage is really meant to draw us to this morning. Well, how do you get that? Well, let's work through it and we'll find out. You get to our first point in verses one through nine of our passage is the hope of the resurrection and God's promises. Now we look at verses 1 through 4 and we see the promise of the land for a sojourner. Now this this This passage is really interesting this morning. I don't know if you've ever thought about this or thought this when we were reading it, but this is the first account Of someone's burial in the Bible. Now we we've seen a lot of in the genealogies, particularly so-and-so lived. He had this this child this child. He lived this amount of years after he had that child, then he died, right? And he died, and he died, and he died. We we've met a lot of people who died Up to this point in the book of Genesis, we have not yet experienced or seen the burial of someone in the Bible. And it's interesting that it is whose burial is it? It is Sarah's burial, the wife, the wife of Abraham, the mother of all of those who are of the seed of promise. That's interesting. We see in verses 1 and 2 the life and the death of a sojourner. Verse 1 is really to the point. It says Sarah lived 127 years. These were the years of the life of Sarah. Period. Stop there. Now I don't know about you, but that does not sound like much of an obituary. Usually when you read an obituary, you read them online now, but you know they used to put them in these you know, little brochures. Um, y you'd you'd see a little bit more than that. So and so was born to Throw in some names of some parents. They had these siblings. They went to this high school. They had these interests They grew up and they got married to so and so and they had these kids and they spent their career lives doing this, that and the other and raising their families. And then they they passed away now they're survived by so-and-so. That's an obituary. You're trying to honor the person who has passed away. This is really to the point. Sarah lived 120 years. These are the years of the life of Sarah. That's it. But what's interesting is when you get to verse 2, it says, and Sarah died at Kiriath Arbah, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan, and Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. Now here's what is really fascinating to me. You would think that that Moses as the author of Scripture inspired by God would give a little more attention to maybe what are the events that led up to Sarah's death. I mean, did she get sick? Did she just die of natural? Did she go to sleep one night and never just didn't wake up? We don't know In fact, the only thing about Sarah's life and the mention of her death is in one verse. The rest of this chapter doesn't actually focus on the death, it focuses on what Abraham does in light of that death. Which is really kind of interesting. You think it'd be the other way around. In fact, what we see here when we look at some of these details Unpacking verse 2, we see that Sarah died inside the land of promise. Notice that. We are given the name of the city where Sarah died. It's Hebron. Which, by the way, is still the name of that city in modern times. Hebron. It's in the southern part of the Promised Land. It was named, Hebron was the name of that city after Joshua conquered it, but in Abraham's time, which we see parenthetically in the notes here in verse 2, it was called Kiryath Arba. Interestingly enough, that means the city of four. Does that mean that there were four sections to the city? Some scholars think so. Arba in the book of Joshua seems to indicate that was the name of a man who had four children who inherited that city. Who are Canaanites? But here's what's interesting. When you go back and you look at the timeline of Abraham and Sarah's lives, What you find is that Abraham, prior to Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham and Sarah lived near this area. Remember, they lived near the oaks of Mamrah, which were outside of Hebron at that time. Sodom and Gomorrah happens. Abraham and Sarah leave the promised land, because Hebron is in the promised land, and they go outside of the promised land to Gerar, and they dwell in the land of the Philistines. Isaac is born in the land of the Philistines when Sarah's ninety. This is now she's 127 years old when she passes away. This is roughly thirty-seven years later, so we're coming up close to forty, give or take. 40 years of Abraham and Sarah living in among the Gentiles outside of the promised land. But what we find surprisingly, we don't know the details of how they got there, when they got there, but she passes away in the promised land. And you're thinking, why are you making such a big point of this? Well, the important thing to keep in mind here is that Even as she died in the promised land, it demonstrates that even in death, the patriarchs were cognizant of the promises of God. We're going to see this later in the book of Genesis when we finally get there. And when Jacob dies, he's in Egypt and he tells his sons, bury me in the land of promise. And they do. At the end of the book of Genesis, Joseph, Jacob's son, who, as you remember, goes to Egypt and becomes ruler. Makes the sons of Israel promise that when the Lord visits you and delivers you from this land , in a sense prophesying the Exodus He says, make sure that you bring my bones up from this place with you into the land of promise. You get to Exodus chapter 12. Forgive me that I don't remember the verse, but they do. And then it mentions at the end of the book of Joshua, they finally settle Joseph's bones in the promised land. It was important to them. that they die that their their remains were put in the promised land, that they died there, if they didn't die there, that they would be buried there. Why? Because It relates to the promises of God. God had given them that land. That was their inheritance. By dying there and being buried there, it communicates a faithful response that we are trusting That God will give us, despite death, will give us our inheritance that He promised. What a statement of faith in the moment of death. Now, as you would imagine, Abraham, his mourning is customary. We see a double verb here used to describe his response. He went to mourn for Sarah and to weep. for her, those two verbs, mourning and weeping. And I think on the surface those two verbs are both used and put together. to kind of reinforce one another to highlight the grief that this man felt at the loss of his wife after how many years of marriage? We don't know. But it was a long time. You can imagine the emotional blow that this took on him. But even more than that, even more than just the emotional weight and the emotional grief. Those two verbs are often put together in the Old Testament to talk about the ceremonial rites of mourning that were common in the ancient Near East at that time. And that goes a little beyond the emotional to just what the actions were. Now what did he do? We don't exactly know. We know that she was before him. Because his plea to the Hittites is, let me bury my dead away from me or out of my sight. But he's doing what you would expect him to do. He's doing what he has to do to respect and honor the memory of Sarah. This is customary. But what's fascinating here is even in this grief and in the light of this death, we learn that even though God has made covenant promises to them as his covenant people, they are not exempted from death themselves. And that that's a reality that every human being has to wrestle with. And he goes on, as we see his need in verses 3 through 4, he is a sojourner. And anyone who's lost a loved one knows you you you do take that time to grieve. But I remember like when my father passed away, I mean there there was a moment where you're still in grief But decisions have to be made. You have to plan the funeral. You have to plan the burial and organize everything. And you have to be lucid and clear enough to think through those details. And we see Abraham do that here. Notice what he does in verse 3. We see his action. He says, it says, he rose up from before his dead. Boy, that is a fascinating statement. In the midst of death, it uses the word he rose up. And I do think that there's some thematic intention there because it relates to the idea of rising from the what? The dead. His very action as he's going to plan his wife's burial is meant to highlight death and resurrection, going right back to my sermon idea, the hope of the resurrection. And what does he request in verse 4? This is really interesting. He requests from the Hittites living in Hebrew, and he says, I am a sojourner and a foreigner among you. Give me property among you for a burying place that I may bury my dead out of my sight. Now it's easy to just glance over that detail, but when he says, I am a foreigner and a sojourner here, or actually say that backwards, I am a sojourner and a foreigner. uh among you, the idea of him being that meant that he did not have the legal rights that would come with citizenship, which means that he could buy and sell land as property. He did not have that right This seems to be a constant theme in the life of Abraham. He had the same issue in Gerar. The king had to make an exception and give him property and land in Gerar in the land of the Philistines. Now he's in the land of promise. that God had promised to give him and he says he's asking them to kind of bend the norm and the custom of the people and allow him to buy property within the land. Which would have been really highly unusual at that time. And what is, in my opinion, more unusual from a 21st century Western perspective is Reading this today is realizing that Abraham is essentially asking permission to buy land that God had promised to give him in the first place. It almost sounds counterintuitive. And a little ironic. Well, how does that square? How does this make sense? Well, let's continue to watch how it unfolds, because I do think it actually points to Abraham's reliance on God to bless him. And that leads us to verses 5 through 9 and realizing that the promises come from God alone. How do we see that? Well, this section shows the beginning of the bartering process between Abraham and the Hittites. Now this kind of process in my opinion is really kind of a foreign experience to many of us living in 21st century America. I don't know about you, but when I go to the store and I see something on the shelf that I want to buy, there's a price tag. I don't go up to the checkout counter and bargain with the person of how, you know, well, it says these pickles are, I don't know, making this up, $3. 99. I'll give you $2. 99. They might just call security on me and throw me out of the store, right? Um But there are other parts of the world that still barter and bargain like this, even for small things on all the way up to big things. I think maybe some things we might be used to bargaining for here in this society is cars. Unless you go to CarMax, they won't let you haggle. But You know, you can bargain for a car. Well, you're asking this much, I'll give you this much, we meet in the middle. That's what we're seeing here with a piece of property. Now I want you to look at how this starts, because it's maybe not what you would expect. Look at the free offer from the Hittites given in verses 5 through 6. In verse 6, particularly the Hittites, they answer Abraham's request with the first kind of round of offers. Hear us, my Lord, you are a prince among us. Bury your dead in the choicest of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb to hinder you from burying your dead. Now notice the bargaining tactics that are used here. One, this flattery. Boy, when you're trying to bargain for something and they use flattery, you might want to think to yourself, there might be something else going on here in the background. My Lord, you are a prince among us. Now there is justification for them saying that. I mean go back to chapter 14. What did Abraham do for them when the Mesopotamian kings came down and Defeated the five Canaanite kings and took all those people captive. Abraham had to take three hundred and eighteen of his own men, go up and redeem them and rescue them and bring them back from captivity. They knew That he kind of functioned as a king in some sense, but this is kind of overdoing it. They use flattery Now, hopefully if they butter Abraham up, maybe they can get something out of him. But why would they butter them up? Well, let's continue to unpack this. Secondly, you see, they Things may not be what they seem on the surface. Now the offer sounds really generous, doesn't it? Oh, Abraham. Every one of us has a field and a cave and a burial place that is luxurious. Take the choicest for yourself and bury your dead. It almost sounds like a free offer. And on the surface. Abraham, I think, may have understood it that way, but I think where this ends up at the end, you realize that's not really what's going on here. You see Abraham's counteroffer in verses 7 through 9. There's a free offer, at least in appearance, on the table. But Abraham asks them to, let me entreat with one person. I want to I want to deal with one person, Ephron the Hittite. Was he the chief magistrate? I don't know. We get his ancestry. He's the son of Zohar. He wants his cave. which is at the end of his field. And notice he doesn't promise to take the cave or the burial place. He promises to pay for it, pay the full price. Now here's the question. Why would Abraham pay the full price if they seem to be offering it to him for free? Why does he refuse to just take the free offer, which seems very gracious on the surface? I mean, after all, if you go back in Abraham's life. the king of Egypt back at the end of chapter twelve. Remember when he they duped him and he took Sarah and then he gave Sarah back and threw him out of Egypt? What did he do? He gave Abraham a lot of gifts and camels and and money and servants. He got really rich and he took it. When he did the same thing to the king of Gerar, the Philistine king, In Genesis 21, he again receives gifts from the this pagan king. Why would he receive from them and not from these guys? Well, it should make you think I think the point here was that if Abraham I think the point is that Abraham is trusting God alone to bless him. And I want you to think about it for just a moment. This dynamic actually is the same dynamic if you go back to chapter 14. Remember, they were buttering him up, calling him a prince of God because of what he likely did in Genesis 14, redeeming them. And they're captives from slavery from these kings. But remember at the end of chapter 14, the king of Sodom said, Abraham, you take the riches. Give me the people. Remember that? And Abraham said no. Why did he say no? Lest you say, O king of Sodom, that you made Abraham rich. The whole point back then was Abraham knew that only God blesses people and he will take his blessings from the Lord. He will only receive grace from the Lord. Now what's different about these people than, say, the king of Gerar or the King of Egypt is these are inhabitants of the land that God promised. And so if Abraham is to receive this land from them, from their hands graciously, that puts Abraham under them and under a debt of gratitude to them For receiving from their hand what only God can realistically give. By him saying, I will pay the full price of the land, he's declaring, the land is not yours to really give. Graciously. I'll pay for the land to receive an inheritance here to communicate to you that in his time God Himself will give me and my seed what He promised. Again, these are these little dynamics sometimes are not necessarily on the surface of the passage. as we just read through it very quickly. But culturally speaking and contextually speaking, this is what's in the background. And so as we process all this this morning, and it is a lot to process, how do Abraham's actions in light of Sarah's death point us to the hope that we have despite the despair we often feel in the wake of such events like a loved one passing away. I think we have to we have to really wrestle with that. And I want to just say I think the answer to that is it these actions of Abraham reveal, one, that it is good to grieve for those we lose. And two, it reminds us that the world does not give us the blessing and the comfort that it promises in the wake of those losses. Now I want you to think about that for just a moment. It is healthy and spiritual to mourn for those we love who pass away. I think that is one of the most surface-level observations we can pull away from this passage and we'd be criminal if we if we didn't acknowledge it. Because there are some of you who have lost loved ones recently. And all of us will, at some point or another in our lives, lose loved ones. It could be parents. It could be siblings. It could be friends or neighbors. It could be fellow congregants at church that we were really involved with their lives. It could even be children. And I don't mean just children that are already born. I mean it could be something from like a miscarriage. But the encouragement that this gives us this morning, seeing Abraham mourn and weep for Sarah What you can pull away from that is that it is not unspiritual to grieve. Many of us might walk around feeling that way. Like we there's almost like this guilt. Like I shouldn't feel guilty. I know they're in heaven. Or I shouldn't grieve. I know they're in heaven. Why am I grieving? No, it's normal to grieve. A loss. Notice what the Apostle Paul says to those in Thessalonica, grieving losses, and their losses are obviously from the same things we lose people from, sickness and illness, but they were also persecuted. 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 17. I'm going to read the whole thing. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we have since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, Even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. A euphemism for passed away. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, he writes, in other words, in summary, encourage one another with these words. Some of you this morning might be grieving and need encouragement that yes, grieving is spiritually healthy. It's okay to do that. But we do that with hope in Christ. So if you're here this morning, you're grieving the loss of someone, take comfort, knowing that the pain does not make you any less spiritual. than those around you who may not be presently grieving in the same way. Does it make you less spiritual or then more spiritual at all? But we also grieve knowing that death would not have the final say, and that we'll pick that up in our second point. But before we get there, I want to say while the while this world promises us an inheritance, and comfort and blessing in the wake of these things. Only God can deliver that blessing. I think that's another very interesting application that comes out of Abraham's response in this bartering process. You know, as we face loss, as we grieve, the world will offer us all manner of comforts to get our minds off of the subject of death as the just consequence of God on sin. But just like Abraham sees kind of a false offer here, and he doesn't buy into it, he responds in a way that actually points to his faith and trust. in the promises of God and Him to fulfill that. Look, it is so easy, isn't it, when you're grieving to try to fill that void with something else to make up for what you just lost. We need to remember it's times like that that we lean most into Christ Being a little vulnerable here, and it I'm I'm I always try to be careful with this because it's not in my notes, but I just thought of it, and sometimes you think that's the Holy Spirit moving in your heart. When my father passed away I had to really come, and I did, come to understand the Lord , particularly God as Father. in some very profound ways. There's all kinds of things. I don't remember what they all were, but there there's there's all kinds of things that will always vie for your affections to bring you comfort. And some of them may not necessarily be bad on the surface, but they can become idolatrous when you start leaning into those in hard times rather than who the Lord is and leaning into his promises. I want to encourage you this morning, like if if you're in that place and you've experienced the loss of some kind of leaving a gaping hole. In your heart, in your life. Lean in to the promises of God. And remember, the death will not have the final say And that really does lead us to our second point this morning in verses 10 through 20. And our second point is the hope of the resurrection and the empty tomb. How about that for a big idea thought? Let's look at verses 10 through 16. We see the bartering for the price of the tomb specifically. They started bartering already. We had the initial offer. Anyone's tomb is available to you, Abraham. But the bartering continues in verses 10 through 13. Again, it's the offer of a free price, but it's a little more narrowed down Now, in verse 10, we find the offer being made by one specific person, and it's the person Abraham asked for, Ephron the Hittite. He happened to be present. sitting at the gate of the city in the crowd. He heard Abraham's request. He apparently steps forward. And in verses 10 through 13, they begin to exchange with one another. Notice what he says in verse 11. He says, I give it to you. He says three times, I'll give to you. In fact, let me just read that. No, my Lord, hear me. I give you the field. And I give you the cave that is in it. In the sight of the sons of my people, I give it to you, bury your debt. I give it to you three times. Now, on the surface, once again, it sounds like he's giving him a free offer of, here, take my tomb. Abraham does not take it, interestingly enough Notice what verses 14 through 16 say. We find the fair price that is current among the merchants that is given. Abraham says, no, I'll pay the full price. You get down to verse 15. Ephraim says, My Lord, listen to me. A piece of land worth 400 shekels of silver. What is that between you and me? Bury your dead. Isn't it interesting when you're trying to barter? I've seen this with cars. I had to do this with cars before. The person selling will always inflate the price and then talk as if it's not so bad. And then the person doing the buying is always almost like, no, they're trying to bring it down. And highlight how bad the high price is. Oh, it's so bad. I can't possibly pay that much. What about this? Does Abraham do that? No He actually just pays it. But I I wanna want you to see how what is really going on here. Um it's impossible to give the exact value of what this is in American currency in our own day and age, but we can look at some of the circumstantial details. Throughout the whole testimony of scripture and come to an approximation that ends with the conclusion that this man is grossly inflating the value of this land. to take advantage of Abraham, he's almost like what I would call a proto -proto-capitalist. He takes advantage of the situation to make the most money possible and walk away with the biggest profit. Let me give you three thoughts here. First, let's look at the what we see in verse 17. It tells us what Abraham is buying. If you go look at verse seventeen. The field of Ephron, Ephron in Machpalah, which was east of Mamrah, the field with the cave that was in it, so we have a cave, and all the trees that were in the field throughout its whole area. That's so this is not a just a small piece of land. This is a sizable piece of land. Not huge, but it's enough for a family burial plot with a cave, with a bunch of trees, and a field. Okay? But it's personal property, private property. Secondly, some fourteen centuries later In the prophet Jeremiah, chapter 32, verse 9, if you look at that whole um encounter, God tells Jeremiah, As the Babylonians have surrounded the city, the people are about to go into exile out of the land for what 70 years, right? He's telling Jeremiah, your cousin, your cousin Hanamel is coming from Anasas And he is going to ask you to redeem his property. In other words, buy his property for yourself. Transfer of rights. Buy it, Abraham. Or um buy it, Jeremiah. Why? Because you buying that land is kind of a down payment of faith. That I will bring my people back to this land, settle them in the land, and they will take possession of this as their inheritance once again when I redeem them. So what does Jeremiah do? For a field he pays seventeen shekels of silver. Seventeen compared to four hundred. The third example I'll give you, just to give you a kind of a last comparison here, comes before the time of Jeremiah in 1 Kings 16, 24. King Omri, Ahab's father. If you remember, he bought the whole hill and the land that belonged to a guy by the name of Shemar. And that became the city of Samaria. He buys it for two talents of silver. Well you're like, well, how much is that? Well, one ancient Near Eastern scholar, E. A. Spicer. values that at 6,000 shekels of silver for what approximates the land of a city. 6,000. Seventeen Jeremiah for a field. Abraham, four hundred. 400 shekels of silver, an exorbitant price to bury his dead. He's taking advantage of Abraham's urgency in order to make a profit, and you know what? Whether it was a just fair price, Abraham doesn't even argue about that. He just pays it. How about that? Verse 16, he weighs out the 400 shekels of silver, gives it in the presence of everyone, and I want you to notice it says according to the weights current among the merchants at the end of verse 16. What's the point? The point is that this purchase was just, legal, and in proper order. Right? And in response, and as a result, verses 17 to 20, he secured possession of the tomb. Verse 17 and 18, Abraham takes possession. It makes that very clear in verses 17 and 18. The field was made over to Abraham as a possession. You want to know what's really weird, and it it really is weird Hebrew. Um the phrase was made over as a possession is interesting because that verb made over in other contexts can mean he arose Just like we saw in verses 3 through 7, when Abraham arises from his dead to negotiate with the people of the land. It could mean in one causative stem in Hebrew, he established But it's interesting to me that in a context in which we're talking about burying the dead, in this case, Sarah, who just died. As an expression of Abraham's hope, Moses uses a verb that means to rise and take possession of that promised inheritance. Again, you almost see this like wordplay in the original language of death and resurrection in the idea of the land was made over. It's like double entendra in Hebrew that we tend to miss in English. And what does Abraham do? He buries his wife. And verse 20 concludes with the same play on words. The same concept between the burial place of the property and the verb he arose when it repeats the phrase, this was made over to Abraham as a piece of new property. What it means is the reader is left to expect the resurrection from the dead. So This passage is not as hopeless as we might assume on a surface-level reading. The question we have to ask ourselves is how does Abraham purchase Assaria 's burial place? Relate to the gospel hope of resurrection for us today in this gospel dispensation. Well, the purchase points us to the fact that Christ has purchased us for eternal life at the cost of his own death and secured by his own resurrection I want you to think about this. God has purchased his people by the cost of his son. Now in the application of our first section, we looked at the goodness of grief for loved ones. We also looked at how the comfort cannot come from the world. We have to look beyond the world and look to the Lord and lean into those hopeful promises and and have an expectation that God will be faithful to fulfill what he does in the end. But here we need to be we need to explore what is the basis of that hope and expectation. Well let's draw the parallels. First, just as Sarah, the wife of the patriarch And the covenant representative had succumbed to death, so also do all of God's people. I mean, what does Hebrews 9. 27 say? It is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment. This side of eternity, my grandfather used to say, there's only two things you can really expect with absolute certainty in life. One is crippling taxes, and two is the fact that we will all die one day. Like Sarah. Second, just as Abraham had to pay an exorbient price to purchase the tomb for Sarah as an expression of his faith in the sure promises of God So also did Jesus Christ pay the exorbitant price of his own life, his own blood, his own body? on the cross to purchase for us the sure promises of God. What are those promises? The law of the forgiveness of sins, eternal life, and an eternal heritage to look forward to. I'll just focus on those three for the sake of our time this morning. Third, just as Abraham's purchase was legal and just and in order. So also was Christ's purchase for us just, because on the cross he fulfilled the justice of God by having God's justice poured out in full measure on his own head to satisfy perfect divine justice on our behalf His purchase was legal because it fulfilled the legal demands of the law of Moses and the covenant curses and the debt that we owed. To make that clear, Colossians 2. 13 through 14 says very clearly, and you who are dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, that's Christ, having forgiven us all our trespasses. by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside by nailing it to the cross. You better believe when Satan stood in the presence of God And Joshua the high priest and Zechariah 3 was there in God's court, and Satan is there accusing the high priest. You better believe he had a legal claim. to make against the high priest, who represented all of God's people, and therefore represented Christ. You better believe that in Christ The legal demand against you , against me, was canceled. Wow. And lastly , it was in order because Christ dies and rises first. And then we come afterwards when he returns. Paul makes a big deal about that in 1 Corinthians 15. And this leads to the second aspect of our application. The resurrection and the empty tomb of Christ secures our own resurrection. This is the final application piece that I think this passage points us to. Because if you think about it, while Sarah lies Lifeless, in the grave, in the tomb. Christ's tomb is empty According to the testimony of the New Testament, the testimony of the prophets, the historical evidence that you can marshal and put together, the eyewitnesses that saw him alive after his death. And just as Abraham's purchase of a tomb and the burial of his wife was the downpayment of his faith in God's promises, so to speak. So Jesus' resurrection is the down payment, the first fruits of our own resurrection from the dead. He is the firstborn of the new creation, the new heavens and the new earths. And our own resurrection today, as it is in the future for us, is just as sure as Christ's resurrection was in the past. And so at the end of the day, when we think of facing death ourselves, aside from grieving the ones we love, when we face it ourselves. We have the assurance that God will fulfill his promises to us. And he will do this When we are risen from the dead to receive our eternal inheritance in the new heavens and the new earth. Did you ever stop to think? Did you ever dare to think? That when you have a believing loved one that you put in the ground. It is like a down, is is like a primary deposit, a down payment of faith That God will rise, raise that person up from the dead one day. I'll tell you, when my father passed away That was all I could think about the day we buried him is the day he would rise again. I think we would be In order to end with First Corinthians fifteen, fifty through fifty-five What does Sarah's burial point us towards? Paul nails it at the end of that resurrection chapter when he says, I tell you this, brothers. And sisters, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable must put on the imperishable. And the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: death is swallowed up in victory O death, where is your sting? O death, where is your victory? You see, the hope of the resurrection as we face death offsets the despair we often feel. By pointing us to God's promises in Christ and his victory over the grave. Let's pray.