And chapter two is the last glimpse of mankind without the blemish of sin. It's uh this beautiful idea Idyllic theme where disobedience has not invaded yet. It's a perfect paradise. In fact, it's the ideal that we are all Trying to get back to. Since being excel ex exiled, exiled out of the garden, we've we've lost sight of what it means to be a tree. True man or woman made in the image of God? Who we are is a question that is asked every day by people all around the world. What is What is man? Even the psalmist asks, what is man that you are mindful of him is the appropriate response. What is man in relation to his God? That's a question that's been asked ever since the Garden. What defines us as people, as humans? What is your defining characteristic? What is it that gives us dignity? What is it that gives us value? What is that gives us purpose? Is it is it marriage? Well, Genesis 2 shows that even before the institution of marriage, man Had dignity? Is it our vocations, what we do for work? Even before Adam was working the garden, he had dignity. What about our relationships to others? Nope. Our relationship to nature? No. So what gives us dignity and purpose and value is this that we are the creation of God and He has breathed his own life into you. That is a profound thought. God could have just given you breath, but in Instead, he breathes his own life into you, which we'll look at here in a moment. Well look with me, Genesis chapter two, verse four. The section starts with a very popular Phrase in Genesis, these are the generations of. And we actually find this phrase, these are the generations of ten times. There's no coincidence in this ten times. Very important number in the Old Testament. And we find this phrase, these are the generations of, ten times throughout the book of Genesis. And it always marks what is to come. It's a it's a prologue, it's a pre- And uh we see it next in Genesis 5 1. This is the book of the generations of Adam. Then we see in chapter 6, verse 9, these are the generations of Noah. Then in 10 1, these are the generations of the sons of Noah, and on and on. A few more times. And all these provide a preamble of what is to come, namely the progeny of the patriarchs. That's what these generations are for. So thus, two four, these are the generations Generations of the heavens and the earth mark a beginning of a new section. It's the beginning of the progeny of all mankind, starting with Adam and and Eve. And recall I said a few weeks ago that two one through three, chapter two, one through three, should be the close of chapter one. The the uh Description of the Sabbath is the culmination of chapter one, really. It's the it's the the pinnacle, it's the climax of all of chapter one. And this This is more evidence that 2-4 should be the start of a of a new chapter because it's the start of a new theme because of this introductory sentence. are the generations of. That marks a clear transition in the text. But what are these generations of? Generations of what? It says the heavens and the earth. Well, shouldn't this have been the heading , the beginning of chapter one? These are the generations of the heavens and Heavens and earth and this is how everything was created, it the earth it seems like it would make more sense to be at the start of chapter one, since that's the chapter where all heaven and earth was created. So what's happening here in chapter two? First, notice the change in order from heavens and earth to the end of verse 4, the earth and heaven. That's very intentional. In fact, the earth and heavens is a line that's used very infrequently in the Old Testament. Actually, one other time, and we read it during our call to worship Psalm 148, which is a commentary about Genesis. And in Psalm 148, as you may recall reading about Is that he's looking at all creation and he ends with this line about kings and rulers of the earth. He's talking about Adam and Eve. And he uses the line, the psalmist uses the line, heavens and earth. But what what's the switch now from earth to heaven? Heavens. The focus has gone from the heavens and all the starry hosts, and zooming in on earth And what takes place there. It's the progeny of what happens here on earth. And it's the generations of earth. Generations of all mankind. All humanity is described now. It's not just The generation of Adam and Eve. He could have said that. These are the generations of Adam and Eve, and let's explain Adam and Eve and but he Already does this in Genesis 5. 1. These are the generations of Adam, and then goes on in detail about the progeny of Adam. What's he saying here? What chapter two is, I believe, is a picture of more than just Adam, but you Universal nature of all humanity. And even though we are in Adam , this chapter is pointing us to truth About God's creation, about us, about humanity, that is universal in everyone, not just our first father and mother. So chapter two is about mankind in general. And this truth is what establishes The idea that there is a commonality amongst all humanity, that there is something actually of the same Same essence in all of us that's written in our hearts, and it's this notion that God's law is there. Genesis 2 Is the foundation of this natural law. And all mankind fit into a category of these moral, ethical, and spiritual beings created in the image of God. We're not as diverse as we often think we are. Paul says in Romans two, for when Gentiles do not have the law by nature, do what the law requires They are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the works of the law is written on their hearts, while their consciences also bears witness. There is a natural law in all of us, Christians and non-Christians. You know, the framers of the Constitution certainly picked up on this notion. On this truth, even if they didn't fully believe its context? What do they say? We hold these truths to be self-evident. There's a natural truth, a natural law. To the framers, the self-evident truth was that all men are created equal. So The framers used the Bible to espouse equality of rights. The Bible, Genesis 2, espouses equality of divine image God has created all mankind to be very similar. Completely similar in many regards. We often think so much of of the differences of mankind, skin color, occupations, personalities. And yes, there are differences, but these are all superficial compared to what is Consistently the same across all humanity, across all generations, across all cultural lines, across all ethnic barriers It's the same. Desire for beauty, a longing for Eden, for perfection An admiration of truth, even though it may be subconscious, but a longing for God. A desire to not be alone, to marry Desire to work. These are all common. This is a natural law. And we see this here. This is the truth. about every man, every woman ever created. So verse 4 ends with this chiasmus structure. It's like a it's a it's a mirror. where the first part mirrors the last part and then there's a middle part that's really the emphasis. And you see this. These are the generations of Of the heavens and earth, and then when they were created, and the mirror of that is when they were made, or the the the the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. And so the earth and the heavens mirrors it. And the focus is on creation, God creating man. And what's he do when it says God creates man? When he says in the day, the end of verse 4, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the ears. What is the significant switch? It's not just the earth and heavens instead of heavens and the earth. There's something else, even more profound, that takes time place here in verse four. The Lord God. It's actually only found a few times in the Old Testament. This name Of God. It combines two names of God, Yahweh and Elohim. Elohim is the name of God used all in chapter 1. It means creator. It's the name of God most often attributed to the creating aspect of God. Yahweh is the personal name of God. covenantal name of God. It's the name that God tells Moses I am. This is who I am. Yahweh. Variation of I am that I am. It's a covenantal name that God makes with Abraham and with Israel. So it's very significant that God in this Verse for the first time, and one of the very few times in all of Scripture combines the two. Not just Elohim, not just Yahweh, Yahweh Elohim. What's he trying to say? The God that just did everything in chapter 1 created the heavens and the earth, the stars and everything All their glory, the beasts of the field, the birds of the air. This God who is the creator is also your covenantal God. Is also a God who cares deeply about you It's a God who loves you. These gods are one and the same. There's not two gods. It's not God's plural. Creator God and Yahweh are one and the same And then he says, in the day. Again, we're still in verse 4. And this is rhetorical. It does not imply that God made the world in a single day. It's akin to saying, you know, back in the day. But when you say back in the day, it it doesn't confine you to just one twenty-four hour day. Like back in the day I played basketball. You know, that does and not just I played one day. It's referring to a time in the past. So back in the day or in the day that the Lord God made the heavens and the earth. But this idea of in the day brings an important point about chronology. Where does chapter 2 belong? Where does it fit? You know, we had in chapter one, if you recall, uh the creation of man and woman. In verse 26, then God said, Let us make man in our image, and after our likeness. And so verse 27: so God created man in his own image, in the image of God. But then if you read a little bit further here in verse uh five, when no bush of the field was yet in the land and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up. For the Lord God had not caused it to reign in the land, and there was no man to work the ground. There was no man to work the ground. So what's going on here? When does this happen? Well it takes place between chapter one, verse twenty-five, and twenty-six. Verse twenty five And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind, and God Saw that it was good. Verse 26, then God said, Let us make manner image. And so what the author is doing in Genesis chapter 1 gives this grand Overview of creation, including the creation of mankind. But then in Genesis 2, far from being a separate source as critical scholars will tell us our separate document that's basic basically been cut and pasted to Genesis 1. Far from that, it's actually the the writer now narrowing in on So the story starts with this blank canvas again. to the blank canvas of Genesis 1. Verse 1, the earth was without, or verse 2, the earth was without form and void, the darkness was over the face of the deep. But now we we have a different kind of blank canvas. Canvas. That was a canvas in which God painted on and started creating everything that we see and cannot see. Now this is a canvas in which man is To create on. But he hasn't yet. Why? Because God hasn't created him. And there was no bush or plant in the field. And this has caused problems for some people. Because again, the chronology of this, when was uh plant life created? You know, when were bushes, the vegetation? We see this on the third day. Let the earth sprout vegetation. This is Genesis chapter one verse eleven. Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit, and so on and so on. And then all of a sudden, God's going to create man, and then he's going to create vegetation after man. So this has caused a lot of problems to a lot of people. might be thinking to yourself. But it's not a problem because of what he's talking about here is not talking about worldwide vegetation. He's not saying here in chapter 2 that there were no plants anywhere. He's saying there's no plants in the field. Meaning, there's no cultivated plants. There's no plants that have been grown by the hand of man. He had just contrasted this void on all the creation, you know, from the the void of creation, the blank canvas that started in Genesis chapter one, verse two. Now there's a blank canvas on earth. God fills the blank canvas and Genesis chapter 1, but man hasn't filled this blank canvas yet by cultivating the earth and working the ground. He hasn't done that yet. There is vegetation. There's vegetation all over, but it's not it's it's God-grown vegetation. But there's no rain as well. Look with me. No small plane in the field had yet sprung up. And we see that there's no rain. I want to go back, though, to something real quick. When God curses mankind, he says to him in chapter 3. Verse 18 Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth from you for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. This is the same phrase found here. in two five in the open field, plants of the field. So these are not inedible plants as as many people will say, this they they they're trying to reconcile these things, but these are plants that Mankind helped grow, which I already said. Alright, so there's no rain, but there was a spring or mist as it's translated. This is a really this is a difficult one. Look with me, verse six. And a mist was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground. This mist is seen most often as a uh a subterranean river that flows and then ends up in a uh a spring of some sort. Very it's it's very confusing when you read different opinions about this because no one fully understands what this word means, what this word missed even means. And uh I view it, this is my uh my personal opinion. I view this myth as actually a canopy of water. Um I believe that there was uh something that God created supernaturally to create a dew or mist that watered the entire earth. And uh that opinion is held by by a few others as well. Job chapter 36, the only other time this word mist is us He uses the same word. He says, For God draws up the drops of water, they distill his mist in rain. Rain. But it's not rain, per se. It's a mist. Something different, something supernatural. And we see here that there's plants, and they're going to play a crucial part in the next two chapters. And in and with the plants, there is a separation. The plants that God's created and plants that man's helped create. And when we get to the tree of life and to the tree of knowledge of good and evil, these are in the garden that God's planted There's a separation there as well. And God's been separating everything from Genesis chapter 1. Light and darkness. The expanse from the the heavenly expanse from the Earthly expanse. And this picture here of Genesis 2 is of God being the divine. He's planted food for the human the human race and provide for them even without their assistance. God is watering the earth, the whole face of the earth the ground. And it's about divine grace from the very beginning. That's the scene in the covenantal name of God, Yahweh. Speaking of Yahweh, what What is the name of God used when Adam and Eve fall into sin? And God comes and they're afraid they're afraid and they're they're hiding. Is it Elohim, the creator God coming to rend judgment? He is rending judgment, but it's the name Yahweh, the covenantal name So God created mankind as an act of covenantal grace. And the very first man, Adam, was in a covenantal relationship with God. God promised protection to Adam. He formed this man. And we see here when he forms this man That he forms him out of the dust from the ground. Let's read verse seven. This is the apex of the chapter. Verse seven states the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. This is A power-packed verse. Yahweh forms man from dust or dirt or earth. There's a play on words here. Adam. Adam created from Adama, the dirt. Man is natural, a natural being We are connected to nature intimately, but we're also divine. We are bifurcat beings. We have body and soul. God did not speak words and we were formed ex nielo. God took pre-existent matter. He fashioned us. He formed us. The language here is the same language used of a potter making a beautiful Vase , beautiful jar of clay, which Paul uses later on the epistles to describe us. And he makes this beautiful, wonderful jar. And then what's he do? He breathes into it. As I said before, God God never did that with any of the other creatures. Yet they all have breath. A bird has breath, dogs have breath. But with Man, God breathes his own breath into them. God shares his divine essence with you. You are godlike. That is not blasphemy. I assure you You are divine. I see before me people sitting Who are like God. Not eternal like God, not omniscient like God, not omnipotent like God. But like God nonetheless. God breathed his own breath. See, Michelangelo did not quite get it right He points his finger, he touches man, right? With his finger, with the the limp, lifeless hand of Adam. The idea is he's going to touch him. and empower him with life. Where did Michelangelo get that? It should be on the 16th chapel. God breathing his own breath In ancient Near Eastern mythology, they believed that man was both dirt and the blood of the gods. were given to man. They were trying to reach this truth. They were walking in darkness, trying to discover their origins. And uh they said there the the essence of man is both dirt and blood, but blood of the divine. God does shed his blood. But It will be much, much later. Men and women, we are kings and queens on this earth. Do you think of yourself like that? Do you think of yourself as royalty? I often don't. We are not just natural. Even though we have men especially have a uh nostalgia for natural things, you know. Sometimes I just want to go out in the woods and go chop some trees. Down or something. Trying to connect to my manliness, my natural side. And uh I wonder, what about My divine side. I do believe that there's nostalgia in all of us that longs to be connected to the divine because you yourself are are divine. And that's why Paul says the spirit in us longs to pray to God. God breathed in you. You are not just body, and you're not just soul, you're body and soul together. Now, unfortunately, throughout church history, and even before church history, History, the Greek philosophy, took this truth and twisted it. And they believed that the divine essence was good, the soul, the spirit of man was good, the body is evil. And this Gnosticism was formed. Even in the church. And we see a lot of writers of the New Testament and certainly a lot of the church fathers addressing this Gnosticism. This idea that you can do whatever you want with the body. It's your soul that's important. There's a contrast even in Scripture, they say. Between what? The spirit and flesh. Well, isn't that Gnosticism right there? Isn't the The spirit is what we should be walking in, we should be living in, but the flesh, that's what we need to put to death. Because it's bad, it's corrupt, it's evil. When Paul Paul and the other New Testament writers talk about flesh. Do you think they're talking about physical flesh? No. Very rarely they are. When they're talking about when Paul's mentioning About circumcision, for example. He's talking about physical skin, sarks, physical body. But we When Paul and the other New Testament writers talk about flesh, they're talking about a mindset that is opposed to God's spirit. Who's against God? It's in us because of original sin that we want to fight against God. And that desire to rebel against Him, that's the flesh. This is why when Paul in Galatians 5 lists out the works of the flesh which are evident, very few of them have anything to do with actual physical bodies. They he lists many of them. Enmity, strife, jealousy, anger, rivalry, dissension. Envy. None of these have anything to do with my physical body. They all have something to do with my will that's opposed to the living God. And so we are not a people who believe that your body is bad and your spirit's good. Guess what? You're going to be given a new body in the new heavens and earth. God God cares about bodies. Cares about your body. It's not a throwaway. It's not like, ah, it's just something that I gotta carry around with me. Verse 8, moving on here. States God planted a gar we're only going to get to verse 8 probably here. God planted a garden in Eden. In the east, and there he put man whom he formed. Okay, so we have man who is created in nature, but God didn't leave him in nature. God didn't leave him in the wilderness. He took him and put him in a garden. He took care of his needs. He provided for man above and beyond. He gave him a garden. God did not stop working on behalf of man And what is Eden? So this is all we're going to get to here, is a description of Eden, and uh and and to talk a little bit about what it is and where is it. Eden is not the garden, first of all. Okay? Eden's bigger than the garden. The garden was in Eden. So Eden is something that's greater than the garden. God planted a garden in Eden. Eden. What is Eden then? Well, Eden is a word in Hebrew that probably means something along the lines of pleasure. It means something like delight. And joy. What is it? It's the mountain of God. Eden is a mountain of God. And in our theology and worship conference, Past week and we talked about this, and John uh Dr. Gibson talked about this, how God meets with his people on mountains. And Eden was the first mountain. It was a glorious mountain. Mountain. A grand mountain. And on this mountain there was a garden. Ezekiel 28. He's talking about the king of Tyre, but it's it's uh it's about Things beyond just the king of Tyre, but Ezekiel 28, you were in Eden. I placed you on the holy mountain of God. So this is the Mountain of God. And it's one of pleasure, joy, and delight. And guess what? God still wants you to Have joy and take delight. The problem is what do we take joy in? What are we delighting in? Where is this garden? Well look what he says. It says, first it's it's to the east. Well, this is east of Israel. Everything is situated With Israel as the center. So east of Israel is the land of Mesopotamia. Now, East in the ancient Near East signified life because that's where the sun rose And the west signified death because that's where the sun set. And we see this in specifically Egyptian mythology. with the Nile. The east side of the Nile is where uh life began. West side of the Nile is where you buried the dead. And diff Different things like that. And the East here signifies that the Garden of Eden is a garden of life. The entrance of the garden is on the east. Life begins there. Now, later on, moving towards the east or moving to the east signifies death because it signifies Exile, not because going to the east is bad, but because you're going out of the entrance of the garden, of the garden of life. And so we have here a description of these water sources in verses 10 through 14. This is very difficult to pin down. No, there is no consensus about what these water rivers uh are or uh what they what do they describe. We have um Eden 's river becomes four rivers, the Pishon, which flowed around the land of Havilah. This is thought perhaps to be the Indus River. The Gihon around the land of Cush, Cush's Egypt and Ethiopia area. So maybe the Gihon is the Nile. The Tigris and the Euphrates, those were continent those people know of those. But these are all the greatest rivers of the world. And my belief about this is that in the days of Adam and Eve, there was a great mountain. Eden, and all the rivers flowed from this mountain and formed the greatest rivers of the entire earth: the Tigris, Euphrates, If it's describing the Nile and the Indus River, which is the largest, one of the largest rivers in Asia, the largest, greatest rivers of all the earth flowed from Egypt. And where could all these be? A lot of people would say that it's a mountain that existed at the head of The Persian Gulf, which is where a lot of these rivers eventually would flow from. And Mesopotamian mythology believes that the The island of Dilmun was this paradise, this ancient paradise where people lived immortal lives. The island of Dilmun is Bahrain. Which is in the Persian Gulf. And uh this is very interesting. I don't know if this is where Eden was, but that's what they said. This is uh some thoughts, some ideas that Bahrain Modern-day Bahrain was once this mountain, this glorious grand mountain of Eden. And all the rivers that flowed out of that was the Persian Gulf, is what flowed out of Eden. But something is interesting about this Bahrain. Years ago I visited Bahrain, and it is today a paradise. Saudi Arabians, which live with Which is adjacent to Bahrain, there's a bridge that connects the two. It's filled with traffic night and day. Night and day. Saudi Arabians going to Bahrain and coming back. Completely grid luck. Traffic all day, every single day. What's in Bahrain? Prostitution, alcohol , drugs, everything that they can't get in Saudi Arabia, their longing for paradise. And they think they found it in Bahrain. They think they found it in this way of living and they're they're flooding to the False paradise. But we we've been given a paradise. We lost it first, and it's come back to you. You have not found it you did not trek through the mountains trying to find paradise paradise came to you in the form of Jesus Christ the Son who is the Perfect, perfect image of God, glorious and delightful, your bridegroom who loved you and saved you for himself. Let's pray. Father God, thank you so much for your word.