Genesis chapter 6, verses 11 through 22. We're actually just going to be looking from 11 to about 16. And we're going to take about four weeks to cover the flood. And it spans a few chapters all the way through chapter eight. And it's been, as I mentioned earlier, that it's been five months since we've last had Sunday evening service, so it's good to have a very short review. Uh recall we started Sunday evening worship. We started the study of Genesis all the way back in September of last year, and we got to uh through five chapters. in that span of time. And we saw God's creation, his sovereignty over creation, the beautiful design in which God created the heavens and the earth. We saw God create the pinnacle, which was mankind, Adam and Eve created in the garden to worship God, to have an intimate relationship with God. And we saw that the seventh day, that day that does not end, that Sabbath rest. in which mankind is is designed to walk into God's eternal rest with him on that Sabbath day. picture of of God's eternal rest. And uh Genesis chapter three, we saw the fall of mankind. We saw a little bit of of Satan and had a nice discussion about Satan and where did he come from and how did he tempt in a perfect world, in a good garden, a very good garden, how did Satan even come to be? And after the fall of man, then chapter 4, everything begins to turn south, and we see the first murder in the family of Adam and Eve, Cain and Ave. And we begin to see what be but what begins to happen as the uh mankind does actually obey the mandate of God to spread out and multiply, and that's what begins to happen. And we see Cain's line begin spreading through chapter four and and becoming in some sense the creators of culture. And uh to various degrees. But we see violence there. We see violence again in Cain's line with Lamech, who kills two. And And uh so violence is the the theme, but then Seth is born, the child of promise, the child that is turning back the hearts and minds of the people to God. And it's at that time that people began to call upon the name of the Lord, chapter 4, verse 26. And then chapter 5 we looked at the descendants. of Adam uh through Seth through Seth's lineage all the way to the very end and we have this foreshadowing in chapter five of what is to come for the next few chapters, this monumental event of Noah and the flood in verse 32, after Noah I'm sorry, I want to back up actually out of that. Verse 28, this is chapter 5. When Lamech had lived 182 years, he fathered his son and called his name Noah. saying, Out of the ground that the Lord has cursed, this one shall bring us relief or or rest. The word Noah sounds in the Hebrew word like rest from our work and from the painful toil of our hands. And we We ask that question, how did that actually happen? How did Noah actually provide rest from toil and from the work of their hands? Lamech lived after he fathered Noah 595 years, and then Noah's 500 years. And then chapter 6 we looked at uh the first few verses there and saw these very confusing people, the Nephilim, recall this, the Nephilim. And my position is that we have a situation going on in which we have in chapter six, verse one, when man began to multiply on the face of the land and daughters were born to them, the sons of God. saw that the daughters of man were attractive and people have really unleashed their imagination in so many different ways to try to figure out how this happened and this divine human uh interaction and And and my position was that the daughters of man are the line of Seth or the line of Cain and the sons of God the line of of Seth and and there is an implicit prohibition against intermarriage of those two lines, not based on race, but a based on on uh theology, based on on allegiance to Yahweh, even here. And so it's not explicitly stated here, but that's my position. The the Nephilim then are not some uh divine quasi angelic human beings, they're they're giants. And we see the Nephilim again in chapter in Numbers, I mean, um and so after the flood we see we see the uh these giants and um mighty men in verse four these mighty men these these great men And so that took us down through verse 8. And we see in verse 8, but Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. And now we're here, the flood. As I said, we're going to look at this for about four weeks, and there's a lot to cover with this flood. And verse 11 starts here, now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence, and God saw the earth. And behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. And we see this play on words already here in Genesis chapter 6. God says, Behold, To God's sight, it was corrupt. And just three chapters before, four chapters before, what was God's eyes doing? Beholding the earth and saying it was good. It was very good. He looked upon that which what which he created and said, this is glorious, great creation. And now he's looking upon the earth, his eyes roaming to and fro, and all he sees is corruption. The corruption of the earth is not the corruption of the physical land. The land is probably still beautiful. It's the corruption of the morals of man. It's the degradation of mankind's hearts. And there's actually a play on words here in the Hebrew, which is not captured in the translation. Look at this with me. The word translated as corrupt is found Four times in verse from verse 11 to 13. Now the earth was corrupt, verse 11, and then verse 12, behold it was corrupt. And then verse 12, all flesh had corrupted it. That's three times. But then look down at verse 13. God says, Behold, I will destroy them with the earth. That word destroy is the exact same word in Hebrew as the word corrupt used three times before. In a sense it's corrupt, corrupt, corrupt, corrupt four times. And this word has the meaning of ruin, corruption, ruin. And so one way of reading this passage is that mankind ruined the earth And they ruined themselves in the process, and therefore God's going to ruin them. And he's going to do so by means of the flood. Now that man is utterly ruined, is perfectly clear. from this passage and from all of scripture. He is totally depraved. It is in our nature And this first week, Sunday evening on the flood is going to look primarily at this aspect of total depravity. idea that it is in mankind's nature, it's inherent in us to rebel against God. And God looks down on the children of man and he sees nothing but spiritual Rebellion. And everyone turns his own way. No one does good. No, not even one, Paul says. to the Romans. Man's heart is wicked beyond measure. And it was wicked before the flood, which is the cause of the flood, and it's going to be just as wicked after the flood. I mean, right after Noah gets off the boat in Genesis 8. 21, he says God acknowledges that, quote, man's heart is evil from his youth It's going to continue. It's going to continue this way. Even up to today and tomorrow until Jesus returns. The flood brought judgment. But it did not change hearts. Only the Spirit did that. Well, why the flood? And we're going to develop this more, but with this judgment, picturing even an eternal judgment, God also brought redemption. For that sinful man. The Spirit of God has to also revive a man because this corruption, this ruin has not only corrupted our morals, it's actually killed us spiritually. We're dead spiritually speaking. Sin is the cause of this. Physical death On the day that you eat of the fruit you will die. They didn't die that day. So that's a spiritual death, but they did indeed die. And so did every single person since then. And it's the cause of our physical and spiritual death. And we have no part of us that does not sin. As Paul says, all of our members wage war against God. You can't say, well, he has a good heart, but his mind is sinful. You cannot compartmentalize mankind like that Our entire being, and we will use all of our being in order to rebel against God, in order to do what we want to do as the kings of our own life. The Westminster Confession, which we we looked at the catechism part of that, but it states, we are utterly indisposed. disabled and made opposite to all good and wholly, not H-O-L-Y, wholly W-H -O, wholly inclined to all evil That is who we are. You don't sin. You're not a sinner because you know we've heard this before. You're not A sinner because you sinned, even though you are, and you do, but you're you sin because you're a sinner by very nature. The world is universally sinful. I mean the New Testament makes this so clear. I mean the the word world actually has a negative connotation to it in the New Testament. When we see the word world, oftentimes it means a negative aspect of God's creation, the sinful part of God's creation. Romans 5, 6 states, for while we had no strength, this is the part where the Westminster says we're disabled. Romans 5, Paul puts it Puts to words what Westminster interprets. While we had no strength, we were completely powerless to do anything about it So not only are we wicked and morally corrupt and ruined, we actually can do nothing about it in of ourselves. I mean the entire treatise, this theological treatise that Paul gives to Romans, this beautiful magisterial work, Paul spends the first three chapters. Devoted to the sinfulness of mankind, we are unable to do on our own what God demanded from us. It's not just about we were unable to do on our own what God wanted, what God, what would please God, that's true too God made a demand upon your life from the time of Adam and the law that was established there to the time of today. He has made a demand on your life, and we were unable to keep that demand. Unfortunately, most people think they're okay. I think they're actually good. I mean if you pull people, and there have been polls on this that are done that ask the question, is mankind inherently good or bad or bad. Where are we on the spectrum? And and the majority of people, in America at least, uh, argue that mankind's good. We're on the positive spectrum. And we believe that we're good because we obviously compare ourselves with one another. And we see the things that we do for our fellow man, and we think that those are are tipping the scales into our favor. And yet The reality is, nothing we've done that's good will get us in the good graces with God. So not only are we wicked, morally corrupt, and ruined, we're We're blind to our to the reality and naive and foolish. We're stupid. What about the good that man I mean here it's now the earth was corrupt in God's sight. The earth was filled with violence and God saw the earth. Behold it was corrupt. And this idea that it's just corrupt, corrupt, corrupt, corrupt, what about the good that people can do? What about giving to the poor? What if you gave everything to the poor? What if you love your children? Surely you love your children. Isn't that not good? What do you mean I can't do anything good? Well, our good deeds are merely coverings for our wickedness. Our good deeds are are merely covering over our wickedness. They're not cleansing them, they're not getting away, get getting rid of them. It's like if you're cleaning your room and you have a ton of junk and you just shove everything into the closet, which is what my daughter does even now at five years old. It's still filthy. There's still filth in the in the room. And in this way, our good deeds are likened to the Old Testament sacrificial system. Israel was still under God's judgment, and they were required to offer pleasing aromas to God. And why were they pleasing to God? Well, they they operated at a level of abating God's wrath. Ceasing it for now, restraining God's hand upon all of Israel as a covering over them, a temporary covering, not a perfect covering by any means. But neither the deeds that we do nor the sacrifices of the Old Testament system can eliminate wickedness. And the writer of Hebrews spends much time on this, that if it was were so that the blood of goats and bulls could have done this, then why you would never have needed Christ. Even though God may approve of the doing of good, just as he approved of the sacrificial system, in fact he implemented the sacrificial system. Sacrificial system. And he approves of us doing good. You know, if someone were in prison and while in prison they're making garments for poor children in another country, that would be good, it'd be worthwhile, it'd be noble, but they would still be a prisoner. Their status in society would not change. And the same thing with good deeds in this society, our status with God does not change, no matter how many good deeds. We can do in fact they're filthy rags. If they're on uh if they're meant to tip the scale, if they're meant to put weights to the balance at in any way, they're just filthy rags. So God can desire that all follow the law, and He does indeed desire that all follow the law, and yet He would condemn those who are fundamentally lawbreakers, which is what sin is. And this is the idea of the threefold purpose of the law. Reformers talk about this threefold purpose of the law. One of them is to be a mirror, to show us God's righteousness and our sinfulness. Well that's been done here. We s we're seeing that in Genesis from Genesis three on, and we're going to see it through the rest of Scripture. The other one of the other purposes of the law was to restrain evil. And God restrains evil even in the unregenerate. He could have allowed the evil to increase. Exponentially, infinitely, infinitely. When verse 5 and 6 says that the wickedness of man was great, it could have been greater. And there's no difference between that time and now. That time before the flood isn't necessarily even more wicked. We don't know. I mean, w we see some of the sins that they were doing, and we New Testament interprets some of those sins as well later on, but there's no reason to think that they were any more wicked than we are post-flood. There is total depravity in man. And that total depravity is most fundamentally important as it relates to man and God. But it also is true that there are depraved relationships between man and fellow man. And this is the point here in the verse that it says the earth was filled with violence. So not only are people corrupt, they're ruined, but there's also violence. And when mankind is morally corrupt, he's lost a very valuable restraint. to his behavior. God has given all men a conscience. It's like the first line of defense And this conscience is a gift of God to help be a moral compass for us to determine what is right and what is wrong to know that when I steal that I my conscience is pained and that is that is by God's grace It's not a construct of society. That's something inherent in mankind, that we have this conscience. But Paul says in 1 Timothy 4 that we've feared the conscience. And this is the language word for seer is what they would actually in the ancient East would brand prisoners. And so this conscience that we have is now seared and we're unable to see true north in a sense. So with the conscience seared, which is what's taking place here in Genesis 6, what other restraint holds back mankind? See, if you have your conscience, what's the next restraint? Well, the word of God. God's word spoken to the prophets. God's word spoken through his people. God's word spoken through the preaching of God's word. But this is rejected too, as we'll see this in Genesis 10. We saw this obviously in Genesis 3. The word of God's rejected. Do not eat, and they've rejected that. So mank mankind's been rejecting God's word all along from Genesis 3. So what's next? If it's not your conscience that's going to restrain evil, it's not the word of God that's going to restrain evil, what's next? The government, the institution established by God. Along with marriage, the institution that restrains evil. This is why you can have people who are atheists and yet still don't want to murder. because of the fear of the deterrent of of government. But here in Genesis six, this has been removed as well, and violence is now just taking place wholesale. It's a corrupt earth. It's a corrupt mankind. For the earth is filled with violence. He says again in verse 13 twice in the earth verse 11 the earth was filled with violence again in verse 13 for the earth is filled with violence through them so God determines to destroy man And he has every right to do so. The original creation is ruined. It's time to start over with a new lump of clay. And the lump is going to be ruined as well. But in the process of starting this over, God has established redemption through one man. Noah first, who is a foreshadow of he to come. And God chooses Noah and his family to be Both the instruments of salvation and the hope of procreation all will be descended from Noah from that from this point on, from Genesis 6 on. So in the coming weeks, next week, we're going to look at the flood and the veracity of the flood story. and the truthfulfulness, uh, in spite of all types of critics and skeptics declaring that it's impossible or whatnot. And we're gonna look at some of these both science and and other extra biblical stories as well of uh other flood stories, which there's hundreds of ancient flood stories of and and others uh civilizations that are very similar. So you and I'll get into this next week, but there's there's obviously a thread leading back to a a true historical source. And the Bible is the one that gets it right. Everyone else, you know, after time, the truth begins to disintegrate, and what you have replaced the truth with is just myth. And so these stories are very similar in their essentials, but there's many things that they get wrong. So for now, the rest of our time tonight, we're just going to look at the arc, the actual physical structure of the article of the ark. I think this is good. This is what the text starts off with talking about the the actual ark and goes into quite a bit of details. Well Noah is this shipbuilder, and we have no idea if he's had any experience with with shipbuilding before. And he's uh quite a silent shipbuilder. He does not protest God's plan in the beginning, not like some others. that we've read of read about or that we will read about Abraham, Moses. He does not ask God any questions. He just gets right to work building the ark. He doesn't actually even speak until chapter 9. For you know, cursed Canaan is uh what Noah says. But so for chapter, he's just gonna be building the ship or living on the ship. But why an ark? Why not a ship? We have the word ship in Hebrew. Why why use the word ark instead of the word ship? This is very interesting. This is a loan word from Egypt. It means basket is one of its meanings. It's actually the same word used of Moses when he was in the basket of reeds floating down the Nile River. But another, and this but the ark's not a basket. I mean that's clearly a basket, but the the ark is not a basket. We're going to see from the physical description that it's not basket-like. Actually some of the ancient Near Eastern mythologies of the flood stories, one of them is a basket the the the ship is a basket, big massive basket. This is not a basket. The other meaning of the word ark in Hebrew is coffin. Now that's profound. That all the words that he had at his disposal, and he had ship, he had boats, Moses used coffin And we're going to be looking this into more detail later on, but just suffice it to say that there's some imagery happening here dealing with death and resurrection. And the Ark and Noah and everything involved in this is painting a picture for us of a greater Redeemer, Jesus Christ. Christ. The ark is to be made of gopher wood. It's the only time this wood, this type of wood is used in the Bible, so we don't know what type of wood it it is. Some people think it's cedar. I don't think it's important, but gopher wood. And then we have these rooms, so that we're in verse, behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Verse 14, make yourself an ark of gopher wood. Make rooms. Now this is actually an interesting word here, meaning nests. Like bird nests in a sense. And and it's uh uh there's uh an idea that it's made out of the reeds, so that there's these various rooms on this tri -level boat. that are compartmentalizing the various animals. And the inside and the outside, it says here, with is covered with pitch. Again, this is the only time this word's used, but we do have somewhat of an idea of this with other extra biblical parallels and just this sap from the tree that when boiled and then spread upon something, it hardens very quickly and becomes watertight. So this arc , verse 15, is 300 cubits, 50 cubits, and 30 cubits. Now there is some uh disagreement about how much a cube it is. Maybe you have a footnote that says it was about 18 inches. That's that's good to put that there, about. It varies slightly, but so it's not a massive difference. But eighteen inches is kind of what I go with. And so we have this This massive rectangular box about 450 feet long, 75 feet wide, and 45 feet wide wide. tall. So the total deck area of which there can be livable space was about 95 ,000 square feet. This is about three times the area of the tabernacle courtyard. And there are actually many similarities between these two, and we're going to see this later on. This idea of Noah building an ark and Moses building the tabernacle, God chooses a man who seemingly had no experience with building arcs or tabernacles. And the purpose of it was to redeem mankind and to uh uh save them from their sin. And this boat, this arc, was roughly the same dimensions, actually, of modern shipping vessels. And we see shipping vessels now that have about a 1 to 7 uh length-width ratio, and this is close to what the ARC had. It's about the size of the largest wooden ship ever built, known as the Wyoming. Went to sea, I think, in early 1900s. It was as long as the ark, but it wasn't nearly as wide. And it was very uh not not seaworthy, and it sunk actually. drowning all fourteen of the hands that were on on the deck. But the ark actually has a much better design to stay afloat because the ark's purpose is not to go anywhere except just to stay above water. It's not trying to actually go in a direction. It just needs to stay afloat. And so the Ark has actually a a great design in order to do that. When you look at some of these Near East other Near Eastern parallels Like I said, you have one story where there's a huge basket, which wouldn't make sense at all. Water will literally just come right over the basket. This one the arc has a roof to protect the basket or to protect the uh arc from the from the the waves. I read somewhere that it could withstand a hundred foot waves. Um those of you who've been to the Ark Museum, there's been some people that have been to the Ark Museum. So you probably have even more information. I'd love to hear about after the after the service. But uh one of the things I don't know if they have some of the extra biblical stories about the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Ataharsis story and Sumerian flood tales. Those are some of these other ancient Nearesian stories. that predate the Bible in terms of the actual recovered text, but we know that the story of of uh of what Moses received was out the true story that was from the very beginning. But the Epic of Gilgamesh, uh, the boat there is a cube. It's a perfect cube, 120 cubits. So 180 feet tall and wide and and high. And obviously that makes no sense. The cube would just literally just tip over all the time. Like every time a wave would come, they've they've done models of this. with the ark and they'd done models with the other boats and the ancient New York Centaurian. The cube just literally tumbles in the water all the time. So you have all these the cows and animals just flying all over the place. That would not work. So the true story is the original story is what's contained here in Scripture, and there's deviations of this story. After hundreds and thousands of years, there's deviations, but they've gotten some of the stuff right, but a lot of the things they've gotten wrong. This judgment can be seen as extreme. We see this boat that's to protect Noah and all the animals. And like I said, Next week we're going to get more into the saving of the animals, the saving of Noah. But this judgment of the flood is a picture of eternal judgment. And we all deserve judgment. Not just the flood, but eternal judgment. And it's only by the grace of God that we are saved through the person and work of Jesus Christ. Christ. I mean it's Noah who built a ship, and all who entered into that ship were saved. And then thousands and thousands of years later Jesus Christ stands upon the earth and says to everyone who hears, I am the door. All who enter into me will be saved. Jesus Christ is the one who took upon himself the sinfulness and And the depravity and the wickedness and the ruin of all mankind upon himself at the cross, becoming sin. On our behalf, and taking the penalty of our sin. Jesus Christ, who knew no sin, who knew no wickedness, who knew no defilement, all of a sudden was corrupt became corrupt. Not that he sinned in his corruption, but he became corrupt that God imputed upon his account the corruption of all mankind. And by him doing that, we now become become righteous. And that is the gospel. And Noah, as we're going to see for these next few Noah and the Ark and the flood are beautiful pictures, thousands of years before, but obviously already in the mind of God of this redemption that we all now are beneficiaries. Let's pray