Abraham, which start started in Genesis twelve. And we're going to be looking at 13, 2 through 18. And verse 2 we see that Abram, I'm just going to say Abraham. I've done this before to confuse Abraham. He had much wealth. He was very rich, and his wealth was a blessing from God. But wealth is not necessarily a sign of blessing. We know that because we're going to see the story of Lot as a juxtaposition to Abraham. Abraham, the servant of God, the man of faith, and yet Lot his nephew. Also very wealthy, very rich, and yet he has mo money, mo problems, so to speak. He has a lot of problems that we're going to look at here. God did not promise Abraham possessions and material wealth, but rather a posterity, spiritual children, along with physical children. And Abraham was awaiting the fulfillment of these promises. But he knew that the fulfillment did not lie in Egypt. And so what does Abraham do? He leaves Egypt. It says, went up from Egypt, this is verse 1, which we looked at last week. He goes up from Egypt, Lot with him, into the Negev. And this is a wilderness area that is south of Jerusalem. If you follow that the Dead Sea on the east side of Israel and a little bit to the west and southwest of that, you have this wilderness area, this desert area. Israel called the Negev, pronounced Negev, not Negev. And this is where Abraham enters into and he's continuing to travel up through the Negev all the way north up to Bethel. And the text is making it clear that Abram, Abraham is following the path that God called him to in the very beginning, back in Genesis 12, when God called Abraham from the land of Canaan, from his father's household, a household of idolatry. And he calls Abraham to this land. And the text is making it clear with this a couple words here when it says in verse 3, at the beginning. between Bethel and Bethel and I. And again in verse four, at the first, it's reiterating this idea that Before Abraham was called by God, but he had to go into Egypt, and now he's just retracing his steps of that which God has called him to. He's following in the footsteps, he's trying to walk with God. And Bethel is going to be a very central location in the history of God's people. Bethel, Bait Ale , House of God. And Abraham goes to the spot where he had gone before, between Bethel and I, and he pitches his tent there. Back in Genesis 12, he built an altar to the Lord back in Genesis 12. He called upon the name of the Lord before going to Egypt, and presumably the altar is still there. It says here in verse 4, there Abram called upon the name of the Lord. Doesn't say he uh built an altar again. His altar from before still stands. God's promises still remain, even though Abram had to go into Egypt. His promises, God's promises remain. And Abraham calls on the name of the Lord. I think that's telling for us. I think it's a good lesson for us. Remember that Abraham just experienced some very serious trauma. I mean, uh a region -wide famine. That forced peop forced people out of their homes, out of their cities, out of their countryland. I mean a severe shortage of food that would be absolutely devastating. to go through. It forces uh Sarai and Abraham into Egypt and there in Egypt. He he has to lie in order to to save his life. Sarai presumably sleeps with Pharaoh. And now he's journeying back up to a land that's promised to him, unknown, unknowing what to expect. And what does he do first? He calls upon the name of the Lord. I just think it's a great reminder for us. And Abraham is invoking the name of God. He's reaffirming his devotion to him. This isn't praying. There is the word for praying to the Lord. It's used throughout the Old Testament. They could have used that. Calling on the name of the Lord is is different. It's it's trusting in God. It's reaffirming his His devotion to God. He's not trusting in Egypt. He wants to get out of Egypt. And he goes to exactly where he knows where God wants him. He's not trusting in his own devices. He's aware he's a broken man in need of God's grace. He's holding on to these promises even though they're not fulfilled. He doesn't have possession of the land fully yet, at least. He doesn't have any children that's been promised to him. He's clinging. Clinging desperately to his promises. And Matt, you picture this. He's leaving Egypt and he just only knows I'm going to go where God called me last. I'm going to go back to the same exact place where God called me before. I'm trying to find God. He does whatever it takes. Not so Lot. And this is the contrast. And it's a very important contrast to see. We see no mention of Lot calling on the name of the Lord. We sa we see no mention of Lot building. an altar. We see no mention of Lot retracing these steps, divine steps that God's ordered him. Now this could be an argument from silence. Or it could be something significant. I think the latter. The very least, this seems to be Abraham. involuntarily separating himself from his father's household. In fact, that word separate, separate from me. You're uh verse nine, separate yourself from me. This idea of separation, and I don't think Abraham's intentionally doing this. He's not intentionally trying to push Lot away. But it is very indicative in the text that there is now a separation, the kind of last bit of connection that Abraham too had to his pagan father. I recall back in Genesis 11 when God actually calls Abraham's father to go to the land of Canaan. And we talked about this a few weeks ago, where God calls Terah and his family to go, but Terah does not end in Canaan. He doesn't go all the way there. He ends in Haran, the place of idol worship. Abraham is the faithful son. He is the one that heeds God's call And so this is what is occurring here with Lot, and this separation is taking place. And Lot is not going to be included in the promises of God. He is going to be given material blessings and progeny and posterity and he's going to be given wealth. He already has it. Those things are, but the specific promises of spiritual descendants that number greater than the stars in the sky and the dust on the earth, that promise is not for Lot. He's not included. His descendants, Lot's descendants, are Moab And Ammon. You've heard of the Ammonites and the Moabites. These are going to be rivals. Now there are places where they partner with Israel, specifically in, of course, the story of Ruth, but by and large. Moab and Ammon are going to be rivals of Israel. And these are the descendants of Lot. Abraham is the one calling upon the Lord. Lot is not doing that. This calling on the name of the Lord is also it's it's also a uh offering of one's own life. It often throughout the scriptures accompanies building of an altar and making a sacrifice. These these three are are linked. Inextricably. It's symbolic. It's really Abraham's on the altar. Calls upon the name of the Lord. He builds an offer. He put makes a sacrifice, but symbolically it's Abraham. That places himself upon the sacri upon the altar as a sacrifice to God. Is this not what Paul says in Romans 12. Offer your what? Bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. Which is your spiritual worship. Animal sacrifice upon the altar is a metaphor, in part, for appeasing God through atonement, of course, but also presenting oneself holy. and completely to God. So the land that they're in cannot support Abraham and Lot, and uh they are uh shepherds. I mean they're not traders, they're not, you know, financiers or something that don't need a lot of land. These are these are shepherds of very extensive flocks. of multiple types of animals. It's not just sheep. We're talking about sheep and goats and cattle and all types. And the the land and natural resources required for such herds. was was vast, uh especially in the land of Canaan where water supplies were limited. I mean obviously the Mediterranean is a big water supply, but you can't really drink from there. And not only the flocks that Abraham and Lot have, but the servants that they possessed were extremely numerous. When Lot is captured by the kings, the Canaanite kings in Genesis 14, it says that Abraham took 318 of his servants. Now these are just male fighting age servants He took 318, they were all born in his house, the text says, to go rescue Lot. So if he had 318 fighting men in his house, he probably had close to a thousand people altogether. Including men, women, and children. And these needed tents and their own livestock and their own land and space and whatnot. So the pressure That was put on the land just by these two families, Abraham and Lot, was was immense. It was great. And the herdsmen of Abraham and Lot had strife with one another as they're trying to navigate through this pressure. And here we have another incident of familial strife. I mean, isn't that a very common theme that we see throughout Scripture that's going to continue through the patriarchs I mean strife in the family has been present since the very first family. Adam and Eve had marital strife. Cain and Abel certainly had massive sibling strife. The children of Abraham will continue to have sibling strife from Isaac and Ishmael, Jacob and Esau and Laban. And the children of Jacob selling their brother, their very own brother, into slavery. And so strife, what 's this saying? Strife has been present in the people of God since the very beginning. So it should be no surprise if strife is present in the church. For we are the people of God. We are the spiritual descendants of Abraham. And strife has occurred in the family of Abraham from the very beginning, and strife occurs in the church today. We shouldn't be surprised. Doesn't mean we don't make every attempt humanly possible on our end. To stop strife, to put a cease, to live at peace with our brother, to love, to to to uh of course to do these. It's but it is inevitable that there's strife Therefore, we must forgive. Because we know strife will occur. We should be prepared to forgive. Abraham is gracious to give Lot whatever land he chose. So we see this in verse 9. If you take the left hand, you can just picture them staring out in this vast land. You take left hand, I'll go right. You take north, I'll take south And what does this indicate, though? It indicates that Abraham believed the land was his to give away. It's Abraham who's actually believing the promise of God that this land is mine. And therefore, I will I will parson it out to you and in a very humble and very gracious way. So verse 10: Lot sees the land, but he sees it. As Egypt. This is not coincidental. We see this in verse 10. It's like the land of Egypt. That is not coincidental. I mean last week you recall I preached about Egypt and its its relationship to Israel. I said this. I'm just going to quote a little part of last week's sermon. Egypt is a double-edged sword or a broken reed. That you cannot put weight upon. It was tempting of the Hebrews to stay in Egypt. So God had to warn his people to not go down to Egypt, to not call upon Egypt, to not desire Egypt. But even when the Israelites were gone from Egypt, they immediately, what were they doing? Looking back. Looking back at Egypt. Isn't this going to be very similar to Lot and his wife? looking back to Sodom. But the Israelites were looking back to Egypt and remember in in uh Numbers eleven, we remember the fish we ate in Egypt, the cucumbers, the melons, the onions, the leeks and the garlic. And recall we said that's a very odd meal to have, but nonetheless, they were longing for Egypt. And Lot sees the land as reminiscent of Egypt. He was just down there. And it looks more than just Egypt. Like it looks like what? The garden of God. The garden of God. What could this possibly mean? Nothing less than the Garden of Eden, the paradise. In fact, much of the language, much of the Hebrew Between this passage and the Genesis 3 passage of the fall of mankind is very similar. Much of the words, much of the language. That's used between those two passages is very similar. Abraham is the better Adam, but Lot is Eve He sees the land. He lifts up his eyes. He sees the land. It seems good, but in the end it's actually a forbidden land He chose wrong. Rather than fruit, it says that it's the water that attracts Lot to this area. just as it was the water, the Nile, that attracted people to Egypt. So verse 13, Lot moves to Sodom. And there is a parenthetical statement here that the men of Sodom were wicked. They're great sinners against the Lord. This is obviously foreshadowing. Something that we all are aware of, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, that's not going to happen for a little while longer. But again, the implication is that Lot chose the wrong place. Abraham chose the right portion, and Lot chose the wrong one. Sodom Gomorrah is outside of the land of promise. It is not in Israel. It's on the southeast corner outside of the Jordan River. And that's on the east. And recall we've talked about this very often, about the garden, about the temple, how the entrance and exit of both of those, of the land. The guard the the the temple land was on the east. So they enter into the land of Canaan through the east, they exit out when they're uh um ejected out of the Garden of Eden, where is it? They're they're uh pushed out of the east as the cherubim is guarding the east. of the of the garden. And so this is where Lot goes. He leaves the the true paradise that God's given, and he leaves it for Sodom and Gomorrah. It's when Abraham takes the chosen land that God reiterates his covenantal promises to him. Lift up your eyes. Again, contrasting with Lot. Lot looked up. He lifted up his eyes. He saw what he thought was good, but it was really bad. But now God tells Abraham, lift up your eyes. Look from the place to the north, south, east, and west, for all the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. I will make your offspring of the dust of the earth, so that if you can count the dust of the earth, your offspring also can be counted. Isn't it amazing? We have no idea how many people throughout history are going to be in heaven. The saints of God that are going to be marching through the gates. And yet God knows. Every single one, every number of those he 's redeemed. Arise, walk through the length and breadth of the land, for I will give it to you. This is God personally delivering this promise. And there is a physical inheritance of land for physical descendants of Abraham. And we've made this point often here. But if anyone has a claim to the physical land of Israel, of that area of the Levant. It it certainly can be Israelites. I mean they've they've had claims to that land for for thousands upon thousands of years. But this idea of forever and the other passages that we've looked at here indicate that there is another land. that is to be given to the spiritual descendants of Abraham. So as the church, we have no claim to the land of Israel. In fact, I would argue as a church, we don't really even need to care about the land of Israel in terms of any type of eschatological events or things like that. It's my my belief that that that doesn't matter. Now politically speaking and all those other things that's different. But in terms of the church and the end times and things like that, I believe that the Israel is um been superseded by the church. We are the Israel. We are the true Israel. But This indication here, this indicates that there is an a land of promise that is waiting for the spiritual descendants of Abraham. the land of eternal paradise, the land of Sabbath rest , that Sabbath day, Genesis, that never ends, that we walk into that Sabbath rest. And it's eternal. I mean the old hymn writers understood this very well. Some of the richest theology that you can study is found in some of these great classic hymns. on Jordan's Stormy Banks, one of those hymns. And it's an absolute tragist travesty that it's not in our hymnal. If we were going to sing that tonight, it's not in our hymnal, our new hymnal that we just got. But listen to these rich lyrics on Jordan's stormy banks, I stand, and cast a wishful eye to Canaan's fair and happy land where my possessions lie. He's not talking about the land of Israel. He's not talking about a physical land. He's saying that there is a land waiting for me. Over all those wide extended plains shines one eternal day. There God the sun forever reigns and scatters night away. No chilling winds or poisonous breath can reach that healthful shore. Sickness and sorrow, pain and death are felt and feared no more When I shall reach that happy place, I'll be forever blessed, for I shall see my Father's face and in his bosom rest. What a great spiritual view of a physical promise given to Abraham, a specific promise that included physical land. but was only a type or a shadow of a greater land, a greater promise. And so we with spiritual eyes See the promise of land throughout the Old Testament, and we understand this to be Jordan. We understand this to be the spiritual Jordan. Abraham, who is now blessed by God, is in possession of a land, and he's in possession of promises of God, and Abraham establishes Hebron. As a home, we see this at the very end here in verse 18. Hebron is going to be a key city. And later on, this is going to be the future home of King David. The Hebronites are the first to recognize that David is the ruler or he's anointed as the king of Israel. So Abraham has all these. He's in the land now. He's out of Egypt. He's in the land. He has great possessions. But what's he missing? A child. The entire promise was dependent upon a child, a physical child, who in turn would become spiritual descendants. I mean can you imagine Abraham finally getting back to this place that God's called him to? And he sees what he has, what he possesses, and he's certainly wondering, what's this all for if I don't have a child to give it to? Sarah is still barren. She's she's old and barren. Lot, his nephew, is gone to be with the nurse. And this certainly would be a trying time for anyone. But what does Abraham do? Verse 18. There he built an altar to the Lord. Comes back full circle. God calls him to the land of Canaan. He builds an altar. He worships God And then after this trauma of Egypt and going back and waiting these promises that are taking so long to be fulfilled, God calls Abraham back up to this land, and what does Abraham do? He builds an altar. He worships God. What a great lesson for us. Rather than turning away from worship in difficult, trying times. Abraham turns to worship. And this is hard. It's a hard lesson for us. I won't ask for a show of hands of who feels like worshiping God when times are tough. And trying. But let us pray. Let us pray as a church and ask God to help us make worship a reflex. For when times get challenging, for when we go through the valley. We worship of God, even in the valley of the shadow of death. Is an integral part of the inheritance of the children of Abraham. The ability to worship God even in that valley. That is part of the inheritance that God has promised to us as people. Let's pray.