So that tells you how long we're going to be in Genesis. No, Chapter 1, of course, has has so much to cover. And this really is uh the crown of of all creation. This is the climax of chapter one. And it's really the climax of the entire book of Genesis. And tonight we're looking at the creation of mankind, but there's actually two parts of this creation. one, which we just read, and another one found in chapter two. And these do not contradict each other in any way. They complement one another. This one that we're looking at is kind of the broad macro 30,000 feet view of creation and the one in chapter 2, which we'll look at in a few weeks. examines the creation account in more detail, specifically the placing of man in the garden as well as the creation of woman. But this is the last to be created. This is the end of the cosmic creation of Genesis chapter 1. And we, we, you, and I, we stand At the apex of this creation, at the end of all creation, as the pinnacle of God 's work, of his craft He created the most beautiful things in this universe: stars, galaxies, sunsets, mountains. And yet all of it pales in comparison. to you. Nothing in all of creation is like you. Because nothing in all of creation is made in the image. Of God, the Imago Day. God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. No longer is there the impersonal, let there be Every other day, let there be light, let there be this, let there be that. And now, on day six, what's God say? Let us, let us make. And scholars debate about what this us means. Is it a glimpse into the triune God, the Trinity? Is it this honorific plural of God? Either way, it's God personalizing the creation, unlike anything he's done before. The image and likeness. And these are two different words. They mean two different things. When we see image in the Bible, it has a sense of something that's created. It's normally used of a metal or stone statue, typically of a god, of an ancient Near Eastern god. The image could represent anything But that's what it typifies. Now, likeness is different. It doesn't necessarily mean a statue, it means resemblance. Just what we how we would use likeness. But it's not an exact replica. And the image that God has made does not resemble any of the rest of creation. The image Rhesembles God Himself. We are a theomorphic creation. That is, man, mankind, I use that generally, is made to represent God. And not necessarily an anthropomorphic. God was not, God did not reveal himself in the image of man. Even though many people would posit that he did, that we have created God in our own image. We don't believe that. We believe that God created us in his image And this is an amazing act, and it's one of complete surprise if you think about it. I mean, if you're reading Genesis for the first time. And you get, or there's let's say there's an alien, we believe in aliens, and they come down and they've never met a human and they're reading Genesis and they've never seen a human before, and they see day one, day two, day three, all these, and they it makes sense. That God, this all-powerful being, would create this paradise. Perhaps the paradise for him to even walk around. He would create something to display his glory. But then we get to the sixth day, and we see that God makes a physical representation of himself. Why? Why would he do that? The God who has existed before time began, this eternal God who has existed three in one, three persons and one God. Decided to create a physical manifestation, an image, a likeness of himself. Why? What's the purpose? Well, one reason why God created an image Is that we are to rule the earth in God's stead. Now, this does not mean that God is absent. That God is not the ultimate ruler and the ultimate authority, but we are his vice regents here on earth. We are the ones ruling, the kings and queens of this earth, while God is not physically present. There will come a time when God will be physically present again on this earth. We'll still be made in the image of God. We'll still be as vice regents. But the reason why God made us in his image is to rule. And we'll get to that. in more detail later. In the ancient Near East, a statue of a god was often placed in the temple In order to represent that God being there in that nation. We see this even in the Bible many times. One place in particular that you may recall, 1 Samuel chapter 5. And the story of Dagon. Dagon, the god, named uh for a fish god, that's what most people think, or Dagon, the grain god. And we see that the when the Ark of the Covenant was placed in there, what happens to the statue of Dagon, this huge statue, in the figure of a man, in the figure of some Type of anthropomorphic god, the statue just falls right on his face. And so ancient Near Eastern societies put gods in temples. To represent the God as if he was there. Well, we are that statue. Living and breathing statues placed by God in His temple, which is the earth, all of creation All creation is ordered to worship God. And this is true of every single last person. No one's exempt from this. We are all the image of God. In the ancient Near East, only the kings, only the kings were made in the image of God. And thus Pharaoh was a type of God reincarnate. And we see various examples of that. But the true God extends the privilege of imogeness and likeness to every single person, to all of humanity. Well, image and likeness only tell part of the story. They are a type of Hinnedias. It's two words kind of representing one more complete theme, one more complete concept. It's image and likeness together, and they represent something more than just taking image by itself and likeness by itself and combining them. There's a there's a more complete or whole concept that's being communicated when God says, You are my image and my likeness. What is that concept? What is this big idea, this grand idea? It's not just to rule, Even though that's important. What else is communicated by this idea of image and likeness? Well, we get a clue later in the book of Genesis, actually just a few chapters later in chapter 5. It says this. It's talking about the generations of Adam, the progeny of Adam. It says this is the generations of Adam when God created man. When God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. Male and female, he created them and he blessed them and named them man when they were created. That's just a recap of what we just saw in Genesis chapter 1, but it goes on. Listen to this. When Adam had lived 130 years, he fathered a son. In his own likeness, after his own image, named Seth. What does that tell you? God has made sons and daughters, not just humans. Not just people, not just rulers on the earth. He's made children. And that is a point Profound thought. Why not just use that here in Genesis chapter 1? Why not just use sons and daughters instead of image and likeness? Well, because we must not confuse us with the true Son of God, Jesus Christ. We are not eternally begotten sons. and daughters. We are not co-equal with God or co-eternal. We are not of the same substance as God. We were not even created ex nahilo out of nothing. We were Created man was created out of the earth. God took dirt, dust of the earth, and made man. Genesis chapter two, verse seven. We're gonna look at this in more detail in a few weeks, but it says then the Lord took the dust From the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. In Hebrew, God made Adam from Adama, the ground. Adam comes from the earth. Eve comes from Adam's rib. Man and woman, Isha and Ish. Esha comes from Esh. We are sons and daughters who are contingent upon God's creating decree. Before time began in eternity past, God determined that He would create sons and daughters. We are glorious, make no mistake about it, but we are not deity. We are children that have a probationary status. We are made with conditions here, and we'll look at this in chapter 3, of life and death. The true Son, Jesus Christ, has no conditions, has no such status. Even with this probationary status God treats us as true children. We are given access to the divine. We are made to reflect his glory. We are in a relationship with the Almighty. What's God do here with his children? Well, he shares his glory. Part of God's glory is that he has dominion over everything. Over all the cosmos, always has, always will, but a portion of that dominion, a portion of that sovereignty, He's given to you and me. God had to reinforce this idea to us because uh it was so important to him. For us to understand that we have been given a portion of his rule, that we are to be vice regents. And this was a unique idea Throughout history, recall where the author of Genesis came from. Moses. He was an Egyptian prince in some ways. He was trained in all the cosmogenies of the ancient Egypt. The ways that the gods created the heavens and the earth. And the Israelites themselves, they lived in Egypt for hundreds of years. They were surely converted to an Egyptian way of thinking. Maybe not totally, but they were influenced. By this Egyptian worldview that permeated the entire culture. And what did the Egyptian cosmogeny say about man? They were just the servants. They're slaves. Many of the ancient Creation stories talk about man just being a food bearer to the gods. That's all they were created for. That was their sole purpose Bringing the gods food. But God had to reshape The Israelites' worldview, just as he has to sh reshape your worldview. What is your view of humanity? God has to recalibrate our entire perception of mankind. So He declares loud and clear: let us make man in our image. And after our likeness, and let him have dominion. Now recall in the previous days We looked at this last week. The created beings of days four through six filled the realms that were created of days one through three. And those created beings in days four through six have dominion. over their respective realms of days one through three, their respective spheres. The sun, moon, and stars, it says has dominion They have dominion over the day and night. The birds and marine animals have dominion over the sky and seas, respectively. And although not mentioned explicitly, the beasts of the earth have a type of dominion over the dry ground. But when we get to mankind, something unique happens. They have, we have, dominion over everything. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and just in case that wasn't enough, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. I think God's trying to make this clear to us, right? Total and complete dominion. There is not a nook Or cranny on God's green earth that He hath not assigned to mankind to rule over. And that's what we are to do. Kings and queens on earth. This is what it means to be the image of God. And verse 27, look at this with me, repeats this extraordinary, extraordinary truth. But more than just repeat it, it's a threefold declaration. God created, He created them, male and female, He created them. And this is what's called a chiasm. The middle line is what is emphasized. And the middle line of this chiastic structure is that God has created us in his image. That is what's being stressed throughout Genesis, throughout the Bible. It is God who created us like him. We did not evolve. We are not from pre-existing hominids. We're certainly not from chimpanzees. We have such a higher calling. We are in the image of God, not the image of primates. We have a noble ontology. We have a a far greater destiny than what people would have you believe. We exist as sons and daughters. Of God. God had to make sure we get this truth. Recall that for all the birds, fish, and livestock, what did it say? God created them according to their kind. That is, each was made distinct, and there were countless individual species. God does not use that language for us. Nowhere does it say that He made us distinct according to our kind, even though we know there are different kinds of us. Why? We stand apart from the other. Creatures. We are not a species like the rest of the animals. We are not mammals. I know that's controversial. I know that we uh share some mammalian features, but sharing traits does not equate Sharing similar properties does not mean that we belong in that category. I do not use that language. of species, animal, mammal. I don't use it because God doesn't use it. We are set apart from all the rest of Animals, just like God is set apart from us. We are not just biological entities. Yes, we share biological features and functions. But that is not equivalence. We're the image of God and his likeness, and no other animal can boast that claim. And God blesses us, it says here in verse 28. And God blessed them. And he does give us the same blessing that as he gave the birds of the sky and the fish of the sea in verse twenty-two. God blessed them as well to be fruitful and to multiply and fill the earth. His blessing is a is a creational blessing. It's a sense of empowerment to do what we were created to do. In that sense we are to rule harmoniously with the animals. with the rest of created order. But our blessing is different. So not only do we have dominion over the birds And the fish and every creeping thing and everything else on the earth, but we are also called to subdue them Now that's an interesting word. It's not used of any of the other animals. None of the animals are called to subdue the earth. It is a word that's used of conquest. of of domination, but it's not the domination that we uh inherently think of. It's not the man it's not of mankind crushing the earth. breaking it. Now this is evident in uh in a a small way in the dietary rules of the mankind. There's debate about this, but it seems like mankind were vegetarians cultivating the land, growing crops, eating the crops. There wasn't actually killing of animals. There is, uh, like I said, debate on that. But there's harmony that takes place in this. The subduing of creation is of mankind forcing the earth. Into place. It's mankind bringing the earth into the bondage of glorifying God. It's mankind taking the earth and shaping it in a way that it's consecrated to God. Almighty. All we do should be putting God on display throughout the created order. And this blessing of subjugation, of subduing, was given before the fall of man and the subsequent curse. Man was to subdue the earth and was given a garden in which to do this. But subduing the earth most poignantly foreshadowed the curse that was to come. In subduing the earth after the fall, after the fall. We are beating back the chaos, the evil, the thorns and thistles that have arisen. Why? Due to our own rebellion and disability Disobedience. We are not to sit idly by while chaos takes over. We're not to have a pity party. We're going to get this into chapter 3 and the fall of mankind. But this connection of subduing the earth fits very well with chapter 3. After the fall of mankind, we're not just to sit idly by and just say, well, we messed up. And now everything's going to hell in a handbasket. Now we're fighting. We're fighting against the chaos, against the darkness, against the evil, against the corruption that is inherently now in God's created order. That's our mandate. In most simple, boiled-down terms, you and I are pushing back against evil. In every sphere of life that you can think about, in your home, in your neighborhood, in your community, in your city, in your workplace, in your family, everywhere. We're fighting against the natural course of the earth now that devolves into sickness, disease, death, and destruction. And we're subduing the earth Despite the catastrophes, despite famine, storm, everything else that this earth throws at us Subduing the earth means developing cures for AIDS and cancer. It means fighting against injustice. Against systems in which the world exploits the poor, the weak, or the needy. Subduing the earth means subduing criminals. It means creating beauty, music, art, education that glorifies God. It means taking care of our bodies, homes, families, the planet. Bringing everything back into this creative order that once was very good And glorified God in every single way, but now as a broken, fallen image of that. And so every day we're we're slowly but surely restoring this earth And chaos, the chaos that's all around us, would have us exploit things now. People, places. But subduing creation as a vice-regent of God means protecting. It means prospering. We fight to make the world a better place. And then applications abound. I'm going to go through all of them. How does that apply to you and your setting? How are you called to fight against evil and the chaos that's ensuing all around you? I'll tell you how that comes about first and foremost. Subduing the earth and fighting against evil and chaos comes first and foremost through the faithful proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is the ultimate subduing. This is the ultimate subjugation of chaos, evil, and death. And we are the ones to do that. There's no plan B. We're the plan that God has created to carry this out as his image is on all the earth. And when God made us, he did not say, This is good. And he said, this is really good. And it's the only time in the Creator Order that he says that. And we're still that plan. To carry the image of the triune God throughout the whole earth, seeking to glorify Him in every sphere of existence. And despite our fall, despite our brokenness, God has not discarded you. Creation came to an end with us here. There is no other day than when Which we are. a better human is made, one that will really subdue the earth, one that will not fall, one that will be true to God's commands. And the injunction to be a blessing. There is no other day where someone else is created. But there will come a day, there would come a day Not when another man was created, but when the Son of Man came to his creation. Jesus Christ is the greater Adam. Where Adam failed, Jesus has only succeeded. And where Adam is an image of likeness of God, Jesus is God's exact substance. He rules all of heaven and earth, and one day, as Paul writes in Corinthians, he will put all things under his feet He will subdue all things to the glory of God the Father. As we see Adam as the first and failed representative of this Mandate to be the Imago day and all for the image of God in all creation. As we see in Adam a failure, and as we see in ourselves a failure to do this We must also look to Jesus, the last and successful representative of mankind, and to him we give all praise, glory, and honor. Let us pray.