We're looking now at the final verses of Genesis chapter 3, closing up this wonderful chapter that that details the fall of man and really the fall of man does not stop with Genesis 3. It goes on to Genesis 4. It's uh Cain and Abel. It goes on to Genesis 5. It continues going on throughout the entire Bible. In fact we are all in Adam. The fall of Adam continues today. This covenant of works that's been broken, the penalty of that covenant has continued even to this very present hour. But as we will see Underneath this covenant of works that God established, he's demanding perfect obedience for life. Underneath this covenant of works, there was a covenant of grace. And we saw this a few weeks ago with the proto -uangelion, a very fancy Greek word. The first gospel, Genesis chapter 3, 15, we saw that the seed of Eve is one day going to crush the head of the serpent. And this is the first gospel, this first glimpse to the good news of Jesus Christ, this covenant of grace that underlines the covenant of works and continues like a thread throughout the entire Bible. In fact, uh as we mentioned last week or a few weeks ago The entire Bible is just looking at the seed of Eve as it travels through the eons, through the generations, through the various time and and space that the Bible records. And we See the seed go through Adam and not go through Cain, go go through uh Seth and not go through Ishmael. You know, it continues all the way through, not through Japheth or Ham, the sons of Noah, but through Shem and on through Abraham and his sons and and on and on until Christ, Jesus Christ, came and he is the seed. Our passage tonight, as we close out Genesis 3, we see some interesting things that have taken place. Look at three verse fourteen. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this cursed Cursed are you. And then look with me at verse 17. Towards the end of it, you shall not eat of it, talking to Adam. Cursed. is the ground because of you. But Adam and Eve avoid the curse, for then there is no curse to be found. He could have easily mentioned that. I mean he mentions serpent. He mentions uh the ground and yet Adam and Eve. In fact, Adam and Eve there's no mention of death even. They are to return to the dust, it says, obviously a euphemism for death, but death itself is not mentioned here. And this raises the question, weren't Adam and Eve cursed? Isn't all mankind cursed? Don't we say that? Like the curse of Adam, we're all in the curse? Well first we must ask the question, what is a curse? And it's helpful to know that the Bible pits curses with its antithesis, which is blessing. So, in order to know what a curse is, it's helpful to know what a blessing is. And a blessing is God given grace and power to be able to do the things that God requires, that God demands, namely To please him, to worship him, to love him. It's the ability that God has given to live a life pleasing to him. It's not a uh Blessing is not money or wealth or health or prosperity or any of those things. It is uh a pleas ability to please God. And so conversely Cursing is the inability to please God. In fact, the word cursing is it 's the root is bound , like tied up, unable to do anything good for God. And this curse is irrevocable. It's the strongest language the Bible has. For stating that someone is displeasing to God, unchangeably so. Curse is a very strong word. This person's unable to do it. It's a permanent state of affairs. Well, it raises the question, let's start with the ground. Isn't the ground going to be uncursed? At some point in time, are we always going to have a cursed ground? No, the ground is not going to be uncursed. There's going to be a new ground. There's a new heaven and a new earth. It's not the old ground, not the old earth uncursed. The ground as we know it will be destroyed in fire. Paul says, symbolic of hellfire. And it will a new ground will be raised again. A new earth. This is the meaning of what Paul says in Romans 8. For the creation was subjected to futility. not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free. From bondage that see notice that word, the bondage, that that that language of cursing, that being bound We'll be set free from bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. That's very fat. That's in the and Incredible statement that the earth itself, the new heavens and the new earth, all the cosmos will receive a salvation-like experience. just as mankind will. Second Peter three ten is another verse about this idea of this new heavens and new earth. The day of the Lord will come like a thief, Peter says, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar. The heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved. I mean, how much clearer can you get? They're done. Burned up and dissolved. They're gone. And the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be? That's a great A great question. It's not a rhetorical one. It's one that we should be asking ourselves. In light of everything that we see, taste, touch, and smell is going to be dissolved. and melt away. How then should we live? It's a great question to ask ourselves, and we probably should do it daily. So thus Revelation depicts this new heaven and the new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. The sea was no more The sea of chaos that was in Genesis one. It's gone. Now it's stable ground for everybody. So the earth will be a new earth. The old ones cursed. Well, what about mankind? What about mankind? Well, in one sense, we are under the curse. In this sense only, that it could befall us if we are not in Christ. If we are not in Christ, the curse hangs over our head, just as the curse hangs over the head of every single unregenerate man, woman, and child. But the curse will only actually befall that person when they cross into the line of eternity without being born again, without having repented. and put their faith in Jesus Christ. So this curse hangs over, we're not specifically cursed, but this curse hangs over our heads. And it's in eternity that the curse now becomes irrevocable, as we even looked at this morning, that hell itself is irrevocable, unchangeable. So this curse hangs over our head, and those who are not in Christ, when they step over eternity, will then fully be cursed. There's a really tremendous, tremendously insightful passage to this in Hebrews 6. It's very instructive in this regard. And this is what it says. For land that has drunk the rain that often falls on it and produces a crop useful to those for whose sake it is cultivated receives a blessing from God. Now, obviously, Hebrews 6 is not talking about literal land here. It's talking about people, those who have received the grace, the grace that has rained down upon them through Christ. And they then receive this blessing from God. They are, in a sense, eternally blessed. In the sense also that they are eternally pleasing to God. But listen to what the writer of Hebrews says next. But if the land bears thorns and thistles. Hmm , where do we hear about thorns and thistles? But if the land bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless. and near, near to being cursed. And its end is to be burned. There's a lot of illusions going on here There's certainly an allusion to hell. Its end is to be burned. It's near being cursed. But we also have here the illusion of the garden, right? Someone just said Genesis, the thorns and thistles that have that have now are now conspiring against mankind due to this sin. If the person is bearing only the marks of unregenerate Adam, he's near, it says, to being cursed. And his end is to be burned. But Christ took the complete curse upon himself. All of it, including Descending into hell. Now this is a debatable line, right? Some people, even in our own church, when the apostles' creed is recited, they don't say that line And I confess I used to not say that line because I didn't believe that Christ descended into hell in the way that people are descending into hell who are unregenerate. I thought that since Christ says it is finished at the cross, that there's no more punishment. But I've kind of gone a little bit the other side of this. And believe that the full experience, the full weight of the curse had to be placed on Christ. Not eternally, because Christ, even a drop of this unrighteous judgment, you know, that's unrighteous in the sense that he was innocent, even a drop of that is more than eternity. It's enough to suffice. The eternal punishment or the eternal requirements. But Christ took this curse upon himself upon the cross, was rejected by God. Just as Adam was rejected out of the garden, and he takes the curse even fuller or to the most fullest point, descending into hell, as we have recited for now. 1700 plus years. Christ became a curse on our behalf. So that the curse that hangs over all mankind may be removed for those who run to Christ for safety. And the picture of the Old Testament cities of refuge is very instructive, where there is a slayer of the blood looking for you. And if he catches you out in the open, you're dead. But what does what does uh Deuteronomy command, what does Joshua command? To run to the city of refuge, and in the city of refuge you have protected And the same is with Christ. We run to Christ and we have we have protection from this curse that has befallen all mankind. And only in Christ can Can this curse be removed only in Christ? It is the only way. Adam and Eve were not cursed, just like you were not cursed before you came to Christ. You were at war with God. You were at enmity with God. You were, as Hebrews states, you were near to being cursed. Your end would have been to be burned. But praise be to God, he saved you before that end. He rescued you by himself taking upon himself the curse and giving you his Righteousness. Adam and Eve were not cursed. They returned to the dust. It's an act of grace by God. He had mercy upon them right here in the beginning of Genesis. He did not consign them to eternal punishment. To the eternal eating of dust, like he did to Satan. The curse that was upon Satan is this eternal eating of the dust. The humiliation, the shame of what he has done. After the punishment was meted out, Adam does something remarkable. He calls his wife Eve. And Genesis explains this for us, the mother of the living, he says, because she was the mother of all living, verse 20. Now this is interesting though. Did not Adam give his wife a name already? I mean, you look at verse uh chapter 2, verse 23. Look with me. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman. Because she was taken out of man. But now here we have verse 20, chapter 3. The man called, the same word, called his wife's name Eve. Now, he gave her a name already, Ish, she was taken, or Isha , she's taken out of Ish. What's going on here in verse 20? Well, I believe Adam changes her name. It it's our it's i there's two different ways of looking at this that God or Adam gave um Eve, a general name, woman for all of womankind. And then here gives her a more specific name, Eve. That's certainly possible. Um and those both names are obviously present, you know, even today. A woman can have her personal name, but also is generally a woman. But I I do tend to think that Adam changes her name to Eve calls her now the mother of all the living. What's the point of that? The mother of all the living. It's the seed. Adam recognizes The promise of God given to at given to Eve of this seed that will continue to live through all the generations until it crushes the head of Satan. Satan. He understood the Proto-Uangelion. He understood, in my opinion, the first gospel that the seed of the woman is going to be living. And And it's going to crush the head of Satan. Changing her name, or at least now calling her Eve, whereas he didn't call her before was, was an acknowledgement of God's grace. And to continue the theme of grace, the Lord, it says here, verse twenty one, and the Lord God, remember if you see the Lord God, the Lord in all caps, and God it's Yahweh Elohim, it's the name of God. And what is the Lord God, this covenant God? It's it's there's a still a covenant in place. It's no longer El or Elohim. I mean you would think that as you're reading this that the covenant's now broken. No longer is there a covenant because mankind broke it. So verse 21 should be, and God made for Adam. But we don't see that. Another sign of grace, another promise of hope. And the Lord God, the covenant God, the same name used earlier in Genesis chapter 2, before the fall ever took place. And what does this Lord God, this covenant God, do? The most remarkable act, he clothes the humans in skins of an animal. Now picture this. God had told the humans, the first humans, that they were going to die on the day that they ate the fruit. Where is God's death sentence? I imagine they were anticipating. that. Well a few things are happening here as it relates to the death of Adam and Eve The first thing is that Adam and Eve, as we're going to see, are exiled from the garden on the day, on the day that they eat of the tree. of the knowledge of good and evil. So they are removed from God's presence. They're kicked out of the temple. We're going to get to that a little bit more here later. They're removed from God's presence and they are prohibited from eating of the tree of life. which we presume that they were eating continuously while they lived in the garden. So no longer are they able to eat of the tree of life. Secondly, Adam and Eve would eventually die, physically. They would actually physically die. It would take a few hundred years. So it doesn't fully capture on the day. But death does come not just to Adam and Eve, but to all mankind. This is the point of Romans 5. 12. Death now has entered the world. Now death in this sense, as we said, and we've already seen, it's a blessing and a bane. It's a blessing because he's not consign we're not consigned to a life of of of just perpetuity cursing or perpetuity like uh thorns and thistles. We actually rest, we sleep, we go to sleep in order to rise again to newness of life. But the death that happens here, I do want to emphasize, is the death of a person. I don't believe that there is an argument that can be made that there was no death. Prior to the fall. This is merely when God is talking about in the day that you shall die, He's talking about mankind. And I believe when Paul picks up this theme, we're going to look at this later, picks up this theme in Romans 5, he's talking about the death of mankind. That is the emphasis. I mean when one eats a plant, when one pulls a carrot out of the ground and eats it, technically it dies So the qu the idea that there was no vegetable death. Um now was there any animal death? I don't know. That's a that's a that's a greater question. We have talked about this, whether or not Adam and Eve were vegetarians before uh we're not going to get into all that stuff. I want to move quickly forward to the most important thing that happens about this with regards to this death is that a substitute dies. A substitute dies for Adam and Eve. Just as God made the cosmos, just as he made Adam and made Eve, so too he makes, this word makes for mankind. Skins. In other words, he makes for mankind an atoning sacrifice. This is the act of a covenant. In order to provide skins of an animal, an animal must be killed. The word here, skins, is uh It's the hides. It's specifically though used later on in Exodus and a lot of the uh texts that deal with temple worship to refer to the hide of a sacrificial animal. Exodus 29, 14, but the flesh, same word, of the bull and its skin you shall burn outside the camp. The skin actually is the same word, not the flesh. Flesh, and its skin you shall burn outside the camp. God provided for Adam and Eve in a way that they could not provide for themselves. Upon their sin, they clothed themselves in fig leaves, and they did a poor job at it. God clothes them in the skins of a substitutionary animal. I mean it's an incredible scene to think about When Adam and Eve were told that they would die on the day that they ate of the fruit, and then they're hiding from God and they're talking to God, and they're expecting the death sentence to be meted out anytime. And God, perhaps in the form of Jesus Christ, is a Christophany here taking place. How how does he get the skins of the animal? I mean, this is maybe a sanctified imagination, but typically you would skin the animal. And just imagining Adam and Eve watching the scene as God pulls out a knife and instead of using it upon them, which is what you should have done. He takes an animal, he skins it. They enclothes them. And now they're wearing. Not only the reminder of their own sin, but also a reminder, perpetual reminder of God's grace. And in this way, we are all clothed by God. In Christ. His flesh was broken, torn, in order that we may not be found naked any longer. It is in Christ that we are covered as a perpetual reminder of God's grace. Galatians 3, 27. For as many of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. This should read, I think, more accurately, have been clothed in Christ. If you've been baptized into Christ, you've been clothed. God has clothed you in Christ. We are wearing Christ as Adam and Eve wore skins. Obviously, we're not looking literally wearing them. He's in heaven. We are wearing the Holy Spirit. It's within us. We've been baptized into the Spirit. We're in Christ. This is obviously spiritually speaking. 2 Corinthians 5 is a great passage about this idea. I'll read a little bit of this. Verse three, if indeed by putting on it on we may not be found naked, an allusion to the garden. For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened, not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed. Clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. And what Paul is saying there is a longing for what has happened in part, in a very substantial, and very real part, to be happening fully on the day that we cross into eternity, and this idea of the irrevocable blessing, just like an irrevocable curse, that we will be clothed forever in Christ. Think about that. Those are clothes you will never take off. You will always be clothed in Christ. For from now, this point, until there is no end. Let's continue here. Verse 22. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil. Well, first, who is this us? Some people look at this as the plurality of God, the three persons. You know, that's certainly possible. Some others see this as like a heavenly council where God is speaking to this heavenly council. That includes angels. And the same picture of Job chapter 1. He uses the same language. I'm not sure which one it is, perhaps both. Second. The man and woman have become like God, but what does the Bible say? It says the man has become like one of us. Well, the man represents the woman. Here in this passage. That's why man is used throughout. Well, look at this. I mean, the woman was kicked out of the garden as well. We're not to assume that Eve was hanging out in the garden while Adam got kicked out, but it says only that he drove out the man in verse 24. And so we see this representative nature already taking place in Adam, that the even his wife is brought into this federal headship, this representative role for his wife. And how have they become like God, verse 22? We've discussed this in previous sermons about Satan's temptation here that he uses against them. But it is, I believe, upon them taking upon themselves the uh moral authority of what is good and evil, right and wrong. It's Adam, it's mankind saying that they will be the arbiter between these two, that they will be the judge between these two. And so in that sense, they have become like God. But the serpent's deception, Satan's lie, was only a half-truth. They were not like God in the sense of him being all-powerful and all-knowing. They've lost their sense of God, their connection to him. Now they're bound forever, slave to their sin, as we all are. And God drags them out. He drove them out. Of the east of the Garden of Eden. Verse 24, he places a cherubim. What happens here? Well, man, first of all, does not leave voluntarily. He's not like, okay, fine, I'm out of here. No. He was kicked out by God. So this free Adam, who is free to enjoy all the garden except to obey God and one part of it, now is is bound to a life of serving. the land, toiling. He's forced to live out these consequences. And now mankind is always outside of the garden. looking for the way into the garden but never being able to enter. Every person now born is born outside of the garden. And the east is the entrance. And it's the entrance to the garden because the garden is the temple And just as the temple is going to be constructed by Solomon, and just as the tabernacle was constructed by Moses, where was the entrance of these two things? On the east. And the garden represents this garden temple. And God is cleansing the temple. Just as Christ cleansed the temple. And Christ cleansed the temple of the money changers, those who were opposed to God, and so now God is cleansing it of broken images. And Jesus, when it says that he cleansed in John 2, that he was cleansing the temple, what did it say about him? Zeal for his father's house. That's what Adam should have had. But he didn't. He should have had zeal for his father's house. Instead, he had disdain. And God places this cherubim. A flaming sword that turns every way to guard the way to the tree of life. The only way in. The only way in is under the sword. And Christ Himself will go under the sword, so to speak, taking upon himself the punishment that was due to all of us, dying in our place. God 's banishing of Adam and Eve was not a curse. He would revisit them in repentance. And that's exactly what we start to see the story unfold as we see Adam calling Eve mother of the living. That's a sign. There's hope. I believe Seth, the child, or God has helped Eve, she says, have another child, and is at that time when When people began calling upon the Lord again. And this is the power of the gospel. And I did want to uh mention I have quite a bit more about original sin, but I'm going to save that for a part two because this is very important to to as we think about Adam's sin and his federal role, when I say federal his covenantal role. uh as a representative of mankind. Uh certainly we see in here um his own sin. And but we have a lot of silence about Adam and Eve in the Old Testament. It's very interesting. Uh why and I want to I want to talk about this uh next week, but there's uh there's there's quite a bit of just uh silence between Genesis three and the rest of the Old Testament. And it's not until Paul brings back up Adam, Romans 5 and 1 Corinthians 15, making this explicit connection between Adam and Christ that we are that we are revisited with Adam. But it does a raise the question about original sin and how does that play out? And so uh stay tuned for for next week. as we discuss that. But what a great promise. God the covenant God provides a substitutionary atonement for the first parents, just as he provides a substitutionary Substitutionary Attonet for you in the form of Jesus Christ. Let us pray.