Let's hear God's inerrant holy word. Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. When he built a city, he called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch. Enoch was born, uh Enoch to Enoch was born Irad And Irad fathered Methujael, and Methujael fathered Methushael, and Methushel fathered Lamech. And Lamech took two wives. The name of the one was Ada, and the name of the other Zillah. Ada bore Jabel. He was the father of those who dwell in tents. and have livestock. His brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of all those who played the lyre and pipe. Zilla also bore tubal cane. He was the forger of all instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubul Cain was Neimah. Lamech said to his wives, Ada and Zillah, hear my voice. You wives of Lamech, listen to what I say. I've killed a man for wounding me. A young man for striking me. If Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamech's is seventy-sevenfold. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son, and called his name Seth, for she said, God had appointed for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him To Seth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time people began to call upon the name of the Lord. Praise God for his word. Please be seated. Beloved, join me in prayer. O gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this holy time when we hear your living word. And we ask, Lord, that your spirit would superintend the preaching of your word, that we would have ears to hear and hearts to understand it, and Lord, that we would apply it in ways that would bring you glory and honor. To you. Lord, strengthen us in our faith as we look to your word tonight. And we praise you and thank you for the living word, the Lord Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen Amen. Well, beloved, before we delve into tonight's passage, let's do a quick review. Your passage is printed in your bulletin. or you can turn in your Bibles to Genesis 4. But in the previous verses, Cain had killed his brother Abel in a jealous rage. And in judgment, he was banished by God to live as a fugitive and as a wanderer the rest of his life. And yet his sentence shows graciousness on the Lord's part because the Lord could have ended Cain's life right then and there in judgment for murdering his brother But he allows him to live, even if he lives as a wanderer. Yet as we look at tonight's passage, we see there in verse 17. That rebellious Cain stays true to his character, and he totally disregards the Lord's command to be a wanderer. Instead of wandering. He built a city, which was some sort of fortified town that offered protection. And again, this fortified city is a symbol to his lack of trust in the Lord, who assured him of his protection. He had put a mark on Cain, which was a sign that no one should harm him, despite the but despite this assurance Cain didn't trust what the Lord had said or did for him, and so what does he do? He builds a city. Now in the following verses, 17 through 22 , we're given a list of Cain's descendants, which is illustrative of so very much. These few verses are packed with these golden nuggets of truth that highlight our own human nature. In rebellion against God's design. So even though it's an ancient text is very contemporary in its approach as we consider the ramifications of this passage for our own day and time. Now, as we consider these verses, we could say that it was the best of times, as we see the rise and the development of culture and society. But with the advancement of culture, there's also this decline. So it was also the worst of times. By that I mean that there is a movement away from God's original design, a movement away from the integrity of what God had ordered in Genesis 2. And a stepping over the boundaries that he had established. And when that happens, what happens? Well, it leads to chaos, it leads to pain. And to destruction. So, on the one hand, it's the best of times, which we will see, but it's also the worst of times, as the growing culture has elements which will adjust. eventually destroy it. So we see this striking movement that as humanity, as it progresses It becomes less humane as it loosens itself from the moral and ethical ties established in God's character and in his design and creation. In Genesis 4, we see a culture developed apart from God, which anticipates the time of the judgment, judges, where everyone does what's right in his own eyes. Now, where do we see this decline? We see it in verse nineteen. And it's stated almost matter-of-factly that Lemech took for himself two wives, Ada and Zilla. And in this verse, we have the first redefining of marriage, a movement away from Genesis 2, where Adam sang to his wife, You are now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh, and And the two shall be as one. Well, what do we have now? Well, now we have three: a man with two wives. It's the first recorded instance of bigamy So on the one hand, we have a movement away from God's design for marriage and family and a spiraling downward of marital relationships, as we will see in a moment. Yet, on the other hand, we also have this upward movement in the development of culture. And where do we see that? Well, we see it in verse 21. With Lennox's wife, Ada is the mother of Jubal, and his name is related to the word jubilation. or Jubilee, and so it makes sense that these words sound like Jubile, since Jubile was the first musician. He was the father of all those who play the lyre and the pipe. And this is significant because it tells something about our human nature, about our humanity That we are made in the image of a creator God, and so we are what? We are creative. And we see in this verse the beginning of artistic expression. But it is art apart from a knowledge and a relationship with God Now on the one hand we have Jubal, who is a musician with artistic sensibilities and sensitivities. And on the other hand, we have Jabel, who is a herdsman, a nomad. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. He is significant as the founder of animal husbandry, of taking care of herds and livestock. But, to be frank with you, I think he wanted to get into the great outdoors, to get out of the house, to get away from his father, given Lennox's character Which we'll look at in verses 23 through 24. Now in these verses, Lamech sings this song to his two wives. And how do you think it affected them when he sang it to them? He sang, Ada! Enzilla, hear my voice, you wise of Lanic, listen to what I say I've killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me. If Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamech's is seventy-sevenfold Imagine having to make breakfast for him in the morning. Now I I may be dating myself here. Actually, I'm pre-dating myself, but I think of Lamick. of somebody like Ralph Cramden from the honeymooners. Do any of you even know who I'm talking about? A few of you do, yes. So you know when Ralph would get upset with his wife Alice, he would say, Alice I'm gonna send you to the moon, Alice. As if he was gonna punch her, right? That was comedy in the late 50s. But the image is clear. We see Lamick's character and he is what? He's an abuser. He's a bully. He's a tyrant. He's cane on steroids. What a contrast to Adam in Genesis 2, who lavishes his love song on Eve and their wedding. But Lanach. He's menacing. He's threatening. He's clearly telegraphing the message: don't cross me the slightest infraction, and you're dead. So there's this decline in culture. There's a downward spiral in God's design for marriage and an uptick in violent behavior. Old Testament scholar Bruce Wonkey highlights this decline into violence by comparing Cain to Lamech. He says Cain's identity was marred by violence But Lamick's identity is marked by violence. The point being that Lamick has degenerated from his forefather. There's also a distortion of justice. The Lord had protected Cain by putting a mark on him as a kind of protective tablet. It served as a warning and as a reminder that if anyone would kill Cain, the Lord's vengeance would be taken On him sevenfold, which was to assure that no one would indeed harm Cain. Now with seven Being the number of perfection and completion, the Lord was saying that vengeance will be sevenfold. He was saying that if anyone kills Cain, my vengeance will be perfect. and complete. But what do we see here? That lainic tops that And he says, if anyone tries to harm me, I will take vengeance into my own hands, and it will be not sevenfold, but 77 -fold It'll be beyond complete. It'll be super excessive. So what is Lamech doing here? Well, in a way, he's making himself out to be A god, or like a god, by boasting that his vengeance is greater than God's. Wow. They paved paradise and they made it into the Wild West, into vigilante justice. So we see further on in biblical history, we see with the establishment of the nation of Israel that there is in in the giving of God's law that there is a re-establishment. of God's perfect justice to guard against excessive retribution. And we see it right in Exodus 21, verses 23 through 23. Which says, but if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, two thousand For tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. Which gives us the principle that the punishment should fit the crime, But Lamick's response to offenses done to him are just they're over the top. It's not eye for an eye, but it's more like if you punch me in the eye, I'm going to kill you So there's no equal justice under the law. What there is is a law of tyranny, a suppression, and oppression through the threat of violence. Now let's fast forward to the 20th century, and we see how this plays out. How a godless society ends in fear, in tyranny, and oppression. Behind an iron curtain. Well, rounding out the happy family is Toubou Kane, who is Born to Lennox's wife Zilla. As one commentator points out, his name would have kind of made a lovely alliteration with his stepbrothers. because there would be Jubal, Jabel, and Tubal. But they had to add the cane. And when they did, they just totally wrecked the alliteration But it was also a reminder of their ancestor who killed his brother. Now they're keeping that family heritage alive in their history, which says something of their mindset, doesn't it? And Tubal Cain is the first forger of metal. So somehow it fits that his name would include the name Cain Because he could use his skill to make a plow to farm, but he could also use his skill to forge a weapon to murder, like Cain. So again, it's the best of times with the development of culture and technology, but it's also the worst of times. Which is implied somewhat by the fact that Cain had built a city, which, as we said, was a fortified village. And the reason it was fortified was so that the inhabitants could defend themselves. And so what does that imply? It implies that there was a threat of violence and of war, of danger and division. Now we can see a connection with Genesis 4 to our own culture and to our own society. God's design for humanity is like a plumb line in regards to marriage and sexuality and justice. And if you're building a house and you deviate from that plumb line, what's going to happen? Well, your house is going to be off-kilter. The walls will be slanted. It won't rest correctly on the foundation. And the further you build out away from that plumb line, the more distorted and unsustainable will be your building. And it's similar in regards to God's design for marriage and for sexuality. That when you move away from God's design, things get distorted and twisted And we have seen in our own culture as we continue to move away from God's design for human sexuality and marriage, we've seen this happen, this distortion. In just a few years, we've seen things in the media, ideas and concepts that are encouraged and Affirmed that five or even five years ago, ten years ago, we would never have even imagined. I read in the news that HGTV is planning a new groundbreaking episode in their House Hunters episodes. They're pushing the envelope once again and redefining the family by having an episode that features the first thruple. This thruple is a man and his wife who are legally married, who have brought into their marriage another woman whom they share. And HGTV is going to feature them as they look for a new home for themselves. But you see how our culture, as it moves away from the plumb line of God's design, it becomes increasingly skewed and distorted. But here's the thing: the distortion becomes normalized as our culture becomes desensitized. to it. So we have to wonder, will thruples be coming to a courthouse near you in the near future to gain the right to be married? And then what will be next on the horizon to normalize? Incest? Pedophilia? Bestiality? If the only standard or definition of marriage is a legal union based on consensual loving relationships. How far do we go as a society with that definition legally? And what about justice? Are we really any better than Lamex? I mean, he would kill those who slightly harmed him, but we as a culture, as a country, legally condone the killing of innocent life. In the womb. And now we have politicians and lawmakers who want to codify Roe v. Wade. and support abortion right up to the moment of birth. And if it's a botched abortion and the baby somehow survives, they want to support Support and fanticide. So we're not really too far away from Genesis 4, are we? Well, should we despair, there's also this real hope in this passage. There's hope Hope for humanity. Yet before we look at this glimmer of hope, we have to acknowledge that a crisis has emerged from the events in the previous passage. In Genesis 3. 15, the Lord had promised that one of Eve's offspring will one day strike the head of the serpent. And he will destroy Satan. Now, Adam and Eve must have wondered from which son that descendant would come. Would it be through the line of Abel, or would it be through the line of Cain? At the time, who did it look like it was going to be? Well, given their track record of honoring the Lord through their offerings, it looked like it was going to be Abel's line. That the Savior would come through because Abel wanted to honor God. But we know that Cain took care of that. And was banished by the Lord. So then the question arose, well, where will this descendant, this Savior, come from? You know, we have to feel for Adam. There must have been a lot of pain in Adam's life as well as Eve. But I want to focus more on Adam because he was our representative head. And the way he went, so went the rest of us. And during his long lifetime, Adam had experience, had the experience in fresh ways of the ramifications of his sin and his disobedience. As he watched it play out in his family, all the while knowing full well that he had brought this curse upon His children and the earth. It's every parent's nightmare to lose a child before you die. Having Adam's son Abel die before him was bad enough But it was made even more painful by the circumstances of his death. Abel didn't die from an accident, he didn't die from disease. No, he was murdered by his brother. What a great sadness to experience the curse of death for the very first time in history. And for Adam to feel its sting, but also to have the heightened awareness that he brought this curse upon the world by his own disobedience. Well, it must have been devastating for him. And yet, in the midst of all of this sadness, we see this wonderful Glimmer of hope through the Lord's grace in verse 25. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son. And called his name Seth. The Lord had given them another son through whom the promise of Genesis 3:15 would be fulfilled The crisis of not having a godly seat had been resolved by the grace of God Now we know that verse 25 is not chronological, and it's not in chronological order. Adam and Eve had Seth long before Cain's descendants were born. But there is a purpose here in introducing the line of Seth in verse 25. And that purpose is to juxtapose the rebellious line of Cain With the godly line of Seth, from whom would come the one who would crush Satan's head and defeat evil. And some commentators point out this interesting verse development in verse 25, and it's in regards to Eve. That she's growing in her understanding of God's grace and his gracious provision. How so? Well she names her son Seth, which means appointed or granted. And in doing so, she's acknowledging that it's by the Lord's grace that she has born a son He's granted her this child. And what's more, his grace extended simply beyond giving her another son. He was giving her a lineage through whom the Messiah would come. And we see her growth, we see her sanctification, you might say, in the different way she names this son from the way she named Cain in verse 1. In verse 1, when she named Cain, she said, I have gotten a man by the help of the Lord. Do you hear that? The emphasis is on her. But when she names Seth, her focus is completely on the Lord. She acknowledges the supremacy and the sovereignty of God in giving her a son Now moving on in the lineage, Seth then has a son, Enosh, and Enosh's name means weakness. And there's a lesson in that for us. It only highlights this contrast between Lamak and Enosh. Lennoch is all about boasting in his strength and his self-sufficiency. But Enosh, whose name means weakness, Well, who is he? He's the beginning of those who call upon the name of the Lord in prayer. This man, Enosh, is a picture of what it means to come before the Lord in prayer. Prayer, that we don't come before the Lord in prayer, boasting like Lamech. Rather, we come in weakness In dependency before the Lord, relying on his power to protect us, to provide for us, to save us It reminds me of that children's song Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so, little ones to him be Long we are weak, but he is strong, and that's good theology because it's right there in Isaiah 40 verses 28 through 31 where Isaiah writes Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint and to him who has no might. He increases strength Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. And Paul knew what it was to be weak and to rely on God's strength. Commentating on his speaking ability, Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 2 And I was with you in weakness. I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling. And my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom. But what? In the demonstration of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the wisdom of God. And again, Paul emphasizes Christ's strength in his weakness. in 2 Corinthians 12, where he talks about the thorn in his flesh that he asks the Lord to take from him, but the Lord doesn't. Why? so that he stays humble, so that he stays dependent on the Lord. And so he writes, three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that I should, that it should lead me. But he said to me, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. So beloved, it seems fitting that those who call upon the name of the Lord, that they would arise from one named Enosh Weakness. Because you cannot call upon the name of the Lord unless you recognize your own weakness, your total inability to save yourself. You cannot approach the Lord like Lanek, boasting in your own strength. Boasting in your own power or sense of self-righteousness or goodness, because we have none. All our righteousness is but filthy rags. No, we are needy sinners who have nothing to boast in except Jesus Christ alone and what he has done for us in his strength. It's only because of his grace and power that we can call upon the Lord. Only through Christ whose strength was spent on the cross, undergoing the fiery just judgment that we should have received for our sins. It is only through Christ that we could ever have a right relationship with God and call upon him as our Heavenly Father. We acknowledge our weakness when we first come to Christ and we cry out, Lord, save me, a sinner. And we continue to acknowledge our weakness and dependency on the Lord every day when we pray to our Heavenly Father, asking him to supply us the manna for the day. Knowing that His grace is sufficient for each day. Well, we leave this chapter that marks a new development in God's unfolding plan of redemption. And we see that there are these two family lines that issue from Adam and Eve. One is the rebellious line of Cain, whose descendants develop culture But it is a world apart from the presence of God. And yet we also see the promise-keeping God keeping his promises, to redeem the world from the evil one through the line of Seth. And it is through Seth lineage that the Messiah would come to destroy evil and vanquish sin. God 's plan to redeem the world unfolds through the family line of Seth, through Noah and then Shem, and then through his lineage to Abraham. and then through Isaac and Jacob, and then Judah, through whom would come King David, and then the promise of the eternal King, the Lord Jesus, who establishes his worldwide kingdom. People from every nation, tribe, and tongue. And it all started with one son, Seth. Small beginnings that led to a great reversal of death's curse. And our own personal story of salvation Is connected to this ancient text where we see how it all began, all by God's grace, who granted a new son to evil Eve, through whom would come the greater son, Jesus Christ. Let's pray together.