So Genesis chapter 1, 3 through 25. Tonight we're going to be covering six days of creation, all in thirty minutes. Obviously quite a challenge, and uh we're not gonna dive too deeply in each day. In particular, we're gonna be looking more at the uh How everything fits together, the structure of the days themselves. And uh we're going to stop until uh day six, the end of day six, where man is created. In day seven, we're not going to include that as well. Those being the climactic days of creation. As we sang that hymn, it reminded me of the hymnic quality of of Genesis chapter 1 for the beauty of the earth. And we see this right here in in uh in the narrative form, just the beauty of God's creation and the constant refrain it almost uh the the repetition of the uh and it was so and it was good and let there be and God said and all these things just kind of capture us into this glory that God had at the very beginning of all of creation, where he's creating the cosmos just from the the the breadth of his mouth. He's fashioning things together. I mean how amazing would it have been to be there, to see what God was doing. You know, we can read it and we see God's word and and We trust God's word, but just to be a fly on the wall, so to speak, of Genesis chapter 1. And so we're going to look at this, the structure of Genesis chapter 1. In the next week, we might spend a little bit more time on the structure. of Genesis, the first six days, but uh we're going to spend uh more time on on the last part, the crown, the climax of day six, the creation of all mankind. And we'll probably spend a few Sunday evenings on on that specifically, on just mankind, and then day seven on the Sabbath we'll we'll spend uh a Sunday night on on that as well. Before we dive into to this, I just want to mention one thing and we're going to get very technical uh here tonight and uh and that is source criticism. Some of the Some of you may have heard that term before. If not, that's fine. But it's widely accepted by scholarship, by critical scholarship, that there are layers to the Genesis. account or really to the entire Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible, the five books of Moses, the Torah, and there's this uh consensus in critical scholarship that there's these layers and uh this was best articulated by German theologians in the mid eight uh nineteenth century and then uh most uh vividly articulated by one German theologian. His name was Julius Vellhausen. And these scholars see these texts that that are all kind of intertwined in one another and they were placed there centuries later, whether that's from oral traditions or written texts. And these strains are called or given an acronym J-E-D-P. J meaning Yahweh, which is uh the way you would spell Yahweh in German is with a J, not with a uh Y. as in English. The E is the Elohic, meaning Elohim, the name of God that we see here in Genesis chapter or chapter 1, verse 1. The D is the Deuteronomistic. And the P is the priestly. And so, for example, this is how they kind of came about this. I'm giving a very condensed uh version of this, but for example, you know, in Genesis chapter one, they see uh Elohim being used. Exclusively. There is no Yahweh. Then Genesis chapter 2, it's all sudden Yahweh. And so that's their reasoning. That name change. in uh between the two chapters is their reason for positing a uh Elohistic source and a Yahweh source that kind of combined together at some point of time. to make the Genesis uh chapters. And the J E uh and D at least have fallen somewhat out of favor in modern times it's uh and again I don't want to go down a rabbit trail too much. Now there's multiple sources. Some sources are combin some strands are combined. J and E J and E is combined with L now there's an L It's a lay source or a non-priestly account. And all this, this is widely discussed and debated. in uh scholarly circles. And I'm not going to get into all the details tonight. I just want you to know my position is I don't believe in it. Alright, all that to say Uh if you want to know your your uh your pastor 's position, uh I don't believe in it. I also don't believe in the Deuteronomistic history which is is another whole topic, uh, using the same methodology basically as the documentary hypothesis for the former prophets of the Old Testament, Joshua through Kings, and they basically use the same thing. They're stranded. And there and layers and upon layers upon layers. And my entire dissertation for my PhD is to refute the documentary hypothesis. But one of the main reasons I reject this is there are legitimate reasons why the writer, presumably Moses uses different names for God or uses different styles throughout Genesis and throughout the entire Pentateuch. I mean that's a real simple one. I mean just a a very basic level. Take Genesis chapter one. The name Elohim is used because that is the generic kind of name for God. El is the name for God. Elohim is the the majestic plural of the name of El, and he's the creator of all the cosmos. So of course you use Elohim. It would be bizarre not to. But then, when God makes man, he flips it, and he uses the covenantal name of God, Yahweh, my name. His personal name. Because now God and man are in a covenant relationship. So of course he's using the covenant. That's just one example And so I believe that the author uses the names of God very intentionally throughout the entire book of Genesis. And all this to say, Genesis is a complete whole. It's a unit. It fits together nicely. Uh perfectly, I would say. And if it's With the rest of the Bible. It's a perfect, as we mentioned in the very first Sunday, it's a it's a perfect prologue to the rest of the Bible. And the rest of the Bible builds on Genesis. So it's a unit. Genesis is a unit, it fits together. And The first six days of creation are a unit as well. They fit together perfectly. There's a theme. And there are a number of semantic and literary devices that the author uses. To bring all these together. And it makes Genesis, at least it makes the six days of creation, what we're looking at tonight, a peculiar type of genre. And actually, it's a genre that is very unique in the entire Bible, one that's not found elsewhere. Genesis chapter 1 is written as a historical narrative. The flow of its historical narrative. Yet there's various poetic and stylized nuances. It does not fit the historical narrative genre of other books of the Bible or for the rest of Genesis for that matter For example, there is a theme, a continual theme throughout Genesis of the generations of, and these are the generations, and these are headings. that the author puts to introduce the next section. And there are ten of these tolds they're called, the generations of, the generations of of Adam, of Abraham, of Noah, of all these people. And there are these ten, maybe eleven, depending on how you count it. Uh and the first one that we have is in Genesis 2, 4. You can see that you can flip the page. with me if you'd like, and you see these are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they're created. These serve as introductions to the generations that follow. Yet Genesis 1 doesn't have that. It stands apart. It stands apart from the rest of the narrative, which begins in Genesis 2 with this generation of Also in Genesis 1, here we have this repetition of recurring formula, and it's so close together with emphasis on numbers , important numbers at that point. And that is very uncommon, if not not seen, in historical narrative. For looking through Genesis, you heard this as I was reading the passage, I'm sure. You heard the repetition. And God said ten times, let there be seven times until the creation of mankind. That's the eighth time. That's the pinnacle. And it was so seven times. It was good seven times. These are very, very significant numbers. And the repetition of that pattern, and it was so, and it was so, and the significance of the numbers, evening and morning is another example of that repetition. In fact, almost everything in this Genesis 1 account. Is grouped into tens and sevens. And this is this is stylized. It's not poetry, I'm not saying it's that per se, but it's it's not just hysterical historical narrative. It's It's historical narrative with an almost hymnic quality. A hymn to God and his creation. It's not historical narrative, certainly like what we see in the book of Samuel. or the book of Chronicles. There's also a very important structuring of the days themselves. Now whether you believe in creation being exactly fitting within 144 hours or not, the way that creation is depicted is schematic. There's there's a s there's a scheme, there's a there's a theme to it, and those aren't mutually exclusive. You can believe in in a hundred and forty-four hours of literal creation time that God fit everything in there and still believe that God did it. Thematically, that God did the all and He created everything with a structure. And we see that here. This structure is agreed upon by by many reformed scholars to me, it seems clear. At a very basic level, the very first structure that we see are days three and six Are the only two days that have a double pronouncement of God's word and a double pronouncement of God's approval. So days three and six stand apart from the rest of the days with this double pronouncement of God said, let there be, God said, let there be. So it looks like day one. is one announcement, one approval. So it's like one, day two, one, and then day three, it is good, it is good. Day four, it is good. Day five, it is good. Day six, it is good, it is good. And so it's this one plus one plus two followed by this one plus one plus two. That's a very simple structure. Getting a little bit more complex is the the placement of the create order in this narrative. And the first three days of creation, and you may have heard of this before or seen this. But the first three days of creation are all realms. They're all places. In which the created beings or the created stars and planets live 1 through 3 are these realms, and days 4 through 6 are the beings or the kings that live in those realms. And I say kings because the language of Genesis 1 is that these these beings, these creatures and stars that inhabit the realms of days 1 through 3, are given dominion over their particular Lochi, but they're there are particular space. It's not until mankind, and he's we are the only ones who have dominion, not in just the sea or in space, or in the heavens. But over the entire earth. And day one, we see this separation. We see this structure. Day one is the separation of lights and darkness. But then it's day four. When it actually is created that the beings or the stars that fill the light and darkness, namely the great light, the sun, and the lesser light, the moon. So day one is the creation of the realm, and day four is the creation of that which fills the realm. And the Genesis writer Moses does not give the actual names of sun and moon. He just says lights. One that's a greater light and one that's a lesser light. Why does he do that? They had the word for sun and moon then, and he could have said sun and moon. I think it was I think I may have mentioned This previous weeks is to emphasize that these are not gods. They are created. They are created objects to serve God's purpose. They're just lights. Especially in light of a culture and society that worshipped these celestial bodies. So that's day one and day four. And then day two is the separation of the sky and the seas. And then day five is the filling of the skies and seas with birds and fish, respectively. So again, the separation of the realm and then separation and then the filling of that realm. And then day three is the separation of dry land from the water, and then day six is the filling of that dry land with animals. And eventually with man. And this pattern seems obvious to me. It's it's not saying as some take it that days one and four were created at the same time. That is the position of some. It's not a position of in mind, or that two it's day one and four were created at the same time, two and five are created at the same time, three and six. But rather that the creation of day one corresponds to a separate creation that took place on day four. And the creation of day two corresponds to a separate creation that took place on day five, and so on. And again, even if the days are literal sequential chronological twenty-four hour days uh in which everything is created, there's no reason to not see this pattern. God can create in a in in this form, in this in this way. They're not mutually exclusive. This is a variation of of something called a framework view, even though there's that's a widely varied term and people uh uh within framework view are uh across the spectrum on what they mean by framework view. But uh there are some that see that uh Days one and four, all that was created together, and days two through five, all that was created together, and three through six, or three and six was created together. And And part of the reasoning why I think that that position is held by some is to try to explain the presence of the sun. And it's not there. day four, yet we have evening and morning on days one, two, and three. And that's a that's a challenge uh for some. Some people uh feel like it's not a challenge. Uh some argue that there is light and therefore there's evening and morning somehow God made the light on the first day be uh exactly like the sun as we have it today. And that's fine if that's your position. It seems to me a little bit of a sleight of hand on God's part. Like the author of Moses and the readers of Moses understood that evening and morning means sunset and sunrise. That was obvious to them. They knew that the sun was what created evening and morning. They s the it says so here in verse even 14. Let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. And so everything in the mind of the reader would think that if we have an evening and a morning, that we would have a sunrise and a sunset. But it's it's uh somewhat confusing there, and that's why some people have uh the idea of this framework view. But what could be happening instead? I've said this before, I think the very first Sunday evening. I don't know the chronological order of Genesis 1. I don't know how to reconcile certain things with Genesis 4. I do believe that Genesis 1 is meant to be theological -driven, theologically driven. not just chronologically driven. What could be happening instead of this evening and morning, evening and morning, evening and morning, six times What's interesting about this, and we're going to talk about this in a couple weeks, is you have this constant refrain of evening and morning, and the reader, and maybe even you, as you listened to it, were hearing this constant refrain of evening and evening and morning, day one, day two, evening and morning, day three, evening and morning. And then all of a sudden it stops. And it stops on day seven. Why? Anyone who's reading this and sees a day seven just like they see a day six and a day five and a day four, they would think even though that there's no creation on day seven There's still a day. They would say, where 's the evening and morning at? And what God is doing is not trying to necessarily fit everything into some chronological pattern. He's trying to say, the Sabbath Is the great day, the day of rest that we're all waiting for. We're all looking for. This eternal day that we walk into this rest of God that's waiting for us even right now. How beautiful that is. That God's rest is a day that has no evening and morning. It has no time structure in that sense. We're Walking into it, and one day, as the writer of Hebrew says, one day we will be in that rest that is still waiting for us. And it's waiting for us in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Hallelujah. But that's a theological lens. It's a theological lens by which we see the Bible. And not a scientific lens. I'm not opposed to that. I'm just trying to emphasize. I'm trying to emphasize one aspect in particular. The theological nature of Genesis. Do not forget that. It's okay if we're engaged in debates about science and creation. I think it's fine. I think that's fine. That's great to do. Just don't lose sight. God's purpose in writing this is theological. Another interesting thing that's taking place in this structure of Genesis 1 is uh the use of the definite article. This might seem very insignificant, but it's actually not. It's actually very significant. significant. The definite article in Hebrew is very important. My uh advanced Hebrew grammar has like a hundred pages. of dense material just on the definite article of uh the the the the the has a lot of information about about it and how Hebrew uh writers used the the is uh is very complex and it's it's very nuanced and it's very intentional. There is no definite article in days one through five. Your Bibles translate it as the. The first day, the second day, the third day, the fourth day. In Hebrew it's not that It's uh first day, uh, second day, uh, third day, uh, fourth day, uh, fifth day. Until when? The sixth day. Creation of man. The sixth day. And then the seventh day. The ultimate climactic day The seventh day. The biblical author was certainly aware of what he was doing. I promise you that. He was not uh writing Genesis and he got to day six and he realized, oh, I forgot to I haven't been using the definite article this whole time. I better start now. What do we make of this? I don't know. I'll be honest with you. That is uh that's interesting. And and maybe there's some ideas, and maybe there you have some thoughts. about it. But it it lends evidence to this idea that we're to be looking at the theological nature of the text And um and not necessarily the scientific nature of the text. Now this does not mean that Genesis is against scientific Science, quite the contrary. God created ex nihilo out of nothing on a day. He created all that we see. And Genesis account, look at what it stresses. The unity of God's creation, the coherence How everything fits together, the purpose of it, the beauty, the creation of mankind, the seven days a week, the luminaries that are signs. For the times and seasons, it's just so contrary to what ancient Near Eastern cosmologies wrote about. As I mentioned before, the Enuma Leash has the great sea creature, Tiamat , being slain and cut in half and split open and one half becomes the sky and one half becomes the sea. And there's a lot worse stuff than that. I promise. Go read it yourself. And uh and and the point that I think is is trying to be made here is that Genesis and science go very well hand in hand. But if you think that science is Genesis' main purpose, you are sadly mistaken. I do like the quote of Galileo, the Bible shows us the way to go to heaven, not the way that heaven I think that's uh something that's important to keep in mind. When we try to force this text into some something that it's it's I don't believe it's saying we we end up we end up with a lot of tension. But there's a theological point to what Genesis 1. I think it's our job as Christians, as reading the Word of God, is to think through the theological themes that are being presented here. in Genesis chapter one and the entire Bible. I mean I I give another example of this. Um Joshua chapter ten. You may recall this scene. when Joshua and the Israelites are finding the Amalekites, I believe. And what does Joshua do? You guys recall? This is really amazing Miracle is one of the greatest miracles in the entire Bible, except for the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And it's Joshua praying saying, God, let the Son stand still. The word stand still in the Hebrew is literally stopping motion. Like someone running or something, an object in motion, it's to stop. And twice in Genesis 10, he prays, God, let this stand still, let the sun stand still. And you know what happens? It does. Now we know that the sun 's not moving. How can it stand still? It's it's it's not we know that the earth rotates around the sun. But from the perspective of Joshua standing there on earth, Looking at the sun crossing over the arc of the heavens and all of a sudden stopping. It sure looks like it's standing still. And this is the perspective that God is writing his word so that we can understand it. He's accommodating it for us. And the whole account of Genesis chapter 1, it's from the account first person of God, but it's as if someone standing on earth and looking and seeing everything that's being created. It's almost from the perspective, not just of God, but of someone standing there watching this. And that's important. Genesis 1 doesn't go into the molecular physics of how atoms came and formed together. That would be things that God only knows and that'd be invisible to mankind. But the revealed Will, the revealed nature of God's creation is what we can see , what we can experience, as if we were standing on earth and watching all this take place. It's theological. When we get to the actual events encompass within the days, the various days, we have some very peculiar aspects to this as well we have to take note of. For example, on day one God spoke light, and it was light. He did not make light. Everything else he spoke and made. It's two Hebrew words used there, including mankind. make man our image and he actually crafted mankind, crafted everything with his word and his hands. And uh but God said, let there be light, and he didn't make light. And this is connected, I believe, to what we looked at last week, which is that light is the closest analog that we have as humans to God. I mean and And 1 John says this, right? God is light. Very simple. God, what does that mean? I don't know. It's just saying God is light. It's the closest thing that we know that we can describe of God. On day two, this this perspective of the creation account moves from light and darkness all down, it keeps moving down further and further and to the earth. And so the day two perspective of the creation account is is moving closer and closer to earth from the heavens. And so the heavens of the cosmos, or perhaps even the atmosphere from the stratosphere, the water of one separated from the water vapor, really, of the other. And we have this separation. And we have here in day two the absence of the phrase, and God saw that it was good. God has said the light was good after day two. He says that the earth and seas are good. Why doesn't he say the expanse is good? And uh again this is a little confusing. Why why isn't it? It is good, most certainly, the expansion is good, all of creation was good. My guess is perhaps this has so such less to do with man 's abode on earth. It's we're talking about the the cosmos here and man's not meant to be in the cosmos. We're meant to have our feet on the ground and and that whatever m man is uh involved in on earth, that is what's good, but it's just Difficult to say. Day three is this collection of water into seas and the separation of the seas from dry land. And on the land there's vegetation of every kind. That begins sprying. The vegetation doesn't have dominion on that land. Also, there is no mother nature. I think you guys knew that already. There is no Mother Nature. There is no other creator besides the triune God. There were three persons involved in creation, but not three gods. And day four is the creation of the celestial bodies, and it's for the purpose of signs, times, and seasons, as well as for days and years. And this is the first example of an entity that has uh dominions expressly stated here. Um look with me. And it was so, and uh verse sixteen, God made them the two great lights, the greater light to rule the dead. The idea of dominion. The lesser light to rule the night. And then again says it in verse seven Verse 18, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. This is this dominion language which this is our first glimpse of these realms that are being made, and then there's something filling this realm that actually is ruling it. This is the language of kings ruling their kingdom. And the next set of rulers come in comes in day five. It's a swarm of living creatures. Look with me. Here it's at uh verse 20. If we see swarms of living creatures and birds, and then move on to verse 21. So God created the great sea creatures. Now it's interesting, this word great sea creatures is uh used elsewhere as uh a a s a dragon. It's the sea monster. Whatever that may be. In the Bible, this word Is very closely related to the word in chapter one, verse two. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. So this word deep and this word sea monster are very related, and oftentimes in the Bible it's personified as chaos And even more specifically, and to show you where the provenance of where this was written, more specifically, this word is used to personify Egypt. And so we have this personification of chaos here. And uh but in God's created order, there is no chaos fighting against God, there's no cosmic battle. He's not duking it out with Tiamin, the sea monster. He's the God who's created him. And he's filling the sea with them, just as he does with goldfish. And we have the first blessing of God. And isn't it interesting that this first blessing that God gives is not on Us. It's on the birds. It's on the fish. Look at verse twenty-two. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the waters in the sea, and let the let birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening there was more in the fifth day. Does that language sound familiar to you? I think it does. We'll look at it next week. It's the same language that God uses for us. God bless man and woman, be fruitful and multiply. He first uses that blessing right here for the birds and the fish of the sea. Now what does that mean? What's that mean to you? Well, it means a number of things to me, but one thing in particular Is that as the ultimate ruler over earth that mankind's given us the privilege of being We are to be a blessing and to ensure the blessing of the creatures that God's given us to steward. And that's a reality. And there's a lot of different applications that your mind can go to with that. And I'm not going to get into it. But the uh the creatures that God's put here are not just for us to abuse. uh or to take advantage of. This is not a uh this is not a promotion of uh veganism or anything. I I eat meat, just in case anybody was wondering But it is a sense where God has given us creatures to take care of that He first blessed before us. How that applies in your daily life, uh, I think God by His Spirit can be very unique So this first blessing is upon all the animals. And then on day six, we see the livestock and the creeping things. and the beasts of the earth. So we see the structure to the six days of Genesis. And what what is it driving at? This this this structure. Well each of these kings are good. And they have dominion over the sphere of their existence and they fill and multiply it. But the greatest dominion is reserved for you and I. for mankind. We are the crown of God's creation. God has no peer. And the closest thing to God besides light, which is not made right in the Genesis account God is somehow light. The closest thing to God is you and I. We are made in his image. To bear his likeness. And God's given us this earth to have dominion over, to take care of. But what is even more true is that though we are the crown of creation, Genesis 1 is all about God's kingdom. God's kingdom invading time and space in a way that's never happened before. In a way that's so unique and so powerful and so amazing. That God's kingdom is here. It's come. And we are a part of this kingdom, not building our own kingdom, but reflecting our God and building his kingdom. And that is the point of Genesis chapter 1. Let us pray. Father God, we come before you and acknowledge that this is your world. We are your creation, the work of your hands. We are the clay in your uh in the potter's hand. And I pray that we would be a blessing to this world, just as this world is a blessing. Blessing to us. I pray that we would take care of it as you have given us steward over it. And we thank you. So much for this great privilege, sobering responsibility. We pray that we would honor you with the way we view and treat the earth you've given us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.