If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Genesis 7 , 17 through 818. And this is our third sermon, third evening, looking at Noah's flood. And we have one more week to go. looking at the flood. So four weeks just on the flood. And the first week was about the ark itself, about the significance, the dimension. the reason why there was an ark. The second week was about the story itself and the parallels, the comparison to that story with the other ancient Near Eastern stories and how the biblical story is most certainly the true story, then tonight we're looking at the flood, the actual flood itself. And then next week we're going to be looking at Noah and God's covenant with Noah. And so we have here in the beginning of our passage the. Story continues with the Lord shutting in Noah and his family. And that's a verse 16. That's not including But that's where we ended last week, this idea that the Lord shut Noah and his family in. And there's a shift in the Hebrew here in verse 16. It says this, uh, and the Lord shut him in, and before that it had been using the generic term for God, Elohim, all throughout the flood narrative. But here, in verse 16, The Lord, Yahweh, Yahweh shuts him in and them in. And he is the one who closes the door. And you recall last week we looked at the stories of Atrahasis and Gilgamesh. And in these flood stories, flood accounts, it's the hero who shuts the door. In other words, it's the hero who by his own skill, by his own works, secures salvation. And uh even in these stories, she's almost always an excellent seafarer and is uh adept at using navigational tools and and and navigating and and directing the ship to where it needs to go. Uh we don't see anything like that. I mean the only navigational tool in Noah's story perhaps or maybe it's implied is the window, right, at the top of the ark, which he could then use to look at the stars. But There's no indication that he was doing that, that he was looking at the stars, and no indication that he could even see the stars. It's such a torrential downpour that was happening. Um but we don't know. We don't know. But here the covenantal God is the one who protects Noah and his family. It's not the hero. It's not Noah. Noah, recall, is just the silent shipbuilder. He doesn't even say anything until chapter nine. It's the covenant of God who protects Noah and the Ark from outside the Ark. He's not in the Ark. protecting the ark from the outside. Very similar to a story that's going to take place in the next book of the Bible, Exodus and the Passover, where we have the story of Yahweh, the God God, the deliverer, who is protecting each home that's covered with the blood of the Lamb. This idea of Passover, I disagree with it. God passed over The house is not the way that word in the Hebrew is meant, and there's reasons why it's been confused and the way we describe it now is the Passover, but this idea of actually God hovering. Over each house, protecting the house from death that's trying to intrude. And we see the same thing happening here. God protecting from the outside this ark. And the first verse of our passage here is the flood continued for forty days. Now this means that the outpouring of flood waters from the deep and from above. Remember, when we looked at this last week, people argue that how could there possibly be that much rain? Well, it's not just the rain, water, it's also the water from the deep. So 40 days from these two water sources. And this is the first significant use of 40 in the Bible. And we're going to see 40 again in the Exodus story, in the Exodus account of the Forty years living in the desert. Later Moses would be on the mountain for forty days. This forty is an important number in the Bible. There's about Four or five very significant numbers. Three, seven, ten , twelve, forty. And multiples of those numbers are use as well. And I'm not into what's called gamatry or biblical numerology, this idea that uh every single number has a symbolic significance. Uh I do think though that uh numbers do often have a symbolic And each of those numbers signifies something different. So that three, the number three, is divine perfection. You know, the triune God, the number seven, completion. And we get these this sense. So when you see a three, when you see a seven, it's just not an arbitrary number sometimes. Uh it it means one of these categories that the ancient Israel. lights uh we're using and and what about the number 40? What's that mean? And there's some discrepancy on on you know what does this specifically mean People debate over this, but I think it it's forty is a transitional number. It's the idea that there's a movement of salvific history, of redemptive history. And it's transitioning from one order of things to the next order. So with the forty years in the desert, of course, they're outside of the promised land, and then they transition out after 40 years of the into the promised land. There's no law before the forty days, and Moses is up on Mount Sinai, and then there is, now they are a community. of law. And here with the forty days we have a pre-flood era, you know, where the waters are checked and they're in the right place. And now we have a post-deluvian uh world. And It's completely changed. So there's this idea that forty is used for transition. And again, a New Testament example to um is Jesus Christ in the forty days in in the wilderness and he transitions after that into His full-time ministry. So we have this transition here from old to new, old creation, in a sense, which we're going to get to in a moment to a new creation. There are some chronological questions cleared up. You probably since that as we were reading the passage. There's a lot of in the first month, in the third month, and the fifth day of this day, and get quite confusing. So I do want to clear up something. Verse 24 says, And the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days. Now, when we say prevail, that is the water crested above the highest point of the earth and about twenty feet above the mountains. And I'll recall that the pre-flood mountains were much smaller in size than the post-flood mountains. And this was due to to the tectonic plates and the shifting and the uh the movement of these and even scientists, secular scientists agree that this is how mountains are formed. They just attribute it to a a slow and gradual process that occurs over the course of millions of years rather than one cataclysmic event. And recall last week we talked about this mid-Atlantic ridge, just an amazing ridge right there in the middle of the Atlantic. showing this this splitting, and that's the actual word used in the Hebrew, rendering the seafloor, the deep. And we see the split and we seem see what seems to be like a one continental mass before this massive catastrophic event. But back to this chronology part here, we have 150 days of waters prevailing. And were the 40 days of rain included in that? Or were they an addition? And I believe that they're included. in it so that the time from the very beginning of the rain and the deep, the very beginning of the waters upon the earth to the cresting of the waters. Above the earth was 150 days. And it's at that point that the waters begin to recede. And the ark rests on the mountains of Ararat, not Mount Ararat. It's plural. It's the mountains of Ararat. I'm not sure what uh your translation. It is saying mountains of Ararat. That's good. But uh this is a mountain range, the largest of those mountains being 9,000 feet. And there are various expeditions, there have been various expeditions looking for the Ark on Mount Ararat. And maybe you have come across pictures. That are a little grainy. In the snow, there's a seems to be a picture or an image of an ark. I don't think that's any evidence of the ark. We have no idea. Nor do we need that for our faith. So it's um it's the mountains of Ararat. This is in eastern Turkey, Armenia area. Yeah. And the ark landed there. And some see a discrepancy of this with chapter eight, verses four through five, if you look at that with me. Verse four. And then the seventh month On the seventh day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. And then verse 5: And the waters continued to abate until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen. And so people say, well, how is the mountain re how how is the ark resting on the mountains? And but yet it's not until three months later that we actually see the tops of the mountains. And I think what this was saying is that the The ark went uh upon the arc upon the mountains resting there, and it wasn't until three months later that the actual mountains could be seen, that the water had receded. uh enough that Mount Hen's plural could be seen. I don't think it's a um a big uh discrepancy at I don't think it's any discrepancy at all. And um And so that's just the process of slow drainage of a massive amount of water. It's taking months and months for the water to recede. And then forty days after the one hundred and fifty days, Moses sends the raven. And then he sends the first dove. And then seven more days he sends the next dove, the one with the olive. And after seven more days significance of these numbers of seven, three sevens with the doves, the clean bird versus the raven who is the unclean bird. The seven more days, the final dove does not return. And so it says: On the 601st year of Noah's life, the earth was dry, and Noah and his family left the ark. And this was a total of three hundred and seventy days that Noah and his family and all the animals were trapped in the ark. And they were being protected by a God who hovered over them, in a sense, as a divine protector. Chapter seven, nineteen it says, and the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven recovered. I want to address this idea of a global versus a local flood. And I got a question last week about this. I was saving it for this week. I knew I was going to talk about the flood. and the extent of the flood. I think I gave a brief answer about some of the reasons. I want to go into more detail because I think it's important for a number of reasons. that we as uh Orthodox Christians believe in a global flood. And I'm going to give my reasoning why I think it's important. But I do believe it's a global flood. But first I want to just give a few arguments why some are they they don't believe it's a global flood And that it's a local flood. And one of the reasons that some give is this difference of the word land that's used in the Hebrew. There's two words predominantly. There's another word. two but there's two words Adama and Eretz and those words are land and they can mean land in a wide range of semantic uh uses. And their argument is in the Noah account, only Aretz is used And this typically, this word is typically used of localized land, namely the land Aretz of Israel. Ha Aretz is a famous, a well-known Israeli newspaper. Ha the article, Ha Retz, the land is the name of the newspaper. And so it's often s said that, well, this word is is mainly referring to local Israel. Well, that is not, by any stretch, an air type. case. Rats is used often for much more extensive land. The greatest case in point is Genesis 1. 10. When God called the dry land, which is earth, he says, arets. He called earth arrest. So all the dry land and the entire world he called Aretz. It's not just little Israel. And same thing with Adama can mean different things as well. The other argument people use is the idea that God wiped out the entire known world, known world, rather than the global world. And the reason for that would be there weren't civilizations in places like Antarctica. or or Greenland or or places like this, just distant areas from where we know civilization started. And so why would God need to to do that? Why would He need to wipe out of those those areas. You wouldn't need to destroy them. Well, we don't know if there weren't people in these remote areas. I mean, but I want to give some arguments for the global flood and I'm going to address that argument here um with some of these. So an argument arguments for the global flood, and there are other arguments. I think those two hold more weight than others, but there are some other arguments that people give against a global flood. But here are some arguments that I just wanted to come up with for a global flood. Well first we have this uh these this use of the adjective all, every everything, sixty times over sixty times in this account of the the flood account. And just a cursory reading of the text would give the impression, at least, this is the starting point, give the impression that this is a universal global flood. The repetition of all, every, everything, all, everything, 66 times found in this text. The text clearly says in multiple places that God saved only eight, Noah and his family, multiple times. They're the only ones that come out of the boat, only ones that are alive. It's questions of like why would Noah need to build a boat if it's only a local flood? I mean why wouldn't he just go to another area? area. Why wouldn't the animals just go to another area? Why would he build such a large boat? If the flood was local, what's the point of God saying later on to Noah That he will not destroy the world by this same flood. The same word that he used for flood in terms of destroying the earth. He says, I will never do this again. Well, is God then break if it's only a local flood, which happens all the time, is God breaking his promise whenever we have massive floods that destroy a lot of people? And I don't believe he is. He's saying, I will never destroy the earth by a global flood. If there were billions of people as some uh postulate. I mean I don't know. I don't I uh I'm not sure. Millions or billions. How could one flood destroy them all? And this question of this was raised I think in one of the qu questions last night too, of how many people. And some would say that because lifespans were so uh long and perhaps connected to that was fertility, of course connected to that was fertility because people people have children at older ages as well. Then the when you add this up, how many people could be on the earth could number into the billion? And I've heard that before. And I just don't know. I I do have an issue with uh the young earth position on the date. of the flood. Now I'm a young earth advocate, and I just may not be a as young of an earth as those who hold to an exact reading of the timeline, the chronology of the ages that's that are given in the Bible and to be able to add that up, you find out what the history or what the age of civilization of the earth is. And so y it's common for young earth proponents, and I'm I'm saying that again, I'm including myself in the young earth, uh, but some group of young earth proponents who add up the ages The age of Noah or the uh the year of Noah's flood would be 2348 BC. Now I I have a problem with that that that year for a cataclysmic uh worldwide global flood. There is a lot of evidence in my mind, in my opinion, of civilizations that are flourishing during this time, including Egypt, Sumerian, Mesopotamia. I mean this is twenty-three forty-eight would be in smackdab in the middle of the old kingdom of Egypt. Twenty-three forty eight would be when the Great Pyramids uh were were formed according to uh many Egyptian chronologies. Now I get it that something could be wrong, the Egyptian chronologies could be wrong, but there seems to be a lot of evidence in a lot of different places. that uh there was existing civilization that um was was around by 2348. So I don't believe that the Bible meant for us to add up all these dates and to uh then to to affirm a certain year that creation and the flood. In these other events. For one, the writer himself often does not add up the dates when he could have. And there's also a lot of genealogical gaps, and we see this all throughout the Genesis. see this in much in the Torah genealogical gaps that some generations are completely left out. So where do I stand personally? I I think it can be numbered in thousands. I personally hold to that. and not millions. But I just don't know if it's 4,000 years ago was when the flood occurred. It could have been 10, 20,000. And I think it does, it's interesting, it's always been interesting to me for a very long time. that it lines um this idea of the young earth in in the thousands and tens of thousands really does line up well with when even secular scientists uh say that the emergence of civilization itself began. We don't have civilization you know records of riding and city building a million years ago. Which Which would be surprising if we were around for a million if humans were around for millions of years and you don't they didn't get anything in writing, they didn't do anything in writing, they didn't build any cities. Isn't it odd that our first civilization, our first record of civilization is not in the millions of years ago, but thousands of years ago. And I think that is uh a sign of of when uh the flood occurred. But of course, I don't know if it's a uh a hill to die on. Some other evidence uh would be scientific and I this is uh out of my wheelhouse. I'd just be honest with you and I I really love to to hear from those who are experts in their field, who are creationists, who who love the Bible, and they're defending um and their sphere of of apologetics, they're they're defend defending God's word and it's really wonderful. See, and there's plenty of debates that you all can YouTube and Google and there's wonderful scholars who uh to talk about I do think one field of science is very specifically uh tailored to this and that is geology. I mean it's the study of of the passing of time in concrete substances. And so these geologists like Andrew Snell And others who are Christians and who argue about the uh a young earth and the uh validity of the flood are are really uh incredible, and I think they're they have a great ministry. But uh geological argument, one of this this idea of rock layers deposited around the world all the same time. And we see this with the Topete sandstone. You know, from the Grand Canyon, if you've been out to the Grand Canyon, you see these the sandstone layer. That actually stretches one that Tapete sandstone layer stretches to Wisconsin. Johnson. This idea of these layers that were formed quickly, and they're not like typical layers that form over time, which are thin. These are thick layers deposited all across country, continent. And some of these layers have are are bent as if it's a quick, rapid uh laying down, and while it's still soft, while this sediment is still soft. They're bending, and which is not normal if a rock is hard. Hard rocks don't bend, they break. And so I think that's uh really interesting. Um scientific point. Another scientific point I'll point to is the fossil record. I think this is one of the greatest arguments for a global flood. I think it to me it's the most convincing. There are fossilized forests in Antarctica. And you could say, well, what if that was a warmer place back then? Well, these are fossilized forests that have been uprooted and placed in Antarctica. And we see the same thing in Yellowstone with the petrified forest there. These things are violently uprooted and just laid out in places that we would not see trees. We see marine fossils, uh crust you know, all types of marine fossils on top of the Grand Canyon. on top of Mount Everest, we have marine fossils. And I really haven't found anybody being able to explain that to me very well. Well, uh they try, but it just uh it seems like they're really stretching it when they're trying to explain how we find these marines Green crustaceans all over the highest mountains of the world. Interestingly, scientists, secular scientists, look to the cosmos And they argue for massive catastrophic events. And yet they don't apply the same logic to Earth. For example, Mars, the new running theory. of scientists is that Mars had, get it, a global flood. Can you believe it? That Mars that literally has zero water on it right now. Yeah, it had a global flood that completely changed the and terraformed the entire planet. Same thing with Venus, different catastrophic events, Jupiter, uh all these things have they they posit that there's massive changes done by uh by nature on these planets. I was just looking at uh a magazine, Discover magazine, secular scientific scientific publication. And This it was my first search. Google searched this and uh first one that popped up, Discover magazine, well-known magazine. This is what it says. Listen to More than 3. 5 billion years ago, water flowed freely across the surface of Mars, forming lakes and seas. New research shows how these lakes may have overflowed and burst at their sides, causing flooding so severe it carved out canyons. In the Martian surface over the course of just weeks. This new research suggests that the flooding could have drastically shaped and altered the Martian landscape. I mean it's just the epitome of uh hypocrisy to to use this argumentation for a planet that has no water. And our earth is covered with seventy percent of it and not apply the same standard of research and logic and reasoning. That's what you'd expect from people that are avoiding this idea of uh the biblical Account in creation. Lastly, most convincing to me is that a universal flood is a picture of the universal nature of God's judgment. Against sin, as well as Christ's return. And this is important. God, often through the narrative, is talking about wiping out the earth and uh and and that this judgment is upon all mankind. And this similar language is used by Jesus when he's talking about the eternal judgment. In Luke 17, 26, it says this, just as Jesus is saying, just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man. Man. They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all. So will it be on the day when the Son of See, the flood is the archetype. It's the greatest picture we have of a cosmic universal judgment. And God is a God that gives us A lot of pictures. And the flood is a picture, the greatest picture that we could possibly be given of God's wrath poured out upon mankind. And what's worse than the flood is obviously the fires of hell. And no longer will God, He's promised covenantfully to destroy the earth by water, but he has also promised that he will destroy the earth. earth by fire. And that picture there, the water representing the fire to come, I think is important because we understand that judgment is a cosmic universe. Judgment. It's not just for a few. Some won't escape it. Well, we those who will escape it are those found in Noah, found in Christ, and we'll get to that Next week. But Second Peter 3:6 says this: the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God. And that by means of these, that world that then existed was was deluged with water and perished. And Peter points out a very interesting parallel. And this is the idea between creation and recreation. The world It was returning to the pre-creation waters, the world in the time of Noah. was returning to this idea where the waters, the Spirit of God hovered around the waters. And we even see this in so many ways in the flood account. There is water above and below, right, with Noah, just like there was water that was separated above and below in the account of Genesis. The ark itself was much like the Garden of Eden. Genesis. There's chaos outside. There's chaos outside of the garden. But in the garden, God's placed mankind to live. There's life within the garden. Even God's divine wind plays a part in both of these creation and recreation. God's spirit, his wind, the ruach, is hovering over the waters, and then it's God's wind that causes the flood waters to abandon. The sun plays no role, as in other ancient Eurasian stories, because it's really about God and his power. And it's amazing this idea of the parallel between creation and recreation. And I'm borrowing this from a scholar named Walkie, but he lists out all these different parallels. I think it's important to remember this. Phase one was this of was this pre-creation. And just as God's Spirit hovered over the abyss, God sends this wind over the waters. And we see the same words used, earth, deep. Spirit, waters, used both in Genesis 1 and Genesis 8. And then on the second day, God divides the waters. On the third day, God separates the dry, arable ground. And we see this this w this land beginning to emerge in the Noah account. Fifth day, in the Genesis 1 account, the sky once again has the winged creatures, just as it did on the fifth day of creation. On the sixth day, the living creatures of Skyland are called out from the ark, as in their first creative calling from the voice of God. And then we have this reappearance of the of the family, of this family of God, who on the sixth day emerges, Adam and Eve, and on the And then finally we have the heavenly king, God himself blessing Adam and Eve, just as He blessed Noah when they came out of the ark. So it's this picture, this grand and beautiful picture of recreation that's taking place. And when Noah sends out a dove , The biblical account says that he found no Mahnoah. He found no rest. The biblical word for rest is Noah The dove goes out of the ark. He's looking for a Noah outside of the Ark. But he can't find it. So he returns to the Ark. And the picture is that one day there will be a Noah where everyone can come to and find rest. And find refuge, a greater Noah, who provides refuge not just for eight family members, but actually for the whole world. And that's what we're going to look at next week. As we look at this beautiful picture of Noah as a foreshadowing of Jesus Christ to come. Let's pray.