Our scripture reading is from Genesis. This is a long passage , but we do have a tradition too. uh stand while reading it. I may skip a few of the of the names here, but um follow along with me. Genesis 10, 1 through 32 These are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood. The sons of Japheth, Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Masha. And Tirus, sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, Rifath, and Togermah, the sons of Javon, Elasha, Tarshish, Katim, and Dadanim. For the from these the coastland people spring. The sons of Ham, Cush, Egypt, Put and Canaan, sons of Cush, Sibba, Havilah, Sabtah, Ramah, Sabteca, the sons of Ramah. Shabbat and Dadan, Cush father Nimrod, he was the first on earth to be a mighty man. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. Therefore it is said, like Nimrod, A mighty hunter before the Lord. The beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Arek, Akkad, and Kelnah, and the land of Shinnar. From that land he went into Assyria and built Nineveh, where Hob Both Ear, Kala, and Rasin between Nineveh and Kalah. That is the great city. Egypt Father Ludim, Anatmin, Lahabim, Nab Tuhim, Path Rushim, Koth Luhim, from whom the Philistines came, and Kath Torim. Canaan, father of Sudan, his father, and Heth. And the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Gergesites, the Hivites, the Archites, the Sinites, the Arvadites, and the Zimarites and the Hamathites. Afterward the clans of the Canaanites dispersed, and the territory of the Canaites descended from Zidan in the direction of Gerar as far as Gaza In the direction of Sodom, Gomorrah, Adam, Admah, and Zeboim as far as Lashah. These are the sons of Ham, by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations. To Shem also, I'm not going to skip any actually, sorry. The father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, children were born, the sons of Shem, Alam, Shur. Our Pakshad, Lud and Aram, the sons of Aram, Uz, Hul, Gethar Mash, our Pakshad, Father Shalah. Shalah fathered Eber. To Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his day the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Jochtan. Jochtan fathered Almudad, Shalafa, Shalef, sorry. Hazar Maz Mazveth, Jara, Hadaram, Uzzah, Dikla, Oba, Abmel, Shaba, Alfir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Jochtan. The territory in which they lived extended from Mesha in the direction of Sephar to the hill country of the east. These are the sons of Shem, by their clans, their language, their lands, and their name. Nations. These are the clans of the sons of Noah, according to their genealogies and their nations, and from these the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood. So the only place where the reading of Scripture is actually harder than the preaching of Scripture. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for this table of nations. May you um illuminate our hearts and enrich our minds. As we seek to understand your word, why is this in your word? What can we learn? What can we glean from it? I pray that it would be a rich study for us this evening. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, this is a a very interesting passage. It's uh certainly a difficult passage to preach. It's like preaching through the genealogies of of the New Testament. It's it's there's a lot of names and um I don't know how beneficial it is to go through every single one of these names, so I'm not going to do that. And uh before we get started though with Genesis, I want to refer back to uh last Sunday evening and we preached, for those of you who were not here, we I preached on uh the doctrine of election. That is not presidential elections, the election of of God's saints. And uh I mentioned there at the end the idea that um how maybe this was during the question and answer time or maybe at the very end of the sermon of how do we know we're elect, right? How can I know standing right here, how do I know that I am of the elect uh group. Pretty important question. And I mentioned that the proof is perseverance to the end. That you will perseverance persevere to the end. I just want to I just want to elaborate on that just one just briefly one second. When we look at this idea of the of tulip, right? It's the the essentials of the Reformed faith. And this was not pinned the acronym wasn't pinned by Calvin. Um it was actually and the uh Synod of Dort, these are uh these are against the Arminian position, these five uh tulip items, and but they're all interconnected. We can't we can never disconnect these. And they actually go, I believe, in kind of a linear order. Total depravity, you have to start there. And that's where Paul starts. in his letter to Rome is first three chapters, half of chapter three, he makes the case that all men are depraved. And we are uh lost before a holy God. So you have total depravity, which obviously uh logically even leads to this idea of unconditional election. It wasn't based upon anything that the totally depraved people did. They had lost any condition by which they themselves could be saved other than God's mercy. God's grace. And so total depravity is the base, and then you build upon the base, and you you lead to it leads to uh unconditional election, which then leads to this naturally to limited atonement. God is unconditionally electing, which means that his atonement, his application of atonement, limited is a sometimes a uh a negative word to use for that, but his uh particular atonement is another way of saying that. His atonement is applied to a particular person, group of people, and those people are the elect. And so we have limited atonement, and those whom God has called, they will respond. And this is this idea. Of irresistible grace, that God does not call somebody who then has to make the decision themselves, then their salvation would be in their own hands. It would be by their own works. whether they respond to the call or not. No, God irresistibly calls them to Himself. And finally, the capstone of this all is the This idea of the perseverance of the saints. And it can be uh misconstrued that perseverance now is a work of man when all these other things seem to be clearly the work of God. Man doesn't unconditionally elect himself or lim atone limited atone. So it seems that perseverance of the saints is this work of man. And I I want uh to refute that point if anybody was believing that. I I and I didn't mean to imply that last week, but I do want to say that it is a unique work in the sense That there is a cooperation between God and man, just like there is in sanctification. There's uh many commands in Scripture to actually do the works of sanctification. But perseverance of the saints is the continuous operation of the Holy Spirit in the believer. That what God began, he will see through to completion. And of course, using a secondary means, man himself. Our works, our sanctification, that process is a secondary means, the primary means of the perseverance of the saint is God himself working in operation with uh in inside the man with the power of the Holy Spirit. And we see this in scripture throughout John ten, this is a classic passage where uh My sheep, Jesus says, My sheep know my voice. No one can snatch them out of my hand. So there's a sense that they are eternally secure. That's another way of thinking about presence. perseverance of the saints, eternally secure. Romans 11, another place. God's call is irrevocable. Can't change it. So if God's called you, he will not actually reverse it. That call or revoke that call. So I just wanted to mention that. And if there's any questions at the end, you can you can bring those up. Here, Genesis 10, we get to this amazing passage with a lot of different names And we have to remember that this is another passage that's highlighting the expansion of the people of God. Now remember the people of God started with Adam, singular, and then it Adam had two, so it's multiplying, but then not both of them are the people of God. We have the Canaites and the Abelites and it's Abel, but he's dead. He's the righteous brother who's killed by by the uh by the older brother Jesus and Israel. And we have Abel then has uh I'm sorry, Adam has Seth, and then we have so now this This people thinking o of this as people of God. And I I really want to make that a thread that runs through I haven't really emphasized this enough, I think, but this idea of of uh the people of God from the very beginning all the way to the very end. And and that's how we can understand this this idea of um Israel and the church We can get very confused about when does Israel start and end and when does the church begin. And I think a rubric or a category that helps us is this idea of people. people of God. That has been from the very beginning. God's called a people to himself. And that people is is exponentially increasing over time. Over the time that's recorded in scripture and and obviously even today that people is is Increasing. And we're following the seed, and that's the people of God or the people of the seed. The seed of who? Adam? No. It's the seed of Eve. It's the the seed of of Eve is going to crush the head of the serpent, and all those who are in that seed are going to be saved, are going to destroy defeat the serpent themselves through the power of that seed, Jesus Christ. So we're following this seed all the way. And now we're beginning to see here in Genesis chapter 10. Interestingly, this people of God expanded, it grew, but then it shrunk back down. And it shrunk back down to Noah And um and then to Noah's son Shem. And now we're going to see, it's going to pick, it's going to spread back out. And we have to see this story, Genesis 10, in connection to the Tower of Babel. Very important. Genesis 10 and 11 are connected intimately. Genesis 11, the Tower of Babel, actually precedes Genesis 10. chronologically, although it is after it literarily. So the the Tower of Babel is crucial to understanding this whole and we have a lot of allusions to the Tower of Babel in Genesis. Well I'll I'll point some of those out. But I also want to draw a connection between what we've been looking at in Sunday morning worship and what we're doing now in in the evening. And this this connection between Acts and And Genesis 10 and 11. It's a beautiful connection between Acts 2 and Genesis 10 and 11, where God calls the the The people to spread out, spread, multiply across the land. And yet what do they do in Genesis 11, the tower? They they congregate, they They seek to build a tower, they make a name for themselves, and so yet God has to confuse their language and spread them out again, force them out. And we see in Acts 2 this beautiful reversal of the Tower of Babel. And I believe allusions are made in Acts 2 to the Tower of Babel where all these nations. From all these areas, many of them represented here in Genesis chapter 10, the table of nations. All these nations now are coming back and they're descending upon Jerusalem. And they are coming to the city not of man, but the city of God through faith in Jesus Christ. These dispersed nations. And so it's important to keep this in mind. And in this story, Israel, the name Israel is not mentioned anywhere in the story. Well, obviously Israel is uh uh is after this the calling of Abraham and Jacob's name changes Israel is obviously chronologically after this. But it is it is interesting to note that Israel is not mentioned. It's because I think In part, that God has concern for all nations. And he shows this not only by mentioning Israel. He could have mentioned Israel, by the way, in this text, just like he mentioned the Philistines. uh later on. The Philistines were not current during the time of this writing, but the writer, Moses, mentions this group of people is who the Philistines came from. Now, why couldn't Moses have done that with Israel and said this is the group that Israel came from? And I believe it's a concern for all the nations. Genesis 10 is this beautiful picture that God from the very beginning of calling the first man, the first people to himself, had in his mind the idea that it would expand to all nations. Oh throughout the entire earth, from sea to sea, from the four corners of the earth, God would make a people for himself. It was not just going to be Israel. It was going to be all these all these people that were we see. And interesting too that this story of Genesis 10 uh is historically uh so Of course it's accurate is the word of God, but even secular historians talk about the cradle of civilization. We've heard that, right? There's and there's two there's two tracts of this. this out of Africa movement where the first people supposedly came from. I obviously don't believe this. And then there's this other idea, this other track of the cradle civilization. Though there's people that came out of Africa, there's this first s where the first cities Where are the first where's the first writing? Where's the first evidence that there's actually there's actually a civilization taking place? And it is in the land of Mesopotamia, in the land of Sumer, the Sumer. And by and large, even seculars uh historians will acknowledge this. And and this is exactly what the table of nations is showing, that this all began to the east, to the east of where? To the east of Israel, to the la in the land of Israel. Mesopotamia, the land of Sumer, Sumerians. So this story is is uh colloquially referred to as the table of nations. That's not that term is not in the text. And it's absolutely singular. It's unique in ancient Near Eastern literature. There's nothing quite like this. There are lists of people, but not this idea of a genealogy of the nations. And that's exactly what this word means. These are the generations of the sons of Noah. This is a called the Tol Doth. This word , these are the generations, happens ten times in the book of Genesis to mark out ten books within the book of Genesis. So ten distinct units, the toll doth happens these ten times to show the generations of Abraham, the generations of heaven heaven and earth first, and Adam, and so on. So this is one of these Tol Doth lines. And it's uh unique in the sense that it's the generations of Noah, but it's the nations, it's the formation of the nations of the entire world. And First Chronicles one five through twenty three has the same table of nations. I'm not going to really compare this that uh with that that much And we have this formulaic line that's that's repeated often. We see this in verse 5. We see it in verse 20. And we see in verse 31, it changes slightly in those times, but this idea this this phrase, lands, language, clans, and nations. I mean, this is this idea is just this list of all these nations. But this is not necessarily an exhaustive list. of every single nation. Um there could have been other sons, other children. Some of them are omitted. Some sons are are followed and some are not. So certainly there's other nations that uh would would have can been this this would have represented more than just what's named. And it's primarily a list With regards to their proximity to Israel. And it moves out from the outward groups of people, the Jephites, These are the furthest farthest people from Israel. And it slowly moves in. Then it moves to the Hamites. Those are the bitter enemies of Israel. Israel and then it moves to Israel itself or where from whom Israel descends. Hashem, the Shemites. And this actually reverses the normal order that we see in Genesis rather than Jepheth, Shem, or Ham, and Shem is Shem, Ham, Jepheth typically. And these nations all surround Israel. What what does that mean then? Yeah, that that the Israel is the center, the promised land is the center of the known world to the writer of of Genesis. And there's a lot of significant numbers. in this. In fact, there's 70 total nations represented, but there's other uh many other uses of the number 7, 10, uh twelve and multiples of these. So these are significant numbers. And why is it important to know the significance of numbers? Because uh when they're omitted or when they're included is a clue. And we're going to see this in one of the examples here that That all the nations, all all the tables of the descendants have these significant numbers except one, one group. And we'll get to that in a second. But this idea that there's 70 nations, and isn't it amazing that fast forward thousands of years From this point, Jesus sends out how many disciples to go preach the gospel, to proclaim the kingdom of God? Seventy, he sends out seventy disciples disciples. Surely this is an allusion to this idea the the of the of the table of nations that that Jesus Christ is wanting the sheep that are not of this pen, not of this f Want to include all these now when Jesus was on earth, his mission was to preach to the lost tribes of Israel, but it was the duty, the job, the obligation of the tribes of Israel, of Israel itself, to be then the conduit. for which the uh nations would hear. And uh I'm not gonna get into uh This I I well I do want to mention there are some names here of the nations that uh have to be changed for the time of the writing of it. Um It doesn't do any good to uh name all a lot of these names and then the people during the time of Moses, you know, this is going to be this is happening happening m many, many years before Moses. And they have no idea what what some of these nations are. And so some of these names are actually places and and scholars will pick on this and say, well this is This is why this isn't a later text and whatnot. And uh Moses uses the current names of nations because that's what the people would have known reading it. He does the same thing happens in Exodus. one when it talks about the uh storehouses of Pithum and Ramses. And these are anachronistic uses of those. That's what they were called then. That's what they were called when Moses wrote them. Uh doesn't mean that you know that's why everyone then dates the text of Exodus to the time of Ramses and unfortunately gets it wrong. And so that's just a a little minor point. When you hear people arguing about this, don't listen to them. Alright, so verses uh one through five, we have the sons of Japheth. And these constitute the nations that are maritime. These are the coastland peoples. Verse 5 makes this explicit from these the coastland peoples spread. and in their lands. These are shipfaring people. And geographically they reside almost exclusively north of Israel. So we start with the north. northwest and northeast, but generally speaking they are no they're north mainly around the Anatolian region which is modern-day Turkey And they're the seafaring people. Kichim, one of those names you see in verse 4, means island in Hebrew. And and so We have them first. They're the furthest away from Israel. They're the least involved in Israel's redemptive history. And so there's the least amount of attention paid to them. We really don't have much information. information about these places. We know where these places are for the most part, but in terms of preachable material, so to speak, uh it This this doesn't it doesn't preach well. So we uh move from the sons of Japheth who are least involved, and we move to the son of Ham Now, this is of course interesting because we recall the story of Ham and uh what happened when he saw his his father Noah naked. And Ham was cursed, right? No, Ham was not cursed. Who was cursed? Ham's son, interestingly. And we talked about why that could be. One possibility is the illicit union between Ham and Noah 's wife, perhaps. This is just one idea that I threw out there. few weeks ago and therefore Canaan, the son of that um incestuous affair, is the uh the curse And interestingly, Canaan, when we get to the sons of Canaan, the the writer is going to pull out uh Canaan from the list and talk about them more specifically, and the number seven or ten or twelve is not found in the list. List of Canaan. Found in all the other lists. But that number's omitted. And I think that's intentionally done. We have Ham, and this is the youngest son of Noah. And all these uh places. Verses six through fourteen are mostly south and southeast and and to the east a little bit to of of uh Israel So we went from the north and we moved, we skipped Israel, kind of jumped over it, and then we came to the east, and then also kind of the southeast. area. And we see that from Ham come the the most prominent opponents of all of Israel. I mean from Ham comes Egypt, comes Assyria, comes Babylon. All these nations. And we have the beginning of some of these nations listed out for us here with Nimrod. It's Nimrod. Who is an important figure in the history of some of these eastern Mesopotamian uh empires that formed Assyrian and Babylon very close to each other uh geographically. Very connected to one another, even uh the Persians as well later on. We have this figure here in verse 8 Now, Cush is an area in Egypt. So Cush fathered Nimrod, and there's a lot of just disagreement about how he, Nimrod, got to the east. But either way, uh there's two explanations, either Nimrod went to the east or, and remember these lifespans are are long lifespans, so of course they can migrate very easily uh over the course of their entire life, but also the idea that this perhaps is a different cush. It's not the cush of Nubia in in near Egypt. It's a different Cush. Which could be the case. But either way, Cush fathered Nimrod, and he was the first on earth to be a mighty man. Now, it's interesting because this term, mighty man, is the same term used of the Nephilim in Genesis chapter 1. Chapter six. Remember those where people talk about these are the um from the sexual relations between angels or or and men and and uh uh they're giants and whatnot. So I don't hold to that. I think that there's two groups of people, even the elect and non-elect, even then we see that the sons of of uh Cain. And the daughters of um the sons and daughters are they're they're distinct there. But we have this idea of mighty man uh again repeated. So So it's like they were wiped out in the flood, but we have the re-emergence of a mighty man here in Genesis chapter. 10. And this identity identity of Nimrod has been attributed to a number of people. Some would attribute his identity to Marduk, the god of Babylon. Um some to Ninurta, Babylonian god of war and hunt, but that doesn't make sense. This is a historical narrative The uh Bible the biblical writer is not talking about a a uh a god figure. He's talking about a historical person who did things on earth. So I don't think that there are some historical figures that people point to, Gilgamesh is is one of them. Um and also Sargon, those who hold for a much later date, Sargon was a um Assyrian dynastic ruler. And Sargon the First, the Great, Sargon the Great is his name, was uh incredibly powerful. He uh formed this old Assyrian Empire. He formed one of the reasons why they think it's this Sargon is because the beginning of his kingdom, verse 10, the beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Arach. He replaces that. Sargon the first. at least held I don't know if he f he created them. Akkad, that word Akkad is where we get the word uh Akkadian from. And uh Akkadian was the ancient language. of of Babylon. But this is it's much older and Nimrod, unless there's a ton of generational gaps here, Nimrod was mid -third millennium. So could be if there's just uh a massive gap in the genealogies here, but I believe it's just a uh a person, historical figure who founded a city and he was the first founder. We have earlier in Genesis chapter 4 these these first founders, right? right, to Balkane and others who who they they found various cultural uh significant aspects of of of uh the the the world. And here we have the same thing. We have Nimrod. And there's a line here. Where he says he was a mighty hunter before the Lord, and he was a therefore it is said, like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord. And it's interesting this proverb that's used. So he was a hunter. It's kind of the first time it hunting is mentioned here. But the question of his identity also revolves around is is this a good figure that's being upheld by the writer of Genesis, or is he a bad is he a negative person? And this the sense of before the Lord, and it's the covenantal name. Before the Lord, you notice in your Bible, it probably is all capped, so it's the covenantal name of God. So he's before Yahweh, the covenantal name of God. And perhaps that's a a sign that this is a a person who, although he's in the descendants of Ham , Uh he's a great person. I don't think so. I don't think he is a great person. For one, he's in the descendants of Ham. But two This idea of before the Lord also has this sense of he was seen by God. So he's a mighty hunter, and God sees him. And I believe that this is a connection to Genesis chapter 11 and the Tower of Babel. What's God going to do here in the next chapter? He's going to look down, he's going to see what the mankind is doing, and he's going to frustrate their plan. It's the eyes of God that sees Nimrod, and it's the eyes of God that sees where Nimrod goes, which is Babel. to form this this area this land. He was the king of this region. And another piece of evidence of for Nimrod not being a a great figure here is his name. His name means we shall rebel. So that seals it for me. But Nimrod is the beginning of his kingdom right here, the very first word, Babel. So again, we have this connection to Jap to it. chapter eleven. This is in the land of Shannar and this is all where the tower of Babel was built. And so uh th this is uh obviously a very clear connection to him. But we don't know anything else about Nimrod and um and then the the text goes to Egypt and all the people that Egypt has Fathered. And then we move to the sons of Canaan, verses 15 through 20. Again I mentioned there's no sevens, but there are still some great places, there's some great cities. This Sidon. Father Sidan, his firstborn, and this is Saddam is a great Phoenician city along the coast of northwestern. Israel. Heth is there's some confusion about Heth. It's a place that was in the area of Canaan. But uh Heth is the same word also for Hittite. and the Hittite Empire. And and so many people don't think that there's a connec I it's hard not to think that there's some connection, but um many people think that these are different Heaths and Hittites. I personally see a connection between them, the forerunner of the Hittite Empire. And these are all nations that Israelite confronted. So look when we see these. The Hivites, you've seen these throughout Scripture, the Sinites. The clans of the Canaanites. We also see Garar in scripture in Gaza. And of course, what do we see here in verse 19? Sodom. and Gomorrah. So it's Canaan that is vilified in the text. They are the cursed son, and a pff a very clear example of cursing is what took place and what's going to take place to Sodom and Gomorrah. Lastly, we have verses 21 through 31 and it's the sons of Shem. Now attention is drawn to this in the introduction. Notice that it's different. Verse 2, the sons of Japheth. And then we have here in verse 6 the sons of Ham. But then he said, To Shem also, the father of all the children of Ever. So there's even slight differences. in the Hebrew draws your attention to this being kind of highlighted for whatever reason. And there is a very good reason why it's highlighted. From Shem to Eber , twelve, twelve sons, fourteen names, both numbers. significant. The father of all the children of Eber. Now Eber is a very interesting name. Etymologically, it resembles Hebrew. And so what the writer is saying here is that Shem is the father of Eber, from whom Hebrews get their name. So this is the line of the Hebrews. Now there is some disagreement too about the name Hebrew and and what but I I believe that this is is rather clear. There's uh another mentioned in extra-biblical text of a uh of a group, kind of a nomadic roaming group called the Hapiru And uh again etymologically very close to Hebrews. And I believe v they are the Hebrews. They're mentioned in what's known as the Amarna tablets. And uh during the time of the Exodus, during the time of Joshua's conquest, these Armara tablets are are correspondence between Canaan, Egyptian posts. or province in the land of Canaan, riding back to Amarna, Egypt, and telling the Pharaoh, telling the leaders in Egypt, please come help. These Hapiru are overrunning us. And uh and I believe it's it it matches the biblical picture of what we see in terms of the dating and the actions of the Israelites coming into the land of Canaan. But the Hapiru and the Eber, it could be the same, just some people, the Akkadians and the Egyptians called them Hapiru, and in the land of Canaan, this area they were called Eber. These names change. They fluctuate over time in different languages and so on. These are mostly the sons of Shem are mostly to the east of Israel. Israel. And this makes sense because where did Abraham come from? From the east, right? And verse twenty-five is a very important verse. I'm going to draw your Your attention to that. Look what it says. To Eber. So again, this is the father of Hebrews, were born two sons. Now, when you get two sons, in Genesis, again, you know, it's it's You c your int your antennas perk up a little bit here. To Eber was born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided And his brother's name was Jochtan. Now what does this mean? That in his days the earth was divided. Now the name Peleg means to divide, but why? Why was that name given to Peleg? Why was the earth divided during his his time. And I've heard so many different uh explanations of this. I mean, one I just read was that there was a a large earthquake. that took place and the the physical land, physical earth was divided by this earthquake. Um that's not true. There may have been an earthquake, but that's not why the writer of of Genesis is writing this. Why? What is going on here? You have Peleg and you have Jockton. And just as we had in Genesis chapter four, we here also have Two brothers who represent two genealogies. Peleg represents the genealogy of the elect. The chosen people of God. The seed goes through Peleg. Joctin goes through the non-elect. He's the father of the non-elect. The tower, the tower Babel count, separates these two genealogies of Shem. It's Jochtan who goes east. And they, with help of Nimrod, and Nimrod forms the capitals and everything, but builds they builds the Tower of Babel. And Peleg is the ancestor to Abraham. And so we have here already a clue for us. to follow the seed through the line of Eber, through the line of Peleg, and eventually we're going to come to the person of Abraham. Abraham. The nations are spread out. They continue to spread out and paves the way for Babel. The table of nations here it shows a number of things in closing that it shows the interconnectedness of the human race. We all derive from a common man, common ancestry. There's no sense of ethnic superiority in this text, uh though there is distinctions between elect and non-elect. And the table of nations also reveals the sovereignty of God over all nations. Man makes cities, but there is a city of God that the elect belong to. to. And it's the church that brings Abraham's blessings to the nations. It's no longer confined to Israel. ethnic Israel. It's the people of God that has expanded that have this duty, this this commission, this great commission. To take the gospel, to take the word of God to the nations until Jesus comes back. And the church can never lose sight of that. We're involved in it at a personal level, perhaps to some degree, supporting missionaries, going on mission trips. As a church, we're involved in it to a large degree. We're supporting missionaries But the church as a whole, the invisible church, once we lose sight of reaching the nations for Christ, we've forsaken the Great Commission, the mandate that started way back here in Genesis to call all Christians, to call all the church to spread the gospel to the ends of the earth, thus glorifying the name of God Almighty. Let's pray. Father, we pray for the nations, all these nations represent represented here. in the table, Lord, of so many people who have come to know you, Jesus. There's so many of these nations who have had a a prominent witness throughout the millennium. Millennium. And I I pray though that those nations that are in this table that don't have a witness and and are not uh strong uh Christian nations, I pray that missionaries would be sent Father, and I pray that you would continue to use the church to proclaim the gospel. We trust you to do this. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.