Well turn in your Bibles, if you have your Bibles, to Genesis chapter eleven. And very riveting passage, I know. Genealogies are uh my favorite thing to preach on. I'm just kidding. Um they are not the most exciting topic to preach on, to be honest. with you, just uh confessions of a preacher. Um you know and there's not it's not just genealogies are that are like this the ceremonial details in Leviticus that's not going to be great to preach on the tribal boundaries for the uh the the children of of Israel And Joshua, those aren't great to preach on either. But all scripture is profitable. And we can and should and must profit from this, from this genealogy from the genealogy that we saw in Genesis 10, genealogy in Genesis 5. So how? How do we how do we profit from genealogies? Well, I think it's important that we really see the theological big picture. And in any text in scripture, we must understand what is this saying about God. That is theology. What is this communicating about God, His plan for us? That that is the whole point is to understand. I think too much we often uh look at texts like this, especially in Genesis, mainly in Genesis. with kind of a modernistic scientific view. We we want to know what all these numbers mean. We want to calculate the numbers and we want to backtrack the the calculations and to determined very very uh uh scientific uh uh uh way of of approaching the text without necessarily looking at the theology. of the text. And I think when we do that we really miss it. I mean, I've said this before, I think that these numbers and and not all numbers in the Bible, but certainly some numbers in the Bible are meant To promote a theological agenda, obviously the theology of God, through the inspired writers of the Bible, of the text. And these numbers have a purpose And we see this all throughout the Bible. I mean, uh, and we're going to get into some of the chronological issues here, but you know, we we see genealogical gaps. Um um the genealogies even of of Jesus, the Ezra 7 genealogy compared with Chronicles, we see gaps. in that. But me the the most uh prominent example of of how the writers of the Bible will sometimes use numbers to to push a th a theology. is the genealogy of Matthew. I think I've mentioned this before. I mean it's it's it's structured in in such a way that uh clearly indicates something to any reader who's certainly Jewish, but even us of uh spiritually Jewish lineage, we begin to see some things that take place in this Matthew genealogy that separates uh the the time of Adam to Abraham and Abraham to David, David to uh Christ in fourteen generations of each. And it's been long suspected that these this 14 is a significant number because of the uh what's called Gematria, that the name David in Hebrew, David, is numerically added up to 14. So you take the Dalit, the V the Vav and the Dalit, those three letters, you add them up and it's 14. And we see a prominent seen in the book of Matthew as Jesus being the son of David, the king who has returned. And so, you know, you have texts like that. And I think you have very simple. That does not mean that we can take every number and say, oh, this is just been used in some way. And it's so it takes discernment. It takes church history, church tradition, telling, you know, helping us interpret scripture. We don't just go willy-nilly and laissez-faire with all the numbers in in scripture. But I I think that there is some of that taking place here. I do believe that the numbers of the of these anti -deluvian kings are accurate, but the one thing I would just uh suspect is uh the of uh genealogical gaps. And I'll explain a little bit more here in a little bit. But the whole point of me saying all that is I think some people can die on the hill of taking these numbers and and running them through a a grid, a scientific grid, rather than uh and and missing the the theological big picture. So I want to bring us back to that. These genealogies are about people. The Bible, I would uh propose to you that the Bible is about people. It's about persons. God is three persons in one. God creates a people for himself. God redeems a people for himself. for himself. It's about God, three persons in one, calling and redeeming and ultimately glorifying. a people for himself. And there's this pattern that takes place all throughout scripture from the very beginning to now. And uh and we've seen this this type of pattern. And it can be described. There's a few different rubrics. that you can kind of take all of scripture and kind of filter it through these patterns that we see. One of those patterns would be this idea of creation, decreation or destruction, and then recreation. And this fleshes itself out into this typology that's more specific, more narrow of temple, exile, return. And those three are very prominent from the very beginning, Genesis, with the garden being a type of temple, that the t the temple itself and the tabernacle are supposed to be patterned after the garden. But we see expulsion from the garden, so we see exile, and then we see the hope of returning. And of course, what is revelation, how is revelation described? Heaven itself , tree of life, a garden. We are eating of the fruit of the trees for the healing of the nations. It's a return to the garden to the Edenesque ideal And we see the same thing with the land of Israel being a type of temple, the entrance to the east. The land is described in temple type terms, and yet they're kicked out, they're removed from the temple. They're exiled and the hope is of returning one day. Another way of thinking of of these this rubric for which we can can kind of fit scripture in the kind of this category of scripture is uh one that my uh seminary professor uh Roy Champa used, the Caesar, he called it, and it's creation. sin, exile, and restoration or return. And uh I think that's very similar to kind of what I'm what I'm uh describing here. And this is what's happening here in Genesis 11. It's already taken place and we're going to see more cycles like this. uh continue throughout Genesis. And this chapter is key. It's anticipating the patriarchal narratives. Now some people can will will assert that the patriarchs began with Noah and and those, you know, the anti-Diluvian um uh kings or or the people of of the ancient times. Patriarchs, typically the way I think of patriarchs, Potter from Latin father, it's the father of the of the nation. So it starts kind of with Abram, Abraham. Abram, it's the name itself means father. Uh eventually they'll change the father of many. But um so when I think of the patriarchal narratives, I think of starting here, Genesis chapter 12. And it continues all the way to the very end of Genesis. So right now we're in this kind of patriarchal narrative, the founders of our religion. This is it. And this temple and exile and return, it's a prominent cycle in the Bible, and we see this here in Genesis 11. So this is right after the first recreation. And so God's created, He's destroyed, He's recreated. There was uh Um temple, there's even the ark itself described in temple language, and they've left the ark, the protection of the ark is no more. Everyone was protected. You walk into the ark, you're protected. You have life. Outside the ark is not. You left the temple area of Israel, of Canaan, right, and they mu they migrated east, so they're expelled out of the temple. And so they're living in the land of Shinar. And what's amazing about this cycle, we see this cycle is Genesis chapter 10 and 11 starts with Babel. Right? It's this idea of moving into Babel, which is aka Babylon. And where does the entire Bible, the entire Old Testament, end? Babylon comes all the way back for full circle. The very end of the prophets of the book of the old of the Old Testament is they have left now. They've left the land, they've been exiled, and they're in Babylon. And so we see this cycle that takes place from Babel, Babylon to Babylon, and Abraham is key. the central figure in this entire cycle. And the New Testament's anticipating a return from Babylon. A return from exile, and not just a political exile, which that was that did exist throughout the course of Israel's history, but a spiritual exile that's taken place since Genesis chapter 3. There's a spiritual deprivation that has occurred amongst the people of Israel. God does not dwell with his people. He doesn't dwell in the temple any longer. And this is why the subject of temple is so critical even in the New Testament. And and the gospels uh particularly this idea of temple and Jesus saying destroy this temple and this and the the leaders of Israel saying he they speak against the temple and all these things about temple, it's about the temple. Because they're waiting for the temple. They want the end to exile. They want the temple back so that God can dwell again up among his people. This is why one of the even today most important celebrations or or festivals in all of Israel is Tishaba 'an, which is lamenting. the destruction of the temple, not just once, but twice. The uh tradition of Tishab 'a'an says that uh on the day that Solomon's temple was destroyed By the Babylonians that same day the Romans destroyed the temple in seventy AD. Now I I don't know if that's exactly accurate, but that's Jewish tradition. It's been Jewish tradition for a very long time. And so this wailing why they wail, weep at the wall is longing for a temple, and not just for this physical structure, even though that is what many of them do wish for. Um they missed the spiritual, the theological realities of this, but this idea of God dwelling among his people. So the Bible is about this, this theme of expulsion, bringing back. Expulsion. Bringing back. And we're going to see this throughout. We should see this chapter 11 in conjunction with both Genesis 5. And Genesis 12, so it's kind of a middle piece. Genesis 5 is this other prominent told. You remember this idea told? These are the generations of. We have 10 toll dos formulas in Genesis. This is one of them. And it's very similar to the Toldo formula in Genesis chapter 5. This is the book of the generations of Adam. And we see a lot of similarities. We see that there's an age given to these uh rulers, these I say rulers or kings, I mean I I'm comparing there's Extra biblical evidence, you know, of these very similar type lists, Sumerian king lists. You know, these people are worthy to be mentioned. I'm not saying that they're actually kings in this text. But um these anti-Diluvian patriarchs is how they're described. But so we see that their age is described in both Genesis 5 and Genesis 11. We see that they both have sons and daughters. Right, born to them. But there's a there's a a piece of the formula that's been removed. You go to Genesis chapter five, and you look at this and you see, you know, just anybody, you can take uh Jared When Jared had lived 162 years, he fathered Enoch. Jared lived after he had fathered Enoch. He had other sons and daughters, thus all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died. And then we take just you know take anybody here, verse 12 in our text this evening, when our Pakshad had lived 35 years, he fathered Shelah, and our Pakshad lived after he fathered Shelah 43 years and he had other sons and daughters. Well what what's missing? And he died. It's been removed Every single person in Genesis chapter 5, the refrain is repeated, and he died, and he died, and he died. And it's never repeated, it's never mentioned until we get to Terah, the very end of the genealogy, it's never mentioned that they die. Why? Because in Abram And Abraham, there is hope for restoration, hope for life for the end of the spiritual exile. Death is no longer a prominent theme. You see, death was the most prominent theme from the very beginning of the Bible until Genesis chapter 12. And the day you eat of this fruit, you will die. And then we see complete destruction over the entire earth. Death is this prominent theme. But in Genesis 12, death is not the prominent theme. Of course, it's there. It's an underlying theme. But actually, what's a more prominent theme is the escape of death. From a redeemer. In fact, the close , I would even say it more specifically, the very narrow escape from death. through means of a redeemer. And we see this all throughout Abraham and Lot. Lot He he misses the uh the sodom s the the fire and brimstone from from Sodom and Gomorrah. Just barely, of course his wife doesn't make it We see Abraham and Isaac, and we see the knife ready to be plunged into Isaac's heart right then, right at the last moment. God stops them. We see this with with Joseph and all the people, all the sons of Jacob living in the land of Canaan are dying of there's a famine. in the land. They're about to die. And even when they come to Egypt, they're going to die still at the hand of Joseph. Now Joseph obviously knows what's going on, but in their minds they're going to die at the hand of Joseph because Benjamin stole the silver cup. And yet what does Joseph do? He saves them. He redeems them. And so actually the theme of Genesis 1 to 11 is death has befallen upon man. And that's why we have this constant refrain. And he died, and he died, and he died, except for Enoch. Here in Genesis 12, we have a new genealogy. It stripped this line as Annie died. And it's looking forward to Abraham, the man of hope, the father of the nation, who's giving us and them hope. He has come. And Abram is the tenth from Shem. Very important number. 10, 7, 3. Those are important 12. All those numbers are important. He's the tenth from Shem. He's the seventh from Eber. And remember, Eber was the father of the Hebrews. And the Bible here is concerned primarily with just the righteous line now of Shem. So remember in Genesis 5, we had the genealogies of Ham and Japheth and those two. And here we don't have that. We have just the line of Sh And that's going to be pretty consistent throughout Genesis. Except there are some places where we also see a little bit of Ishmael, just a little bit, a glimpse of kind of where he goes. uh a little bit of Esau, kind of what's his genealogy with, but primarily now Genesis 12 on, we're concerned about the righteous line. of Shem. And Shem's genealogy here begins two years after the flood, it says. I'm in uh verse Verse 10. He fathered Arpakshad two years after the flood. Shem 's father fathers Arpakshad. He lives a total of 600 years. So after he fathered him, he lived 500 more years. Our Pakshad only lives 438 years, so there's a little bit of a drastic reduction here. We don't know anything else about Arpakshad. Pelag. who is uh fathered after Shelah and Eber. He was the key in this whole line, remember? He was the one who it said about him that the earth was divided during his time. And that's because Pelic was the line of the righteous and Jochtan was the line of the unrighteous, so the division occurred spiritually and not geographically or or or anything else like that. And uh Peleg 's lifespan is dramatically reduced from Eber his his father. So Eber had lived 464 years, if you add these up. Shellah lived 433. Eber lived 464. And then Peleg lives 239, so a quite a drastic reduction. Why is that? Well, one idea, one thought is this is during the time of Babel and Babylon and and so uh this this idea that sin had so um de m deviated the course of human uh direction that uh people are greatly impacted by the sin of that age and and thus all the subsequent generations. After Peleg, then it it begins this this um slow decline. And so we see this also in extra biblical texts. We see these Sumerian king lists So there's this idea, this this core commonality amongst mankind, really from the beginning of civilization as we know it, of these there are these people. in the distant past who lived extraordinarily long time. And I think that actually corroborates the biblical. Not that we need corroboration, but it does, in my opinion. just like all the flood accounts, all the flood stories all throughout the world uh help cooperate that. And uh the Sumerian king list is ridiculous. I mean people don't live three hundred years old, they live five thousand, ten to twenty thousand years. And but it in both lists there's the decline from after the flood. So in the Sumerian King list, there's a flood too. So from after the flood, there's a decline of the aging. And it it does raise the question, why is there a decline? And again, people think about this scientifically, right? And maybe you've heard this is that, well, there was uh, you know, the the way the climate was And that you know, because there was this canopy over the the earth before the flood and then that happened so slowly we have the UV rays that kind of come in and and they start And so, you know, maybe I'm not denying necessarily that that's not true. I just think that uh I don't know if if that's where I would land uh first. I think that there's some other places I would go to understand this declining age of the patriarchs. And again, I would deal with it theologically and not try to deal with it scientifically. And again, I don't want to say that the the science and the Bible are incompatible by by any means, and I don't think you you're hearing me say that. Um I'm just saying that the Bible is primarily uh seeking to promote a theological plan of redemption. But what are these, what about these aging patriarchs? You know, Peligs 239, Rue actually lives the same, 239. Serug 230, Nehor 148. It jumps up to Terah 205, then Abraham is 175. And so what 's happening here? Well, it could be that God mandated back in Genesis chapter 6, verse 3, that mankind would only live to be 120 years old. Do you guys recall? that his spirit would not contend with with man. My spirit shall not abide or contend in man forever. He is flesh. His days shall be a hundred and twenty. twenty years. And so many people think that what God is doing at that point is mark demarcating the the the you know the maximum age of the human race and saying that it's 120 years old. Well there's there's some issues with I have with that. First If that's the case, why did God take a thousand years before actually implementing that rule? You know, so he he did that in the days of Noah said man now will have only a hundred and twenty years. But it we see that uh even though there is declining in age, we see that there is no one that has lived to be only 120 years old, even Abraham, thousand thousand plus, if you just take from strict you know, biblical chronology, uh well over a thousand years. And he is 175. Even Abraham's children. We know that Ishmael was 137, Isaac was 180, Jacob was 147. So no one is 120 years old here. Now, on the other hand, so to make it a point for that argument, it does seem to coincide with the Bible post-Jacob. That no one's going to live past 120 years old. And in fact, they get pretty close to that and then they die. If you're very prominent of a person like Moses, you live to be 120. So Moses died at 120 years old. Joshua was 110. He wasn't quite as great as Moses. He is 110 years old. And uh and and it seems to be the case even even today, when we look around and we we uh evaluate what has God done in our earth today, it just seems like 120 is kind of like the terminus. Like you just don't get past there was um the oldest person recorded is this woman named Jeannie Calmint and she got she did get past it. She got to hundred and twenty-two. So she j just barely made it across the line there. But by and large, uh no one gets to a hundred and twenty. I mean Jeannie Clement is uh the rare exception. I was reading about her and she said uh they asked her What do you expect from the future? And she says, a very short one. And uh her keys to you know you always wonder like what how do these people live 120 years old? Her key to uh living that long, she says It was olive oil, chocolate, and wine. So take that for what it's worth. So what's what's happening here? I I think personally, this is my uh position on this 120 in Genesis 6. 3. There's a hybrid going on here. God mandated 120 years from the time he told Noah that to the time that the flood came. Noah then had 120 years to build the ark. We have to remember that that would have taken a long time. We don't know. Maybe there are other people that came in. They died though before. Not all the details are given, but let's just assume that Noah and his family was building the ark. It would have taken a long time. God um allowed for 120 years for repentance. Noah is a preacher of righteousness, so while he's building the ark, he's preaching to the people to repent. And 120 years in the destruction of the entire earth. And a secondary cause emerged from that. which is by and large most people will not live to be 120 more than 120 years old eventually but that's not the primary purpose of of Genesis 63. It's almost, it's a it's an auxiliary kind of effect that that that uh transpired. And so we have this dwindling of of this. And and uh you know we see some will say, well the effects of sin is what's caused the declining age. Well that that took place during the time of Methuselah and during the time of Lamech and yet we have we have extraordinary ages much more so than than they. I mean it was enough that they had to be destroyed. Um you know it's there are there are issues with it and there's our possibilities, but just I think that there are some issues here. There is another issue chronologically. According to a strict reading of the numbers, Abram was alive during the time of Noah. So Abraham and Noah would have been contemporaries. Noah lived 350 years after the flood, and Abraham was born 292 years after the flood. flood. Um you know Shem Shem 's lifespan would have exceeded Abraham's by uh thirty-five years. So sh so we have this genealogy of f of Shem, and we have Abraham real here at the bottom, and and Shem lived long enough that he would have actually lived longer than Abram. by thirty-five years, soda Shellah and Eber. Um the tr The translators of the Bible, long, long ago, thousands of years ago, the the Samaritan Pentateuch and the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament. They had trouble with this. Now the translation is not inspired. No translation inspired. The original manuscript uh autographs, the original manuscripts. are inspired. But these translators had a problem with this and to think that Abraham and um Noah were contemporary that they were living on earth at the same time, and they changed the numbers. So we the numbers in Gen in Genesis chapter eleven. When you compare the Masoretic text, the Hebrew, to the Greek translation, which took place in about 300 BC. still very very old text. Uh the numbers are different and they're fudged in order to to make that discrepancy disappear so that Abraham and Noah are no longer alive. the same time. They create more distance. But I believe, personally, and I have there's a number of of I stand on good ground, solid ground, that this is a selective genealogy Uh that it's selective to um to point point to uh some Important theological markers that some people are omitted, perhaps many, perhaps some. I have no idea. No idea how many. But to get those numbers to ten and to focus on who is the seventh and who is the ten, and when you look at Matthew, who's the fourteen, fourteen, fourteen, all these that there's some that are omitted in and and whatnot uh in order to create this theological painting. And uh the narrative is building And it's building up to uh terall. And let me just back up. I will just say, just because you think that does not mean that you Don't think that the scripture is inerrant. I just want to really be clear. You believe that it's still inerrant there is a theological purpose to why God mandated that these numbers would be given and why this order would be given and that there was rather than thinking of it in a m modern literary sense, which is very literalistic, we would see this as more of a a theological purpose to it. The narrative builds to Terah and then the genealogy shifts. So now Terah, and we see that there's in verse 27 more of a description of who Terah is. And Tarah was not righteous. He wasn't. So these aren't, even though this is the righteous seed, This is the the line of Shem. It does not mean that everyone in this line is righteous. The same thing is with with the case of Judah. Judah was you know at some point God had had called David and uh said that there would never cease to be a king on the throne and and the rulers of of um uh Uh uh Judah was out of Judah was to be come the uh Messiah, and yet the Judah, the kings of Judah, were wicked too. Not all of them, but many of them. And Judah This righteous tribe, this righteous nation, they were exiled too. Tarah was not righteous He did not worship Yahweh. We see this in Joshua chapter 24. Joshua says to him, Terah, your father of Abraham, on the other side of the Euphrates, worshiped many gods. He was polytheistic. Abram grew up in that culture, in that home of a of a idolatrous, polytheistic family. Abram most certainly worshipped other gods. Babylonian gods, Marduk, Bayal, all these other gods. He was unrighteous. And it wasn't until God calls him In Genesis chapter 12, that Abram puts away the idols of his family. Of his father of Tarah. His name is changed, not just exalt Abram means exalted father. Now it's going to be God calls him Abraham. You're the father of many, father of a multitude. And by faith he believed. And so we don't want to look at Abraham here pre-Genesis 12 as a man of faith. He isn't yet And that's the tease we can compare. God did not call you in your righteousness. He you weren't you weren't worshiping the true God, Yahweh, and you weren't going to church enough. And saying your prayers enough, and therefore God said, Yep, John, he's a good one. I'm gonna I'm gonna save him. No, it's not the case. It's not the case with any of us. It's not the case with Abraham. And while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. While we were at enmity with God. Just like Abram. And yet God called us. He revealed Himself to us. He gave us His Holy Spirit. We repented. believed and now we are the children of that man, Abram, who did the same thing 3,000 years ago, 4,000, whatever. We are the children of that legacy, of that lineage. And so it is by God's predetermined calling and election that He determined that you would be. his child. And that is good news because if he called you while you were still a sinner, that means when you still sin, he still has you called. He still has elected you. And that's great news and it's worth rejoicing over. Let's pray.