So we're looking at Genesis chapter two, verses eighteen through twenty-five. Or eight verses printed in your bulletin, but we're only going to cover one verse tonight. We're only going to be looking at Genesis 2:18. And Uh and I printed the rest of the passage or much of the passage just for context. I know we're familiar with the story, but uh we will be re referencing some of What's going on later and what's going on earlier. And uh but we have this very important passage here. Verse 18 starts with this interesting pronouncement From God that differs from all of his earlier pronouncement that he's made in Genesis. Seven times he has said, It is good, it is good, it is Is good, the sevenfold proclamation of God's goodness upon the earth. And now He changes it up. It is not good. Now something is not good in a perfect paradise And this not good occurs before the fall. It occurs before Adam sinned. So, how is there something that's not good at this point if God has been declaring it is good? And uh he's very he's declaring it strongly. Strongly. The not good in the Hebrew is emphasized because it stands at the beginning of the sentence rather than the typical word order of the verb first. So it's literally no good. And then man uh for man to be alone. And this is a challenge for us because I thought everything was good. We had just looked at that last week. Well God stating that something is good does not mean that something not good cannot exist. Or cannot be also a part of his good creation. It's a false dichotomy. And this is this is something that we looked at briefly during our QA time. If uh if you were here last week, which I was so encouraged by that. We had, I think, four or five questions this time. And uh we'll see if that happens tonight. Uh when God looked back at all he had made in in Genesis one 31 and he says it was very good. It was very good. He did not say it was only good. There is a Hebrew word for only, and it's used very often, very frequently. You could have said it's only good. He said it's very good. And this is important. Because how else do we explain a serpent in God's creation? Before Adam sinned, a deceiving serpent Serpent looking to thwart the plan of God. And how do we explain the presence of this not good situation in paradise? Now, in this case, being not good does not necessarily mean evil. We don't we have to differentiate between these two. It's not not good, therefore it must mean evil. It was not good for man or for Adam to be alone. And what it does not mean is a moral indictment against singleness for all men and women. So God saying it is not good for man to be alone is not a moral indictment. It's not an accusation, or it's not a uh declaration that singleness is inherently wrong or or evil. Many people look at this verse and they claim that singleness is wrong. I've heard I've heard the arguments. Maybe you've said the arguments yourself. It's it's not good for man to be alone because according to Genesis 2, it clearly states that. And uh and therefore sometimes there's pressure to marry or whatnot, and it's not good. And somehow those who are advocating this position, like a biblical position of It's not good. They just manage to stay in Genesis two somehow. And and they don't get a little further and see that Jesus Christ Himself was single. That's all you need. As soon as Jesus was single, uh all arguments kind of just uh fall by the wayside. it not being good. But uh not only Jesus was single, Paul himself was single, Jeremiah the prophet was called by God to be single and how could it be inherently not good, how could it be inherently evil if our Lord and Savior exemplified it? His greatest apostles permit Promoted it. Well, Paul states in 1 Corinthians 7, and there's unequivocal evidence in the New Testament, in my opinion. That singleness is good. And this is where we're going to focus a little bit of our time tonight. But Paul states in 1 Corinthians 7, I wish that all were as I'm Myself am, that is, single. To the unmarried and the widows, I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am Singleness is not a curse. It's not evil. It's not something to denigrate. And those whom God has called to be single Those whom he's called to be single have an incredible opportunity. They are not divided by the cares of this world. They have uh more ability. More resource, more time to serve God and His kingdom. They're not constrained by the cares of this world nearly as much as Mary Adults are. They're free to serve God with greater capacity. And Paul states this: those who are married will have worldly troubles. And I would say Spare you that. The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord, but the married man is anxious about worldly things. Make no mistake about it, Paul is saying. You cannot have an undivided interest in marriage. That would be wrong. That would be sinful. To live as if you're single while you're married and come And you could almost read Paul, and some people do, as him saying that marriage is not good. That would be a uh grossly inaccurate reading. Of Paul. But you see here he's putting a lot of emphasis on singleness. And it's because Paul links both marriage and singleness. To calling. God calls most people to marriage Most, but not all. God calls some to singleness. God calls some Some to this and others to that. Some are called to remain single for the sake of the kingdom. And this is indeed a noble an honorable calling. And unfortunately, those that have been thus called often think that it's a curse rather than a call. And so there's uh fighting against it. It's to be avoided at all costs. Now it is false to assume that if God's called you to this, that means He's going to pave the way without any difficulty. There will be no resistance because if God calls you something, then he's going to provide in every single way for You to live out that calling, and to some people that means that there won't be any struggle. I don't understand that. When has calling ever not required struggle? People fight against calling all the time. Doesn't mean that they're not called. Jonah was called to preach to Nineveh, and he fought that pretty hard, tooth and nail. People can choose singleness also for wrong reasons. They may not believe that they're called or they may not accept God's call. Or they may not be called, and they choose singleness for wrong reasons. And there's probably a whole host of a litany of reasons why people can choose choose singleness. That can be very wrong. Just like it's there's wrong reasons for choosing marriage. Or wrong reasons for marrying certain people. Wrong reasons to stay single, and of course, these should not be necessarily excused. We have to live biblically. But there is a divine calling to singleness to those who are able to receive this truth. Truth. And that's not everybody. Not only the divine calling itself, but just even the ability to receive the truth that singleness is a good thing. In in ancient Jewish tradition Singleness was viewed as a curse, not from the Bible standpoint, but from the cultural standpoint. And Jesus' teaching Teaching on marriage in the gospels, he mentions this. There are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. And he gives a a a very Interesting declaration. Let the one who is able to receive it receive it. There are people who have made themselves eunuch. Spiritually, in order to better serve the kingdom of heaven, not making themselves eunuchs physically, as it's reported that the church father Origen did Reading this verse and taking it a little too literally made himself a eunuch physically. But there is a calling to become a eunuch. Spiritually, to serve God's kingdom in ways that are often at least difficult, if not impossible. for married uh couples. It's the spiritual eunuch who one who has accepted the call of singleness for the sake of the kingdom. Why? Well because Ultimately, we all believe that the kingdom is greater than marriage. Marriage is temporary. It's of this life only. And the moment we Cross over eternity, it's done. You're no longer married. You're married to well, you are married. You're married one to Jesus Christ. The kingdom of God is eternal. Eternal. Therefore, God's called some to forsake the temporal blessing of marriage for the greater which is the kingdom. Now, with that said, and there are some who are called to singleness, it's still not good for a man to be completely alone, even as a single person. There must be community. There must not be isolation for any Christian, let alone a single Christian. We have to be connected intimately with one another. It is dangerous to to be the uh young wildebeest at the very back of the pack while there's a lion prowling around looking for someone to devour. It's good to be in a group. It's good to have community. So what does it mean then here that it was not good for man to be alone if the not good is not an an ethical Ethical or moral indictment against singleness. What's it mean? What's the Bible saying here? Well, we have to look at what God did in res in response to this not good. When God created woman, what was He creating? I will make a helper fit for him. In other words, it was not good For man to not have a helper, one who was fit for him. Now this is a somewhat confusing phrase. Not good for a man to I'll make a helper fit for him. The first part's easy enough. I will make. God is the one making. God's the one creating. And the word he uses to create Eve is different than the word he used back in chapter. Chapter two of how he created Adam. With Adam the word was uh the same word often used of um making pottery, making a jar of cloud. Like a a potter, how a potter would make uh a work of art. Um he doesn't use that word, interestingly, with Eve. Instead, the word he uses is build. You can build many things. It's words used in building houses, but most poignantly it's used building an altar. Now we're going to get into that later, okay, next week. Sorry. But it's a it's a completely different word. And uh and woman is is given just as noble an origin story as man. For it's God who's doing the creating. God didn't create man and then tell man to go create woman. God created them both. And out of the same substance. If you really think about it, God made Adam out of the dust of the earth, and then he took woman out of man, who is made out of dust , the dirt. But really, here the word helper is where we key in on. This word helper, it's most often used in the Bible Not to describe human help, but to describe God 's help. It's a word most often used to describe God helping Israel. God helping his people. The name Eliezer. see this is the priest Eliezer in the book of Joshua. The name literally means God is help or God is a helper. Man is not able to complete the task he was given without woman. He cannot subdue the earth, he cannot multiply, he cannot fill the earth without woman. So God brings a helper to accomplish these ends. This is divine assistance. In the form of the divine image. Just as man was created in the image of God, so too woman equally was created in the image of God. And this is the meaning of the last part of verse 18. And some translations add a little footnote here or try to uh Try to give a little bit more information, a little bit more nuance. Mine has uh or corresponding to And it literally reads, like opposite him, or as in front of him So God is saying, I will make him a helper fit for him. That's the translation here. That's that's a tough word to put in there, fit for him. It it really it's the same language that if someone is standing before God, it's the same word here, it's it's standing in front of that person. It's the opposite. It's a mere image. It's a reflection. That's what this is trying to convey. The helper that God will make is as if God is making a mere image of man That's why we're going to see later on that all the other beasts that paraded in front of Adam, none of them were mere images of man. Only one man. It's like man looking at himself. But a much better version, obviously. It's also that man and woman both are more of a complete picture of the image of God. Man by himself Can only convey the image of God up to a point. Woman by herself can only convey the image of God up to a point. A point. And the point 's the same. But combined together, they present a fuller picture. Not a complete picture, but a fuller picture of who God is. Is. Woman is the image of man, Paul says, who is the image of God? They are both the image of God, Genesis 1 tells us. This is important. This is absolutely vital. Woman is full Fully and completely equal to man, though they have diverse and different roles Women are completely equal to men in the eyes of God, though they've been given different roles. Now, Paul alludes to this equality. We're going to talk about the roles in a minute. But Paul alludes to this equality many places in Scripture. In 1 Corinthians 11, he states: In the Lord, woman is not independent of man. nor man of woman. For as woman was made from man, so now is man born of woman Galatians 3:28. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male or female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. There exists no division of equality , only a division of function Only a division of labor. It's not a division of equality. Division of labor, division of function. This is why, in my opinion, the language of compliment complementarian and egalitarian is sometimes unhelpful, though I use that language. And uh the reason I don't like this language is that egalitarian 's very definition means equal. And so if you're saying you're a complementarian, uh that means that you're against egalitarianism, which means you're against women being equal. And the the the wording, the language has gotten very uh murky. Oh, I do say that women are equal. It's a false dichotomy that others have imposed upon us. You have to choose between equal or not equal. That's the option that's been given to us. It's the same to me it's a similar thing with the pro-life, pro-choice language. Instead of describing as pro-life, pro-death, if you for convenience sake, which is basically what it is, they it's been framed it's it's pro-choice. How can you possibly be against pro how can how can you be against choice? That's the argument. That's how language is deceptively used, in my opinion, in our culture to to raise strawmen arguments up. And say, no, you're against equality. You're against No. It's not what we're saying here. Rather than being married to these terms , Pun intended. I would rather just say what the Bible states very clearly, unequivocally Men and women are equal in the image of God. Men are called to lead in the home and the church. No debate. Men are called to lead. That is their role in the home. And in the church. Why go further than that? That alone is hard enough for us to get. I mean, that's really hard for a lot of denominations just to get that right. We don't need to go further than that. Men are called to lead only in the church. And we'll qualify that only part. Men are called to lead In the church and the home. Leading in the church involves ordination, teaching, and preaching. Ordination because it's conferring authority upon the person to do teaching and preaching in the sacraments. That authority is reserved. For man alone. Women are not to preach. This is not Not because they are not competent to preach. I truly believe this. I've seen a lot of bad male preachers. I mean too many to even count. And I am confident that there are some women out there who can preach a lot better than these guys. It 's not because they're not competent. It's not because they wouldn't be gifted preachers or they're not charismatic. They're not they can't command an audience. There's there's a lot of women preachers that are uh selling out so to speak their their pews uh to hear them preach. It's not because of any of that. It's because the Bible says that they can't preach. It's because the Bible says that men have the authority to preach and teach God's Word. So we either we have a choice. We either have to remain faithful to a biblical hermeneutic or let the culture dictate how the church and how the home is ran. I don't think there's any other option. I think when that happens, when women are allowed to lead in the home and church, it is it has to be a disregard of scripture. And we have a difficult time here, uh not here necessarily in liberty, but we have a difficult time in our culture differentiating equality and authority. And we think I think that there is inherent there's more worth or more value in an authoritative position for being an authority, that you have more inherent dignity or That's not true, as I said. There's equality. Paul says in First Timothy two, with regards to church leadership. I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority. So that's again that ordination aspect. Laying on of hands in the Bible is ex - is is uh conferring authority to an individual. I don't uh permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over Talk about a verse that throws a lot of people in Itzzy. Um in our culture today. But this does not mean that women are to be literally silent in the church. The juxtaposition we have to see see in that passage is set between teaching and exercising authority on one hand, exercising authority over man on one hand. versus remaining quiet. That is, the woman is to remain quiet with regards to teaching and exercising authority. That's the that's the connection there in terms of Paul using this word quiet. It's based upon what he had just said about teaching and exercising authority. This does not mean that women cannot sing In the the church. You know, Paul saying a woman should remain quiet does not mean that a woman cannot sing in the church. Does not mean that women cannot teach Children in the church. And taking that verse, taking this verse to mean literally that women are to be silent is a m it's a morbid abuse of scripture. The only injunction is to not teach or exercise authority over men. That is the injunction given over and over Teaching is an authoritative office. It's one that is of a man who is Ordained by God. Our ordination, my ordination, Barry's ordination, elders ordin ordination, is is one in which the laying on of hands is merely symbolic of what God has already done. God's already called the man You don't lay hands on the person before they're called. God's called the man to lead. And we lay hands as a reflection of what God's already done in that person's life. in that person's heart. And that's corroborated by the rest of the church. Teaching is an authoritative authority. This is one of the reasons why we do not here uh allow women to read scripture in the worship service. Because the reading of Scripture has always been, always been, in the Old Testament and New Testament. Testament connected to spiritual authority. It is an authoritative position. It was an authoritative position in the synagogue. in Jesus' day and before to be the reader of Holy Scripture. It was an authority. That's why Paul tells Timothy in 1 Timothy 4 Do not neglect the public reading of Scripture. Not just the public teaching, not just the public preaching. The public reading of Scripture was one that was that fell under the ordained office, both in the Bible and traditionally. So women are not to have this role of authority. Why? Because Adam is given this role and authority. God has placed man at the position of authority and God intends there to be order and not chaos. So that there's not people vying for position. Who's more competent? Who's this? Who's that? No, God has designed men and women for specific roles for the peace and purity of the home and church. God has already decided this for us who's to lead. We don't have to decide every single time someone gets married. Well are you going to lead God's decided for you. He's made things much more simple for us. What about Deborah in the book of Judges? I I get that sometimes. And we're going through judges and amen in a couple months. And I think we'll we'll obviously get to to Deborah in chapter four. And um you know it's interesting. I I literally I do get this uh question. um about Deborah and uh they're taking it out of uh the the book of Judges, which um is a narrative that highlights the failures of Israel. So it's not necessarily uh someone that you want to You should be pointing to as a prescription for this. But regardless of that, the judges during that time were not religious leaders. They were political military leaders. They weren't going into the temple. They weren't leading Israel ritualistically In fact, the Ark is only mentioned one time in all of the book of Judges. It's not connected to judges. They're political She did have the gift of prophecy, it says in Judges chapter four, verse four. A religious capacity , or with religious authority, I should say. The four daughters of Philip, if you recall. In Acts 21, these four daughters, Luke says, were prophetesses as well. This does not mean that they spoke authoritatively in the church. They were also unmarried as well, which uh lends credence to my earlier points about singleness. And women can certainly lead in a wide variety of ways outside of these two, the home and the church. Church. Women can be your boss at work. You probably have somebody in here as a woman as a boss. They can be Supreme Court judges, they can be president, they can be it's the sky's the limit. God has ordained these two institutions, the church, Church and home to be led by men. And everything in our culture rails against that. I mean, this is a topic that would incite many people. Even in the church. But it's for our good. God has done this for our good. Why these Two. Why these two institutions, church and home? Because these two institutions reflect something symbolic. They are symbolic. The fact that God has given men authority reflects a deeper and greater truth. It reflects a picture of Christ and his bride. That's the only r that's the reason. The reason why God has given men authority and the church and the home is because it's symbolically picturing a greater reality than even marriage. And even uh the church. It's the Christ and his bride. Both marriage and the church reflect the fact that the church is a bride to her groom, Christ Jesus. Church is under the authority of Christ. And therefore, God has ordered this symbolic picture of leadership within the church. church to reflect that and leadership within the home to reflect that. And we see this in Paul's letters. Ephesians 5, 22. Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. Why, Paul? Why do that? What if my wife is just so much more competent than me? That's true for a lot of you. What if I'm just kidding, I'm sorry. Uh what you know, what if she's just she's just a she's more gifted leader, you know What if? What I mean all all could be true? Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. Paul, I just don't understand. Well, let's read on. For the husband is the head of the wife. Wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. It's a picture of a greater truth, a greater reality. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. What a beautiful picture. When that happens in the church, when that happens in the home, what you're seeing is the greatest picture this world can offer of Christ and his bride. It is the The greatest. There's no painting, there's no preaching, there's nothing greater than the picture of a a godly marriage and a godly functioning church. As this beautiful representation of Christ and his bride. Look what Paul continues to say after he says this to the wives in Ephesians. Husbands, love your wives. Why? Paul Paul? Why I love my wife? Why should I love my wife? Sometimes it's hard. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Gave himself up for her that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself. You see how Paul just moves right into this beautiful description of the church. He's talking about husbands and wives, he can't even help himself. He might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but she She might be holy and without blemish. Which one are you talking about, Paul? Which one are you talking about? Are you talking about the you were just talking about husbands love your wives, and now all of a sudden you're talking about the church which it's both Just as the has Christ is cleansing and washing water that he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing. She might be holding without blemish, so too the husband. His role, we're going to get into this in uh subsequent weeks, his role is to do the same, to do exactly Exactly the same. As Christ has done. We follow Christ as our head. Has he sacrificed for the church? I sacrifice for my bride. Has he loved the church? So I love my bride. The symbolism is very important in the Bible because symbolism points to a greater reality. The reality is Christ and His church. Our marriage. Is only a shadow of these. Even our local church is but a shadow of the greater reality, the heavenly or the eternal reality. of Christ and his bride. And this is what we're living for. Let's pray. Father, what a beautiful picture it is that you've given us of your love for us. It is overwhelming to think about how much you care about us. And Lord forgive us Give us for not often living out the symbolism in our own lives, Lord, uh, as we uh live out our uh married lives and and lives in our church. we we often don't reflect the love of Christ for his church, nor do we reflect the church's response and submissiveness to Christ. as her Lord. And Lord, I pray that you would make us godly couples, married godly marriages, Lord God, and that we would uh continue to hold Hold faithful to your word in our church and our homes. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.