If you have your Bibles, you can turn to Genesis chapter 3, verses 8 through 13, as we read. We looked last week at the foundation of sin as we are continuing our Genesis series, and we've we've spent now a couple weeks. in Genesis 3 and the fall of mankind. And last week we looked at how that fall actually started, kind of foundation of sin. and the desires of both Satan and mankind to be God, to be in the place of God, to replace God Himself. Recall in Genesis chapter 2, the entire chapter Has the name of God, Lord God. And you see this probably in your English translations if you come across it oftentimes. Then the Lord God, verse 18, various other places. Lord God, Yahweh, Elohim, the covenant God, the creator of all the universe. That's the name of God used throughout Genesis chapter 2. That's the name of God used in Genesis chapter 3. When it says the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made, Yahweh Elohim. Yet, when the serpent, who we looked at last week, the devil, comes to Eve. It's not Lord God that he uses. He drops the Lord. God, El, Elohim, Creator. But not covenant God, not Lord, Lord and master of your life. And what does Eve do? When she responds to the serpent about the God who made her, about her covenant God. What does she do? She actually aligns with the serpent himself using the same name of God that he did. God said this or God said that. Drops the Lord when she addresses the serpent. But look now at verse 8. And what do we have back on the scene? And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the cool of the day. The covenant name of God is back. It's used here. Even though the serpent sought to undermine God, and Eve sought to undermine, and Adam sought to undermine God, God still is who he says he is. The covenant name of God is used, even though Adam broke the covenant with God. And this, even right here, is a picture of God's grace. That God isn't coming to Adam and Eve on the heels of their rebellion with a name of Himself that's only creator and judge. Or destroyer, as it should have been. But rather this beautiful covenant name, Yahweh, Yahweh Elohim. So the covenant will be reinstated not with Adam's attempt to cover himself, but with God's provision of a covering, as we'll see throughout Chapter three. Moreover, the scene depicts God bursting onto the onto the scene. The Lord God, the King, has come to his creation He's come down. He's arrived. This is the picture that's presented. He's coming right in the midst of the so-called gods that have been conspiring against him. Satan, Adam, and Eve. These so-called gods, even God's creation, the image-bearers of so-called gods, conspiring against the one true God To bring about a mutiny, as if that could ever happen. And so verse 8 is a picture of tremendous power and authority. I want us to see that. It's God, it's Yahweh. Bursting onto the theme. And it leads us to a very curious question or dilemma concerning the translation of verse 8 or the meaning of verse 8. The Lord God walking in the cool of the day. Now those two pictures What I just explained has God coming on the scene, has Yahweh, God, the King, the Creator, bursting on the scene, disrupting this mutiny that's taking place between these so-called gods that He has created, every single one of them. And this other image that we often have in our mind when we look at Genesis chapter 3 of God taking a stroll through the garden. In the cool of the day. Now we see God walking elsewhere. This isn't the confusing part. God does walk, and later on in Deuteronomy, God's going to, in Exodus, God will walk through the camp of Israel. And no detestable thing should be in the camp. The camp should be holy because God walks in their midst. God walking with his people. Is certainly something that's depicted often in the Bible. And here perhaps God's walking in the person of Jesus Christ. The second person , But there is a peculiar phrase that we often read right past, and I know that I've read right past for most of my my Christian life in the cool of the day. What on earth does that mean? In the cool of the day. And most people take this as God taking a stroll through the garden on a breezy summer afternoon. That's the image that that you get. Maybe you have that image in your head right now. And I have to be honest, it I've had I have trouble with that. And it paints a picture, to me, at least, of a naive God. Ho -humming his way through the garden without a care in the world Did he not know that all of his creation has just rebelled against him? How does a king in the Bible respond to rebels? It's not by taking a stroll on a summer breezy afternoon. And why would God need to walk in the cool of the day in the first place? Would he get hot? I read a comment a very trusted commentator. who who said that he uh was walking the cool of the day to avoid the scorching sun I I Why would God need to do that? Was there even a scorching stun? I mean I believe there's a stomach. Was it scorching in the garden? in the first place. Why why would God need to do this? Now, I'm just letting everybody know I hold a very, very minority position on this. Alright, so take it and use it. Be a Berean. Take what I say. Study it. Look into it further. I'm telling you how I believe. this is to be interpreted. I think the issue is translation. This verse obviously has a rich history of translation starting with Not starting with, but with Jerome , the writer of the Latin edition of the Vulgate. And there's the cool of the day kind of stuck from that point. And the two key words used here are the Hebrew words for day and the Hebrew word for for wind or or spirit is the same word. So the Hebrew word for spirit is used often and it can mean spirit It can mean us spirit. It can mean the spirit of God. It can also mean wind. It can mean breath. It's found in Genesis 1. 2, same word, Spirit of God hovering over the face of the deep. It's also found, though, in other places all throughout the Old Testament to mean a scorching wind, a strong wind, a tempest. It does not mean cool breeze anywhere. It means mainly spirit or a strong wind. The actual opposite of a cool breeze, a scorching wind. So we have, if we take wind, and I believe most English translations should at least mention this, that there is Maybe in your footnotes it might say something along those lines that it's uh Hebrew for wind. So we would have this translation, the wind of the day. And that still doesn't make sense. So God is coming to the garden in the wind of the day. The key word for this is day. Day in Hebrew is very common, one of the most common words in the entire Bible. 99 % of the time it means the word day. Like a literal day or a figurative day in the day of. But this word is also attested both in the Bible and in the cognate language of Akkadian. to also mean something else besides day. It's attested to also mean storm. Now, and being in an ancient text, as I believe Genesis is, it makes sense that it would use an ancient language, such as Akkadian borrowing language from another Semitic language. And it makes sense that this attestation of storm for the word day is not found elsewhere. Get past the Akkadian language. So all that to say, Apochal translation is this: God moving to and fro. It's not just walking, it's a moving back and forth, the form of the verb that's used. God moving to and fro in the garden in the wind of the storm. Very different than cool the day, is it not? Which one makes more sense? Cool the day. Sentimentally, we want to think of it as God taking that stroll looking for his lost sheep. That's the image that most of us have grown up with. And God is walking in the garden, and He's looking for them, and He's a little bit amiss because they're missing. God did not just happen to be walking in the garden right after this monumental event that changes the course of all human history. The fundamental event that shapes man's relation with God right after this mutiny God was coming to judge. And that's a very different picture than God taking a stroll in the garden. God was coming in a storm. And they were afraid. And that's what we see. They were scared out of their minds. I heard you. I heard you, and I was afraid. Now many people would say, well, he heard them, and because of the guilt and the shame, he was afraid. That's possible. Certainly. But the impending judgment of God, which is what He's going to do right away, right off the bat, He's going to start judging. He's going to declare judgment upon his creation, all Adam and Eve, all of creation, and the serpent. And he's coming in a storm theophany, as he often does in the Bible. I mean, just a couple places. Nahum 1-3. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power. The Lord will by no means clear the guilty. His way is in whirlwind and storm. And the clouds are the dust of his feet. When it comes to judging rebels, God is not doing a leisurely stroll. I don't know. I don't know how else to say it. He's coming in a whirlwind. Psalm 83, 15. You may pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your hurricane. And the context for both of these is just The context of both of these are rebels. And the greatest rebels, the most prominent rebels in all the Bible, besides you and myself, is Adam and Eve. So Adam and Eve hear this storm Theophany, the appearance of God as a storm, and they were afraid. I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid. God has come to judge. The storm is moving to and fro. And God at last has entered into his sanctuary. He's come into the place where the garden represents a temple to God. He's coming into the temple. And his subjects should have been there kneeling before him as he entered. They should have been there paying homage to the God Lord of all creation. But they're nowhere to be found. Where are you? God asks. He asks Adam, singular. Where are you, Adam, as the priest of this sanctuary, of this temple? Where is my priest? It's not a question for gaining information as if God's not omniscient. This is not an example of open theism where God just doesn't even know where are I gotta go find them. Jeremiah alludes to this in a wonderful verse, Jeremiah 23. Can a man hide himself in secret places? God's saying this. Can a man hide himself in secret places that I cannot see him? Do I not fill heaven and earth? Of course God knew where Adam and Eve were. God stating, where are you? is another way of saying, why are you not in your proper place? I've come. I'm the Lord, the Lord God, the God of the covenant. I've come into my temple. Why aren't you here performing your priestly duties? Where are they? Where is Adam? Well, they're still with their other king, Satan. They're hiding with Satan. And it's obvious that they're together still in this moment, because when God pronounces judgment on Adam and Eve, what does he do? Immediately after Pronounces judgment on the serpent all together. He doesn't walk to the far end of the garden because the snake slithered away. And he chases after him and pronounces judgment. They're all together. We have to see this as this grand mutiny against God. And the verdict's still out. The jury is still out on who they will side with. Who is man's allegiance going to be with? And we know as the reader with more of the full story, what happens and how does God How does God reconcile man to himself? But here in Genesis 3, as the story's unfolding, Who is Adam and Eve going to show their true allegiance to? Which king? Which God? And everything that transpires in the next verses is God ensuring that they do indeed give their allegiance to Yahweh, to himself. Where are you? He says in verse nine. Not, why are you hiding? He doesn't ask the question, why are you hiding? Yet Adam does not answer where you are. He doesn't say, I'm here. He answers the question, why are you hiding? And the lack of repentance is absolutely evident in this verse. Adam is not repentant at this point. I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid. Because I was naked and I hid myself. What is there not a mention of? Eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. I ate. I transgressed. I rebelled. I am sorry. Forgive me, Lord. We don't see that. We see I'm naked. I was afraid. I heard your voice. I heard the storm coming. I was naked and I hid myself. And Adam, though he is now exposed physically, he's avoiding full exposure. He does not speak of this transgression. He only speaks of the consequences of it. The transgression. Only fear of his nakedness being seen by God. Now, another dilemma I'm not going to spend too much time on, but is what is Adam's nakedness? How is he naked? Did not Adam and Eve just make fig leaves to cover themselves? That was just in the previous few verses They made fig leaves, they covered themselves, and yet now Adam's afraid because he's naked. And surely the leaves did not provide the type of protection that they thought it would, that they hoped, which is why God must cover them later on. But it also raises this question from God, who told you that you were naked? Who did tell Adam and Eve that they were naked? Was it Satan? Did Adam and Eve just realize it upon themselves that they were naked? God does not answer this question in the text. He moves on quickly over to the next question. But I didn't move on. That quickly, and I wrestled long and hard about this, even up to the present moment. What is this the nature of their nakedness? I confess I wanted to punt Genesis 3. 8. 13 this week and get have another crack at it next week because it really is challenging to me What is nakedness in the Bible? What's it depicting? I mean, most people argue that nakedness is equivalent to shame. I get that. I understand that. And you see that. There's many texts where nakedness and shame are seem to be synonymous with one another. But that's post-fall. What about pre-fall nakedness? Why was Adam and Eve naked and it was good? Not ashamedful that they were naked in the very beginning. They were naked and unashamed, the exact opposite. And what's the point of being naked? Why didn't God just clothe them from the very beginning? I confess I I don't fully grasp this. And um but I I do think that it has something to do with Adam's call To be a priest standing before a holy God, fully exposed before him, with nothing to hide. I do believe that that's a part of That God's original intent for the high priest, the priestly duty, to be performed, in the garden at least, naked, nude. Nothing covering. Because there was nothing to cover. Full transparency. Nothing to hide. God and man together. And Adam the priest performing the duties of the sanctuary, fully exposed before God. And isn't it interesting that the great high priest, Jesus Christ, died naked upon a cross, fulfilling his priestly duties as the mediator? Between God and man, doing what the first son of God, Adam, could not do. God does not allow Adam to answer. He immediately goes in to have you eaten of the tree, of which I command you not to eat. And immediately we see the blame shifting begins. Who does Adam not blame? Satan. The mutiny is still underway. Starting to unravel, for sure. He doesn't blame Satan at all. He first blames God. The woman you gave to me, God. I'm he's still in a mucinous mindset against his creator. Rather than saying the devil's behind, he deserves judgment. I'll I'll judge him. I'm sorry for Abdullah. I will judge him right now. I'll grab him by the neck and strangle him He doesn't say that. He blames God, and then he blames the woman. The woman you put here gave me fruit. Of the tree, and I ate. And he also does not say here, fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, but rather just fruit of the tree, implying that perhaps he did not know what tree it was. It was just the fruit of the tree. Well, God does not allow Adam to dig his grave any more than he's doing. And it's a very gracious act of God. He he just stops them and moves to the woman And she does indeed blame Satan. She said, the woman said, the serpent deceived me, and I And we're getting close. Next week we'll look at the actual consequences of their rebellion But this is the end point in which God wanted mankind to get to in the very beginning, pointing the finger at Satan, repenting of their own sin. And aligning themselves immediately back with their creator, their God. Notice later on, there's no questioning Satan here in verse 14. That's not in your bulletin. With Satan, there's no questioning. There's immediate judgment. And not just judgment, there's a curse. Cursed is the serpent. There's no curse for Adam and Eve. We'll talk about this next week. But this scene points to what we must all do. Rather than shifting the blame from one person to the next, rather than avoiding repentance. We must all stand before our God and King, acknowledging fully and and uh with full exposure, our own sins, our own transgression, our own little many rebellious acts against our God and King. And we must be in the rightful place, which he calls us We must acknowledge not just the consequences of our transgressions, as Adam did, I'm naked now that I've sinned, but the actual sin. The actual rebellion, and that is what sin is. It's breaking the law in a rebellious manner against the holy God. We looked at this last week, that the foundation of sin, we're starting to see a bigger picture of what sin really entails. It's mankind looking to be God. And in order to do that, we must rebel against the true God. And all sin is At its core, in its essence, rebellion against everything God says. And stating that his word is no longer authoritative, my word is. And this is sin, and this is the cause of death, and we must repent, not only to become born again by the saving blood of Jesus Christ, but repent daily, even as Christians, of our own little rebellions that we that we conspire against God with. And he is gracious. He's slow to anger. He's quick to forgive. Let us pray to him. Father God, thank you for this. Lesson about the nature of sin and the fact that you are a judge. Lord, we often want to think of You is just a loving, kind, gracious God, and you are those to infinity. You are those more than we can possibly imagine. But God, you are holy, holy, holy. You are the judge of all the living and the dead of the entire earth. You will come again to judge when the king breaks through his creation once more with the second advent of Jesus Christ. Not for a leisurely stroll through the earth, but riding on a horse with a sword coming out of your mouth and fire in your eyes. God, you are a judge. May we kneel before you. May we be in our proper place, paying homage to you, repenting of our sins on a daily basis. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.