For that lovely blessing. If you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to Philippians to the first chapter? And if you do not have your Bibles, the scripture is also printed in your bulletin as well. I encourage you to read along with me as we continue in part two of our study of this passage, verses one through eleven in chapter one of Philippians. Let's hear God's word. Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi with the overseers and the deacons. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you with all joy, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the f in and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel You are all partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness, how greatly I long for you, all with all the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and in all discernment, that you may approve the things that are excellent that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Christ Jesus to the glory and praise of God. Children, I want to remind you that we have wonders of worship. And you can be dismissed now for that downstairs. Last week, as we looked at this passage, we looked at two things. We looked at the first two verses and we saw our identity in Christ, and then we also saw what we possess in Christ, what he gives us. Today we're going to look at the work of God and the growth of God. But first let's pray. Oh Father God, how we thank you and praise you for your mighty word which is alive and powerful and able to convict us of sin and to encourage us and to mold us and to shape us to be more like your son Jesus. O Father, we pray that you would do a mighty work now in our hearts, that you would fill us with your Spirit and to help us to see afresh the wonders of your grace to us in Christ Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen. Well, last week I mentioned that I mostly listened to classical music, but not opera. But I do like pop music and I do listen to it sometimes. And one song that I really enjoy is I'm So Happy. by Forrell. It's a catchy tune which is upbeat and infectious and well it just makes you feel happy. Although I don't think he should have called it, I feel, happy. I think he should have named it something else. Here's why. In the second verse he sings, here come bad news, talking this and that. Yeah. Well give me all you got and don't hold it back. Yeah. Well, I should probably warn you that I'll just be fine. Yeah. No offense to you. Don't waste your time. Here's why. Because I'm happy and so it goes into the course. But we know that happiness is so transient, it's such a fleeting emotion because it depends on circumstances outside of ourselves. But what Farrell is singing about is something more permanent and lasting. For example, he sings, Can't Nothing Bring Him Down? What he's really saying about singing about then, I think, is joy. And in my opinion, he should have called the song I'm So Joyful. But he didn't ask for my opinion Why joy? Because joy is a feeling of exhilaration from deep within ourselves. which outside circumstances can never diminish. Paul's letter to the Philippian church has been called his epistle of joy. because it resounds with a constant refrain of joy. Paul mentions having joy or rejoicing at least eleven times, the most in any New Testament letter. The first time he mentions joy is early on, right here in verse 4, when he tells them that when he prays for them all in every prayer, he prays with joy. Now in Paul's other epistles, he mentions that he prays for the various churches to whom he is writing, and he prays for them with thanksgiving as well. all except the Galatian church, who he chastises for following and of the gospel. But even the troubled Corinthian church, he says he is thankful for them in his prayers because of the grace they have received through Christ. But with the Philippian church, with the Philippian church, he adds this note of joy. When I make my request for you, I do it with joy. Paul's deep abiding affection for this group of believers rings out in these verses. He rejoiced over this group of believers. Now why did this particular church fill him with such wonderful joy? Well, he makes it clear in verse 5. He says, I thank my God for you, because of your fellowship in the gospel from first to last. That word fellowship can also be translated partnership. And he is thankful for their continual support of his ministry. And that support started right at the very beginning of the church with the first convert, Lydia, when she opened up her home to the itinerant evangelists. And their support was constant, and their support was consistent. They gave sacrificially to buttress Paul in his missionary endeavors. He mentions at the end of the letter in chapter 4, verse 13, verse 15. Now you Philippians know Also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from you from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. And he mentions that they even gave to him when he was just down the road in Thessal Thessalonic And most recently, when they heard he was in prison, most likely his imprisonment in Rome, but we don't know for sure, but when he was in prison They sent him a love gift. And they just didn't send it by UPS or FedEx. No, they sent it with their fellow brother Epaphroditus. Who added to the gift by aiding Paul? He was sent to minister to Paul while he was in prison, to pray with him, to pray for him, and to tend to him. That is until Apaphroditus became ill. Well, in any case, uh they demonstrated that they are not fickle, fair weather followers. who were just interested in the latest spiritual fad to hit the religious market. They weren't like other churches who might have said, Oh, well, that that Paul, he's an interesting fellow. He has some really fascinating things to say about the resurrection from the dead and things like that. But I hear that Euripides is in town, and he's such a brilliant speaker, and he's so charismatic. Well, I think I'd rather listen to him instead. No, the Philippians were committed in their collaboration with Paul's ministry. They were faithful in their fellowship with him. Now that's an interesting word that Paul uses in verse 5, fellowship. In the Greek it is koinea, which most translations render as fellowship. And that word fellowship has lost its bite over the years. It's been watered down from its original meaning and is now a term used to describe Christian social interaction. Kind of like getting together over a cup of Starbucks and gluten-free donuts or some kind of meal and having a very pleasant conversation. And all that is lovely, and it's all worthwhile, don't get me wrong, on not knocking caffeine, coffee, or conversation, especially the coffee. But that word fellowship in its original meaning implies something on a much bigger scale. Fellowship means being united. It means working together for a goal, a vision, a plan, a mission. It means working in a community for something bigger than yourself. When I was an actor years ago, I experienced this kind of fellowship I worked in a theater in the western suburbs of Philadelphia, where we were taught this principle. We all work together to serve the play. And whether you were an actor or you designed sets or costumes, whether you ran the box office or whether you made props, whatever it is you did, you did it to serve the play. So there were no stars, there were no divas, you might be Hamlet one night, and the next day you're cleaning the restrooms. And it didn't matter because you worked to bring life to the playwright's vision And we had this strong sense of community, of fellowship of actors and artists working together for something bigger than ourselves. And as a pastor, I've also experienced this kind of fellowship. For example, years ago, our church in Georgia took a missions trip to Juarez, Mexico. And it was such an interesting group. And that group came from all over the United States. And from all different educational backgrounds, all kinds of social backgrounds. But we came together. There must have been 30 or 40 of us. There was even a wide difference in our ages. The age span went from the age five to the age to age 85. 80-year age span But it didn't matter because we were united. We worked together to put on Bible clubs for the children and to help those in need. And there was such a sense of camaraderie that week as we worked together, such a sweet sense of unity and joy, because we were serving something greater than ourselves. The gospel of Jesus Christ. And this is what Paul wants to remind the Philippians, that they serve together in the advancement of God's kingdom. Paul is once again emphasizing the theme of unity, of unity, a very prominent theme that runs throughout this whole epistle, one which we looked at last week. Paul wants to remind the Philippians of their unity in Christ, because discord and disunity were threatening to fracture the very foundation of the church. And their unity was greater than any division. And their fellowship in the gospel was a greater bond than any separating boundary. So in verse 5, Paul reminds them of the fellowship that they have in serving something greater than themselves, the gospel of Christ. Well, let's move on. In verse 6, he says the most astounding thing. He makes the most incredible claim in verse 6. He says in verse 6 that he is confident of this very thing, that God, who has begun a good work in you, will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Oh we might think, hey, well wait a minute, Paul. How can you make such an a assumption? How can you make such an assertion? How can you be sure that God has indeed done a good work in them? How can you make an assumption about the assurance of their salvation? How do you know that what they experienced wasn't just smoke and mirrors, a pony show, just wishful thinking. How do you know that their profession of faith is actually a possession of true faith? Was it really real? How do you know? Well, Paul could offer many reasons for his assertion. He could say, I was there. I planted that church. I saw how the Lord brought it about through his divine initiative and power. And Paul did, we read about it in Acts 16. Paul, Acts 16 describes the supernatural events surrounding the beginning of the church at Philippi. And so I encourage you to read that section for yourself. But let me just briefly highlight a few of the events. Paul had embarked on his second missionary journey with Timothy. And after they had visited churches that were already established to strengthen them and to encourage them in the faith, he wanted to go to new areas to preach the gospel. to Asia, but the Holy Spirit did not permit them to go there. Instead, Paul has this vision in the night A vision of a man of Macedonia pleading with Paul in his vision, and he said, come to Macedonia and help us. And so he went with Timothy and Dr. Luke to Macedonia, and when they arrived at Philippi, that proud and thoroughly pagan colony of Rome, what did he find there? Nothing, not one thing. Because there was no synagogue to preach in, which was his common custom. What was he going to do? He was used to going to the synagogue and preach on the Sabbath and there share the gospel with the Jews first. But there weren't enough Jews in the town. to enable them to have a local synagogue. So what was he going to do? He finds instead this small riverside prayer meeting of women who met on the Sabbath, God fearers who met for worship down by the riverside. And he shared the gospel with them And one of the women, named Lydia, a merchant in purple cloth, she listened to what Paul had to say. She listened to him preach, and as Luke records, when Paul proclaimed the gospel God opened up her heart to understand it and to receive it. And Lydia, Lydia became the first known convert in Europe And right there on the banks of a river, the Church of Philippi was born And then several days later, the church gained another convert that we know of. Luke records the conversion of the Philippian jailer and the miraculous events surrounding his conversion. So Paul could say with absolute certainty that the Lord had indeed begun a good work in the church because he had seen firsthand the amazing way the church was born. In a barren land, the seed of the gospel was planted. And from this small, humble, inauspicious beginning, the seed grew. And a church took root, and it flourished, and it flowered, and produced much fruit. And the same thing has been happening for 2,000 years, all across the world, as the gospel is shared. And some of you today, some of you today have witnessed a similar birth. Maybe not as dramatic, but no less significant. Over 40 years ago, a group of committed Christians left their church because that denomination was wandering far from biblical truth. And they could not abide by it. And so they left and they started to meet in a rented hall of a bank building in Randall's town. And it was a humble beginning. In order to get ready for Sunday services, they would have to clean up from the night before, from the parties and the receptions from the night before. So they would collect the empty beer bottles and take out the trash and set up chairs for worship. And then over time, a property came up for sale. It had a barn and twenty some acres, and this faithful group came up with the funds to purchase the property, and the men of the church, by the sweat of their brow, working tirelessly, they transformed an old barn. into a place of worship. And they had fellowship with one another as they were united to do something that was bigger than themselves. They worked on weeknights and weekends to turn an old dusty barn into a light on a hill. And the seed of the gospel spread. And the church took root and it flourished and it flowered. With over 600 people attending on a Sunday, three services on a Sunday, and from that church under the pastoral guidance of Mark Pet. Five other churches were planted and ministries were started including a school, a counseling center, and a seminary And the ministry of the church continues today, as thousands of lives are touched by the ministry of this church locally and also around the world through the missionaries that we support. And through the sermon Audio Preaching, Ministry of Pastor Russ, where the gospel is heard around the globe. But what humble beginnings. If you were to ask those dear saints who started this church, did you ever dream or imagine what would be? And I would guarantee you that they would say, no. We can't take any credit for any of it. It was all a work of the Lord. And it was glorious and it was joyful, a wonderful thing to see. He did it. We were just being faithful to his word. Well, Paul could say with certainty that the Lord had done a good work, a saving work in his beloved congregation, because he had seen its beginning. He knew that God had been at work. Well, how else did he know? He says it right in verse 7. Look at verse 7. Do you see it there? He says that the Philippians were partakers with me of grace. They were partakers with me of grace. They experienced the same saving grace as Paul We mentioned last week how Paul is emphasizing that they were all sharing in this common denominator to promote unity in the church, and what was that common denominator which unites them as a church, but God's saving grace. And if you're a Christian today, you have experienced the same wonderful, amazing saving grace. Just think about what you were before you received God's amazing grace. Scripture tells us that we were like dead people, that we were dead in our sins, and dead people cannot do anything. They certainly can't save themselves. They can't save themselves from danger or destruction. In fact, they're already doomed. They're dead. And the same was true for us. We were dead, unable to save ourselves from the judgment of a righteous God We were like dried up old bones in the graveyard, unable to move toward God, unable to praise him, unable to hear his word But then God, God did this work, this amazing work in our lives. It was God who caused his spirit to breathe new life in our dry souls. He opened up our eyes to see the truth. He opened up our ears to understand his word. He changed our stony hearthearts, and he made them come alive to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amen. He did for us what he did for Lydia. He opened up our hearts so that we could receive this wonderful truth. He gave us new life, a new identity, a new direction. Through the power of his spirit, he did a transforming work within our very souls. It was his work which we responded to, because no one, no one can resist God's saving purposes in their life. Those who he will save. will be saved. Period. It was all a work of God, a work of his grace. And Paul knew that the Philippians had received the same saving grace because they showed the fruit of a transformed life. Paul, like a fruit inspector, examined the lives of his beloved congregation, and he knew what God had done, that he had done a work in them because they had evidence of genuine faith. They were not only partakers of the same saving grace, but in verse 7 we see also that they were partakers with Paul in what? in the grace of defending the gospel, in the grace of confirming the gospel, and in the grace of suffering for it. They not only supported his ministry with their contributions, no, they imitated his ministry. When the gospel was attacked, they spoke up for it. When new believers came to faith, they discipled them to confirm it in them. And like the imprisoned Paul, they were even willing to suffer persecution for it. A while back I I learned something about buying fruit. That when you buy a watermelon, I heard somewhere that you're supposed to knock on it. And you're supposed to look for the one that has the deepest loudest thud. Because if you find that one, if it has a good deep thud, you know it's ripe and it's juicy and it's ready to eat. Well, Paul here is knocking on the lives of his beloved people. And what does he hear? Hears a good, solid bud. This is genuine fruit, the fruit of faith, and it is ripe and it is ready. And Paul is echoing the words of James in chapter 2, verse 17, when he writes in his letter that faith without works is dead. A fruitless faith is no faith at all. It doesn't imply that we're saved by works. No, that's not what James is saying. But if you've really been transformed by the grace of Christ, if you really have a new nature, that new nature cannot but bear fruit. Just like an apple tree produces apples, it doesn't produce cumquads or kiwis. It makes apples. So this is a challenge for us, isn't it? These verses here. If someone were to knock on our lives, would they hear a good solid thud of ripe fruit for the gospel? If Paul were writing to us, to the Church of Liberty, would he say, you libertarians? I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. In these verses, Paul certainly does challenge us to see if our faith is real, does he not? Are we producing fruit, the fruit of faith? But these verses also encourage us as well. Today you might be feeling rather faint because your faith is feeble and a trail. You mess up and you say, you know, I look at my life and really I don't see a whole lot of fruit there But Paul writes, the Lord who has begun a good work in you, he will complete it to the day of Christ. In other words, if God has done a work in your heart, he will finish it. For what God purposes, he accomplishes. What he starts, he finishes. We can be so thankful that the Lord is not like us. We have projects in our garages, in our attics, in our basements, in our man caves that we will never complete. But what God starts, he finishes. We may have the best of intentions, but we break promises due to circumstances beyond our control. But God never, ever breaks his promises and is always in complete control. So take heart, beloved. Take heart That though you may falter and fail, he who has done a good work in you will complete it to the end, to the day of Jesus Christ. And what is that good work? Well, the Lord is in the refurbishing business. His goal is to make us more like his son Jesus. So he is at work molding us, shaping us, sanding away the rough edges, so that we can be more like his son. He is using whatever circumstances are needed to ensure that it will indeed happen. For he who has begun a good work in you Well what? We'll complete it till the end on the day of Jesus Christ. Now some may object. Well, if God does all the work Then wouldn't that just make us lazy and complacent? Well, it's just the opposite, in fact Since he does the work in us, and since he promises to finish it, that energizes us to act upon what he has done in us and what he will do for us. How can we illustrate this? Let's imagine for a moment that you're on a football team. And right before the game, the coach tells you, I know you're gonna win. It'll be a battle, I can guarantee you, but by the end of the fourth quarter, we will have the victory. So when you go out into the stadium, are you going to want to sit on the sidelines? No. You're going to want to get into the game. You're going to want to get out onto the field and play. Because you know you know that you're going to win. Because you know you're going to have the victory. And so you pass and you receive and you block and you punt. You do whatever it is that you're supposed to do to win. And you might get beat up and you might get bruised, but you don't care. And you never give up. You play with exhilarating joy. Because you know that the victory is at hand. And so you play with all you've got because in the end you win. Well, how does that apply to us believers? Well, we have the victory, do we not, brothers and sisters? It's been promised to us. He who has begun a good work in you will complete it to the end, right? So are we going to sit on the sidelines and chat? Let's go, let God, let go, let God, as if we're passive spectators in a game? No. Because the Lord has given us everything that we need to win. He's given us his spirit. He's given us his word and a transformed life and heart. And on top of that, he promises us the victory. For he who began a good work in you will complete it to the end. For the Lord says to us, get out in the game. It'll be a battle, and you might get bloodied and bruised, but in the end we have the victory. And we can't not let go, let God, but we can't let God let go. Let God now let 's grow. Let's bear fruit for his kingdom as we partake together in his saving and transforming grace. That is what Paul partly has in mind when he says in chapter 2, 12, work out your salvation with fear and trembling That we need to have evidence that God has indeed done this wonderful work of transformation, that we exhibit a fruitful and faithful life. Well, so far we've seen the work of God that not only do we share in his saving grace, but we also have fellowship in his transforming grace, as we bear fruit for his kingdom. And I encourage you to reflect on those truths. For the work of God, what he has done in your life, that he has done this wonderful work in your life. And as you reflect on them this week, if that doesn't make you feel like a room without a roof, I don't know what will. Well, let's move on. And let's briefly look at the remaining verses, verses 9 through 11, which deal with our growth in God, our growth in God. Paul tells us what he prays for regarding the Philippians. He says in verse 4 that he prays for them and he makes a request for them. And then in verse 9 he reveals what that request is. And notice in verse 9 that he doesn't pray that they'll be wealthy and healthy or that they'll have comfort and ease. He doesn't pray that at all. In fact, he doesn't even pray for what they don't have. But he prays that they receive more of what they already possess. And the first thing that he mentions is that their love may abound more and more. They already have love. But he asks the Lord that their love would be overflowing, that their love would be like a gushing spring overflowing out from them. And it only seems natural that Paul would pray that they would grow in love, for it is the hallmark of the Christian character, the Christian faith. After all, it is part of God's character, as John 1. 4. 8 states, that God is love. And if we know God, we will love like him. So it should come as no surprise that Christians should love like God, since they have His Spirit within them, and that they would then emulate this quality of His character, which is love. Also, as believers, we've been given a transformed nature, which desires to please God and to be obedient to Him. So it only seems right that we should want to keep his commandments. And what are the two greatest commandments? But to love the Lord God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and your neighbor as yourself. Finally, love is the mark of Christian community. As Jesus said in John 13, 35, they will know you are my disciples by the love that you have for one another. So Paul wants to see them grow in this fundamental Christian virtue. But notice something here. Notice that in this verse, love has no object He doesn't say that he prays their love for God would abound. He doesn't say they prays that their love for one another or for their neighbor or for their enemy would abound. No, he doesn't reveal any object of that love. And I think it's intentional. For when Paul prays that their love will abound, he means all of the above. The Lord of the Christians, their neighbor, they should grow in love for, even for their enemy. And Paul is not talking about some kind of whey, gushy, wuzzy, fuzzy, warm kind of sentimental love. No, this is a love rooted And informed by knowledge. The Greek word for knowledge here, as it is used in the New Testament, always implies spiritual knowledge Knowledge of the Lord, knowledge of his word and biblical truth. So Paul is praying that the believer's love will abound as it is rooted and springs from the knowledge of Christ and His Word. And that really makes sense. That the more we know of Christ, the more we know of Christ, the more we will love him. To paraphrase that song from the 60s, to know, know, know him is to love, love, love him, and we do, yes we do. Yes, we do. Well, we can understand that. Let's say somebody rescued you from your burning home. Let's say your house caught on fire while you were sleeping, and you were trapped in your bedroom with flame surrounding the room. And you wake up and you 're coughing from the smoke, and you're you're about to give up. You're about to pass out and just give up. When suddenly The burst the door bursts open and there's a fireman who comes in and he rescues you and he you get to the hospital and as you recover you ask who was that masked man who saved me? You would want to know who he was because he has saved your life And we who have been saved from a greater peril, do we not want to know who the one who saved us? And how do we know him? But through his word. And when we read his word, we learn more about our own wretched sin. our own horrible condition and our own desperate need for our for God's grace. And that only makes us love him the more, for we see anew what he has done for us. So this verse is an encouragement to us to be diligent to study God's Word so that we might grow in our love for Christ. Well, in addition to knowledge, Paul prays that the believers will grow in discernment, which is biblical knowledge applied to life, or we would call that wisdom. When the world and our Christian beliefs collide and run into each other, what will we do? How will we live? What choices will we make? We need discernment, practical wisdom. So Paul prays that they would grow in practical wisdom. And then moving on to verse 10, such wisdom gives us the ability to discern what is excellent. from what is second best, to make the best choices in life, with the result that we would be what? Sincere, blameless, without offense, above reproach, not stumbling so that no one could lay any charge of hypocrisy against us. And then finally in verse 11, Paul prays that the believers would be filled with the fruit of righteousness. that they would be doing the good works which God had prepared in advance for them to do, according to Ephesians 2. 10. And notice they are the fruits of righteousness. By who? Not by us, but by Christ, which means that we can only produce them as we depend on Him. As he said in John 15, 5, I am the vine, you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing So Paul prays that these believers will abound in love, informed by the knowledge of God's Word. He prays that they will grow in discernment, which helps them to know what is excellent. So as to be blameless, and finally that they will grow in the fruits of righteousness. And we can sum up Paul's prayer in two words: keep growing. Keep growing in Christ. That's four words. Growing is important. We all know that. My wife and I are about to be empty nesters in a few weeks, and sometimes I get wistful for those early days when our children were young. Have you ever fed a baby? There's such joy in feeding a baby. You know, when they're first discovering solid food, you give them a little bit of cereal in that little tiny spoon and you open up your mouth and then they open up their mouth. And you shove the cereal in their mouth and they close it and then they spit out half of it. And then you take the spoon again and you wipe it up around their mouth and you put it back in their mouth and then they spit out half of it. Or you they take their strained peas and they eat their strained peas, which is amazing. And they love it. They they squeal and their legs and their arms qu kick. Like this is the best thing in the world. And then they take their strained peas and they put them on their head and rub it around. Or they take their peach cobbler and they make this wonderful artful display on their tray with it But you don't care. You just are filled with joy even though at the end of the meal they're covered in food, you're covered in food, half the kitchen is covered in food. They had more on them than in them. But it doesn't matter. You look at them with such joy and happiness and you say, My son, he's so cute My daughter, she's so adorable. You take a picture of them and you put it on Facebook. But imagine, just imagine if all of a sudden that your 14-year-old did that on Thanksgiving You and your family are enjoying a lovely Thanksgiving meal when suddenly your 14-year-old spits out his mashed potatoes onto his plate. And then he smashes his peas in his ears and rubs them in. And he pours gravy on his head. And he makes artful designs on your grandmother's heirloom tablecloth with the butternut squash casserole. And you think to yourself, that's not cute. What has gotten into you? Because you expect them to be mature. You expect your children to grow up and to know how to eat. Likewise, immaturity in a Christian is not a pretty sight. It's not cute. It's unpleasant at best and harmful at worst. Harmful to the Christian, harmful to other believers, and to the church. So Paul here encourages us to keep growing, to keep growing in Christ. He prays that his beloved church will grow in their love and knowledge of the word. in wisdom and holiness and in fruitful living. But it wasn't just a prayer for them. No, it's a prayer for each of us, beloved We need to pray this very thing for ourselves, for our families, and for our fellow believers, praying that we will keep growing in maturity and bearing much fruit for Christ and his kingdom. Let's pray. Oh Father God, how we praise you for the work that you have done in our lives. of your saving, transforming work in which you have taken our stone cold hard hearts and have made them beat with the love of Christ. That you have saved us, that you have redeemed us, and that you have set us free to serve you Lord, thank you that we can be partakers of your grace as we advance your kingdom, that as we use our gifts wherever you have placed us, we thank you for them. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us to be faithful. Lord, that we would continue to grow in you through your word, through your spirit, through fellowship, through worship, through all the means of grace which you've given to us. And Father, we pray for those who are here today who do not know the work yet of Christ in their hearts. We pray, Lord, that you would indeed open their hearts to the gospel. That they would know your wonderful mercy and your amazing grace. Oh Father God, help us to trust you and help us to obey you. For we know that apart from you we can do nothing. But that we need to abide in you. So we ask all these things in Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.