Please rise for today's scripture reading for the sermon. Today's passage is Psalm 100. The whole thing. It's only five verses, so don't worry. Hear now the word of the Lord. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing. Know that the Lord He is God. It is He who made us, and we are His. We are His people, and the sheep of His pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him, bless his name. For the Lord is good. His steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations. This is the word of the Lord. Amen. Please be seated. Let's pray together. Lord, Father, thank you for giving us your word in both the written form and in the person and the work of your Son Jesus Christ. Christ. This morning we pray that you give us, as I prayed earlier, you give us ears to hear and hearts to receive your word, what you want us to hear from it this Lord's day. And Lord, for myself, I pray that your name may increase and I may decrease in this pulpit this morning. In your son's name we pray. Amen. Nothing can be more sublime this side of heaven than the singing of this noble psalm by a vast congregation. The Reverend Charles Spurgeon wrote that in his commentary on Psalm 100 in the mid-1800s. This psalm is designed to be sung in praise to the Lord our God, and we actually had the opportunity to do that. at the beginning of the service today. We sang from the Psalter, Psalm 100. There's a foreword at the beginning of this psalm that says a psalm for giving thanks. In our English Bibles, it does appear as a foreword, but in the Hebrew text it appears as part of verse 1. And it shows the intent of the Psalm right from the beginning. In fact, this psalm is the only one in the entire Psalter which has a clear intent for giving thanks. This is a psalm of praise and thanksgiving, a psalm of instruction to the people of God. There's a series of words which occurs in this passage which occur in this passage. You have joyful, gladness, thanksgiving, and praise. One of those words in particular, thanksgiving, or you could rephrase it as thankful, what do you think about when you hear this word? What does it mean to be thankful? We often hear things like be thankful, live a thankful life, or I'm thankful for XYZ. But what does it truly mean to be thankful? The word thankful is an adjective meaning to be expressing thanks or gratefulness, but this thankfulness must be directed towards someone or something. The Reverend James Montgomery Boyce wrote that thanksgiving to God must be intelligent, and we must know whom we are thanking. In our case, as Christians, we direct our thanks to God. Reading this passage leaves you with the question, why should I be thankful to God? In God's good providence, this passage goes on to provide several answers to this question. question. As I move through the psalm this morning, I really want you to consider the providence of God, that mysterious and intriguing thing which it is. Consider the moments or the times in your life where you have seen God provide for you or for your family. Consider the times where God has provided for his church and his covenant people. And keep these things at the forefront of your mind as we go through the passage this morning. This psalm has an interesting structure to it. It instructs the people to praise God in general, then to enter his gates with thanksgiving, and finally to enter his courts. with praise. There is a gradual procession to the language of the Psalm from the outside to the inside of the temple. The commentator Daniel Estes notes that the processional structure of this psalm suggests that it may have been sung by either the Levites or the people of Israel as they entered the temple for worship on the Sabbath. There's another interesting aspect to the Psalm structure. Verses 1 and 2, if you look at it in your Bible, verses 1 and 2 tell you to praise God, and then verse 3 tells you the reason why you ought to praise God. Verse 4 then goes on to tell you once again to praise God, and verse 5 goes on to tell you another reason to praise God. So this Psalm doesn't simply instruct you to praise God and leave it at that. It gives you a reason why you ought to do it. It gives a theological foundation for your praise. This is the purpose of theology. Theology is the study of God. The word theology actually comes from the Greek theoslogia, or study of God. The study of theology is a study of God, his character, his work, and his covenant promises. It's not just some cold, dusty thing. Rather, when we study theology, we learn about God and what he has done for us and what he promises to do for us. The proper study of theology ought to cause a reaction in our hearts. It ought to cause us to properly praise God. And this is certainly what we are studying here in this psalm: instruction to praise God and the reasons why. And this leads us into the main point for today's sermon. Instead of having a vague sense of thankfulness, as Christians, you are called to praise God because he has adopted you, and you are called to praise God for his steadfast love. I'll read that again. Instead of having a vague sense of thankfulness, as Christians, you are called to praise God because he has adopted you, and you are called to praise God for his steadfast love. So let's get into the first point here. You are called to praise God because he has created and adopted you. And we see this in verses 1 to 3. Verse 1 opens with a direct command. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Look at this phrase joyful noise here for a moment. In the Hebrew, the word translated as joyful noise comes from the root word rua, and it's used multiple times throughout the Old Testament. You see it in Joshua 6. 5, which says, When you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city will fall down flat. You also see it in Judges 15, 14, when the Philistines are charging at Samson, shouting loudly, and Samson slays a thousand of them with the jawbone of a donkey. Or perhaps Ezra 3. 11, when the people of Israel shouted with a great shout, because the foundation of the temple had been laid once again after their return from Babylonian captivity. In each of these passages, you see this Hebrew word rua being used in circumstances of battle or great acclamation or praise. The word also appears in the Psalter multiple times, like Psalm 47, 1, clap your hands, all peoples, shout to God with loud songs of joy. There are many other instances throughout the Old Testament where this word is used in circumstances of great praise directed to God. The reason I wanted to examine the Hebrew text here is to point out that this joyful noise in verse 1 is not simply exclaiming Amen at the end of a prayer or a good point in someone's sermon. Nor is it one of those Presbyterian holy grunts that you give after someone makes a good point. Everyone knows what I'm talking about, right? Someone says something good in a sermon or a prayer and you go, hmm, like that. It's one of those holy grunts, right? Instead, this Hebrew word is denoting is denoting an overwhelmingly loud and joyful cry of praise. Imagine the entire multitude of the people of Israel. Many millions of people crying aloud, Amen, to God the Most High. Or the great multitude in Revelation 7. Millions of Christians, the entire church throughout history, crying out, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. This is the joyful noise this passage is instructing you to raise to God. In the last portion of verse 1, notice to whom the psalm is addressed. The end of verse 1 is addressed to all the earth. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth. This is an instruction given to the whole world and not only to Israel or the church. The commentator Derek Kidner says that this verse claims the world for God. Similar to the calling to repent and believe in Christ, this calling to worship God goes out to the whole earth and all of its people. Make no mistake, all peoples on the earth are subject to Christ the King, whether they are Christians or not, whether they believe it or not. All of mankind is called to praise the Lord. Verse 2 says, Serve the Lord with gladness, come into his presence with singing. These are the last two commands of this first section. of the passage. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, serve the Lord with gladness, and come into his presence with singing. If you were to read Exodus 12, verses 21 to 28, you would read about Moses instructing the nation of Israel to slaughter the Passover lamb. Spread the blood on the doorposts of their houses, and to remain inside their house until morning. In verses twenty-five to twenty-six of that chapter, Moses tells them to continue practicing this service when they enter the land of Canaan. and then tells them to explain to their children that this service is rightly understood as observing the Passover itself. When we go back to our passage here in Psalm 100, we can use the same line of thinking to understand that proper service to the Lord includes a sacrifice in corporate worship. By extension, this serving of the Lord is properly seen as an act of worship. What you all are doing right now, gathering together in corporate worship, is an act of service to the King. When you gather with the saints in the Lord's Day, when you sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. When you pray with your brothers or sister at church, when you submit yourself to the preaching of the word from the pulpit, when you rest from your worldly employments and recreations on the Sabbath. You are giving proper service to your king by doing what he commands. As Christians, you are called to perform these acts of service. In fact, this is why a worship service is called a worship service. Verse 2 also tells you to serve the Lord with gladness. We've mentioned it multiple times already, but today is the Lord's Day Sabbath, a day of joy and worship for our God. This is the one day in seven where you can rest from your jobs, you can rest from school, you can rest from your worldly pursuits and recreations and everything, and spend the whole day in worship of God and in rest. This really ought to cause you to be joyful and glad. That's in keeping with verse 2 here. Serve the Lord with gladness. Oftentimes the Sabbath can feel burdensome or onerous. Oftentimes it's difficult when you begin to understand the Sabbath as a day of rest and joy rather than simply another day of the week. It can be difficult to fight that desire to be productive on the Lord's Day rather than restful. So I urge you here to examine your own hearts today. I urge you to examine your hearts and ask yourself: does it feel burdensome for you to serve the Lord? Does it feel burdensome for you to worship with the saints on the Lord's Day? Does it feel burdensome for you to refrain from your labors, your employments, your recreations on the Sabbath? I don't ask these questions to make you feel bad, but instead to kind of poke at your conscience a bit and provoke thought and prayer. I urge you to devote yourselves to prayer and study about how you spend Sabbath and whether or not you come to worship on Sunday morning with an actual spirit of joy. Or do you come here grudgingly? I urge you to pray that God grants you a spirit of gladness and joy, grants you a desire to take up this rest and service on this day. Pray to the Holy Spirit that He redirects the affections of your heart from the things of the world to the things of heaven. Ask the Lord to help you begin to delight in service to Him and rest on this day. This last command of verse 2 says, come into his presence with singing. Dr. Richard Phillips says that joyful singing is a special province of Christian worship. Joy in praise and singing is often a mark of a healthy Christian church. It is not the only mark, but it certainly is an important one. Churches which are spiritually struggling or dead will often have cold, unfeeling singing, or even none at all. But this verse is instructing you to sing joyfully to the Lord. One of my favorite things about going to Presbyterian General Assembly every year, or multiple times throughout the year, is the singing. And some of the guys here that are ruling elders who've been there know exactly what I'm talking about. Steve can vouch for me here. When you go to Presbytery, there are between 70 to 100 pastors and elders praising God with booming singing. And when you go to General Assembly every year, there's over 2,000 pastors and elders from all over the PCA, and their singing sounds like thunder. I imagine singing of the men at General Assembly to be just a small fraction of what the singing will be like in heaven one day. When that vast multitude of Christians from all time are joined together singing praise before the throne. There is a question here about this last phrase of verse 2, which does need a little bit of addressing. The passage instructs you to enter God's presence here. But how exactly can you do such a thing? I would like to examine a few passages in Scripture to help flesh this out just a little bit. In Isaiah 6, verses 1 to 7, we read of the prophet entering the throne room of God. He sees God seated upon the throne. He sees his robe filling the temple. He hears the seraphim, the angels singing praise And he feels the foundations of a temple shaking at God's voice. Do you remember Isaiah's reaction? He says, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Then in Revelation 1, verses 9 to 20, the Apostle John is on the island of Patmos when he sees a vision of Christ standing before him in his full glory. Revelation 1 says that John fell down at Christ's feet as though dead. So if these are the reactions to God's presence that we see. throughout the Bible, how can you rightly enter God's presence now as Psalm 100 instructs you to do? You can only enter God's holy, awe-inspiring, all -consuming presence if you are made righteous by the blood of Christ. There is no other way. There is a reason why God instructed Israel to cover their doorposts with the blood of a lamb on Passover in Exodus 12. There is a reason why the Israelites needed sacrifices on a regular basis to cover and atone for their sins. There is a reason why Christ had to die upon a cross to atone for your sins. God is so holy. So perfect, so all-consuming in his power and glory, that you cannot enter his presence without being destroyed. The prophet Isaiah knew this when he cried out, Woe is me, for I am lost. In the Old Testament, these blood sacrifices had to be repeated every day to atone for the sins of the people of Israel. But you, Christian, you only need one sacrifice. The sacrifice of Jesus Christ upon the cross. That is sufficient for you. Hebrews 10. 19 says, we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus. Through the blood of that spotless Lamb are your sins covered. Through the blood of that spotless lamb are you made clean. Through the blood of that spotless lamb are you able to enter God's presence with joyful noise and praise and singing like this passage tells you. to do. How then do you enter God's presence with singing in a practical sense? We just went over before becoming a Christian, there is no way you could have entered God's presence without being destroyed. But now you have been washed You have been redeemed. You have been made righteous. You can enter God's presence because you have been made righteous. In fact, the Holy Spirit resides in each one of you as Christians. Not only does God allow you into his presence, but he's poured out his spirit upon you. Matthew 18, 20 says, where two or three are gathered in Jesus' name, Christ is with you. And in Psalm 141, too, David says, Let my prayer be counted as incense before you. and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. In Revelation five, which we read earlier this morning, and again in Revelation eight, we see the prayers of the saints rising as incense before God seated upon us. His throne. Brothers and sisters, when you pray to God, when you pray to him, you are dwelling in the presence of your God. Praying before God through Christ as your great high priest, this is an act of worship to and reliance upon God. You no longer have to pray to God through a human priest after an animal sacrifice. There has been one sacrifice, there is one great high priest, and through him alone do you enter into the presence of God. So when you enter God's presence, do it joyfully. Verses 1 and 2, I mentioned earlier, verses 1 and 2 instructed us to praise God. And now verse 3 goes on to give a reason. The reason for this instruction is know the Lord, he is God. It is he who made us, and we are his. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. This first phrase in verse 3 reminds me of Psalm 46. 10, which says, Be still and know that I am God. The first reason why you ought to praise God is just because he is God. He's the creator of the heavens and the earth. Go read Psalm 19, verse 1. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Or Psalm 19, verse 7: The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. This God to whom you are called to praise is the creator of the universe and everything in it. As Christians, you have a unique perspective on creation which the rest of the world does not have. The rest of the world sees creation and only sees its outward appearance, its outward beauty. How often do you look at works of man-made art like the Statue of David or the Mona Lisa and you're just captivated by it? But how much more care did God take in sculpting you? A living, breathing man or woman made in his image? How much more care does God take in painting the sky with the vivid colors of the sunrise? How much more care does God take in hanging the stars in the heavens at night in that vast display? As Christians, you can look at a mountain range. Or the woods, or the sunset, or the stars at night, or the vast array of animals on the planet. And you can know that God has created all of those things. He has sculpted and crafted them in his hands with the utmost care. Where the rest of the world's appreciation for creation only extends to the outward appearance and perhaps its usefulness, your appreciation for creation extends to the creator. This ought to cause you to burst forth with praise to the Almighty. The next phrase in verse 3 reminds you that it is God who made mankind. He created all of you. Most of you know that Pastor Aaron has been preaching through Genesis since last year, so you'll remember the creation account in Genesis 1 and the account of the creation of mankind in Genesis 2. God has crafted each and every one of you in the palm of his hand. Just like he fashioned Adam from the dust of the earth and Eve from Adam's rib, so he has crafted each of you in a special way. You bear the image of God. You're created in his image. Once again, you as Christians have a unique view when it comes to your fellow mankind. Whereas the rest of the world only sees a person's appearance or their usefulness, what they bring to the table, you as Christians see another person and you see the image of God reflected in them. As a Christian, you can look at the smile of your friend, the beauty of your wife, the strength of your husband, your child being born, and you see the image of God reflected. You know that God has created and sculpted each of them with the utmost care and attention. And when you do that, you can join David. In Psalm 139, when he writes, For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully. Wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works, my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Once again, the world's appreciation for humanity only extends to the outward appearance. But your appreciation for humanity extends once again to the Creator. And once again, this ought to cause you to bring praise before him. The last portion of verse 3 says, we are his, we are his people and the sheep of his pastor. This same God who created the universe, who created all of mankind and everything in the universe, is the same God who has decided to call you his sons and daughters. Verse 3 mentions that you are the sheep of God's pasture. Sheep and a pasture have a shepherd who looks over them and cares for them. In fact, Christ Himself calls Himself the Shepherd in John 10, 14-15, when he says, I am the good shepherd, I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me. And I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. The same God who created the heavens and the earth is the same God who redeemed you and shepherds you throughout life. Maybe today you're struggling with parenting. Maybe it's completely overwhelming for you. Maybe you're wrestling with crushing depression and anxiety and you can't see a way out, wondering when it will end. Maybe you're experiencing the deepest of discouragement and hardship in your job and your career, and it seems like everything is going against you. Maybe you just received a medical diagnosis and you're terrified. If that is you, hear the words of Isaiah 43, 1. But now thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel, fear not. For I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. Brothers and sisters, those are the words that God Himself speaks to us. to you. Can you direct your praise and thankfulness to him for that? This brings us to point two. You were called to praise God because of his steadfast love for you. Verses 4 to 5 Verse 4 says, Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him. Bless his name. This is another imperative or instruction for you to praise God. Remember how I mentioned earlier verses 1 and 2 are structured where that's the Instruction to praise God. Verse 3 is the reason. Now we're getting into the second instruction to praise God in verse 4. And verse 5 will give us a second reason to do that. Remember also the other thing I mentioned about the structure of the psalm. It seems to be designed as a song for Israel or the Levites potentially as they enter the temple in Jerusalem for worship. Verse 1 tells the people, all the people of the earth, to praise God as a general imperative, a general instruction. But verse 4 here tells the people to do something more specific. It goes from a general instruction to entering God's gates with thanksgiving and then enter his courts with praise. So once again you can see this pattern of Psalm 100 instructing you to praise God in general and then move from the outside to the inside of the temple to the gates of the temple. to the inner courts of the temple. So let's take a look at each of these instructions here. The first portion of verse 4 says to enter God's gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. This continues this theme of thanksgiving in this passage. But once again you're faced with a dilemma. If you are sinful creatures, unworthy to stand before the presence of God, how can you enter the gates and the people? The Apostle John writes in Revelation 21 of the city of God, the majesty of it, how it needs no light because its lamp is the lamp. But he also mentions that nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in a lamb's book of life. And the Apostle Paul echoes that in 1 Corinthians 6. He gives a whole list of sins and says that people who practice these things will not inherit the kingdom of God. And he ends that passage with saying, and such were some of you. And such were some of you. But does God leave you in that pitiful state to wallow in your sin? What does the Apostle Paul say next in 1 Corinthians? Corinthians 6. He says, but you are washed. You were sanctified. You are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. I put before you, brothers and sisters, that the only path through the gates of the Lord and into the courts of the Lord is by the blood of Jesus Christ. By him alone will you enter the city of God. By him alone will you sing his praises, and by him alone will you be saved from the death which your sin deserves. To flesh this out a bit further, I'd like to look briefly at Genesis 28. You'll know this passage as Jacob's dream, or maybe Jacob's ladder. And I want you to listen carefully to what Jacob says at the end of this section. This is Genesis twenty-eight, verses ten to twelve. It says, Jacob left Beersheba and went toward Haran, and he came to a certain place and stayed there that night because the sun had Headset. Taking one of the stones of the place, he put it under his head and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed. And behold, there was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. And then Jacob responds by saying, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, how awesome is this place. This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. Did you notice what Jacob called that place, or perhaps even the latter in particular? He called it the house of God and the gate of heaven. If you fast forward to John 1, verse 51, Jesus explains this when he's talking to Nathaniel. He says, Truly, truly, I say to you. You will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. Christ is saying that He is the latter from Jacob's dream. He's the one who bridges earth and heaven, the eternal and the temporal. He's the one who bridges the great chasm between God and man, between the wretched and the holy Jesus Christ is the ladder by which you access the gates and the courts of the Father Many of you have seen the Fellowship of the Ring movie, the first of the Lord of the Rings series. You might remember a scene where the character Boromir stands up at Elrond's council and he says, By the blood of my people are your lands kept But I put before you something different this morning. Christian, by the blood of Jesus Christ, are you kept safe? By the blood of Jesus Christ are you granted access to the gate and the court of the Almighty? By the blood of Jesus Christ are you purchased, redeemed, saved, and sealed to eternal life. life. That's good news, is it not? Verse 5 goes on to give another reason to give your praise to God. For the Lord is good, for his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations. The scriptures don't ever give just an empty command to praise God. They always give a reason. There's always a reason annexed to it. And here you see that reason. What does the scripture say about the Lord's steadfast love and enduring faithfulness? God himself speaks of his steadfast faithfulness in Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7. He says about himself, he is abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Keeping steadfast love for thousands. This theme of God's steadfast love and faithfulness is woven throughout the Bible, and here in Psalm 100. It's telling you that this is something for which you ought to praise God for. This is the reason cited for the second command of praise and thanksgiving, his steadfast love and faithfulness to you. As unbelievers, your hearts were naturally sinful and did not desire to worship the King. But providentially, the Holy Spirit has replaced your heart of stone and given you a heart of flesh. He grows the desire of your conscience to worship the King. I already mentioned earlier how you cannot enter God's presence. You cannot enter his gates or his courts without first being justified and atoned for by Christ. Apart from Christ, your hearts do not even desire to worship God. So here I'd ask you to examine your own hearts this morning. What is your reaction when I say you should praise God for his love and faithfulness? Do you doubt that he's actually been good and loving to you? Do you buck against this command? Do you resist the command of your king? Or do you embrace this command with humility? Do you cultivate within your hearts a desire to worship him? I encourage you to go home and read this psalm. Meditate on it, think on it, pray that God would continue to grow this desire of your heart to praise and thank Him. There's also a warning here, which is not explicitly stated in the text, but one which we can draw by inference. If you read Nehemiah chapter 9, the Levites read from the book of the law to the people of Israel. They read the story of Israel, what God has done for them, but they also mentioned how the Israelites rebelled against God and disobeyed him. The warning which we can draw from this text in Psalm 100 is to not rebel against God. Do not take God's blessings for granted. Do not ignore God's blessings or fail to think on them. To do this is to fail to praise God for his great works, which you are instructed to do in this passage. I see these things once again as an appeal to your conscience and to encourage you and to challenge you. Do not let your hearts grow cold towards your Savior. I implore you to strive to cultivate a conscience which desires to worship the Lord. So the question here is, how do you cultivate this conscience? You cultivate this conscience through corporate worship with the saints on the Lord's Day. Exactly what you're doing right now. When you come to worship on the Sabbath, you are joining with the church militant on earth and the church triumphant in heaven in singing praise to your king. You cultivate this conscience by observing and partaking in the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper. When you partake in and observe these sacraments being administered, think about what Christ has done for you. Think about what God promises to his people. You cultivate this conscience by reading the scriptures, by praying on them, thinking on them, and speaking of them Your God has charged you to keep his word continually on your lips and in your thoughts. Brothers and sisters, direct your minds and your thoughts away from things temporal and earthly, and redirect them to things eternal and heavenly, and the affections of your hearts will soon follow. My desire for you is for you to delight in your God. He is not some mystical old man in the sky who created things and then stepped back and went hands off. Rather, your God is intimately involved in everything which happens in the universe and in each of your lives. Your God is so involved that he died a torturous death on a Roman cross in humiliation to take the punishment which you deserved. This is why you should praise and thank God. Your king stands before you and cries, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Do not worship God according to the desires of your hearts, and do not neglect the public worship. Do not simply say you're thankful and fail to actually thank God for the things with which He has blessed you. Instead, praise the Lord in the fashion which he has laid out here in his word, with gladness and joy, remembering what he has done for you. To quote Reverend Boyce once again, he says, No one should be more thankful to God than the sheep who are cared for by the Good Shepherd. Christian, you are those sheep, and Christ is that great shepherd. So what about when you experience hardship? Or trial or suffering? What about when your spouse dies? What about when you're suffering persecution at work for being a believer What about when you're facing discouragement in your career? What about when you have received a cancer diagnosis and it's grim? How in the world can you be thankful to God in these kinds of circumstances? To answer you, I would direct you to the last three verses of Habakkuk chapter 3. The prophet here says, Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no food. The flock be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd and a stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God the Lord is my strength. He makes my feet like the deer. He makes me tread on my high places. To the choir master with strength. stringed instruments. That was meant to be sung. The prophet wrote this during the fall, the impending fall of Judah in Jerusalem. The prophet could not understand if you read, go back and read Habakkuk chapters 1 and 2. He had trouble understanding how or why God would use a wicked nation like Babylon. To punish another wicked nation like Assyria, and use both of them to punish his own nation. He did not understand why these things were happening to God's people. But in the end, the prophet remembers that he ought to praise the Lord despite the circumstances, because God is sovereignly and providentially in control of all things. In your hardships, brothers and sisters, I tell you to praise God, for he is good. You may not want to hear it, but he has ordered these things to happen to you for his own glory and to force you to your knees and dependence upon him alone. Christ says in Matthew 28, 20, that he is with you always, even to the end of the age. Your Savior will not leave you in a pit of despair and darkness. Rather, he's promised to be your good shepherd. He's promised to be your king. He has promised to never let you slip from his grasp. These are the reasons for which you ought to thank God Do not simply be thankful in some vague sense, but express your thankfulness to God. Remember what He has done for you, what He promises to do for you. Only you, only Christians can be truly thankful for anything in this life. The rest of the pagan world pretends to be thankful, but they're not actually thankful because they're thinking themselves of the world and not God. I urge you to think on the things with which you have been blessed, and I urge you to actively thank God for these things. Brothers and sisters, when you come to corporate worship on the Sabbath, you are entering the courts and the gates of the King. Enter church in the Lord's day with great singing and rejoicing. For your Savior has unlocked the door by which you enter. He has adopted you as sons and daughters, and he pours out his steadfast love upon you. And that is good news, isn't it? Amen. Pray with me. Lord, we thank you, Father, for giving us your word here this morning. We pray that through your word this morning that you prick our conscience, you prick our hearts, you provoke our desires to worship you and to serve you. You and be joyful in all circumstances. In your son's name we pray. Amen