Gospel of John chapter sixteen, let's begin at verse sixteen. The Lord Jesus said A little while and you will not see me. And again a little while and you will see me because I go to the Father. Then some of his disciples said among themselves, What is this that he says to us, a little while, and you will not see me? And again, a little while and you will see me, and because I go to the Father. They said, therefore, what is this that he says a little while? We do not know what he's saying. Now Jesus knew that they desired to ask him, and he said to them, Are you inquiring among yourselves about what I said, a little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me? Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament But the world will rejoice, and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her hour has come. But as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish or joy that a human being has been born into the world. Therefore, you now have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you. And in that day you will ask me nothing. Most assuredly I say to you, whatever you ask, the Father, in my name, he will give you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy that your joy may be full. These things I have spoken to you in figurative language. But the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figurative language, but I will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I shall pray the Father for you For the Father Himself loves you, because you've loved me and have believed that I came forth from God. I came forth from the Father and have come into the world. Again, I leave the world and go to the Father. His disciples said to him, See now you are speaking plainly and using no figure of speech. Now we are sure that you know all things, and have no need that anyone should question you. By this we believe that you came forth from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Indeed, the hour is coming, yes, has now come, that you will be scattered, each to his own, and will leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. These things I have spoken to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, The hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh That he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. May God bless this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, as we enter into this holy of holies of your word, we pray for your Spirit to guide us, to open our understanding. To take your word and bless it to hearts, to accomplish eternal things. We ask it in Jesus' name for his sake. Amen. For uh most of the past year in our worship services, we've been preaching through Paul's second letter to the Corinthians. And then if you've been with us over the last couple months, you know that we devoted several messages to consider the attributes of God, at least some of the attributes. Of God, His self-existence, His wisdom, power, goodness, patience, holiness, justice, His omnipresence, etc. But if you're like me, you yearn to come back from time to time to the very person of Christ. Studying apostolic letters or psalms or historical books. Studying the law of the prophets is edifying, for all scriptures given by inspiration of God, and all of it is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. And of course Christ can be seen, sometimes very clearly and sometimes more faintly throughout the Scriptures But I don't like to stay away from the wonderful account of Christ's life in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John for too long. So for the next several weeks, I'd like us to return to the old, old story. And zero in on one of the most precious passages in all of Scripture. We know it as Christ's great high priestly prayer. Christ, our high priest, was interceding for his people. Before he offered the sacrifice on the true Day of Atonement. The shepherd was praying for his flock before he must leave them. All that Jesus had come to do, he had now accomplished, and nothing remained but the final offering of himself as our substitute, enduring God's justice in our place. It's interesting to me that we're permitted to hear his prayer in the garden. Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass for me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And we're allowed to hear his prayer upon the cross. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Into thy hands I commit my spirit. It is finished. And here in John 17, we're allowed to hear his prayer for his children. We're permitted to enter the Holy of Holies, as it were, with our great high priest, as he pours out his heart. In prayer for his people. Look at verse 1 of chapter 17. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son. that your son also may glorify you. Jesus spoke these words. What words Well, all that immediately preceded this prayer. That is the conversation with his apostles that began in what we call chapter 14. Jesus had told them, had confirmed to them who he was. Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How then do you say, show us the Father? John 14, 9. He's told them why he was leaving. I go to prepare a place for you. He told them that he would comfort them by coming to them, that he would remain with them. I will not leave you orphanoi. I will not leave you orphans. John 14, 18. I will come to you. He had assured them of his love for them. As the Father has loved me, even so have I loved you. Chapter 15, verse 9. He told them that he was coming back for them one day. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. He told them he would send them the Holy Spirit, and I will pray the Father, and He will give you another comforter, that He may abide with you forever, even the Spirit of truth. John 14, 16. And of course, he warned them of trials and dangers. He told them they will put you out of the synagogues. The time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God's service. John 16, 2. And then he closes with those words, In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Having said all these things, he lifted his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Father, the hour has come. This was the hour that Jesus had long anticipated. I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished. Luke 12, 50. Go into the city unto such a man and say to him, The master says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. Father, the hour has come. The great climax of his holy life, the presentation of the offering for which the Lamb of God had been set apart. This is an hour, of course, which had been long foreshadowed, even in the garden, after Satan, through the form of the serpent had succeeded in bringing about the fall. The Lord said to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. And here, the evening before the crucifixion, Jesus says, the hour has come. The deepest meaning of that prophecy is about to be fulfilled. Christ will bruise Satan's head. Satan will bruise his heel. Psalm 22, they gape at me with their mouths like a raging and roaring lion. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots, they pierced my hands and my feet. Father, the hour has come. Daniel 9, 26, Messiah shall be cut off, but not for himself. Father , The hour has come. Zechariah 13:6. 1 will say to him, What are these wounds between your arms? And then he will answer, Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who is my companion, says the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. Father, the hour has come. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Isaiah 53. And now finally, Father, the hour has come. Pastor Marcus Rainsford says, Many an hour had passed on the dial of time since time began, but no hour like this It was the hour on which his own and his father's heart had been set, and with the issues of which his own and his father's thoughts had been engaged from all eternity. It was the hour for which he became incarnate, and for which he came into the world. It was the hour when all God's waves and billows were to pass over him, when his soul was to be made an offering for sin. When having been given by God to us, he was about to offer himself to God for us. Father, the hour has come Glorify your son. Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son. Now there are at least two aspects to that glory. First of all, the glory which would come from the cross itself. The glory that would come through the cross. It's of course not an image of glory for the world. A man being whipped and beaten, spat upon, nailed to a cross. It's not a glorious sight. It is decidedly inglorious. But oh, what a glory for the believer! At the cross. It's just this that makes Jesus so glorious in our sight. That the Lord of glory would endure such pain, such shame, such indignity out of love for us. In the repentant sinner's eye, this is Christ's chief glory. When I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, my richest gain I count but loss. And pour contempt on all my pride. See from his head, his hands, his feet, sorrow and love flow mingled down, Did e'er such love and sorrow meet, Or thorns compose so rich a crown. Worthy is a lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And then when Jesus said, Father, the hour has come, glorify your Son, I think he was also looking forward to the glory that was awaiting him. When he returned to his father. God raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places Far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come, and hath put all things under his feet. Ephesians one Jesus was praying for his exaltation, for the restoration of his position to glory. He prayed in verse 5: Glorify me with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Glorify your Son by enthroning him at your right hand and crowning him as head of the church. Glow your Son by sending down the Holy Spirit to those for whom he suffers. That the Spirit might comfort them and sanctify them and unite them to the risen Christ. Glorify your Son by putting all his foes under his feet. Gly your Son by gathering together your people to him. Remember, on the road to Emmaus, when Jesus spoke to those two believers on the very day of the resurrection. They were downhearted, and Jesus said to them, Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? To enter into his glory? Luke 24. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. Glorify your son, he prays to his father, that your son may glorify you. So when Judas had gone out, Jesus said, Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. John 13, 31. Now how did Jesus glorify the Father at the cross? First of all, by manifesting his holiness, his justice. We preached on this the last couple weeks. I won't belabor it. God will by no means clear the guilty. The soul who sins must die. Jesus was made to be guilty for us, and he was treated as such. God made him sin for us. I will make my holy name known in the midst of my people Israel. I will not let them pollute my holy name anymore. And the heathen shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel. Ezekiel 39 Who was able to stand before this holy God? 1 Samuel 6. 20. Holy and reverence is his name, Psalm 111. 9. God sits upon the throne of his holiness, Psalm 47. 8. Christian, if there had been the slightest deficiency in God's holiness, if there had been any possibility of God's tolerating transgression, Christ's agony on the cross would have been circumvented. Another way would have been found. When one of Satan's emissaries, therefore, slides beside you at a point of temptation and says to you, Go ahead. It's just a little sin. Do it. You need to respond to him. Every sin is serious business in the eyes of a holy God. God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness. Isaiah 5. How else did Jesus glorify the Father at the cross? By manifesting his love for us. Herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins. 1 John 4. 10. Was it for crimes that I have done be groaned upon the tree? Amazing pity, grace unknown, love beyond degree Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us that we should be called the children of God. 1 John 3 1 In this was manifested the love of God toward us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. 1 John 4:9. If there had been the slightest deficiency in God's love, if there had been any possibility that his love for his people was limited and temporary, God would not have permitted his dear son to endure the agonies of the cross. So again, when one of Satan's servants slithers up to you at a point when your trials and tribulations seem more than you can bear. And he says, clearly this God whom you serve doesn't love you, or he'd never let you go through all this. Then you need to turn to him and say, God demonstrated his own love for me in this, that while I was a sinner, Christ died for me. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. It's been well said that to bestow eternal life on lost sinners is the glory of the Father. And to be the means and channel for that bestowal of that eternal life is the glory of the Son. To bestow eternal life on lost sinners, that's the glory of the Father. Father, glorify yourself. And to be the means and channel for the bestowal of that eternal life is the glory of the Son. Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you. Note that Christ sought glory for himself only because he knew it would be the means of bringing glory to the Father. Gly your Son, that your Son may glorify you. Even so, our prayer should be, not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name be glory for thy mercy and thy true sake. Christ's sacrifice would manifest the Father's holiness. It would manifest the Father's justice, his truth, his compassion, his grace, his mercy, his forgiveness. And Jesus desire that the Father would be glorified through the Son. John 14, 13. So I wonder, is this the great overarching goal of your life? To bring glory to the Father? Is that the great overarching goal of your life? Is that why you're going to school? Is that why you're working? Is that the goal in your interaction with your family and with all the people that you meet? That God might be glorified through you. Look at verse two As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, as you have given him authority over all flesh. Who in the world did this Jesus think he was? You've given him authority over all flesh. What sort of talk is this? He prays to the Father, asking to be glorified so that he may glorify the Father, and then he mentions just one aspect of that glory. his giving eternal life to the ones that God gave him, and he notes that he has the right to do so because God has given him authority authority over all flesh. If these are not the words of the very Son of God, then these are clearly the words of a madman. I think a familiar passage from C. S. Lewis bears repeating here. Remember where he talks in Mere Christianity about how God chose a people, he set them apart. Spending several centuries hammering into their heads the sort of God that he was, that there was only one of him, and that he cared about right conduct, and then he says, and then comes the real shock. Among these Jews, there suddenly turns up a man who goes about talking as if he was God. He claims to forgive sins. He says he's always existed. He says he's coming to judge the world at the end of time. Now let us get this clear. Among pantheons, the pantheists, like the Indians, people who live in India, he meant, anyone might say that he was a part of God or one with God. There would be nothing very odd about it. But this man, since he was a Jew, could not mean that kind of God. God, in their language, meant the being outside the world who had made it and was infinitely different from anything else. And when you have grasped that, you will see that what this man said was quite simply the most shocking thing that has ever been uttered by human lips. One part of the claim tends to slip past us unnoticed because we've heard it so often that we no longer see what it amounts to. I mean the claim to forgive sins, any sins. Now, unless the speaker is God, this is really so preposterous as to be comic. We can all understand how a man forgives offenses against himself. You thread on my toe and I forgive you. You steal my money and I forgive you. But what should we make of a man himself unrobbed and untrodden on? Who announced that he forgave you for treading on other men's toes and stealing other men's money? Asinine fatuity or stupidity is the kindest description we should give of this conduct. Yet this is what Jesus did. He told people that their sins were forgiven, and he never waited to consult all the other people whom their sins had undoubtedly injured. He unhesitatingly behaved as if he was the party chiefly concerned, the person chiefly offended in all offenses. This makes sense only if he really was the son , the God whose laws are broken and whose love is wounded in every sin. In the mouth of any speaker who was not God, these words would imply what I can only regard as a silliness and conceit, unrivaled by any other character in history. Yet, and this is the strange, significant thing, he goes on, even his enemies, when they read the gospels, do not usually get the impression of silliness and conceit. Still less do unprejudiced readers. Christ says that he is humble and meek, and we believe him, not noticing that if he were merely a man, humility and meekness are the very last. characteristics we could attribute to some of his sayings. Now all Christians should be able to say Amen to reasoning such as that. We boldly affirm that Jesus was fully justified to declare authority over all flesh. To declare that he had authority over all flesh. We acknowledge him to be King of kings, Lord of Lords. We know his words to his apostles, all authority is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore. We all here, no doubt, would affirm That God has given Christ authority over all flesh. Amen? Ah. But not all Christians boldly affirm the last clause in verse 2. Take a look at it. That he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him Many embrace Jesus' authority in heaven and earth, but not to the extent of believing that Jesus actually does what he says that he does here. Gives eternal life to the ones the Father gives to him. Jesus here is clearly declaring that he is the one who gives eternal life, and that he gives eternal life to the ones that the Father has given to him. His impending atonement upon the cross, in other words, was not going to atone for the sins of everyone, but for the sins of those to whom he would give eternal life That is, to as many as the Father had given him. Now, some Christians, I would say many Christians, are confused by Jesus' teaching here and elsewhere. And some Christians, perhaps many, simply deny it altogether. They read that God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten son. They read that God is not willing that any should perish. They read that Christ died for all, 2 Corinthians 5. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, John 1. 29. For God sent not a son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. They read and hear Jesus say, the bread that I give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world, John 6 51. And they say I may not know much about the Bible, but I know this. The Bible says Christ died for the world. Well, if by that they mean that Jesus is the world's only savior, that he's the only hope for Jews and Greeks, bond and free, male and female, Africans, Asians, Americans, Europeans, etc. every people, every tongue, every nation. If what they mean by that is that Jesus' death is sufficient to pay for the sins of every single human being, and it is to be freely offered to each one Then every Christian can heartily agree. But if by affirming that Jesus died for the world, they mean that he paid the world's debt, That he ransomed all men, that he freed them all from bondage to sin and from the demands of justice If they mean that he died for the world in the same sense in which he died for his sheep, that he actually atoned for the sins of all men, women, and children who have ever lived or ever will live If that's what they mean by Jesus dying for the world, then we have to disagree. If they say that Jesus died for those who perished in the flood, in the same sense in which he paid for the sins of Noah and his family , That he paid for the sins of the men of Sodom in the same sense in which he paid for the sins of Lot, that he died for those uh Canaanites, just as he died for Rahab and her household. If they mean that his death paid for the sins of the prophets of Baal in the same sense in which they paid for the sins of Elijah , For the sins of Ahab, in the same sense in which his death paid for the sins of Naboth If they mean that his death paid for Goliath's sins in the same sense in which they paid for David's, Pharaoh's sins in the same sense as ', the rich man's sins in the same sense as Lazarus'. We must disagree. Look at John 17, 2 again. As you've given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Now many would like Jesus to have said that he should give eternal life to as many as fulfill the conditions. Many think it works this way. All people are dead in sins, but some aren't quite as dead as others They accept Jesus as their savior, and God then seeing that they have eternal life, gives them to the Son. Oh, look at these people. They've accepted you as your savior. As Savior, I'm going to give them to you. But Jesus does not say that. God, the Father, gives to Jesus those who don't have eternal life. Look at it again. That he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Jesus gives eternal life to all those the Father gives to him. Now if it's not clear there, look at verse 6 I manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me, and they've kept your word. Look at verse 9. I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. Look at verse 11. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you, Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me. Look at verse twelve. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I have kept. Look at verse 24. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. He died for his sheep, for his bride, for his church. For his beloved, for his own. If language means anything, Jesus is saying as clearly as he could possibly say it And frequently enough to make it seem redundant that out of all sinful mankind, there are some who have been given to him by his father. They have been separated out of the great mass of humanity that Jesus calls the world. Jesus says, You've given your son authority over all flesh that he, your son, should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. Now, if you believe that God gave everyone to Jesus, then you must believe that everyone has eternal life. Note the Father didn't say to his son , Son, offer yourself a sacrifice, and then perhaps some will believe and be saved. Nor did he say, after you have offered yourself, you must go and find some and persuade them to believe. That's not what he said. He said, I have given you some. Look upon them, know them, love them. They're your sheep, your flock, your bride, your body, your children, your friends, your own. These are they for whom you died. It's their sins that are being paid for at the cross For these, for this great company, for this great number, you will shed your blood. By your stripes, they will be healed. Isaiah 53. This is the church of God which you will purchase with your own blood. Acts 20. They are yours. And after his glorious resurrection, when Jesus sent forth his apostles to preach the gospel, it was not in the hope that just maybe some who were dead in their trespasses and sins would somehow repent and believe It was with absolute certainty, just as he had said to them before, Other sheep I have who are not of this fold, them also I must bring. And there will be one fold, one flock, one shepherd. You see, the Father had promised them to him. And so we read in the book of Acts that after the gospel was preached, as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. Acts 13, 48. As many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. Appointed by whom? Appointed by God Himself. Now, if you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you have repented of your sins and laid hold upon Jesus by simple faith. You have simple faith in his perfect life and sacrificial death. And looking at your salvation from a human perspective, here's how it happened. You saw your sin as vile. You saw the Savior was wonderful. You saw God's love for sinners was great. You saw the judgment was approaching. You didn't want to perish and you did want to be reconciled to God, and so you asked the Lord, for Jesus' sake, to forgive you and save you. But looking at your salvation from a divine perspective, you believed because you were among Christ's sheep. And Jesus said he would bring you into his flock. You were given to him by his father. You see, Jesus didn't die as a substitute and then after the resurrection look around and try to find some who would believe and be saved. The Father showed him his sheep, his bride, his church, his elect, his own. Jesus agreed to come and live for them and die for them. This is how the Apostle Paul could say in Ephesians 1, He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love, having predestined us. To adoption as sons according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. It's not to the praise of your glory, it's to the praise of the glory of his grace. You see. I am a desperate sinner who deserves hell. I was under the wrath and curse of God. It's not because there's any good thing in me that I have eternal life today. It's because God had compassion upon a sinner. He opened my heart. He gave me saving faith. I was born from above. I was regenerated. I was born again. He breathed upon these dry bones that they might live. He took away my heart of stone, he gave me a heart of flesh, he took away my blind eyes, he gave me sight. He did it, he gets the glory for it. Amen Now when you understand this truth, that those who respond to the gospel message do so because they have been given to the Son by the Father They are in God's eyes sheep who are being brought into the fold. Then you realize that you are called to be an instrument in the Holy Spirit's work. Go into all the world and preach this gospel to every creature. You're an instrument in this great work. I planted, Apollos watered, God gave the increase. You see it God's people will be willing in the day of his power. Now look at verse 3. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. This is eternal life, Jesus says. This is interesting, it's the only place where Jesus refers to himself as Jesus Christ, or Jesus the anointed one, or Jesus Messiah. This is life eternal. How would you define eternal life? If you could drink from a fountain and as a result never die, would you have eternal life? Well, yes, if eternal life means merely to continue to exist, but you see the devil himself is eternally conscious, according to Revelation 20. But Jesus says this is life eternal, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. God has given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. 1 John 5. 11 I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. John 1010. Christian, you have not been given a drink of water to keep you from death. You've been given the Holy Spirit to quench your thirst and to be in you a well of water springing up unto everlasting life. If death is banishment from God and incurring his wrath, then life can be nothing short of knowing him and enjoying his presence. This is life eternal That they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Now, to sum all this up , Jesus said, eternal life is to know the Father and the Son. It's not eternal life to hear about the Father and the Son. It's not eternal life to subscribe to certain truths about the Father and the Son. It's not eternal life to pray to the Lord. So I ask you, do you know the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom He has sent? Do you know for sure that you are one of those that the Father has given to Jesus? When his hour came and Jesus lifted up his eyes to heaven and prayed for his own, was he praying for you? Have you received him? Have you become his child through the second birth? Have you been are you now bringing glory to the Father? And did you bring him glory through your repentance and your faith? Now there are many ideas about how eternal life is received, and most of them can be boiled down to do well, and you will receive it. You may remember hearing that investor Warren Buffett reportedly said a few years ago regarding his multi-billion dollar charitable donations, quote, there's more than one way to get to heaven, but this is a great way. Jesus said, eternal life is knowing God and Jesus Christ, whom he has sent. Now you may want to trust Warren Buffett with your investments, but you would be wise to do so. But you would not be wise to trust him with your soul. Now, let me just try to conclude here quickly, Let me speak to those who are here who may not be yet trusting in Christ as Lord and Savior. You're a non-Christian God's plan of salvation is very clear, even in these three little verses of John 17. How will you stand before God and explain your rejection of it? What must you do? Repent and believe. But what if I'm not one of his sheep? Never mind about that. Don't try to fathom the unfathomable. God doesn't expect you to comprehend the mystery of his eternal counsel. Who hath known the mind of the Lord or who hath been his counselor? The secret things belong to the Lord. Those things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. My thoughts are not your thoughts, my ways are not your ways, or your ways are not my ways, saith the Lord. You do not need to imagine that you must comprehend all the mysteries of the Pacific Ocean before you sail on it. Here's what you need to know. You have sinned against the holy God. God sent his son to live the holy life that you failed to live, to die in the place of guilty sinners, to suffer the punishment that they deserve. If you'll repent of your sins, turn from them in disgust. Trust in Jesus Christ, rest in Him as your Lord and Savior. Stop trusting in yourself and your goodness or supposed goodness and rely upon Him alone to save you. You'll transfer your trust to Jesus Christ. The Bible says all your sins will be forgiven. You will be the recipient of everlasting life. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. If you hear his voice today and follow him, he will give you eternal life. My sheep hear my voice. And they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall anyone snatch them them out of my hand. My father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand. John 10 Christian, the Father set his love upon you. It's free, it's unmerited, grace, it's been poured out upon you. You don't deserve it. You and I deserve the wrath of a holy God. We sinned against him, we've rebelled against him. But he had mercy upon us. He brought us to himself, he poured out his love upon us. What a priceless gift this is. What a priceless gift this is. What infinite treasure you have in Christ. Now, are you hoarding your treasure or are you sharing it? Is there no one at work with whom you could have a little Bible study to help them to come to know the Lord? Is there no one to whom you could give a CD of a sermon? No friend at school that you could invite to youth group or to a Sunday school class? If Jesus is glorious to you, exalt him. Magnify his glory to others. Let's pray. Father, what a glorious plan, what a glorious gospel. We were dead in our sins, we were far from you. And you set your love upon us. You brought the gospel message to us. You opened our blind eyes. You gave us sight. Lord, this is a wondrous thing And we'll be praising you for all eternity for it. And Lord, if there be someone here this day still dead in sins, without hope, without Christ, Father, please, have mercy upon that one. Draw that soul to true saving faith. Lord, please. Even as you had mercy upon us, and we know that somehow in your plan Even the prayers of your children were foreseen. And so, Lord, we do beseech you for our dear friends and family members who are outside of Christ. Bring them to yourself. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.