Scripture reading for the passage. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Acts chapter 18. We'll be reading verses 1 to 11. This is Acts eighteen, verses one to eleven. After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth. And he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. And he went to see them. And because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked, for they were tent makers by trade. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks. When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus. And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out his garments and said to them, Your blood be on your own heads. I am innocent. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles. And he left there and went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshipper of God. His house was next door to the synagogue. Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized. And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, Do not be afraid, but go on speaking, and do not be silent. For I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you. For I have many in this city who are And he stayed a year and six months teaching the Word of God among them. This is the Word of the Lord. Be seated. And let's pray to begin. Lord, thank you, Father, for giving us your word here in written form and in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that this morning you give your people softened parts and opened ears and open minds to hear your word and what you would communicate with. Father, I pray that during this preaching that you may increase and I may decrease. In your son's name we pray. Amen. Well, this morning's sermon is obviously Acts 18, verses 1 to 11. I'd like to give a little bit of context around the passage first, and then we'll start going verse by verse. through it. So we know that Luke the physician wrote both the Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts as two consecutive volumes. Now Luke was not one of the apostles, but he was one of Paul's ministry and traveling companions for some time. Acts chapter 1 picks up right after the end of Luke's gospel. And it records the time from Christ's crucifixion until Paul's house imprisonment in Rome at the end of Acts in approximately 62 to 64 A. The first few verses of both Luke's Gospel and Acts tell us that the volumes were commissioned by and written to a man named Theophilus. The beginning of Luke tells us that he was writing to Theophilus so that he may have certainty concerning the things he had been taught. Then if you look at Acts 1. 1, Luke says, In the first book, O Theopolis, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach. Luke is saying that in his first book, his gospel, that deals with what Jesus began to do and teach. The implication here is that the Acts of the Apostles, this second volume, records what Jesus continued to teach. And the beauty of that is that Christ was with his church and his people physically in the Gospel of Luke, and he was with his church spiritually in the book of Acts. So the Acts of the Apostles, what we're looking at today, is the record of the continuing ministry of Christ, the Holy Spirit, and the Church. Now Paul comes on the scene at the end of Acts 7 and the beginning of Acts 8, which detail how he took part in the martyrdom of Stephen and how he ravaged the church. Paul's conversion by Christ occurs one chapter later in Acts 9. And then if you fast forward to Acts 17, the chapter right before this, we find Paul in the middle of Athens on his second missionary journey. Now Paul had been imprisoned and beaten and run out of most cities and towns that he had ministered in along the Mediterranean coast. But in Acts 17, Paul shares the gospel and he reasons with people in the marketplace in Athens before he stands up and reasons with them and preaches to them on the top of the Areopagus. At the beginning of Acts 18, Paul leaves Athens and travels to Corinth, and we find ourselves in today's passage. In this passage, Paul finds himself ministering in the city of Corinth, and he had become discouraged because of the near constant persecution and opposition. But God appears to Paul in a vision and gives him encouragement. And this encouragement is the main point for the sermon today. Do not be afraid to share the gospel for the Lord has already chosen his people. And I'll say that again. Do not be afraid to share the gospel, for the Lord has already chosen his people. So as we move through the passage here this morning, I would like to divide it up into three sections. The first one, we have the setting for the passage, and we see that in verses one to four. Then we have the rising tension in the passage, and we see that in verses 5 to 8, and finally the resolution to the passage in verses 9 to 11. So let's look take a look at the first section here, the setting or Paul's arrival and ministry in Corinth. We see that in the first four verses. So as I mentioned a moment ago, the first verse has Paul traveling from Athens to Corinth. Throughout Acts 15 to 18, Paul was on the second missionary journey throughout the Mediterranean. On this journey, Paul and his companions traveled from Antioch and Syria across Asia, which is now the country of Turkey, into Macedonia, north of of Greece and then down the eastern coast of Greece, eventually ending up in Athens and then Corinth. When Paul arrives in Corinth, he meets Aquila and Priscilla Now the passage mentions that Aquila was a Jew, but his wife Priscilla was also a Jewish Christian. Paul also mentions how uh or the passage r rather mentions that they had moved to Corinth after Emperor Claudius had ordered all of the Jews to leave Rome. Now this may seem like a little bit of a strange detail or s sort of a side note to mention here, but it was actually a historical comment by Luke as he wrote wrote this. So we know from other historical sources outside the Bible that this expulsion of the Jews from Rome took place between 49 and 50 A. D. So this comment serves to establish a rough approximate date of Paul's arrival here in Corinth. Paul then goes on to stay with Aquila and Priscilla and mentions that all three were tent makers. by trade. It's another kind of curious comment in the passage. But if you look at the context, it makes a little more sense. So at this time in history, Corinth was actually the largest city in Greece. And it was one of the largest seaports on the Mediterranean Sea. If you were to look a map at a map of Greece, which most of your Bibles probably have those maps, atlases in the back. If you were to take a look at that, you would see that Corinth is located on the isthmus, or the little skinny neck of the Peloponnesian Peninsula, which is this southern section of Greece. Corinth is located on right on the edge there. Today, in modern times, there's a canal that cuts across that isthmus. So ships can cross through there without sailing south around the Peloponnesian Peninsula. But in Paul's time there was no canal. So ships would dock at Corinth, they move their goods overland the several miles across the Isthmus, where that little neck of the peninsula, load it onto another ship, and then continue sailing on from there. So Corinth was really the major pass-through for most east-west trade on the Mediterranean Sea at the Now Corinth because of that had a lot of money. It was a wealthy city, it was a very immoral city as well. At the time there was a saying, which if you translate it into English would say say to live like a Corinthian. It's kind of like you know how we say uh what stays in or what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas, right? It's a similar type saying. There's a saying was someone's living like a Corinthian. which meant they were living in an immoral fashion. Corinth was also the location of something called the Isthmian Games, which were athletic games similar to the Olympics. And these games drew travelers from all across the empire. So, because of these factors, Corinth was an incredible city in which Paul could witness and plant a church, but also a difficult city. This brings us back to the tent maker comment in verse three. In the ancient world, tent making was a critical skill, especially in a city that brought in a lot of travelers and tradesmen like coin. Many travelers back then stayed in simple tents while they were traveling. So tent making was a big business. We also know that Paul trained as a rabbi in his early years. One thing we know about rabbinical students is that they were trained, in addition to their scriptural studies, they were trained in a trade. So that way they did not have to rely upon being paid by a synagogue. They could also pay their own way through other work. One can sort of imagine Paul and Aquila and Priscilla making tents during the day and then moving through the tent camps in Corinth at night sharing the gospel with people. As you can see from all this background information, not only was Corinth a great city for gospel witness. But Paul, Aquila, and Priscilla were people incredibly equipped by God for this work. Even here we see God's provision. at work. The Lord had brought these specific people to a specific city to do a specific work at a specific moment in time. And in the midst of this city, Paul enters his ministry. Verse 4 says that Paul reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks. Now Paul had already been run out of most places where he had witnessed before, but yet again he's being bold and courageous in his witness in the synagogue. And this brings us to the first half of the main point today. Do not be afraid to proclaim the gospel. It certainly seems as though Paul was not afraid to do that. I can imagine how nerve-wracking it would be to walk into a Jewish synagogue and share the gospel with people there. Kind of cold like that, especially in the conditions under which Paul had been ministering, and especially considering how he had been treated at the synagogue and other towns. Have you ever been afraid to share the gospel with someone? I know I spent most of my life being afraid to do that. Even being afraid to offer encouragement from the Scriptures. It's not an easy thing to do. But the gospel and the truth of Scripture are the only rock-solid truth that we have. only thing. So don't be afraid when people push back against you for sharing the gospel. When people do that, they're not fighting you. Rather, they're fighting against God. When people are offended by what the Bible says, they are not actually offended. Rather, they are feeling convicted of their sin by the truth of Scripture, and they know it deep down. People will oppose you when you share the gospel. The prophets in the Old Testament were persecuted. Jesus Christ himself was persecuted and murdered. And most, if not all, of the apostles were martyred. What makes you think you'd be any different for Christians today? The 21st century is not some advanced age where relig religious persecution does not take place. If Christ was persecuted and hated and reviled and killed. Then we as his sons and daughters ought to expect the same treatment. To sort of soft pedal the gospel, to say we need to simply love people in the hopes that they somehow see we're different and they somehow come to Christ without actually telling them. about Christ. Yes, we ought to love people and serve them, so don't hear me saying that. But I tell you, as the church, as the people who confessed Christ as Lord, we have a ministry of proclamation. Not just a ministry of actions, a ministry of proclamation. This means that we proclaim the truth of the gospel and we proclaim it as infallible, unchanging truth. If all you do as Christians is love people and you never share the gospel with them, you're doing them a disservice. They need to hear the gospel message. They need to hear of their sin and their need for a savior. If you just love them, anyone can do that. It doesn't take a Christian to love somebody. There must be gospel proclamation to go alongside acts of love and service. So be confident in your ministry to others. Do not beat people over the head with the gospel. It's not a message of force, but instead it's a message of a sinful people separated from their holy God. A message of a merciful and gracious Messiah who saved those people and reconciled them back to himself. The gospel is a message of incredible sin, of terrible justice poured out on the unrepentant, and of incredible mercy and grace poured out on undeserving sinners. This brings us to the second point here, the rising tension in the passage, or what you could call the opposition against Paul. We see this in verses Verse 5 tells us that Silas and Timothy arrive in Corinth to find Paul busy with ministry. It says he was testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus. Now at the beginning of Acts 17, uh Silas and Timothy split up from Paul when Paul left for Athens. Now the three are finally reunited. If you look were to look at the map again in the back of your Bible, if you looked at the distance from Berea, which is where they were at the beginning of Acts 17, Berea in the north and then Corinth in the south, by the time they arrived to reunite with Paul, it is safe to assume it has been at least several weeks or perhaps even months since they had been together. So you can probably imagine how much of an encouragement it was for them to see each other. again. Have you ever tried to do something by yourself without any help from friends or family? Maybe you was taking care of a newborn child, or maybe it was a house project or a business venture. Things are much more difficult by yourself. And they are much more bearable when you walk alongside others. The same is true of ministry in the Christian faith, the Christian walk. As Christians, you are not meant to be alone. You are meant to be in fellowship with the saints and within the corporate body of the church. Here in the church is where you receive the ordinary means of grace. And the church is where Christ bestows his grace through the preaching, the prayer, the sacraments of baptism, the Lord's Supper. Christ has graciously built his church so that That no Christian is by himself, but rather he is incorporated into the body. Think of 1 Corinthians 12, 12 to 13. For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. For the body does not consist of one member, but of many. Christian ministry is not one person against the world. Rather, it is the Holy Spirit working through the church and through God's people gathered together to share the good news of salvation. With a dying world. In verse 5, we also see Paul being bold in his proclamation of the gospel. He did not shy away from preaching the truth. Now what is this truth that Paul was preaching? This truth is that Jesus is the Messiah. Remember he was in a Jewish synagogue. He was saying that this Messiah that they talked about in the Old Testament was Jesus, the one who came to fulfill the old covenants, the one who came to perfectly fulfill the law of God in your place. The one who came to take the penalty and curses of the law in your place. The one who came to be resurrected in order to give his people eternal life. And the one who came to rule over all creatures. creation is king. Paul was busy testifying that there is no salvation or life apart from Jesus. Right before this passage in Acts 17, Paul was in Athens and it said he was in the marketplace or the agora, and that he saw that the city was full of idols. Paul confronted the people of Athens while he was speaking at the Areopagus. He confronted their belief in and worship of these idols and told them that Jesus Christ was the only true God. Just like the Athenians in Acts seventeen continued to worship their idols and refused to see Christ as the true God, the Jews in Corinth here in Acts eighteen Now the Jews may not have been worshipping idols here, but they were refusing to believe in Christ as the Savior. Paul was pleading with his own people to open their eyes and see that Jesus was the Messiah. Verse six. Verse six shows the same response which Paul had received in most of the cities in which he had preached It says the Jews opposed and reviled him. Now the Greek the root Greek word for reviled is blasphemeo. which you can also translate as blaspheme, defame, hate, speak evil about. So the Jews in Corinth were not simply disagreeing. with Paul. They weren't just standing there saying, I don't really like what you have to say, but I'll continue hearing it. Instead, they hated him. They spoke evil things against him and about him. When you share the gospel of people, they are not always going to receive it warmly. Instead, they'll disagree with you. Instead, they'll disagree with you. I would venture to say that the vast majority of people with whom you share the gospel the gospel will not receive it warmly. And that vast majority will oppose you. Now may they may just disagree with you. And leave it at that. They may oppose you and hate you and speak evil against you, like they did with Paul here. They could do that too. This is what Christ himself experienced as he preached during his ministry on earth. I've experienced all of these reactions when I've shared the gospel with people. I know many of you here in the sanctuary have experienced that as well. But you, as his people, as Christ's people and Christ's church, should expect no different treatment. Your Savior tells you in John 15, 18, if the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. In today's post-Christian culture, Christians are becoming the minority. Our beliefs and convictions and practices are becoming strange to people When you publicly espouse a view of male headship in the family and in church and society, people will hate to hear that. When you espouse publicly a view of people being born sinful in need of a savior, people will hate to hear that. When you espouse a view of people being created male and female only, people will hate to hear that. When you confess Christ as King, people will hate to hear that. No matter what some want to believe about evangelism, the church cannot always be winsome to the world, and the church will often be opposed. You as the church. You as the church and as the heralds of Christ the King must tell the truth. You must declare sin for what it is. An abomination to the Lord. You must declare that God will carry out perfect and terrible justice upon unrepentant sinners. But you must also declare that the same God has graciously and mercifully provided forgiveness of sins and the way of salvation through Christ. Which He gives as a free gift. To people who are undeserving. You must share these things with the world. You must do it. This reminds me of the parable of the sower. You can read that in Mark 4. In this parable, Jesus tells of a sower or a farmer who goes out to spread the seed. this parable. Some seeds fall on the past and the birds eat it. Some seeds fall on rocky ground or rocky soil and it grows quickly but then withers in the sun and the heat. Some seeds fall among thorns which choke the plants. But some seeds fall in good soil. And the plants grow and flourish. Now there are many things to learn from this parable, and one of them is the role of the sower or the the farmer. Mentioned nowhere in the parable is the sower 's skill or ability as a spreader of seeds. Neither are his work ethic or decisions. The sower simply spread the seed as he went about his day. The same rings true for you as Christians. It is not up to your skill or ability as a priest Preacher or an apologist or a missionary. It is up to the Lord to prepare the hearts of the hearers, and it is up to the Lord to feed and water the seed of the gospel in someone's heart. As believers, you are simply called to share the gospel as you go about your day. Because you do not know the hearts of the people with whom you are speaking. Continue telling people the truth and continue praying that God will work in their hearts. In the rest of verse 6, Paul has a pretty intense reaction to this opposition he encounters from the Jews. It says that he shakes out his garments and says, Your blood be on your own heads. I am innocent. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles. Now Paul has pretty similar reactions to Jewish opposition elsewhere in Acts. You have chapter 13, 19, and 20. But if you notice in every city Paul first goes and preaches to his fellow Jews. Once he encounters opposition from them, he goes to whip So Paul's shaking out of his garments also had a cultural significance in the Jewish world. If you were to look at Nehemiah chapter 5, Nehemiah was dealing with an issue between his fellow Jews Jews and that chapter speaks of how he shook off his garments as a sign of breaking fellowship with his fellow Jews over that disagreement. So here Paul is symbolically breaking fellowship with his fellow Jews as he leaves and goes to minister to the Gentiles. In Ezekiel 3 and 33, God tells the prophet Ezekiel that if a city watchman or the guard on the wall blows the trumpet to warn of an impending attack on the the city, and the city does nothing to prepare, then their blood is on their own heads and not on the heads, the head of the watchmen. It is their fault for not preparing. not the watchman's fault for not warning them. This is what Paul is telling the Jews here. He's like the city watchmen warning them of their sin. I'm warning Dr. Ian Marshall writes that Paul was making a statement to the Jews that they alone bore the responsibility for their unbelief and rejection of the gospel, and that they would be cut off from the people of God. That's a pretty serious charge for Paul to level against his fellow Jews, but it's a charge that they would have been familiar with from the Old Testament. Now I have to imagine that Paul was pretty discouraged at this point. I think it's pretty Safe to say. You know, this has been continually happening for a couple years at this point on this missionary journey. And it's just another instance of opposition from people that he calls kinsmen. Right? By this point he must have been tired and discouraged in ministry. Have you ever been discouraged in your work? Particularly in something that God called you to do. I know I've been discouraged in my work, both as a police officer and a minister. I've had times in of intense discouragement in both those areas. It is inevitable that you will encounter discouragement, opposition, and setbacks in your life and in the world. And in your work. We are sinful fallen people in a sinful fallen world. But you have a savior But you have a savior who encounters All of these things as well. He was run out of towns. He was beaten and arrested. Ultimately killed in fulfillment of his covenant with his people. Christ does not promise that he'll make things better. This is not a health and wealth message. He's not going to somehow magically improve your life. But he is a savior who comforts you in your discouragement and your afflictions and your hardship. After this encounter with the Jews in the synagogue in verse 6, verse 7 says that Paul goes next door to the house of a Christian named Titius Justus, who is a Roman. Verse 8 then tells us that the Jewish ruler of the synagogue, Crispus, and his entire household believed in Christ, along with many of the Corinthians. So the ironic part is even though he said he was leaving the Jews and going on to the Gentiles, his ministry to the Jews was still not yet complete. Despite his frustration. We also witnessed the work of the Holy Spirit here in the birth of a church in a new city, which had been previously unreached with the gospel. Paul preached and witnessed to who knows how many people in that synagogue. And the only ones who believed were Titius Justus, Crispus, his family, and a few others. So God is most certainly providential in how He carries things out. And this brings us to the last point for today, the resolution of the passage, or the resolution to the tension, or we could call it the Lord's encouragement to Paul. And we see that in verses 9, 10, and 11. Verse 9 goes on to tell us that the Lord appeared to Paul in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent. For I am with you. And no one will attack you to harm you. For I have many in this city who are my people. And what a powerful statement that is. What a powerful statement. We know from 1 Corinthians 2 3 that Paul was with the Corinthians in weakness and in fear and much trembling. Paul was fearful of what would happen during his ministry. In Corinth, which is understandable given what had happened to him previously. But here God reassures Paul to continue his ministry and to not be afraid. When he tells Paul this, he cites election or predestination as the basis or foundation of this encouragement. He's saying, why should Paul not be afraid? Because God has already chosen the people in that city who would believe. Election or predestination is the truth that God, in his great sovereignty and provision, has graciously and mercifully Chosen his people throughout all the time, throughout all the nations of the earth. He's chosen people who would believe. Who he is choosing to save and redeem back to himself. There's an important application here, and it goes back to the parable of sower that we mentioned a few minutes ago. You will never know the hearts of the people that you're speaking with. Only the Lord truly knows someone's heart. All you can do is care for people. Is care for people, boldly share the gospel with them, and pray that the Holy Spirit works to soften their hearts. When God encourages Paul here, he reminds him that there are many in the city who already Belong to him. There were people in the city of Corinth who had not yet heard the gospel from Paul, but who had already been chosen to be believers. And that is what Paul God is encouraging Paul with here. He was telling Paul to continue ministering, continue laboring to bring the gospel. God is reminding Paul that it is not his own skill and Ministry which matters, but rather it is the Lord's work. It is easy to become discouraged when you're ministering to people. And you have no idea if their hearts are softening to the gospel. But be encouraged, because the true work of ministry belongs to the Holy Spirit, not to you. Just like in the parable of the sower, the Lord calls you to share the gospel and leave the work of salvation and regeneration. 1 Corinthians 3, verses 5 to 7, Paul says, What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants. Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each. I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth. God gives the growth and makes your gospel witness effective. Remain confident that the Lord will choose and call and redeem his people. You were called to remain faithful to the scriptures. To remain faithful to God's truth and to continue proclaiming boldly Christ alone as King. After this encouragement from God, we see that Paul, clearly the encouragement works. Because he stayed for another eighteen months in Corinth, ministering and building the church there. So by way of application. So by way of application to bring this to a close here, I would say for you to be encouraged in the midst of hardship. God promises throughout the scriptures that he will provide for his people. Now this providence does not always mean that you'll get what you pray for, or that you will have worldly comforts. money, food, etc. However, it does mean that God provides for and takes care of his church in a special way. Romans eight twenty-eight says, and we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Okay, it'll all work out. But look at the next verse, Romans 8. 29. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of God In order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. God works all things for the good of his people, Christians. believers and for your sanctification and perfection in the image of Christ. Now God's providence often works in strange and mysterious ways. How often does a cooling rain come before oppressive heat and humidity? So does God work his providence to relieve the worldly troubles of his saints. And refresh them in preparation for future hardship. Why did God do this? Why does God do this? He does this to remove the affections, the desires of our heart from the world and redirect those affections to himself. In 1845, the Scottish Presbyterian minister Horatius Bonner wrote this in his book, A Night of Weeping. He writes, The more that bereavement transforms earth into a desert, the more are our desires drawn up to heaven. I'll read that again. The more that bereavement or sorrow transforms earth into a desert, the more are our desires drawn up to heaven. Brothers and sisters, the Lord God uses affliction and hardship and discouragement and loss to mold his people. He uses it to mold you into the shape of Christ like a piece of molten gold is hammered into precious jewelry. God uses circumstances in your life to redirect the desires and the loves and the affections of your heart from the temporary things of the earth that are passing away. Your God is a God of all comfort and affliction. Your Savior knows what you experience here on earth. He is not some distant God who does not understand. But rather, he is intimately acquainted with your struggles, with your temptations, and with your hardships. Through hardship, God reminds you that this world is not your home. In that same book, Horatius Bonner also writes, Life is a journey, not a Home, a road, not a city of habitation. And the enjoyments and blessings we have are but little ends on the road side of life. Where we may be refreshed for a moment, that we may with new strength press on to the end, to the rest that remaineth for the people of God Even if all that God provides you in the midst of hardship is assurance of your salvation, a reminder of your salvation, and knowledge that He holds you in the palm of His hand. And that is enough. This passage serves as an example for you, but also a command. Be confident and bold when you tell people in the world that sin is an abomination to God. And only brings death. Be confident and bold when you declare that faith in Christ and his sacrifice on the cross alone is what saves you and makes you right before God. Be confident and bold when you declare that Scripture alone is the only source of faith and practice. Be confident and bold when you declare that nothing that you pursue in this world Will save you apart from Christ. And be confident and bold when you cry out to God for help in the midst of your hardship. So, brothers and sisters, go on speaking. Do not be Silent, for there are many people in this city who belong to Christ the King. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, Father, we thank you once again for bringing us your word. For telling us timeless truth from it. We pray, Lord, that this morning that our sin has been confronted, that our hearts are encouraged. That we are brought to a more sure confidence and understanding of your covenant, your love for us, your promises, your salvation for us. Father, I pray for all the people here in this church, in this sanctuary, that they walk out of here encouraged and ready to go forth and share the gospel to wherever you have called them. In your son's name we pray.