Amen. Thank you, choir. If you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the Gospel of John chapter three? As we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for the Wonders of Worship program downstairs with Dave and Joyella Stafford. And uh some of you may remember uh Michelle Clark, who worshiped with us for a while before she headed off, was it to Michigan? Is that where you and she's back with us this morning. Good to have you here, Michelle. There she is over there. Uh John chapter three, let's read the first twenty-one verses. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered and said to him, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? And Jesus answered, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit He cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but cannot tell where it comes from and where it goes. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered and said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered and said to him, Are you the teacher of Israel? And do you not know these things? Most assuredly I say to you, we speak what we know and testify what we have seen, and you do not receive our witness. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended to heaven but he who came down from heaven, that is the Son of Man who is in heaven. And as Moses lifted up the serpents in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He who believes in him is not condemned. But he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God And this is the condemnation, that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one practicing evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be clearly seen, that they have been done. In God. May God's blessing rest upon his word. Let's pray Father, as we approach this precious verse, this glorious passage, we pray for your Holy Spirit to remove anything in our hearts and minds that would hinder the perfect working of your word. Use your word today to take away stony hearts and give hearts of flesh, to remove blind eyes and give sight. Breathe upon your word, Lord, and breathe upon the dry bones that may be here, that they may live. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. I would like to speak to you this morning about what may well be the most famous verse in all of Scripture, the the best known verse perhaps in all of Scripture. If you pick up a Bible in a motel room placed by the Gideons, chances are you'll find this verse printed in numerous languages. It's one of the first verses that we memorize as children. It's been called the gospel in a nutshell. The gospel in a nutshell. Now, I've been called the gospel in a numbskull. That's something else. This is a nutshell. In other words, it's a summary of what the gospel is. Even those who don't have a Bible in their own language, or those who've been forbidden to read the Bible by an oppressive government, can find enough of God's truth in this one little verse to bring them from darkness to light From death to life. The verse begins: God so loved the world. Jesus says to Nicodemus, God so loved the world. Now you may think that's that's a beautiful sentiment, but does God really love the world? Tornadoes devastate whole towns. Hurricanes ravage coasts. Floods engulf whole states while others suffer through drought and famine. There are volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, wildfires, viruses that decimate whole segments of populations. In any given week, you can read or hear about some major tragedy somewhere in the world. If God so loves this world, you may ask, why are there so many disasters here? Maybe you would agree with the late news analyst Daniel Shore, who, referring to the devastation left by Hurricane Katrina, said quote. If this was the result of intelligent design, then the designer has something to answer for. Similarly, after Robert De Niro was asked in a television interview At the end of your days, if you come before God, what will you say to him? And he reportedly responded, What I'm going to say to God is, you have some explaining to do. If God so loves the world, why are there so many disasters? Why are so many in such desperate straits, eking out a living in huts of mud or straw, cardboard? without education, without jobs, without adequate medical care, bathing in and drinking from the same polluted river And to bring it closer to home, many of you have sat beside the bedside of your dying father or mother Or watched a brother or sister or a spouse or even a child struggle with terminal illness. If God so loves this world, Why does the general course of this life seem to lead inexorably toward misery and death? Well, the answer is implied in our verse, in that gospel in a nutshell. That whoever believes in him should not perish. Should not perish. There are some truths which, if they're once rightly understood, will change a person's entire perspective. They're revolutionary in effect. It was revolutionary for Isaac Newton when he came to understand the law of universal gravitation. It was revolutionary for William Harvey when he came to understand the circulation of blood. through the body. It answered previously unanswered questions. In the same way, when you understand and accept the following truth, it will bring many things into perspective and answer many questions for you. And that truth is alluded to here in our verse. Very simply, you and I are members of a perishing race. A perishing race. You'll never understand God's love until you understand that we're perishing. The fact is, you and I were born into a race of condemned men and women. Something has happened to set this world on edge. Things are out of joint. The whole creation groans together, the scripture says. What happened? What was the universal cause that preceded this universal effect? Mankind has rebelled against its maker. We have rebelled against our maker. God created us to reflect his image, and one aspect of that image was freedom. Freedom to choose in numerous ways. But most importantly, the freedom to choose to obey our Creator and live. or to disobey him and die. When Adam freely chose as our representative to disobey God, into the world came the horrendous consequences of sin. By one man's disobedience, the Bible says, many were made sinners. By one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Romans 5. 12. You and I were born into a race of sinners. And the sooner we realize it, the better. You may not like it, but you cannot change it. I mentioned once before in a message that some years ago I I went down to the uh Baltimore that was the Maryland Office of uh Records, I guess they called it. I told them, you know, I was born in Baltimore, uh, way back in the uh 20th century, and uh and I said to them, you know, for all these years, too many to count, uh I've been a Caucasian. And that was okay while it lasted, I said, but it's getting rather boring now. And on this next birthday, I'm going to switch to one of the newer, up-and-coming races. You know, I I told them I I need a little more hip in my hop is what I I think is the way I put it. So I said, Please update my birth certificate. And of course they responded, What are you talking about? You can't change your race. Uh forget about more hip and your hop. You need more brain on your on your top is what they told me. You can't change your race. You and I were born into a race of sinners. The human race. There's not a just man upon the earth that does good and sins not. Ecclesiastes 7. 20. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. uh 1 John 1 8. The whole world lies in wickedness. 1 John 5. 19. The Lord Jesus put it this way, out of the heart of man Proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, and evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness All these evil things come from within and defile a man, Jesus said. We can put a child with a defective immune system into a sterile environment a germ-free bubble to prevent him from contracting disease. We could conceivably isolate a child from all sinful influences. But we cannot keep that child from sinning because it is in his nature since the fall of man. Now you may be thinking, granted, it does seem to be the nature of men uh to do wrong at times. Granted, all those things of which Jesus spoke do in fact proceed out of our hearts on occasion. But how does this answer the question that you were addressing, which was, if God really loves the world, why does the general course of life lead to death and misery? Even if we grant that we rebelled against our Creator, can't he work around that? Will not his love for us impel him to look the other way, to cut us from slack? Why must our sin result in what Jesus called our perishing? Well, the answer of Scripture is that our perishing is the natural consequence of our sin. Because The God with whom we have to do is a God of truth and without iniquity. Just and right is he. Deuteronomy 32, 4. I, the Lord your God, am holy. Leviticus 19. 2. There is none holy as the Lord. 1 Samuel 2. 2. You are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel, is what David says of God in Psalm 22. And because God is of purer eyes than to behold evil, because he cannot look upon, that is, he cannot countenance iniquity, his nature demands that sin be punished And when man sinned, he brought the wrath of God upon him, and upon the planet that he created as our environment. After the first man's sinned, God said to him, Cursed is the ground for your sake. C. S. Lewis in his work, The Problem of Pain, sheds some light here. He writes, the problem of reconciling human suffering with the existence of a God who loves is only insoluble so long as we attach a trivial meaning to the word love. And look on things as if man were the center of them. Man is not the center. God does not exist for the sake of man Man does not exist for his own sake. Thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. We were made not primarily that we may love God. Though we were made for that too, he writes, but that God may love us, that we may become objects in which the divine love may rest well pleased. To ask that God's love should be content with us as we are is to ask that God should cease to be God, because he is what he is. His love must, in the nature of things, be impeded and repelled by certain stains in our present character. And because he already loves us, he must labor to make us lovable. We cannot even wish in our better moments that he could reconcile himself to our present impurities. What we would here and now call our happiness is not the end God chiefly has in view. But when we are such as He can love us without impediment, we shall in fact be happy. Now you may be thinking, all right, I'll grant you that uh one who truly loves another, for example, a mother who truly loves her child. Will not passively tolerate disobedience and cruelty and vile habits in her child And her love may compel her to take action which the child may view as harsh or unloving. Actions which may nevertheless be undertaken by the mother with only the most loving motives. For the child's own ultimate good. But you might say, how in the world could that truth justify a God of love Who's described in Scripture as casting sinners into outer darkness where there's wailing and gnashing of teeth? Loving correction, that's one thing, you might say. Death and judgment. That's something else. But the Bible reveals a God who is not only a loving father, but also a just judge. Now, you've heard me share this illustration before. I want you to imagine that I'm a judge. Not a pastor. I'm a judge. And uh I I'm in my courtroom and there's been a trial. It's a murder trial. And the defendant has been found guilty. The circumstances are that he was playing his music too loud, his landlady kept Complaining about it over and over again. Finally, in a moment of wrath, he's he struck her and killed her There's sufficient evidence, a lot of evidence, DNA evidence, eyewitness evidence, video evidence, whatever. There's a lot of evidence and the defendant has been found guilty. And now I have to sentence him Ah. But here's the rub. The defendant happens to be my own son. I have a son. His name is Nathan. The defendant happens to be my own son, whom I love. So I say to him, Nathan, the jury has found you guilty. The laws of our state say that you deserve death. But because I love you, I'm going to let you go. I want you to apologize to the family of the lady that you killed. And I want you to promise me here and now that you won't kill any more elderly ladies, and that you'll turn your music down. Which is what your mother and I have been asking you to do since high school. It should be evident to all of us that if there is any justice in this world It would not be true justice if it were trumped by love. Love is such a prominent aspect of God's character that the scripture says God is love. But that love, just like his kindness, his mercy, his truth, his power, that love is a holy love. Every attribute of God is a holy attribute. When you work for your employer, you receive wages as a consequence of what you do. God says the wages of sin is death. Death and judgment are the consequences of what you do. Now you may be thinking, yeah, well that tough talk is fine for people who really deserve punishment, people who uh in moments of wrath kill their landladies, but I've never done that. And I used to think exactly the same way. I used to think that our grades, our grade in life, if you want to put it that way, that our ultimate grade in life was sort of like that grade that you would get on chemistry tests in high school when everybody plumped. The test was so hard that everybody, even the smart guys flunked, and and they might have gotten 60 or 65, and you maybe got, or I, let's put it that way. Maybe got a 35 or something. But uh if if even the smart guy slunked, the teacher was going to have to grade on a curve. gonna have to, but generally they would. And so they say, all right, the the ones who got a sixty, I'm gonna give you guys an A and the ones who got a fifty, you get a B right on down the line. All you had to do was try to get up in that top uh forty percentile bracket And uh and you'd get a passing grade. I used to think of God's grading us that way. I knew I wasn't perfect. I knew I was a sinner, but everybody's a sinner. And I haven't done these terrible sins, so I guess I'm up in that top 30, 40 percentile bracket. But there are some problems with that view. First of all, my sin account is probably much larger than I would care to know. In other words, my grade is much lower than I imagine. Secondly, there are a good many points deducted for things that I would tend to shrug off as no big deal. Pride. Envy, covetousness, gossip, lust, losing my temper, immodesty, unthankfulness, love of pleasure, love of money, love of self. And then there are not as many points added for what we think of as good behavior. We are all as an unclean thing, all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. Even the good things that we try to do are tainted by our sinful nature. We may do something good and then walk away with pride because we did it, or we may do it but without our whole heart and mind and strength. And then here's the clincher. The passing grade with God is a hundred How much sin is acceptable to God? None. His standard is not like yours. It's not like mine. It's not like our high school chemistry teachers. His standard is perfection. When desire is conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is full grown, brings forth death. All sin Brings forth death. It's God's nature to be holy, as it's the sun's nature to be hot, as it's the nature of water to be wet. God cannot be unholy. And he cannot allow even minor transgressions to be disregarded. He cannot simply slap us on the wrist. And say that's all right. Because he's holy and sin must be punished. Whoever keeps the whole law yet offends in one point, the Bible says, is guilty of all. You wouldn't uh invite dinner guests to your home and then serve them a salad that you prepared with four fresh tomatoes and two rotten tomatoes. You wouldn't prepare a salad with the yeah, it's got four good tomatoes. You wouldn't put the rotten tomatoes on there too, with some rotten cucumbers and some rotten mushrooms and some wilted lettuce. You know that your guests would perceive it. One day soon you're going to stand before a holy God whose eyes are as a flame of fire. And you won't be asking him to explain himself. He will be asking you to explain yourself And I have no doubt that you've done some good things. Perhaps you support a child in uh Bangladesh. Maybe you've given to hurricane relief. Maybe you were kind to your hairdresser even when she botched your haircut. I have no doubt that the salad of your life contains some relatively wholesome, healthy ingredients that we would all call relatively good. But tossed into that salad, we would also find the wilted lettuce of ungratefulness and foul ingredients such as anger and hatred. Lust, deceit, selfishness, blasphemy, disrespect, discontentment, worry, stubbornness, bitterness, lack of love. Is that what you intend to offer to a holy God? Do you think he will not perceive those things? This is why the Bible says by the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. This is why the world is in such sad shape, and why according to John 3. 16 we are perishing. A British newspaper conducted an essay contest on the theme What's Wrong with the World? Many people wrote long essays, but the winner of the essay, I believe it was G. K. Chesterton. Here was his essay. The winner of the essay contest was G. K. Chesterton. Here's what he wrote. The question was, what's wrong with the world? Here was his essay, I am. I am. We're members of a rebellious race, and we sinned against the holy God, and what we deserve is his holy wrath in a place of judgment. Well, so much for the bad news. All this is the backdrop which must be in place before we can begin to appreciate the love of God as declared in John 3. 16. God so loved the world that he gave. He gave. What did he give? Billion dollars? Ton of gold? Bullion? All the wealth of the earth? All the wealth of the galaxy? All the wealth of the universe? No, something infinitely more valuable. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. His only begotten son. Who is this son? The prophet Micah said, his goings forth are from of old, from everlasting. Isaiah said, For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. He's called the anointed one, the Messiah. He's called Emmanuel, God with us. He said of himself, before Abraham was, I am. He said, he who has seen me has seen the Father. He's called the express image of God's person. What does it mean when it says God gave his son? God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That means he permitted him to leave the glory above. He allowed him to be born here through that miracle of the virgin birth to live here as a man. He sent him here to keep the law that we broke. He sent him here to provide the payment for the debt that we owe. He gave his son over to death and judgment. God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son. He that spared not his son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Romans 832. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation, the payment, the atonement for our sins. Hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us. The Son of Man came to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus referred to himself as the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep. God so loved the world. There's no greater love. What when God tested Abraham to see if he loved him supremely and trusted him implicitly, here's what he said to him. Take now your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love. And go into the land of Moriah and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains of which I will tell you. Let me speak to you, parents. We've got quite a few of you here. What's your loud little infants? If you had to save one thing, your house were on fire, and you had an opportunity to save all your possessions Do you have the opportunity to save your own life? Or you have the opportunity to save your child, which would you do? It's a no-brainer, isn't it? We all know what we would do. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Remember David's cry for his son Absalom, who was a rebellious son. Oh my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom, would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son. For whom would you sacrifice your son? Your daughter? For whom would you be willing to die, perhaps for a really good man or woman? Romans 5, 7-11 in a modern translation says, In human experience it's a rare thing for one man to give his life for another, even if the latter be a good man, though there have been a few who have had the courage to do it. Yet the proof of God's amazing love is this: that it was while we were sinners that Christ died for us. Christ has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. You remember how as Christ died, the sky grew dark, and Jesus cried out, Eli, Ali, Lama Salmatani, that's Aramaic, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He cried out in his anguish, in his agony. And we see there that what Jesus was feeling as the Father turned his face away from his own son and basically forsook him there upon the cross and allowed him to die alone and forsaken. That's what our sin deserves. That's what you deserve. That's what I deserve. That's what Jesus endured for us. Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? What wondrous love is this, O my soul? Could we with ink the ocean fill, and were the skies a parchment made? Were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by train? To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry, Nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. What in the world could possibly induce the father to treat his son that way? There's only one answer. It's love for you and love for me. Amen. Love for lost herb. Love for rebels Now why would the Father do this? Just to demonstrate his love? You think Jesus dying on the cross was just a demonstration of love? No, no, no. He did this that you should not perish. Jesus died as our substitute. He died as a ransom. He died as a sacrificial lamb. This is the great truth of the substitutionary atonement. I'm the one who deserved to die. The arrow of God's wrath was headed for me. Jesus intercepted it and said, Father, punish me and let him go free. I'm going to heaven not because of anything I've done, but because Jesus Christ has died in my place. God raised him from the dead as if to say, I have accepted the sacrifice. It's done. It's finished. It's paid. Now, how is that redemption appropriated by us? What does the verse say? God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever joins the church. Whoa. No, that's not let me go back here. I think I remembered it wrong. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever is baptized No wait God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever keeps the Ten Commandments, that whoever keeps my golden rule, no, no, no. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him Should not perish but have everlasting life. Believes in him. We're reading an English translation, of course. This was written in Greek. In the Greek it's pistuo, the little word pistuo, and it means to trust. Greek scholar W. E. Vine writes, it's to place confidence in, to trust, it signifies reliance upon, not mere credence. In other words, to believe in Jesus doesn't merely mean acknowledging in your head that there was a man named Jesus, that he existed. It's resting in him, relying upon him, trusting in him. I read a number of years ago a newspaper article about a man named Robert Dakich. Robert Dakich, D-A-K-I-C-H. He was the only passenger in a Cessna 210 that was piloted by his best friend. Well his best friend had a heart attack. As he was piloting the plane, he managed to take it off autopilot. But then Robert Dakich was left a passenger in a plane with a pilot who was incapacitated. I dare say that Mr. Dakic, who was not a pilot, by the way, believed in the existence of air traffic controllers before that day. He believed that such people existed, but that day he trusted in them. They talked him through a near-perfect landing. in Peoria, Illinois, the greater Peoria Airport. There's a great difference between believing that Jesus lived, died, rose again. We believe that as children. If we go to Sunday school, we hear it enough. We believe in our heads that Jesus lived, died, rose again. There's a great difference between believing that and trusting in this living person, the Lord Jesus Christ. Demons of hell believe that Jesus lived, died, and rose again. Satan believes, knows better than you do that Jesus lived, died, and rose again. He witnessed the whole thing. But he's not believing in Jesus in the sense of John 3:16. God so loved the world that gave his only begotten Son, and whoever believes in Him. Should not perish, but have ever. That's not just knowing facts in your head. You may be a member of this church or of some other. You may have known about Jesus since childhood. But the question is, in whom are you trusting to bring you to heaven? You intend to simply stand upon your own merits, stand upon your own record? Or have you fallen down before the risen Christ and acknowledged that you're a sinner in thought, word, and deed, and that even your best is nonetheless tainted by sin? Are you in that cockpit saying to yourself, yeah, I believe in air traffic controllers, but I'm gonna try to land this baby myself. I'm gonna switch off that radio Or do you realize that you cannot do it? And are you relying upon the one who can? Now what's the end result for those who repent and believe? Jesus said they will not perish. They will not perish. God will not demand double payment. He will not require the sacrifice of you and your Redeemer. He will not perish, but he will have everlasting life. What is that? What's involved in everlasting life? Well, lots of things. The peace of knowing that you're reconciled with God. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. What a blessing that is. God's not angry with me anymore. I have peace with God. I've thrown down my weapons. I have peace with God Knowing God is my heavenly father. As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him. Having the comfort of knowing that God is working in your life today. All things work together for good to them that love him. To them were the call according to his purpose. Knowing not only has God forgiven me, but he's begun to cleanse me. Sin shall not have dominion over you. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. The blessings of the Holy Spirit indwelling us, guiding, comforting, sustaining. God gives us a new love for his word. He gives us a new love for other believers. He gives us a compassion for those who don't yet know him. And yes, he gives us the assurance that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. All of that's involved in eternal life. Let me close with two stories. The first one, if you've heard it before, you'll remember it. Camp Commandant Rudolf Haas admitted after the war that at least two and a half million people were killed at Auschwitz, the Nazi concentration camp in southern Poland. But one man, Francisek Garyovnicek, survived with an amazing story to tell. It was July of 1941, and one of the inmates had escaped Well, it was the sadistic practice of the Nazis to kill ten prisoners for every one escapee. The commandant would order the prisoners into the courtyard and then select ten at random from the roll book. The tenth name that was called that day, or probably more accurately the tenth number that was called out, was Garyevnicek 's. As he heard his name called, word his number read, he began to sob, and he cried out in grief for his wife and his children. He was to be put into a cell without food or water until he died. That's how they would deal with these men. Suddenly there was movement among the prisoners. The dogs drew tense, the guards raised their rifles as a prisoner left his row and pushed his way to the front. He was Maximilian Colby, a Franciscan priest, who had only been in the camp about six months, but who had already been nicknamed the saint of Auschwitz for sharing his food, for giving up his bunk, for praying for his captors. Max Locato tells the rest of the story. No fear on his face, no hesitancy in his step, the capo shouts at him to stop or be shot I want to talk to the talk to the commander, he says calmly. For some reason the officer doesn't club him or kill him. Colvey stops a few paces from the commandant and removes his hat and looks the German officer in the eye. Herr Commandant, I wish to make a request, please. That no one shot him is a miracle, Luceto writes. I want to die in the place of this prisoner. He points at the sobbing Garyevnicek. The audacious request is presented without stammer. I have no wife and children. Besides, I am old and not good for anything. He is in better condition. Colby knew well the Nazi mentality. Who are you? the officer asked. A Catholic priest? The block is stunned. The commandant, uncharacteristically speechless, after a moment he barks, Request granted. Prisoners were never allowed to speak. Garyavnichek says, I could only thank him with my eyes. I was stunned. I could hardly grasp what was going on, the immensity of it. I, the condemned, am to live, and someone else willingly and voluntarily offers his life for me, a stranger. Is this some dream? Colby, the priest, died on August 14, 1941. Gar Yorbnicik survived the war and he made his way back to his hometown. But every year on August 14th, he would go back to Auschwitz to say thank you to the man who died in his place. And in his own yard, at his home, he placed a plaque carved with his own hands, a tribute to Maximilian Colby, the man who died, so he could live. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Christ died so you could live. But it may be that there are some here who are thinking, yeah, that's all fine. But God's never going to accept me. Pastor, you don't know what I've done. You don't know what I'm still doing. I've sinned too greatly for far too long. How do I know God's going to receive me? Well, the last story is for you The minister was riding on a train, and the only other occupant of the coach was a young man who seemed exceedingly ill at ease. He was sitting down, standing up, walking around, go from one seat to another, took up a book, dropped it again The minister went over, sat down beside him, and asked him what was wrong. At first the boy wouldn't answer, but at last the dam broke and he burst forth with a story. He said, I've run away from home. I've been away for a long time. I wanted to go back, and I wrote my father asking if he would take me back. I told him that I would not wait for a reply, but I would start for home. And that if he wants me back To hang a white rag on the crab apple tree near the railroad tracks so I could see it when the train goes by. If the white rag is not there, I'll understand and Go on by. We're getting near and I'm afraid. I'm afraid to look. I'm afraid that I'm afraid that white rag won't be there. The minister told the lad he didn't need to uh look that the minister would look for him. And the boy sat with his eyes closed, the hand of the minister resting on his knee, and as they drew near to where the tree was, the hand of the minister closed tight on the boy's knee as he said, My boy, there is a There is a white rag on every limb of that tree. Friend, God has tied white rags upon his son's empty cross. And he's calling upon you to come home. Come home, sinner. Come home. He's willing to receive you. God so loved the world. world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever, whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Let's pray. Oh God, drive this message home to every heart here. We pray for these precious little ones, these children, Lord. Open their eyes, give them faith. We pray for those who've known you for many years, that they might be established in your truth. Rejoice in the gospel afresh. We pray for those who think that they're not worthy, those who think they've so sinned that you won't receive them, those who've been trusting in their own merits. Lord, bring your sheep into your fold this day. May there be rejoicing in the presence of the angels over sinners who repent. We ask it in Jesus' powerful name. Amen.