Amen. Thank you, man. And as you turn in your Bibles to uh Matthew chapter one, we'll uh Dismiss the little ones for the wonders of worship program downstairs. And uh a couple other things to mention. As you turn there, uh you may have seen these uh flyers uh on on the tables there's one uh there uh there's a stack in the back uh the old sanctuary and a stack in the back of the uh main sanctuary and uh And uh this has uh a gospel message uh printed here in the form of a Christmas tree, and on the other side uh an invitation to our worship services and particularly the candlelight service. This is a great thing if you want to just canvas your neighborhood and uh you can drop these off in the newspaper boxes, you can slip them inside folks' doors, you can hand them out to friends. Uh it's a clear gospel message and an invitation to worship with us. So please uh pick some up as you leave today. Also uh something I didn't mention when I gave that Chilton announcement earlier, uh I I don't believe that that delivery has to be made any time soon. I think Lori said uh there's plenty of time for that. You don't they don't need them there immediately. So if you're planning a trip to North Carolina any time in the next several months, is that any Before February. Before February. Okay, okay. Thanks. So anytime in January then, uh maybe you could help them out with that. Uh one more thing. I think the gathering is meeting tonight doing some Christmas caroling. Is that right? It's tonight tonight or did you do it last night? Last night, which is not tonight. Right. Okay. But you are doing you're there's a party next week, I know, I'm aware of that. That's gonna be at our house, so we'll get the date right on that. That's next Sunday night I think That's the gathering of college and post-college young people. Alrighty, if you have your Bible open to Matthew chapter 1, let's uh begin at verse 18 and read through the end of the chapter. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary, your wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife And did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son. And he called his name Jesus. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord , we thank you so much for the precious gift of Christ. And this time of the year when we can focus our attention upon his birth. Lord, speak to us now through your holy word. And I pray, especially if there be anyone here this day outside of Christ, anyone still dead in trespasses and sins May this be the day of salvation for that one. Use your word in hearts, accomplish eternal things. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. This world, as you know, is replete with wonders. Wonders wrought by God. Immense mountain ranges, vast oceans full of remarkable creatures, expansive deserts, dark forests Jungles teeming with life, powerful volcanoes, and above us innumerable stars and planets, heavenly bodies of incredible beauty and of unique design. But surely the greatest of all God's wonders is that the infinite, eternal, sovereign creator of all things, of the entire universe Should assume human flesh and live here with us for a time. You shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. This is the greatest wonder the world has ever seen or ever will see. We can't possibly grasp the full significance of this. We can conceive of no parallel, no analogy satisfies. We could imagine a colony of ants in danger of destruction from an impending event unknown to them, and we could imagine a man becoming one of them to warn them and offer them deliverance. We could perhaps imagine a man becoming as vulnerable as an ant in order to save the ants, but both man and ant are created beings. There's indeed a great gap between us, but it is not an infinite gap. However, for God to become man To tabernacle among us, the eternal amongst the mortal, the infinite amongst the finite, the independent amongst the dependent, the holy amongst the Depraved, surely this is the great wonder of this world. The apostle said, In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. You may have heard me say that say that a follower of Plato was so struck with the majesty of this statement that He said the opening words of John's gospel should be written in gold on every church building. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And the word became flesh and tabernacled among us. If Satan can cause confusion in people's minds as to who Jesus really is. He can successfully keep them in darkness. It's on this doctrine that Satan has launched his most vicious attack. The God of this age, since Christ came, has been raising doubts about his true nature. Was he really God in the flesh? Or was he merely a created being? In our day, the effort of the deceiver is manifested in what we what's commonly called the search for the historical Jesus. Seems like every year in November or December, there's a cover story on a major magazine about the search for the historical Jesus. Programs are presented on the National Geographic Channel or the Discovery Channel or the History Channel of the search for the historic Jesus. And there's nothing wrong. With searching for the historical Jesus, if that search is entered into honestly, without preconceptions, preconceptions which of necessity rule out any historical testimony to supernatural events But think about it, if every eyewitness account is rejected, if it includes anything that we cannot explain by natural causes , then the historical Jesus that we find will be much different than the Jesus who actually lived in Palestine in the first century. Satan has been so successful at this ploy of casting doubt on Christ's deity that I suspect that even many professing believers do not have a clear view of the person of Christ. I've noted before that Christian pollster George Barna asked Americans if they subscribe to the following statement on Christ's divinity. Quote: Jesus Christ was a man. but was divine in the sense that God worked through him. He was the Son of God. Now, how would you respond to such a statement? Was Jesus divine, not in the sense that he was God in the flesh, but merely in the sense that God worked through him? Well, 57% of Roman Catholics and 63% of Protestants who were surveyed agreed with that statement. Now, Barnum muddied the waters somewhat by including that last sentence. He was the Son of God. But I think his intention was to try to discern How discerning professing believers actually are in matters of great theological importance. You see, to agree with that declaration is to agree with all of it If most of those who say they are Christians agree with such an unclear assertion, it suggests that the majority of us have hazy views. Of the nature of Christ, the person of Christ. A young man in the church that I served in Tennessee went off to study law at the University of North Carolina. He came back to the church and mentioned to me that uh in a Bible study there. As they were talking about Jesus, he he mentioned in passing the deity of Christ. And he said the people in the Bible study looked at him like he was from another planet. They never heard of such a thing. The deity of Christ And so he spent the rest of the Bible study expanding on that through Scripture, showing them through the Old Testament and New Testament how Christ is not just man, but God in the flesh. I wonder, Christian, if you would be able to uh to lead a Bible study on that subject Well, John chapter 1 is not a bad place to start. In the beginning, before all time, before all created things, was the Lagos, the Word. As Jameson, Fawcett, and Brown in their commentary put it, what a man's word is to himself, the manifestation or expression of himself to others, Such, in some sense, is the word in relation to God. The word was with God. Jameson Fawcett and Brown again. He had a conscious personal existence distinct from God. And he was associated with him in fellowship. And the word was God. Quoting again, no other translation of this great clause is grammatically possible. Thus the word is eternal. The word is consciously and personally distinct from and associated with the Father But this is not a distinction of two different beings, as if there were a plurality of gods, but of two subsistences in the one absolute Godhead. Now, because there's so much at stake in a proper understanding of this great truth, let's take a few minutes and review just a small portion of the biblical testimony of Christ's deity. Maybe helpful here to take notes. How important is this? Those who study cults tell us that young people who've been raised in Christian churches, but who are not sure what they believe about Jesus particularly about his deity, are prime candidates to be recruited into a cult. Because all cults have, as a common denominator, unbiblical views of Jesus. First of all, note this. The scripture is crystal clear that there is but one true God. And we're told in Scripture, throughout Scripture, to place our ultimate confidence in Him alone, not in other so-called gods. I am the Lord thy God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Literally before my face. Exodus 20. Deuteronomy 6. 4, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one Secondly, we're not to place our confidence in any mere man, not in any other God, certainly, not in any mere man. Jeremiah 17:5. Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength. Isaiah speaks of man whose breath is in his nostrils, and he asks, of what account is he? Isaiah 2, 22 Jehovah says, I am God and there is no other. Isaiah forty-six nine. Yet The scriptures of the Old and New Testament both require us to rest our ultimate confidence in the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalm 2. Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. Wait a minute, we're not to put our trust in any other God, and we're certainly not to put our trust in man, and yet the scripture says, Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. We saw that Jeremiah 17:5 tells us, cursed is the man who trusts in man. Yet Psalm 2 pronounces a curse upon those who don't trust in the Son, and it pronounces a blessing upon those who do. Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Jesus said, He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. John 5, 23. And then the works that are clearly ascribed to God alone. Are likewise ascribed to the Lord Jesus. Creation. I am the Lord, and there is no other. I form the light and create darkness. I the Lord do all these things. Isaiah 45, 6 and 7. And yet we read of the Lord Jesus, God's incarnate word. All things were made by him, or all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. John 1. 3. Salvation is ascribed to Jehovah alone. Jehovah is the one who saves Isaiah 45, 22, look to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. And yet we read in Acts chapter four, Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man stands here before you whole. This is the stone which was rejected by you builders, which has become the chief cornerstone. Nor is there salvation in any other For there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Jehovah says in Isaiah 45: Look to me and be saved. I am God, and there is no other. The Apostle Peter says in Acts 4, there's salvation in no one other than the Lord Jesus. Listen to Isaiah 43, verses 10 to 11. You are my witnesses, says the Lord, and my servant, whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed. Nor shall there ever be after me. I even I am the Lord Jehovah. And besides me, there is no Savior. Yet what does the angel of the Lord say to Joseph? Mary will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Yahshua, Jehovah saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. Matthew 121. Jehovah says in Isaiah forty-three, I am Jehovah, and beside me there's no Savior. Yet we read, You shall call his name Jehovah saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. It's God's prerogative to judge men, and every knee will one day bow before him. Isaiah 45, 23, I've sworn by myself that to me, Jehovah, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall take an oath. And yet we read, at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Philippians 2, 10 and 11. And Paul says, we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Romans 14. 10. Jehovah is described as the shepherd of the flock of believers. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock, Psalm 80, verse 1. And yet Jesus is described as our Lord Jesus Christ, that great shepherd of the sheep. It is Jehovah's prerogative to forgive sins and his alone. Insofar as all sin is ultimately directed at him. The Lord is merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. Exodus 34, 6 and 7. Yet Jesus demonstrates the authority to forgive sins. Mark 2:5, to the paralyzed man brought to Jesus by his persistent friends, Jesus said, Son, your sins are forgiven you. Your sins are forgiven you. Some of the scribes sitting nearby recognize this immediately as a blasphemous statement, if indeed Jesus was not God in the flesh. Why does this man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone? Well, they were right about that, given their presupposition that Jesus was not divine. Their reasoning was sound. Jehovah not only created the world, the scripture says he preserves the world. You alone are the Lord, Jehovah, you have made heaven, the heaven of heavens. With all their hosts, the earth and everything on it, the seas and all that is in them, and you preserve them all. Nehemiah 9:6 And yet we read of the Lord Jesus that in him all things consist, that is, hold together. In him all things hold together. Colossians 1. 17. So the works that are clearly ascribed to Jehovah, the one true God Who will not share his glory with another are just as clearly ascribed to the Lord Jesus Christ, Emmanuel, God, with us. Works like creation, salvation, judgment, forgiving sin, shepherding his people, preserving the world. And then the attributes and characteristics which are ascribed to God alone. Are likewise ascribed to Jesus. Is God eternal? From everlasting to everlasting, thou art God, Psalm 90, verse 2 Micah 5. 2 describes the Messiah as he whose goings forth have been from old, from everlasting. We read in John 1, in the beginning was the word. And Jesus said, Before Abraham was, I am. John chapter 8, verse 58. Is God omnipresent? That is, is he not localized in space as we are? Where shall I go from your spirit? Where shall I flee from your presence? Psalm 139. Jesus told his apostles after his resurrection: Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. How is that possible? It's no mere man. Matthew twenty-eight, verse twenty Is God unchangeable? I am Jehovah. I change not. Malachi 3:6. Yet we read of Jesus that he is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Hebrews 13:8. Is God all powerful? I am the Almighty God. Genesis 17:1. We see Jesus say of himself I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, who is, who was, and who is to come, the Almighty. Revelation 1:8. Is God infinitely good and holy? Matthew 19:17, there is none good but one, that is God. There is none holy as Jehovah. 1 Samuel 2 2, there is none holy as Jehovah. Jesus said, I am the good shepherd, John 10, 11. He's called the Holy One and the just, Acts 3. 14. And then the deity of Christ is supported by Christ's willingness to receive worship, which would have been an act of idolatry if he knew himself to be anything less than God in the flesh. Matthew 8:2. And behold, a leper came and worshipped him. Matthew 9. 18, a ruler came and worshipped him. He was worshipped by his disciples after he stilled the storm on the Sea of Galilee. Matthew 14, 33, then those who were with him in the boat came and worshipped him, saying, Truly, you are the Son of God. He was worshipped by a woman from the city of Tyre in Matthew 15, 25. He was worshipped by the Apostle Thomas after the resurrection. And they answered and said to him, and Thomas answered and said to Jesus, My Lord and my God. John 20, 28. And then Christ's deity is evidenced by his pre-incarnate appearances. That means his appearances on earth before he was born of Mary. Compare Isaiah 6, verses 1 through 10, that is Isaiah's vision of Jehovah in glory, where his train filled the temple, remember? Compare that with the words of John. These things Isaiah said when he saw his glory and spoke of him. Referring to Jesus, John 12, 41. Before Abraham was, I am. Abraham rejoiced to see my day, Jesus said, and he saw it and was glad. And then we have those express declarations in Scripture affirming Christ's deity. Romans 9. 5 says, Christ is over all the eternally blessed God. Amen. Colossians 2. 9, in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. All the fullness of the Godhead bodily. In his letter to Titus, the Apostle Paul speaks of the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Colossians 2. 3. 13 And Peter speaks of, quote, the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. 2 Peter 1:1. And Jesus said, He who has seen me has seen the Father. John 14, 9. And Paul urged the elders of the city of Ephesus to carefully shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. Wasn't the blood of a mere man? The blood of a mere man could not purchase us, couldn't purchase the church of God. Shepherd, the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. The truth is, if Jesus were not God, the Scriptures themselves would be blasphemous For they declare there's one God, one Savior, who will not give his glory to another, one who is eternal, unchangeable, all-powerful, all-knowing. One who is the creator, the judge, the holy one, the shepherd, the most high king, the giver of everlasting life, the comforter, the sustainer, the provider, the forgiver of sins. And every single one of those offices or attributes of the one true God is ascribed to the Lord Jesus Christ, Emmanuel, God with us. And so the church has recognized the Lord Jesus to be both God and man in two distinct natures and one person forever. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. What does it mean that God is with us? What does it mean to us that God is with us? Listen to the words of Charles Spurgeon as he preached on this text. The very essence and glory of the incarnation is that he was God who was veiled in human flesh. If it had been any lesser being who had come to us in human flesh, I see nothing very remarkable in it, nothing comforting, certainly. That an angel should become man is a matter of no great consequence to me. That some other superior being should assume the nature of man brings no joy to my heart, opens no well of consolation in me But God with us is an exquisite delight. God with us, all that God means, the deity, the infinite Jehovah with us. This this is worthy of the burst of midnight song when angels startled the shepherds with her carol, singing, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will to men. This was worthy of the foresight of seers and prophets Worthy of a new star in the heavens, worthy of the care which inspiration has manifested to preserve the record. This too was worthy of the martyred deaths of apostles and confessors. Who counted not their lives dear unto them for the sake of the incarnate God. And this, my brethren, is worthy at this day of your most earnest endeavors to spread the glad tidings worthy of a holy life to illustrate its blessed influences and worthy of a joyful death to prove its consoling power Here is the first truth of our holy faith. Without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. He who was born at Bethlehem is God and God with us. God, there lies the majesty. God with us. There lies the mercy. God, therein is glory. God with us therein is grace. God alone might well strike us with terror, but God with us Inspires us with hope and confidence. Take my text as a whole and carry it in your bosoms as a bundle of sweet spices to perfume your hearts with peace and joy. May the Holy Spirit open to you the truth and the truth to you I would joyfully say to you, in the words of one of our poets, veiled in flesh that God had seen, hail the incarnate deity. Pleased as man with men to appear, Jesus, our Emmanuel, here. Meditate for a few moments now upon the condescension involved in God inhabiting human flesh. I can't phrase it any better than Spurgeon did. I'm going to quote him again. He says it would have been a great condescension for the infinite and incomprehensible Jehovah to have taken upon himself the nature of some noble spiritual being, such as a seraph or a cherub The union of the divine with the created spirit would have been an unmeasurable stoop. But for God to be one with man is far more. Remember that in the person of Christ manhood was not merely quickening spirit, but also suffering, hungering, dying flesh and blood There was taken to himself by our Lord all that materialism which makes up a b all that materialism which makes up a body. And a body is, after all, but the dust of the earth, a structure fashioned from the materials around us. There's nothing in our bodily frame but what is to be found in the substance of the earth on which we live. We feed upon that which grows out of the earth, and when we die, we go back to the dust from whence we were taken. Is not this a strange thing that the grosser part of creation, this meaner part, this dust of it should nevertheless be taken into union with that pure, marvelous, incomprehensible divine being of whom we know so little and can comprehend nothing at all. Oh, the condescension of it. I leave it to the meditations of your quiet moments. Dwell on it with awe. I'm persuaded that no man has any idea how wonderful a stoop it was for God thus to dwell in human flesh and to be God with us It would have been a simple thing, altogether consistent with God's justice, if God had not become flesh and dwelt among us. After all, we had broken his laws, we'd rejected his love, slain his prophets. Developed gods of our own imaginations. There wasn't any compelling reason why he should become man except love. That's it And yet there may be some here who have thus far spurned that love. Christmas for you is not a time to celebrate the birth of your Savior, it's simply a time to shell out a lot of money for gifts Time to get together with family, it's time to overeat. Perhaps an excuse to overdrink. The Lord left the majesty of heaven to take upon himself human flesh. Think about that. He left the majesty of heaven to take upon himself human flesh. He was born in humble circumstances. How many here were born in a in a barn? Born with animals around, placed in a manger. Anyone else? Born in humble circumstances, into a poor family, and then he was subject to Mary and Joseph. He labored with his hands. When he began his ministry, he endured the rejection of many of his countrymen. He underwent the torture and trauma and humiliation, a public execution, drinking in full the cup of divine wrath that the Father had given him to drink. The Father treated him as if he were a sinner, laying upon him the sins of all believers in all the ages. What more could he do for you, sinner? Can you not see that God has extended to you an olive branch? Is it nothing to you, O ye that pass by? Behold, if there be sorrow like unto his sorrow You've rebelled against your creator, your heavenly father, your Lord, your master. You've committed high treason against the King of all kings And for that treason and innumerable other crimes, you've received the just sentence of death. But the king has offered you a full and complete pardon. The king has offered you a full and complete pardon on the basis of the substitutionary death of his own son, the king's own son. Who said in effect, Father, punish me and let that rebel go free? Will you now scorn that gracious offer of pardon purchased at such a great cost? I pray that rather you'll throw down your weapons of rebellion and cast yourself upon the mercy of your king. The king who says, Come now and let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool Dr. David Jeremiah's ministry Turning Points cited last week the account of a man, George Mason, a banker who inadvertently locked himself in his bank vault on Christmas Eve. He didn't get out until the morning after Christmas, when the door automatically swung open. As the account goes, what bothered him most was that nobody had missed him. He had been so detached from Christmas preparations that not a single person had noticed his absence It is said that he resolved at that point to never miss Christmas again. Perhaps you are in danger of missing Christmas. And what is far worse, in danger of missing Christ and forgiveness and everlasting life and the peace and joy that Christ brings. Because you're locked in a vault that has been built over many years A vault constructed of selfishness and pride and works righteousness and self-delusion. That vault will not automatically open for you. But there is a code that you can enter. I think I hear it beeping now. A code written in the blood of God's own dear son. Cry out to him, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I believe that Jesus is God with us, Emmanuel, and I trust him alone as my Lord and my Savior You come to God that way. You pray that prayer and meet it in your heart. God, I I I let go of everything I've been trusting in all my life. All my own efforts, all my own self-righteousness. I let it all go. I see it as filthy rags. And I lay hold upon Jesus alone. God saved me for Jesus' sake. I get it now. I see what he did. He came here, he lived the perfect life I couldn't live. And then he went to the cross and he paid the debt that I deserved to pay. He said, Father, punish me and let them go free. Lord, save me. Give me this gift of eternal life. I don't want to miss Christmas. I don't want to miss Christ. I don't want to miss the purpose for life. God have mercy upon this soul. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer. On the authority of God's word, I declare to you: all your sins will be forgiven. Past, present, future, God will give you this precious gift of everlasting life. Why spend another Christmas? Why spend another vault uh hour in a vault of your own devices? Jesus said, I am come that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. That vault opened for me in December of 1971. I pray it will open for you even this day. Now, closing word to believers, think about this. God is with you. God is with you. God is with you. He's with you because he's for you. And he's for you because he's for you, he says. Who could stand against you? God is with you. What joy that you give us. What boldness. God is with you. God's with you in your trials. God's with you in your sorrows. God's with you in your pain. He's with you in your grief. He's with you in your fear. He's with you in your loneliness He's with you in your test. God is with you God before us, who can stand against us? What do we have to fear? The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? Amen? Jesus said to his apostles before the crucifixion, I will not leave you orphans, I will come to you. They were John Wesley's dying words, and they remain for us words to live by. The best of all is God is with us. Let's pray. Oh Father, what a wonderful thing it is that you did. What a wonderful plan it was. You could have left us in our sin. You could have written off the entire planet. But your love for us was so great. Your love for these creatures made in your own image that you provided a way, a costly way. A priceless way, but a way for us to be forgiven. Lord, I pray for those who might be here right now Who still have not bowed the knee to Christ. Lord, may this be the day of salvation for them. Draw them by your Spirit. Raise them up to new life in Christ You can do this, Lord. You are the one with all power and majesty and glory. Lord, do it we ask. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Please stand with me.