Oh Lord, we know that your word is holy and true and powerful, but we know that this preacher is sinful and these people are sinful, and yet we want Want to get this holy, pure message through. I pray that your Holy Spirit would allow that to happen this morning. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Name. Amen. Hosea eleven, one. When Israel was a child, I loved him. And after Out of Egypt I called my son. The more they were called, the more they went away. They kept sacrificing to the Baalfs and burning Burning offerings to idols. Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk. I took them up by their arms. But they did not know that I healed them. I led them with cords of kindness, with bands of love, and I became to them as one who eases the yoke on their jaws, and I bent down To them and fed them. They shall not return to the land of Egypt, but Assyria shall be their king, because they have refused to return to me The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them because of their own counsels. People are bent on turning away from me. And though they call out to the Most High, he shall not raise them up at all. How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? How can I make you like Adma? How can I treat you like Zeboim? My heart recoils within me. My my comp passion grows warm and tender. I will not execute my burning anger. I will not again destroy Ephraim. For I am God and not a man, the holy one in your midst, and I will not come in wrath. They shall go after the Lord. He will roar like a lion. And when he roars, his children shall come trembling from the west. And I will return them to their homes, declares the Lord. Ephraim has surrounded me with Lies and the house of Israel with deceit. But Judah still walks with God and is faithful to the Holy One. Ephraim feeds on the wind and pursues the east wind all day long. They multiply Falsehood and violence. They make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried to Egypt. Amen. Little children, do your parents love you? How can you tell? What if you've disobeyed? What if they have a mad face on and maybe they're even yelling? What if you've done some really bad things and Then your parent calls you to come, would you go to them even if you knew you were going to be disciplined? Let me tell you a story. Once upon a time, there was a very little boy, and he loved animals. The bigger the animal, the more dangerous the animal. The more he loved it. And one day, while he was playing by himself in the backyard, he happened to see a venomous snake in the grass. And he thought, Thought, I love playing with venomous snakes. And so he started playing with his venomous snake with a stick. And then he looked out into the field behind his backyard and he saw a coyote. And he said, Oh, I want to play with that coyote too. And so he opened his gate and let the coyote come into his backyard. And the coyote came in thinking, that's a very little boy. I think that I could take him off and eat him up. But then when the coyote came into the backyard, he saw the snake. And the coyote The coyote started growling at the snake, and the snake started hissing at the coyote. And the father, who at this point up to this point had been distracted by his iPhone, um, looked up and saw and heard this hissing and this growling. And he started yelling at the little boy to come in. And at this and then the the dad grabbed a bat and started yelling, come in, come in. And at this point the little boy saw His dad, and he saw his dad yelling, and he saw his dad waving a bat, and he remembered that his dad had explicitly Said not to play with coyotes or venomous snakes. And then the little boy felt guilty for doing so. And the little boy began to think, Maybe dad's angry with me. And maybe the bat is for me. And so between A coyote and a snake and a bat-wielding dad, the little boy decided to take his chances with the snake and the coyote. And at this point in the story, we have to push pause and observe and rearrange. And uh you have the little boy not listening to his father, and you have the coyote and the snake. The coyote contemplating eating the little boy, and you have an angry father urgently calling to his son. And some of you may be thinking. If I was that father, I would just rush out there and grab the boy. But what if the boy did this every afternoon? Until he was a teenager. Even an old man, never listening to his father's call, and every time his father going out there and getting it. The father could easily grab the boy out of danger. But what if he He'd already done it a hundred times already, a thousand times. And the boy was obstinately disobedient and rebellious in the face of loving care over and over again. That story might sound a little crazy to you, but that's as crazy as the story of Israel is. They have Been rebelling against God the Father, and they had been obstinate in their sin. Israel was God's child, but Israel had decided to try to ally with Egypt and then to try to ally With Assyria and then Egypt again, trying to play these pagan neighbors off each other. And God kept calling them back to Himself through prophets, like Hosea. But they They never listened. They were obstinate in their sin. The situation that God's Word is speaking into today is obstinate, rebellious sin. How does the Lord deal with obstinate rebellious sin? We're interested in that answer for several reasons. One, if I'm being obstinate in my sin, what kind of treatment can I expect? From the Lord. Two, how should I deal with someone else who's obstinate in their sin towards me? And three, I see so many people being obstinate in their sin. Against God, what will God do to non-Christians? And the answer to all three is the same: kindness and severity. Kindness and severity. Here's my main point today. Because of the kindness and severity of God, we should come trembling before the Lord. Because of God's kindness. We have no excuse to persist in our sin and refuse to come to Him. Because of God's severity, there is great danger in persisting in our sin. Point number one. The Lord has been a gentle father. Look at verses one through four. When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. The Lord speaks of his relationship with his people as a father to a beloved son. Hosea has been describing the relationship like a husband to a wife. And now he adds the sweet metaphor of a father with a son. And God said he loved Israel. How should we understand Israel there? It means the people of God, specifically the metaphor of Northern Kingdom. God loved his people and he saw them in their affliction in Egypt. And he called and empowered them and personally led them out of Egypt. If that's what he's talking about, why then does Matthew in the New Testament apply this passage to Jesus? In Matthew 2 Because Jesus is the true Israel. Jesus acts out the whole story of Israel in his own life story as it should have been. He fled from oppression in Canaan. He resided in Egypt, then came back to Galilee to dwell in the midst of the nations. But where Israel as a nation kept sacrificing to other gods, Jesus True Israel was the sacrifice to bring us close to God. Jesus personified Israel so as to redeem a remnant of the people of Israel. Verse number two. The more they were called, the more they went away. The people of Israel were like a rebellious child that roams further away when called instead of coming near. If you've ever been in rebellion, you know how this goes. You don't merely want to do what's wrong. You want to be out of earshot, out of contact, out of sight of those who might hold you accountable. You know, your parent is calling you and you're like, can't hear you. Keep doing this rebellious thing over here and walk further away. And that's the relationship between God and it Israel at this point. 's If you are in rebellion against God right now, hear his call to come back to him. Instead of rebellion Resolving to go further and further away from God, church, Christians, come back to Him. He's calling you. He is tender. He is kind Kind, he is loving. Come back. Look at verses three and four. Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk. I took God is like the father who teaches his child to walk. That's tender, that's caring, that's time-consuming. It requires patience. It's intimate. It requires gentle encouragement, failing forward. I took them up by their arms. I can only I can you can just picture God with a child by the Their arms. God is picturing for us playing with a child, holding them by the arms. That's how He's been with His people. That's how He's been with us. Gentle, kind, patient. And that's the kind of God that some of you are refusing to come back to. Really? They did not know that I healed them. Who here has had surgery before? And they've put you out, right? They put you to sleep and the doctors go to work on you, and it's Possible that you have no idea who is the one that that did that surgery that healed you. They would know you by looking at you, but you wouldn't necessarily know them by looking at them. So it was with Israel. God had healed her, but she didn't recognize that it was the Lord. And so she kept going to other nations and thanking them and going to other nations and looking for For help from them, not realizing that it was God who healed her over and over again. I led them, verse four, with cords of kindness, with bands. Of love, i. e. the yoke. The Lord switches his metaphor here to a farmer with an animal, but maintains the gentle spirit. Now rebels are very sensitive about any type of cord, band, or yoke. Any sort of constraining, directing, control. Is rebelled against. But what if the chords were chords of kindness? What if the bands were bands of love? Would it not be foolish to cut them? What if the cords were to tie you to a place of safety? What if the bands were to bind up a broken limb that needed rest? What if the yoke was so that you'd stay by your partner and be effective in your work. The Lord is almost overly gentle here. I ease the yoke on their jaws. Farmers might be tempted to To think you loose the yoke, you lose the control. The oxen might get free or injured. But God leads his people in such a gentle, pastoral husbandry. It's uh it's football season, if you didn't know. Um and uh I've been watching some football and one of the first things I always see the football players do, as soon as the play is over, what do they do? They they loose the strap on their helmet. They tie it really tight and then they loosen it as soon as they can. God is saying, I'm like that loosening. I want to To loosen the bonds on you. He's like the one who loosens the strain, not tightens the strain. God says, I bent down to feed them. Who here can uh can appreciate having to bend down sometimes? Okay, and how hard that is. But you actually don't have very far to go. And you don't frequently, hopefully, have a sinful mess to feed. But God has a far way to go. And a messy, ungrateful eater. Yes, that that's what he does. That's who he is. He is a humble provider. And there's no great Greater place than we see his humble providence than on the cross. How much further can you stoop than to a criminal's crucifixion? How much messier can you You get than a bloody, torn, and pierced back, head, hands, and feet. As God deals with his rebellious son, listen to How sweetly he reminds them of how he's been with them. Not just what he's done, but how he views what he's done. God didn't do this because he had to. He did this because Because he chose to in love. If you are a rebel that God has brought back to himself and you're dealing with another rebel. Remind them, sweetly, gently, how you've loved them. By God's grace, it will be a tool in the Holy Spirit's hands to Melt a stony heart, but it is not guaranteed. Point number two, verses five through seven. Because Israel won't return, God won't raise them. Because his people won't return, God won't raise them. Israel does not Heed God's call because they refused to heed God's call. Therefore, God allows Assyria to decimate his own people, his beloved son, to be ravaged, burnt, destroyed. Dismembered. Why? Because of their own counsels. Rebels, in moments of clarity, will ponder: why am I in such a bad place? Why am I so broken down? The temptation is to heap the blame upon the Lord. The Lord's done this. Because he hates me. He's got all these stuff. Superficial rules that keep me from doing what I know is good and enjoyable and what I have a right to do. The Lord gives insight into rebellion here. And the reason why Israel Why any rebellion against the Lord is in such a bad situation is because of listening to foolish counsel, usually from fools very similar to oneself. But Isn't God supposed to be gracious? Why doesn't He just save them again? He has been gracious to Israel for hundreds of years and given hundreds Of warnings, and he allows Israel to have the consequences of her actions. But look at verse 7. They called out to God. And he didn't raise them out of their predicament. Well, what more were they supposed to do? They called to God. But for what? Why? It isn't faith. It isn't love, it isn't repentance when you only call out to God in a time of trouble. And when all you want from Him is relief, you don't really want Him. And he can see that. And he will let folks eventually have the consequences of their actions. How should we think of God? Is he mean to say, though they call, I won't raise them? Is he abandoning his people to let them be taken into captivity by Assyria? No. It is arrogant and hypocritical to stand in judgment of God for his so-called lack of mercy. Those that look down on God for his justice and wrath will one day be judged by their own unmerciful actions towards their opponents. How should we respond to rebels? It is okay to eventually let rebels have the consequences of their actions. Be merciful. Be hundreds of years merciful if you can be. But let no one accuse you because you choose not to bail out someone for the 131st time. And they're going to want to accuse. But let no one accuse God of being unmerciful merely because he is also just. How does this apply to us? If you are in rebellion against God, he may have rescued you more times than you can count. But do not presume Zoom upon his grace. The next time may be the time when he allows you, like Israel, to be disciplined by the consequences of your sin. I'm preaching to myself here. Let us presume upon God's grace and kindness no longer. Let us put Put away false gods, false hopes, vain pleasures from us, and turn our hearts exclusively to the Lord. He is not safe, yet it is more dangerous to live apart from him than to live with him. There are some who fear to return to the Lord because they know Him to be a God not only of mercy but also of justice. Rightly do you You fear, but come to him, trembling if you will, but come to him, because he has poured out all his wrath for sinners on his one and only Son, Jesus. Purchasing us a place within God's house. Come back to Him. The wages for sin is death, but that has been paid for by Christ. Hallelujah. For those of you dealing with obstinate rebellion between you and the Lord, determine when you will allow rebellion to have its consequences and when you will no longer Save out of adversity. As we follow God, He remakes us in His image. His image is one of graciousness and holiness. And we must reflect both in our dealings. Point number three, because of his gracious character, God will have mercy. Look at verses eight through nine. How can I give you up? How can I hand you over? See the emotional anguish the Lord endures to be in a loving relationship with sinners. God is not saying He won't give them over to the oppressors, but Rather that it pains him. How can I treat you like Adma and Zeboim? But these were neighboring cities of Sodom and Gomorrah destroyed similarly to them. My heart recoils within me, my compassion grows warm and tender. This is the language of our God. This is not the language of many For some of us, God's wrath is incomprehensible. For some of us, it's his mercy. Listen to this emotional language he uses in reference To his relationship with the sinful, rebellious people that have rebelled against him for hundreds of years. My heart, warm and tender, behold the kindness And the severity of God. Do we speak in such a way to those who have rejected us over and over again? Here then is an encouragement for you and your kindness When you have a rebellious child, a rebellious spouse or worker, remember how tenderly and patiently God has been with his people in their rebellion. Go and do likewise Speak tenderly. I will not execute my burning anger. God has burning anger and every right to have it with Israel, with us. We have transgressed his holy right and good law. But he says he will not execute it. Didn't he execute it on Ephraim? When they were taken away into captivity by Assyria? Apparently not. Allowing Ephraim to be taken captive is different than destruction. Destruction is Sodom and Gomorrah. Total annihilation. What the Israelites were supposed to have done to the Canaanites. But God is merciful. Though they deserve destruction, He gave them a timeout. For seventy years. He says, I am God and not a man, the holy one in your midst, among you, and I will not come in Agitation. Has this scripture not been fulfilled in Jesus? Jesus was God and man among his people, yet holy. And did he come with a sword, a war house, a horse, and an Angelic army? Not that time. He came in peace, riding on a donkey, and he came to offer the wonderful good news of peace to all who want to hear it. So come now, while he may be found, come to God whilst God has come in peace. For a time is coming when he will come to execute his burning Burning anger. He will come to destroy. According to Revelation, the people will ask that the hills would cover them. So great will be his wrath. And look what stayed God's hand. I am God and not a man. Because of God's own gracious character, he didn't come in wrath. Sometimes folks are. Are tempted to think just the opposite. Man is merciful and God is wrathful. But God is merciful and man full of wrath, except he be gentle by the redeeming love of Christ. Point number four. God will bring his people back with power after punishment. God will bring his people back with power after punishment. God likens himself to a roaring lion and his people to trembling birds who come, follow him back to their nest. His people shall return from Assyria, from Egypt. Where some from Judah ended up, and from the west, which means the sea. In a certain limited sense, this prophecy was fulfilled under Cyrus when Cyrus I Persian decreed that the Jews might return to their homeland after seventy years in exile. This is the story of Ezra and Nehemiah returning to rebuild Jerusalem in the temple. Studied this summer, so few returned. Even when God called them to return, even when He allowed them to return, even when their pagan ruler told them to return and finance their return. But the real roar went out with the gospel proclamation in the New Testament stories of the apostles. They preached the gospel in a secret. Syria and beyond, in Egypt and beyond, and certainly across the seas. That work, that gospel call continues this day. Hear the Lion of Judah roaring from the pages of Scripture this Morning. He is calling all men everywhere to repent. Come trembling before him, and he will give you a home. Hallelujah. The home he now gives you. To his people is not a physical place. It is neither a house nor a state. It is a spiritual home in heaven. And we are offered a foretaste of that heavenly home. Each time we gather together in corporate worship on the Lord's Day, the day of resurrection. In heaven, people from every language, tribe, and race will join singing to the Lord. There will be neither sun nor moon, for the Lord Himself Will be our light. On Sundays we gather here urban folks, rural folks, white folks, black folks, young people, old people, English speakers Non-English speakers, and we come together to worship the Lord. We lift him up as the lamb who was slain. He is glorious in his majesty. His salvation is coming. Comprehensive in its scope, and he inhabits the praises of his people. Now God says that he will draw his children home in verse eleven, but this is in spite of their Situation in verse 12. Notice that the text doesn't say, and my people will return to me, when they finally realize what a great God I am and how foolish they have been. It doesn't say that. It doesn't say they'll return home when they become older and wiser and more mature. No. It says God will roar and they will come. They'll come home, but they'll come home trembling. Rebels, listen, you will come home. God will bring you before him. The only question is, will you come willingly? Isaiah 45, 23 said that every knee shall bow and tongue confess, and Philippians add what that confession is, that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Every one of us, Christian and non-Christian, will bow the knee, will confess. The only question is, will we do so willingly? Do you want to do this the hard way or the easy way? But you will assuredly bow the knee to the rightful king. The application for us today is: do so willingly. If you must come when he calls regardless, then come willingly. It reminds me of a family situation where a dad calls and calls and the child doesn't come. Come and calls and the child doesn't come, and then the dad roars and the child comes. How much better would it be for the child if he or she came when the father first called? Willingly, with great joy. So it is with us. We will come when the Lion of Judah roars. How much better will it be for us if we come willingly with joy? You may be confused by the last verse, I was. Verse 12. Why does Hosea say that Judah still walks with God? And is faithful to the Holy One. According to any quick reading of the Old Testament historical books, one can quickly see that Judah, despite a few godly kings, was wicked and corrupt. From Solomon. Yes, they had the actual temple in Jerusalem where they worship, but it was just one of their worship places. And Yahweh, but one of their many. So why does Judah get called faithful in Hosea 11:12? But then in 12,2, the Lord has an indictment against Judah. Well, part of it could be that Judah is Relatively faithful compared to Israel, but upon a closer look at the Hebrew, a comparison with the New American Standard, and some helpful clues from commentators, a better translation. comes to light, namely this. Judah is also unruly against God, even against the Holy One who is faithful. The Hebrew word that describes Judah Judah is rad, which means roaming. And roaming not in a positive light, but rather negative. It's the same word used in Jeremiah 2. 31 describing Judah. Roaming and not coming to the Lord. And the word faithful, who does that better describe than the Lord? Is this not the proper sense, regardless of transition Translations, God's people roam from him. He remains faithful. He calls his people back to him, and they come back to him, willingly or unwillingly. So in closing, if you are dealing with a rebel, speak lovingly and tenderly to them, reminding them of Your love for them, of how you fed them, of how you clothed them, of how you healed them, and yet allow them to have the consequences of their actions. If you, young people, old people, are thinking about rebelling against the Lord, that's what we would call not a good idea. He is severe. You do not know when he will give you the consequences of your sin. If you are in rebellion currently, hear his call to Come back right now. Please come back. It's silly for you to avoid this gentle loving God. It's silly, it's foolish. Come back to Him All the punishment has been poured out on Christ. Come back. I'm preaching to you today as a rebellious teenager. I was a rebellious teenager. My dad called to me to do some work, and I answered in anger and with venom, and I ran away. And I got some of the consequences of my actions. God in his grace brought me back and enabled my dad to be gracious with me. God saved this rebel. And I hope that he can save all of us too, and that we would not rebel against him, and that if you are in rebellion against him, that you would come back even this day. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, thank you for saving this rebel. I pray that you would continue to do so. Want to see more rebels come back to you. We love, we we delight, we cheer when they do. I pray that they would see what a loving God you are. And how easy it is to come back to you. For you, your yoke is easy, your burden is light. You have cast all of the punishment meant for us, deserved by us, onto your son, your only son, Jesus. Thank you, Amen