Proverbs chapter four, if you'll turn there, please. And as we do, we'll dismiss the little ones, the children for wonders of worship downstairs. with uh Dave and Joyella this month. Proverbs chapter four. Let's begin at verse one. Hear, my children, the instruction of a father, and give attention to no understanding. For I give you good doctrine. Do not forsake my law. When I was my father's son, tender and the only one in the sight of my mother He also taught me and said to me, Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commands and live. Get wisdom, get understanding, do not forget nor turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her. And she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom And in all your getting, get understanding. Exalt her, and she will promote you. She will bring you honor when you embrace her She will place on your head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory. She will deliver to you. Let's go a bit further. Hear, my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of your life will be many. I've taught you in the way of wisdom. I've led you in right paths. When you walk, your steps will not be hindered. When you run, you will not stumble. Take firm hold of instruction. Do not let go. Keep her, for she is your life. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of His inspired word. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us now from your word. Forgive us our sins as we come. Teach us. Those of us who were yours, we pray that we might be reminded of your truth. And Lord, if there are those here today outside of Christ, May this be the day of salvation for them. Use your word to bring light into that dark place. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Satan wants to destroy our homes. Not necessarily by fire or by flood, but by such things as anger, bitterness, jealousy, alienation. Immorality, indifference, selfishness, rebellion, lying, caustic speech Favoritism, etc. The Apostle Peter urged us to be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. First Peter five eight. Well in order to help us to resist him, it's good to turn our attention from time to time to the character and responsibilities Of Christian husbands, wives, parents, and children. And it becomes all the more important as our society drifts further and further away from a Christian consensus Father's Day is a good time to remind ourselves of the principles that can help us in our roles as parents and grandparents, teachers, aunts and uncles, etc. Well, let's start with a with the basics. Godly parents do not kill their children. What did you say? Godly parents do not kill their children. It's an indication of how much headway Satan has made in the Christian church. That it should be necessary to include such a self-evident truth in a sermon on godly parenting. But it's reported that about half of all abortions in America are sought by those who call themselves Christians. Casey Servins says a high percentage of those who come to the pregnancy center where he and Judy volunteer declare themselves to be Christians. A number of years ago now, in an attempt by Congress to outlaw the most grisly of abortion procedures, commonly called partial birth abortion , It was actually opposed by some denominations of Christians and vetoed by a professing Christian president. Godly parents don't kill their children. When a woman is with child, she is already a parent. I saw a bumper sticker that put it bluntly. Abortion doesn't keep you from becoming a mother. It makes you the mother of a dead child. Godly parents don't kill their children. Secondly, godly parents don't abandon their children. Some years ago now I saw a former players agent for one of the major national sports leagues being interviewed on television. He said he had left the business The business of being a player agent because he was troubled by the irresponsibility of many of the athletes with whom he dealt He said he estimated that the number of children fathered out of wedlock by the players in that particular league averaged at least one per team member. He said, for every player he knew who had no children, born out of wedlock, he knew another player who had two or three. According to the Pew Research Institute, only 46% of children in America today are living in a family with two married parents in their first marriage. 46%, only 46% of children in America today are living in a family with two married parents in their first marriage. Four in ten births occur to women who are single or living with a non-married partner. The sexual revolution has devastated the American family. But fathering children through casual liaisons or divorcing one's wife for another are not the only ways that we fathers abandon our responsibilities to our offspring. There are several other ways that our sinful proclivities manifest themselves. The third point I'd like to make is that godly parents provide for their children. Godly parents provide for their children. Jesus said, if a son asks for bread from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, How much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Luke 11, 11-13 Here in teaching us about God's giving to us the Holy Spirit, when we ask, Jesus underscores this obvious truth. Parents provide for their children's needs Food, clothing, shelter. But our responsibility as godly parents is not discharged simply by refraining from infanticide refraining from abandonment and by our providing our children's basic needs, there are provisions as critical to our kids as food, clothing, and shelter that we are also called by God to provide. Ephesians 6:4. Fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. Bring them up in the training. Paduo, the discipline, the shaping of the will through discipline, you might translate that. The rod and reproof give wisdom, Proverbs 29, 15 says. Training and admonition , Nutheteo, that's warning, instruction You may be familiar with the term neuthetic counseling. That's counsel that concerns itself with what God's word has to say about our attitudes, our thought processes, our behavior. Our speech, etc. Admonition is conveying why certain behavior is wrong or right according to God's word. Fathers, you are called to admonish your children to give them direction as to how their behavior is correct or incorrect in accordance with God's word. You'll know from Ephesians 6. 4 that that discipline, that training, and that admonition, that instruction of the children, is clearly stated to be the responsibility of the Father. Proverbs 4, 1 to 9, as we read earlier, hear, my children, the instruction of a father. But unfortunately, even men who might otherwise be described as godly can nonetheless fail miserably as fathers. Let me show you one example. It's in 2 Kings chapter 18. If you'll turn there or listen as I read from 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 3 about the reign of Hezekiah. He did what was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father David had done. He removed the high places and broke the sacred pillars, cut down the wooden image, and broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made. For until those days the children of Israel burned incense to it and called it Nahushtan, the bronze thing. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah. nor who were before him. Now listen to chapter 20, beginning at verse 20. Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, all his might, and how he made a pool and a tunnel and brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? So Hezekiah rested with his fathers. Then Manasseh his son reigned in his place. Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hefzebah. And he did evil in the sight of the Lord according to the abominations of the nations whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. For he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed. He raised up altars for Baal, and made a wood wooden image, as Ahab, king of Israel, had done. And he worshipped all the hosts of heaven and served them. He also built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord had said, In Jerusalem I will put my name. And he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. Also he made his son pass through the fire, sacrificed his son. practiced sooth saying, used witchcraft, and consulted spiritists and mediums. He did much evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. He even set a carved image of Asherah that he had made in the house of which the Lord had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen, out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever. I will make and I will not make the feet of Israel wander any more from the land which I gave their fathers, only if they are careful to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them. But they paid no attention. And Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than the nations whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel. And the Lord spoke by his servants the prophets, saying, We'll stop there. Now, it may be that Hezekiah was faithful in his training and admonition of his son. It may be that Hezekiah prayed with Manasseh and guided him in God's truth, and Manasseh simply rejected his father's instruction and his father's faith. Or it may be that Hezekiah was so busy with the affairs of state that he left the spiritual instruction of Manasseh to others In any event, the sad truth is much of the good that Hezekiah accomplished as the leader of God's people was undone by the evil acts of his son. And it was Manasseh's reign that brought on the Babylonian captivity of Judah. Earlier in 1 Kings, we read of the failure of another godly leader. King David was old at this point, and he had declared that his son Solomon would succeed him on the throne. But David's son Adonijah had other ideas. Then Adonaijah exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. And his father had not rebuked him, literally had not pained him, at any time by saying, Why have you done so? David allowed chaos in his family and potential chaos in the kingdom because he refused to confront his wayward son and cause him any pain or displeasure. Before the time of the kings, the sons of Eli, the priest, were stealing from the sacrificial offerings that were brought by the people of Israel. 1 Samuel 2. The scripture says the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, for men abhorred the offering of the Lord. It got to the point where there was a distaste for bringing your offering to the Lord because you knew that the sons of Eli were going to steal from it. 1 Samuel 2, verse 17. Now in this case, Eli rebuked his sons and attempted to reason with them. Why do you do such things? he said. For I hear of your evil doings among all the people. No, my sons, for it is not a good report that I hear. But they did not heed their father. In chapter three we read that the Lord spoke to young Samuel, Hannah's son, I have told Eli that I will judge his house forever for the iniquity which he knows. Why? Because his sons made themselves vile, and he did not restrain them. Chapter 3, verse 13. His sons made themselves vile, and he did not restrain them. Now, parents, particularly fathers, listen well. You are not responsible for the sins of your children, but you are responsible to guide them, to teach them, and when necessary, to rebuke them, to chasten them. And to restrain them. Now, of course, if you want your children to become honorable adults, you must begin at the earliest opportunities. Some believing parents, like David, are reluctant to cause their children any pain or discomfort. But that is not the path of righteousness. The scripture says foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. The rod of correction will drive it far from him. Proverbs twenty-two fifteen. If we refuse to use the rod, that is, if we refuse to discipline our children, to correct them when their misbehavior warrants it. We're indicating that we don't love them enough to endure the temporary alienation of their affections, perhaps, for the goal of their long-term welfare. This is why the scripture says, puts it very bluntly, he who spares the rod hates his son. He who spares the rod hates his son. But he who loves him disciplines him early. Proverbs 13, verse 24 To put it bluntly, the parent who refuses to spank his child when spanking is warranted is in effect playing Russian roulette with his child's soul. Do not withhold correction from a child, for if you beat him with a rod, he will not die. You shall beat him with a rod and deliver his soul from hell. Proverbs 23, verses 13 and 14. If you beat him with a rod, he will not die. The implication is: if you refrain from that godly correction, he will die. How is that? Well he'll grow to think that he's in charge. He's in control. He's the God of his home. He's the God of his school. He's the God of his world. He'll reject all authority, including God's authority. He'll become a little tyrant. The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings his mother to shame. Proverbs 29, 15 Now, you will note that there is all the difference in the world between loving discipline intended for the child's benefit. In response to blatant disobedience or outright rebellion, all the difference in the world between that and child abuse Which would include ranting and raving and slapping and kicking and pushing and slugging or demeaning and hurtful speech. You're an idiot, you're a fool, you'll never accomplish anything, you're stupid, etc. And almost any week you can find a newspaper article recounting a story of horrid physical abuse of children committed in the name, perhaps, of discipline, locking them in a basement, withholding food from them, etc. God's words on discipline were not intended to give carte blanche to some uh child abuser. But rather to teach parents how to respond to stubbornness and rebellion and the battle of the wills. Remember Uh stubbornness and rebellion are bound in the heart of a child. They're already there. They were in your heart and mine when we entered into this world because of the sin of Adam. If the battle of the wills is not won by the parent, then both the parent and the child will ultimately lose. The fourth point I'd like to make is that godly parents do not provoke their children to wrath. The Apostle Paul said, Do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the training, the nurture, and admonition of the Lord. He's writing the fathers, Ye fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath. Well, how can I do that? I believe parents can provoke their children to wrath by, for example, favoritism, preferring one child above others. Witness the way Jacob's sons treated their brother Joseph. We can provoke our children to wrath by overreacting. Father comes home from he had a lousy day at work, he had a terrible commute on the way home. He gets home and it's It's raining and he looks and there's his son's bicycle laying in the yard in the rain. He bursts into the house, and the first thing he yells to his son is, That's it, you're not gonna ride your bike for a month. Overreacting. Child spills ice cream on the carpet. That's it! No ice cream for you until you're twenty-one. That would have been a good thing if my father had told me that probably. We can provoke our children to wrath by inconsistency. Uh uh oh, I wanted to make the point. Uh I guess I'm gonna make it later. Never mind. We can uh provoke our children to wrath by inconsistency One Saturday night when a teen arrives home late, he loses his driving privileges for the next weekend. Another on another occasion he uh he arrives home late. Okay, you lose your cell phone uh privileges for a month. Inconsistency. Far better to establish rules in advance and make them fair. Establish the consequences in advance. That's the point I was uh going to make. We need to sit down with our kids and establish the rules. What what do you think would be fair? I if you s you're supposed to be home at eleven thirty and you don't get home until midnight or after, what do you think is a fair consequence And you negotiate that, you you agree to it, and then you establish it. And you do that with little children. Okay, when when you when you let's put it this little chart on the fridge. And if you don't clean your bedroom, what's gonna happen? What do you lose? Oh I I get I lose television or video privilege or s or whatever. And uh and then when you do something when he does it well you put a little star on the thing and you look it look you look what you're doing and when you earn so many of these stars and you get a A prize or a present. There's all kinds of ways you can help your children to develop godly patterns, but we can provoke them to wrath by being inconsistent. We can provoke our children to wrath by criticism that is not balanced with praise If it seems to your child that the only time you speak to him or her is when you are displeased with something, your room is a total disaster again. then your child may not want you to speak to him or her at all. We provoke our children to wrath by belittling, yelling. Harshness, coldness. One pastor put it this way. Few minds are convinced when someone angrily shouts across a room or table. Most of us will respond with a hardened will and a harsh look. I'm easily convinced when one I love and respect approaches me with openness and affection. Places his arm around my shoulder and tells me what I need to hear in a spirit of truth and love. I don't question his motivation. I know he loves me. Sometimes what is said may sting a bit, but if I know the spirit in which it's offered, it will cause me to pause and listen. That was Pastor Dan Burell. Fifthly a godly father assumes the spiritual leadership in his household. And the Lord said to Moses, Go into Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the hearts of his servants, that I may show these signs of mine before him. And that you may tell in the hearing of your son and your son's son the mighty things I have done in Egypt. And my signs which I've done among you, that you may know that I am the Lord. Fathers, do you teach your children? Do you teach your children? Do you read to them from God's Word? Do you encourage them in Bible study? Do you encourage them in scripture memorization? Have you taught them how to pray? Are they being educated with a Christian worldview? Do you see that your children are at Sunday school and church? Do you see that they take advantage of other opportunities for spiritual growth? Some fathers say, well, that's that's my wife's job. No, no, that's your job. Your wife may have begun to do it rather than let the family go without any spiritual direction. But but yeah, but I'm not a good reader. Well then delegate the reading of the scripture to your wife or to the kids. But I'm at work when my children go to bed. I can't pray with them before. Well, then pray with them in the morning. Or pray with them at another time. Pray with them sometime. Godly parents are not hypocrites. Point six. Godly parents aren't playacting. Your children can see by your life if Christ is most important to you. Your speech, your habits, your pleasures, your entertainment, your attitude, the way you spend your time, the way you spend your money. Now you may drive them to church, you may even pray with them, but have they ever seen you at home with your Bible open? Have they ever seen you hand a gospel tract to someone? Have they ever heard you testify of what God's done in your life, what God is doing in your life? Have they ever seen you serving the Lord in some capacity? Can they see in your life a concern for others? A concern for fellow believers? Uh compassion for the lost, can they see that in your life? Does your faith impact every area of your life? Dr. J. C. Ryle wrote, Instruction and advice and commands will profit little unless they're backed up by the pattern of your own life. Children will never believe you are in earnest as long as your actions contradict your counsel. To give children good instruction and a bad example Is only beckoning them with the head to show them the way to heaven, while we take them by the hand and lead them in the way to hell. Fathers, will your child walk away from Christ one day because he saw that Christ meant so little to the most important man in his life? Gordon MacDonald in his book The Effective Father wrote: Among the few effective father images we have in the Bible is the one Paul projected on his surrogate stunned by discipleship, Timothy. He'd found him up in the hills of what is now called Turkey. Timothy's parents permitted Paul to take their boy with him, and for years the two men carried on a father-son relationship that culminated with Timothy's taking up the flag of ministry when Paul laid it down. Paul treated young Timothy exactly like a son. Toward the end of his life he recalls the basic pattern of their relationship, but listen to what he says. Now you have observed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions, my sufferings What befell me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra? What persecutions I endured. 2 Timothy 3, verses 10 and 11. When Paul, continuing to quote now from Gordon MacDonald, when Paul tried to assess the impact that he had upon Timothy, he did not put words at the top of the list. Nor did he rehearse doctrinal truths or methods of ministry. Paul's priority is placed upon training through model lifestyle. Timothy, he writes, You've seen how I lived in all the ups and downs of reality. You have observed. Children do observe, he goes on. What do they see? The answer separates the effective from the ineffective fathers. Here are the effective. I gave you guys the effective and the ineffective over here. So there you go. The uh the effective, this this shows you this separates the effective from the ineffective fathers. The former takes note of the importance of exposure to his children. that every moment he is with them is a chance to make a positive impression for the purpose of character building and spirit development. But the latter doesn't see this. His view of the family is one of simply living together and finding the home to be little more than a meeting place in which to eat and to sleep and have a little fun. End of quote. Godly parents are not oppressive. Point seven. We're to bring up our children in the training and admonition of the Lord. Our authority, in other words, is a delegated one. And we must answer to him. Pastor Bruce Ray, in his book Withhold Not Correction, reminds us there's a little bit of the tyrant in every one of us. There's a little bit of the tyrants in every one of us. He says, some men are at the bottom of the line in their business. The only thing they exercise sovereignty over is the broom. They seek to exercise tyranny in the home. They rule their wives and children with an iron hand. Their wives and children fear them. But your authority is through God. You are to reflect accurately the tender mercies of God, who when he chastises his children, does so as an act of love. Is this how you chasten fathers? Or do you, when you must discipline a child, beat him and leave him so that he thinks if you're an example of what God is like, God must be a harsh, nasty individual. Godly parents are not tyrants. Now, quickly some reminders to parents. First of all, let your children know that they're special to you. Let each one know that he or she is special to you, a blessing to you. Children, the Bible says, are a heritage of the Lord. Blessed is the man who has this quiver full of them. Let them know that you love them with a hug, squeeze, a card, a note, a word. Pastor Dan Burell again wrote, If I had I'm sorry, I had a father tell me that his son felt he had grown too old for a hug and a peck on the cheek before going off to a ballgame or a summer camp. Let's see thirteen or fourteen, I imagine. Maybe twelve. And uh so they arranged a special sign. Avid Miami Dolphin fans, they agreed that any time they spoke of the Dolphins Spontaneously in public, that was their way of communicating I love you to each other. So when his strapping son climbed on the bus to go on a trip or left to go on a youth activity One or the other would pause and say with a wink, Hey, how about them dolphins? To which the other one would say, Yeah, how about 'em? Little secret message between the father and the son. I love you. That works with every uh sports team other than the Steelers, I understand. See, this doesn't doesn't work for the Steelers. No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Steve Madden is upset about that, but it's it he's leaving. No, it's it's a fact. I I can't help it. All right. Secondly Avoid treating your children lightly. What do you mean by that? Jesus said, despise not one of these little ones. To avoid treating them lightly would mean, for example, keep your promises to them. Keep your promises to them. One father promises kids, finally this year, when the circus comes to town, I'm going to take it to the circus. Apparently he'd been too preoccupied with other things. So sure enough the circus was coming to town. They were all excited. They're getting at a fever pitched. They're gonna go to the circus. And then dad got a call, some important business matter arose, and their hearts began to sink. And they heard him say Over the phone. Yes, I know the circus is coming back to town later, but childhood is not. Circus comes back. Childhood doesn't. So he turned down the business opportunity, took his kids to the circus Dr. James Dobson says when his kids were young and he had promised to do something with them, if he was later invited to speak uh had some big important opportunity speaking engagement he would simply decline saying I have a previous commitment That's what it is. A previous commitment. An important commitment. Thirdly, determine to spend time with your children. I read that a group of seventh and eighth grade boys were given an assignment to keep a record for two weeks. of how much time they spent with their dad alone. Now you've heard of read of different studies of well this one was seventh and eighth grade boys. And they kept track for two weeks of just how much time they spent with their dads alone. The average was seven and a half minutes per week. Seven and a half minutes per week. Spend time with your kids. Make it a priority. Comfort your children. The Apostle Paul said, you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his children. Look at the cover of the bullet and there's a verse there. From Psalm 103, as a father has compassion for his children, so the Lord has compassion for those who fear him. A boy with a scratch on his finger ran to his dad. His dad was preoccupied reading the newspaper, you know, rela in his uh, what do you call those things? In his recliner And his little boy runs in, Dad I gotta cut, I gotta cut. Dad's just reading the paper. You know the boy's insistent. Finally Dad says, Well you know, unwilling to be Well I I can't do anything about it, can I? And the little guy said, Well well you could have said oh Right? You could have said, Oh, how hard would that have been? For to have compassion upon our children. Recognize your child as a stewardship. Recognize that your child is on loan to you. And then pray for your children. Job rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of all of his adult children. We do something similar when we intercede for our children. Pray for them. And don't give up on them. Several years ago now a young man came to faith in Christ's During a worship service in Cincinnati, he told the minister that he had been a wanderer on the earth, and now he was sick and tired of sin. The pastor advised him to write a letter home and tell his parents where he was and what he had done. He did so, and after several days of anxious waiting, a letter arrived from his mother. But it was bordered in black. With tear-dimmed eyes he read, My dear son, the joy which your letter brought to our hearts was only exceeded by the sadness which was there at the same time. time. For as nearly as we can figure, the same hour that you found Jesus Christ as Savior, your Father was going out into the skies. All day long he tossed upon his bed. Every little while he would cry out in misery, in misery, Oh God, save my poor wandering drunken boy today. We would try to divert his attention from your waywardness and your sin. But his mind would roam from place to place, and he would cry out in sorrow, Oh God, save my poor. Wandering boy today. Just as he passed away, he cried, Oh God, save. And he finished that prayer in the presence of Jesus Down at the bottom of the letter, the mother added a note. You are a Christian tonight because your father would not let you go. The fact is, the only reason there are any Christians today is because our Father Would not let us go. Our Heavenly Father would not let us go. His love compelled him to make the greatest of sacrifices. We had broken his laws. We had rebelled against him. We had taken his name in vain. We had lied. We'd coveted, we'd lusted. We had violated his holy law. And violating just one of those commandments is enough to keep us from his holy presence. God is of purer eyes than to behold evil. He cannot look upon iniquity. And you and You and I are going to stand before this holy God one day. But God's love for us was so great He provided a way for us to be forgiven. How? He'd already said the soul who sins must die. The wages of sin is death. He can't violate his own love law. He can't violate his own word. But he loved us so much he sent his own son into this world. Jesus came here was born of a woman, lived here as a man. He perfectly kept the law that you and I have broken. Every single day of his life he loved God God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. Every single day of his life he loved his neighbor as himself. He kept all the laws that I broke, and then he went to the cross and said, in effect, Father, punish me and let him go for me. That wrath and that justice and that righteousness that your law demands that will require the death of this soul Lord, let me pay. Let me pay that debt. And God permitted it. God designed it. God allowed it. God provided it. And Jesus came to say the sinful world. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. And now Jesus having risen from the dead told his disciples, go into all the world, proclaim this good news. What's the good news? The good news is not do your best, try hard, try to keep the golden rule, be a good person, and just maybe you'll get to heaven. The good news is you're a sinner who deserves the wrath of a holy God. Maybe you haven't murdered, but you've been angry in your heart. Maybe you haven't committed adultery, but you've lusted in your heart. God says, the soul who sins must die. But God's love for you was so great he sent his own son to say, Father, let me take his place. So God took the sins that I had committed and he laid them upon his own son. He treated Jesus as if he were a sinner. God made him to be sin for us, he who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So Jesus said, Father, punish me and let them go free. And he cried out on the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And he was feeling then the wrath of a holy God for sin. He did it out of love for us. And because he made the sacrifice when he rose from the dead, he told his disciples, Go and proclaim the good news, not that people have to live a good life and do their best and keep the golden rule. No, no, not by works of righteousness with We have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Tell them, if they'll repent of their sins and lay hold upon me, I'm the one who died on the cross, I'm the one who paid the debt. I'm the one who cried out, It is finished. If you'll put your faith in me, all your sins will be forgiven. You'll have eternal life. You'll be adopted into God's family. You'll be with Him forever. That's the good news. There's no greater gift you can give to a father, to a godly father, than to repent of your sins and lay your faith upon Jesus. Jesus Christ alone. That'll bring more joy to your Father than any gift you can give him on this earth. But will it also bring joy in heaven? The Bible says there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Won't you come to him today? Father, forgive me. Save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. Do it for Jesus' sake. In his name I pray. Pray. Amen. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, what a loving heavenly Father you are to your children. Lord, what a pattern you have given us. May we be faithful and loving and righteous and just and caring and compassionate with our own children with our grandchildren, with all the little ones over whom we have some influence. And Lord, I pray right now For those who may be here today, who've never yet cried out to you, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Those who think that they can somehow merit eternal life by their own good works. O God, show them that all their righteousnesses are as filthy rags in your sight. Lord, may they fall to their knees and cry out. Just as so many cried out when Jesus was on this earth, Lord, have mercy on me. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.