From Luke chapter 23, verses 32 to 49. Hear now the word of the Lord. Two others, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him. And when they came to the place that is called the skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on his right and one on his left And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they cast lots to divide his garments And the people stood by watching, but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself. If he is the Christ of God, his chosen one. The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. There was also an inscription over him: This is the king of the Jews. One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him. saying, Do you not fear God since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you today, you will be with me in paradise. It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour, while the sunlights, sun 's light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he breathed his last. Now, when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, Certainly this man was innocent And all the crowds that had assembled for the spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home beating their breasts. And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching. these things. This is the word of God. Please be seated. And let us pray. Lord, thank you, Father, for giving us your word to your church in both the written form and in the person and the work of your Son, Jesus Christ. Lord, tonight I pray that if nothing else, your name may increase while my mine may decrease. In your son's name we pray. Amen. So tonight's passage contains the account of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ found in the Gospel of Luke. In the chapters before this one, you can read of Jesus' arrest and his appearances before the Sanhedrin, before Pontius Pilate, and before Herod The authorities had accused Jesus falsely. They said that he was claiming to be the Messiah when he was not. But of course we know that Jesus' claim was actually true. He was the Messiah and the Son of God. He is the Messiah and the Son of God, rather. There's nothing false about that claim. You can also read of Jesus being mocked and beaten. And the accounts in the other three Gospels, you can read of him being whipped, forced to wear a crown of thorns, and stabbed with a spear in his side while upon the cross. One must ask why was Jesus subjected to all of this torture? If he truly was the Messiah, the Son of God, why would he submit himself to this mistreatment and death? The truth of the matter is that he went to the cross to take the punishment for the sins of Christians. There are numerous passages throughout the Bible which lay out the fact that man is sinful and in need of redemption. Genesis 6. 5 is one of those passages. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Other passages like Romans 6. 23 make clear the penalty for this sin. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. That verse lays out the penalty for sin, but also lays out the path out of sin, salvation from death. It is only through the blood of Jesus Christ that you can be saved from eternal death and condemnation for your sin. That is just the truth of the gospel. The Apostle Paul writes in Romans 3, 23 to 25, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. The truth is that you are not good people. None of you are. I am not a good person either. None of us are. You have sinned, you still sin, and you deserve death for this sin But the good news of the gospel is that Christ came as the substitute. He came as one who would take your punishment in your place. This is why Christ was whipped and beaten and bloodied and humiliatingly killed on a Roman cross. When I think about this, I often think about my other profession outside of the church. Most of you know that I'm a police officer in my full-time. vocation and I pretty often have to testify in court, you know, in criminal criminal uh matters. And I always think about if a judge finds someone guilty, a defendant guilty What if someone were to walk in and say, Your Honor, I will take that punishment? That's what Christ did here. He walked in and said, I will take the punishment for my people. When you hear this message of the gospel, this message of your sin and Christ's atoning sacrifice, there's really only two ways in which your heart can respond. You can respond with repentance, thankfulness, and praise, or you can respond with rejection, indifference, and scorn And in fact, you see these two reactions modeled in our passage here tonight. And this brings us to the main point for tonight's sermon. In this passage, we see the reactions to Christ and the gospel of both hardened and softened hearts. I'll say that again. In this passage, we see the reactions of Christ and the gospel, to Christ and the gospel, of both hardened and softened hearts. So let's look at the first half of this point, the reaction of hardened hearts to Christ and the gospel. And you see this in verses 32 to 39 of our passage. The beginning of the passage mentions that two other criminals were led away up to the hill to be crucified alongside Jesus. We do not know the names of these men, but we do know from the account in Matthew 27 that the two criminals were robbers or perhaps thieves. Next it says they were led to the place called the Skull. This is this part isn't quite vital to the passage, but I thought this would be interesting considering it is Easter weekend. You may have heard the place of Christ's crucifixion being called Calvary. In fact, we sang it in one of the hymns earlier tonight. Or perhaps you've seen a church named Calvary Presbyterian or something like that. This English word actually comes from the Latin word Calvaria, which means the skull or the top of the head. So our English word Calvary is mentioning, that is referencing the place where Christ was crucified and killed. All four gospel accounts of the crucifixion mention that Christ was crucified between the two criminals. This is interesting because it fulfills a prophecy from the Old Testament. And we actually read that earlier this evening. In Isaiah 53, which we read a good piece of that tonight, that's a messianic chapter full of prophecies about the Messiah. In Isaiah 53, 12, it mentions that the Messiah will be numbered with the transgressors. So this is a prophecy which comes to fruition here as Christ was crucified between the two criminals. He was numbered with the transgressors, even though he did nothing wrong. In verse 34 of our passage, Christ prays a short prayer. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Think about this for a moment. If you were in the place of Christ here, if you had just been beaten and mocked and dragged through the city and finally nailed to a cross in front of a crowd. Could you say that prayer? I think most of us would probably say no to that. But here we see Christ praying for his enemies, for the very people who he came to save but who ended up rejecting him. This once again fulfills the words of Isaiah 53, 12, which also mentions that the Messiah will make intercession for the transgressors or the sinners. Christ is nailed to the cross and he is making a prayer interceding before God and his throne for the sinners who put him on that cross. Christ is acting as the great high priest as he offers up prayer to God. The difference being instead of offering an animal sacrifice, he offered himself as the sacrifice. In the second line of the prayer, Christ says, For they know not what they do. Christ is talking about the fact that mankind and their sinful state is blinded from the truth and they do not know that what they're doing is sin. First Corinthians 2. 8 in fact says that if people knew the truth about Christ, they would not have crucified him. If they actually knew who he was. If you're here tonight and you're not a believer, I ask you, are you blinded from Christ? Do you run from the truth of Christ and his call to repent? Search your hearts tonight and let this not be the case. Repent of your sin and turn to the one true Savior who will grant you life. There is also some application here in Christ's prayer for those of you who are Christians, who are believers. If Christ prays for the forgiveness of sins, you ought to do the same. Pray for the forgiveness of your own sins. Pray for the forgiveness of others' sins. Pray for the repentance of unbelievers that you know. Cry out to God as your heavenly Father in these matters. Matthew Henry wrote in his commentary on this passage that you must pray for your enemies and those that hate and persecute you You must be earnest with God in prayer for the forgiveness of their sins. If Christ prays for the forgiveness of sinners, then you ought to do the same thing. So what does this look like in real life? Maybe you can pray for the salvation of the person at work who's given you flack for standing firm in your Christian convictions. Maybe you can pray for the salvation of the Muslim terrorists in Africa who have been slaughtering Christians. Maybe you can pray for the salvation of government officials in our country and other countries which are not friendly to the church. Pray for those who persecute the church just as Christ did here upon the cross. In verses 35 to 39, we see several groups mocking or hating Jesus. These verses say, and the people stood by watching But the rulers scoff at him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself. If he is the Christ of God, his chosen one. The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. There was also an inscription over him, This is the King of the Jews. And one of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. Here we see three different groups either mocking Christ or just standing by idly. The crowd stands by passive and does nothing, while the rulers and the soldiers actively mock Jesus. Think back to your days in school. You know, whenever someone gets picked on by a bully, what usually happens? There's always one or two people you know, hitting the the person that's being picked on. There's a few others that are yelling at them and making fun of them. And there's always a whole crowd gathered around watching and just letting it happen. And this is exactly what's happening here. The soldiers are there pushing the wine in his face, making fun of him. The rulers are standing back mocking him, and the crowd is just standing there watching and taking it all in. And this is where you can see the main thrust of the first point of the sermon, the reaction of hardened hearts to the gospel and to Christ. Think about this for a moment. All the people here standing there had heard the claims of Christ and his followers. They had heard Jesus' teaching, and yet they still rejected him. How could these people reject Christ when he's standing right there in front of them? They rejected Christ because their hearts were cold and hardened to the gospel. Just like the rocky soil in the parable of the sower in Mark IV, their hearts were hard, and the seed of the gospel would not grow there. Just like Pharaoh in Exodus had his heart hardened towards God, so did these people have their hearts hardened against the gospel. And this is where I'd like to provoke and poke at your conscience a bit this evening. Will you repent of your sins and turn to Christ in faith? Or will you reject the gospel, reject the Messiah, and by doing so count yourself among the scoffers in the first half of this passage? The only thing waiting for you apart from Christ is death. That's it. If you were here today and you're not a Christian, I earnestly Beg you to repent of your sin. Turn to Christ. This takes us into the second half of our passage here, verses 40 to 49, the reaction of softened hearts to the gospel. Verse 40 takes place right in the middle of the scene where Christ and the two criminals are hanging upon the cross. The crosses, rather. We just looked at the reactions of the crowd, of the rulers and the first criminal, and now we'll look at the reaction of the second criminal, the Roman centurion, and interestingly enough, the crowds, once again, a second time. Verses 40 to 43 say, But the other rebuked him, talking about the other a criminal, the second one, saying, Do you not fear God? Since you were under the same sentence of condemnation. And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Here you can see the second criminal reacting to Christ, and his first thing he does is rebuke the first criminal. He points out that the first criminal is mocking God by his earlier statement. He asks, do you not fear God? Clearly he wasn't. He didn't fear God because of what he said. He then says that they were both under the same sentence of punishment, and that theirs was just. It was justified. But Christ's punishment was not just. The second criminal is here acknowledging his guilt both before the law and before God. He accepted his punishment and he understands that what he did was wrong. Now, this is an example of true repentance when you're faced with the gospel and your own sin, acknowledging that what what you have done, acknowledging that what you have done is sin, and then submitting yourself to Christ. Trusting in him alone for salvation and eternal life. And this is what the second criminal does here. How does Christ respond to this? He says, truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Christ the King declared his sovereignty and his ownership over that man. That man repented of his sin and Christ said, Today you are mine. Those whom God has elected and chosen to salvation will come to him and Christ will claim them and hold them fast. Matthew Henry writes that the conversion of the thief upon the cross is an illustrious instance of Christ's triumph over principalities and powers. Christ has triumphed over sin and death. He's defeated them. He's taken the punishment for your sin so that you do not have to experience it. Those of you who here are Christians tonight, remember what Christ has done for you. Do not be negligent in remembering the depth of your sin and the grace and mercy held out to you. And the salvation gifted to you. Do not forget these things. Be ever joyful in your remembrance of these things. If you are here tonight and you're not a Christian, I once again want to call you to repent. Acknowledge that you live a life of sin. Acknowledge that the single most important thing you need in your life is salvation from sin and death. And throw yourself at the foot of the cross. Jesus Christ is the only path to life. Apart from Him, apart from repentance from your sin and turning to you and resting upon Christ, you will die. Matthew Henry, not to beat a dead horse here with his commentaries, but he also wrote, Now the cross of Christ is to sum a savor of life unto life. To others of death unto death. To them that perish, it is foolishness. But to them that are saved, it is the wisdom of God and the power of God. I plead with you tonight. Do not count the cross of Christ as foolishness. If you do, then you are the only one who's a fool I plead with you tonight, count the cross of Christ as the wisdom and the power of God. If you reject Christ and his offer, then you are no better than the rulers and the crowds and the first criminal in our passage tonight. You will be responsible for your own sin and your own death will be upon your head. The good news, though, is that those of you in this church who are Christians You were all once dead in your sins and trespasses. At one time, you were all like the first criminal, mocking Christ in what he offers. But God the Father chose you. The Holy Spirit regenerated you, and Christ won salvation for you. This same salvation is held out to you right now. The last section of the passage details the actual death of Jesus. We see that at the sixth hour, which was noon, darkness fell over the land until the ninth hour, which was three o'clock in the afternoon. There are a few different theories about this darkness falling over the earth that we see here. Some commentators link the three hours of darkness and the death of Christ to the last two plagues in Egypt. In Exodus 10 and 12, which were three days of darkness and the death of the firstborn sons. Other commentators, such as John Calvin, assert that the darkness and several other events that we see in the Matthew 27 account. Which we see that as the ground shaking, rocks being broken, graves coming open and the dead rising. That all of these things these things were all of creation reacting in agony to the death of the creator. Either way, it's safe to read these events and understand the gravity and the seriousness of what happened here. Verse 45 has a curious comment, and the curtain of the temple of the temple was torn in two. At first it seems a little odd, but it's actually very important here. This curtain separated the inner portion of the temple, the Holy of Holies, from the remainder of the temple. Exodus 26, 31 tells us that it was a finely made and crafted curtain made of different colored materials. And then there's a first century written compilation of Jewish oral traditions called the Mishnah, which claims that the curtain was a hand breadth thick, or roughly four to six inches thick. So think of how massive this is a curtain. Think of how massive this thing is, four to six inches thick. And this thing was ripped in two at Jesus' death. Leviticus 16, too, says that anyone who passes beyond the curtain into the Holy of Holies will surely die. This is because nobody can stand in the presence of God in all of his holiness and glory without being consumed and destroyed. When Christ died, this curtain was torn into two pieces, making clear the path into the Holy of Holies and into the presence of God. Because this path has been made clearer to God, you can now boldly approach the throne of grace, as Hebrews 4. 16 says By way of application here, I would like to encourage you to pray boldly to God. If you've been saved by grace, And the curtain has indeed been torn into, then go boldly and confidently before God in prayer. He's your father. He delights to hear the prayers and requests of his sons and daughters. Do not pray with hesitation, but with courage and boldness, because your God is a loving and powerful God who has made the path clear and salvation clear for you. In verse 46, Jesus dies after crying out, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit This is just a beautiful expression here. Jesus is actually quoting Psalm 31, 5 as he dies. So the words of Scripture are on his lips as he breathes his final breath. Now, how does the centurion, the Roman centurion, react to Christ's death here? Verse 47 says that the Roman centurion saw what had happened, he praised God, and he admits that Jesus was innocent. Now it's safe to assume that when it says the Roman centurion saw what had taken place, that it's referring to all of the events surrounding the crucifixion, from how Christ acted towards those who were mocking him. to his interaction with the believing criminal and the unbelieving criminal on the crosses, to the darkness spreading over the land and the earthquake and the rocks breaking open. He probably didn't, you know, he obviously did not see the temple and the curtain being torn in two because he was in a different place, but he witnessed all these events surrounding the death of Jesus. And this is where we see the reaction of a softened heart to Christ. In the crucifixion accounts in Matthew 27 and Mark 15, the centurion says, Truly this was the Son of God. Instead of mocking Christ, or instead of pushing him to save himself like the others did, the Roman centurion here reacts with humility. He admits that Christ truly is the Son of God. And even the crowd, who previously had just watched in silence and didn't do anything, They went away beating their chests and grieving over what had taken place. Even they had their hearts changed. Some commentators even believe that this reaction by the crowd set the stage for the thousands of Christians who came to the church, the believing multitudes at Pentecost in Acts 2, a short time later. Once again, I would like to provoke your conscience here. How do you react when you hear that Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, died in your place to take the penalty for your sins? Do you react like the centurion in the crowds at the end of the passage? With humility? With grief? Acknowledging your own sin, repenting of that sin, and acknowledging Christ's lordship and reign? Or do you react like the crowds at the beginning of the passage and the Jewish leaders and the first set of Roman soldiers? Do you react with mocking or hate? Or maybe just indifference? Don't even care. If you're here tonight, once again, and you're not a Christian, I ask you, what are you waiting for? What are you waiting for? Admit your sin. Admit your need for a Savior. Repent of it and turn to Christ, please. Apart from Christ, if you reject the gospel, all you will find is despair and pain and death. But through Christ and his death upon the cross that we see here, you will find hope and life and joy and salvation. This is what I desire for all of you here this evening. Turn from the trappings of this pagan world. Turn from everything else that your heart desires and longs for, and flee to Christ, the only refuge for your weary soul. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, thank you, Father, once again for sending us your son to die upon the cross. to take our sins, our punishment in our place when we didn't even deserve it. Lord, we pray that, or I pray that tonight that you impress upon everyone here, renew their understanding and their appreciation. for the depth of grace and mercy that you have poured out on us. In your holy son's name I pray. Amen.