Take your Bible, please, and turn to the glorious chapter that most wonderfully describes the birth of Christ, Luke chapter 2. Let's read the first twenty verses of Luke chapter two. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Quirenius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, everyone to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David To be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was, while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord showed around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloth lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. So it was, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now when they had seen him , They made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. Let's pray. Father, once again we are privileged, we are blessed to be able to open up your holy word and to read and meditate upon these glorious words of the birth of our Savior. Father, you didn't leave us in our darkness, but you gave us the light of life. When we were dead in our trespasses and sins, you had compassion upon us, and you provided a redeemer. Now, Lord, speak to us through your word this day. We need your help, we need your presence, we need your power. They speak to us afresh from this very familiar passage. Lord, I pray, especially if there be anyone here or anyone subsequently listening to this message, still outside of Christ, still dead in sins. Father, may this be the day of salvation for that one. We ask it in Christ's powerful name. Amen. There are many passages we can read and meditate upon at Christmas, but none rival the beauty and simplicity of the account of the physician and historian Luke. So let's meditate this morning on this most wonderful description of the most wonderful birth. Look at the first couple verses And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Quirenius was governing Syria. It came to pass in those days. Well, what days? Well the days to which he was just referring in what we call chapter 1. He gave us the account of the angel appearing to Zechariah as he went about his duties in the temple, telling him that his wife Elizabeth who was who was now an old woman, woman as and Zechariah, an old man, that Elizabeth would would bear a son, that Zechariah's prayer had been heard. That his wife would have a son, and that this their son would be the forerunner of the Messiah, the one who had been promised to prepare the way of the Lord, to make his path straight. And so uh and so Zachariah goes home with this incredible message and he has to motion to his wife because of his unbelief. He was uh struck mute by the angel Gabriel. And uh and he goes home and and Zechariah uh Elizabeth does in fact uh uh conceive a child. And then of course we read that that That same angel Gabriel goes to Mary and reveals to her that she was the highly favored one who would give birth to the Christ, the Messiah. And so it was in these days, in those days, that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. The days of the Caesar called Augustus. He was born in Rome, historians tell us about 63 B. C. He was given the name Octavius. His great uncle happened to be Julius Caesar, and when Caesar was assassinated, Octavius discovered that not long before Caesar had adopted him officially and made him his heir In the power struggle that followed, Octavius defeated his rivals Mark Antony and Cleopatra at the naval battle of Actium, and Octavius was given the title Augustus by the Roman Senate It was under his reign that the Roman Empire extended itself further than at any time before or since. This Augustus made a decree that the Hoicumene, that's the inhabited earth, should be registered. Apographo, to write out, to copy, a census, an enrollment. You'll note that it's just like an emperor to imagine that a census of his people is tantamount to a census of the entire inhabited earth. This census has not survived to our day, but Justin Martyr and Tertullian, two of the earliest advocates for Christianity, appeal to these very records of the Roman Empire as proof That Jesus was in fact born in Bethlehem. You'll remember there was universal peace in the empire at this time, which was fitting for the coming of the Prince of Peace. Now look at verse 3. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. Joseph went up from Galilee out of Nazareth. Now that was in the north, and he made this southern trek to Bethlehem in the south. Nazareth was just southwest of the Sea of Galilee. Bethlehem is just southwest of the Sea of Galilee. of of uh Jerusalem. And uh it's a distance of about sixty miles as the crow flies, but of course uh they were traveling uh not as the crow flies and therefore it it was probably more like a ninety mile journey. Some of it over very rugged terrain. Bethlehem means house of bread. Lachem, I guess that's the bread and date, house of bread. Jesus, the bread of life, came down from heaven and was born in the house of bread, the same town where King David, the shepherd who became king, was born. Now, before we read verses 6 and 7 again, let's think once more of the image that we all have in our minds. We picture Joseph and Mary traveling to Bethlehem. Joseph by foot, Mary being led by Joseph, Mary on a donkey. They arrive late on a cold winter's night in the bleak midwinter, as snow was falling snow on snow. They go to the inn for lodging, they're told by the uh gruff innkeeper that there's no room. I think he might have sung it to them And uh and they're offered a spot in the stable. There that night Mary gives birth in the straw, with only Joseph present, and with the sheep, and uh I don't know about the sheep, but the cattle were lowing. Shepherds and three kings arrived later that night directed by a star over the stable. But let's see what we actually know about what took place. Verse 6, so it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Here's what we do know. This was her firstborn son. That means she had others to follow. The scripture makes it clear. She had uh Jesus had four brothers, we would call them half-brothers, at least two sisters. But here's what we don't know. We don't know how Joseph and Mary traveled to Bethlehem. Did they travel alone? Were they on foot? Were they in a caravan with others of David's line who also had to travel to Bethlehem? We do know that twelve years later, when they traveled from Nazareth to the Passover feast in Jerusalem, that's how they came in a caravan We don't know what time of the year it was. The only clue we have is that the shepherds were out in the fields would suggest a season other than winter. We don't know how long Joseph and Mary were in Bethlehem before Jesus was born. As I read the scripture, it suggests to me they were there for a while. A week, a month, several months? Listen to it again. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. Perhaps Joseph had to wait in lines or wait for others from his family to come before he could leave. Uh was it a requirement that uh of the registration that betrothed wives had to come as well, or was Joseph simply reluctant to leave Mary alone in Nazareth as it began to be evident that she was with child? although they had not yet married. Perhaps Joseph assumed he could dispatch this business and return to Nazareth for the birth in familiar surroundings. I'm sure that's what he uh under normal circumstan circumstances would have wanted to do. Or perhaps he was aware of the prophecy of Micah. Did he know that the baby would be born in Bethlehem? We do know that while they were there in Bethlehem, the days were completed for her to be delivered. We don't know where they were staying in Bethlehem. We don't know where the actual birth took place. There is no mention of a stable in this passage. We know there was no room for them in the Kataluma, and that's translated in in the English. It's a lodging place I i it's a guest room, perhaps a large room, with many families sojourning. There would be many coming to Bethlehem at the time. Uh you know, picture our uh uh something like our fellowship hall all packed with people laying on blankets Crammed in there with many families sojourning. There wasn't any room there for her to give birth. Would you want to give birth in a room full of strangers? Certainly not. Uh and so uh they would prefer anything. You'd prefer the blockhouse to our fellowship hall, though it's cold and smelly. What we know is wherever Jesus was born, he he was immediately placed into a feeding trough. And that would certainly suggest that Jesus was born in a place where animals were fed or sheltered. Some suggest it could have been even a feeding trough along a road. You park your donkey out in front of a uh uh an inn or someone's home, there would be a place there for the donkey to feed, perhaps. In any event, uh we we have reason to believe that it was in a place where animals were sheltered. And it corresponds to the testimony of Justin Martyr, one of our early church fathers, who lived just a few days' walk from Bethlehem. Justin said, and he wrote about a hundred years after Jesus' birth, that Jesus was born in an animal stall, which was in a cave, which was used to shelter livestock. Justin says Jesus was born in an animal stall, which was in a cave, a cave which was used to shelter livestock, a cave which adjoined a lodging place for travelers. We don't know who was present at the birth. Certainly, Joseph would have sought a midwife to deliver the child if one was available in Bethlehem, and presumably one was available. Note some researchers have concluded that it was in Bethlehem that the lambs were raised to be sold for the Passover sacrifices in Jerusalem. And therefore, that Jesus, the Lamb of God, may have been born amidst the bleeding of those lambs that typified his once-for-all sacrifice. Behold, the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. Look at verse 8. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. You will recall, uh Nick just alluded to it, that shepherds were held in low esteem by the Jews. In the ancient writings of the rabbis known as the Talmud, it was said that shepherds were not allowed to give testimony in court as witnesses. They were often accused of theft and of violating the ceremonial law. In other words, they were viewed as many in our society might view homeless people or gypsies or migrant workers Or pastors, etc. And along with lepers and prisoners and tax collectors and prostitutes, they were among the last people one might expect to receive this kind of news. This kind of an announcement. But those who are familiar with God's dealings will not find this in the least bit surprising Pastor Alexander McLaren wrote many years ago, they are shepherds, not priests, nor Levites, who would not have welcomed the tidings. They were not Pharisees who would have questioned the tidings, not Sadducees who would have reviled and scoffed at the tidings, but devout and longing shepherds. whose hearts would respond to the message of the angels as they discovered it's a message from God. Now we have every reason to believe these were godly shepherds. They returned glorifying and praising God, the scripture says. And it would be uncharacteristic for God to reveal new such as this to those with no degree of genuine spirituality Zacharias, Elizabeth, Mary, Joseph, Anna, these shepherds, were probably all like old Simeon, Luke 2. 25, in this respect, that they were looking for the promised redeemer. They had had taken to heart those Old Testament promises. They realized that all the blood of bulls and goats cannot take away sin. But ultimately, a Messiah must come, the Savior must come, the promised one is coming, and God had revealed to Simeon that he wouldn't die until he had seen the Lord's Christ, the anointed one. Now, look at verse 9. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord showed around them, and they were greatly afraid. So put yourself in the place of one of these shepherds. You're sitting out in the fields with your flock. You're living out in the fields with the flock at this time of the year. And it was a night like many others, and you're perhaps warming yourself by fire. And then quite suddenly, without any warning, an angel of the Lord appears before them. An angel of the Lord in majesty and glory. And the glory of the Lord shines around you. The night lights up. The Shekina, a visible token of the presence of God, a shining cloud of light. What would your first emotion be? What would your first emotion be? Fear, of course. You'd probably fall to the ground, fall on your knees, and cry out in dismay. Have mercy on us. Have pity on us. Fear would be your first emotion. The unseen spirits have crossed the threshold of our world. And what would you immediately conclude? That the angel had come in judgment That your sins had found you out. Surely the hour of judgment is upon us. We thought our violations of God's holy law were relatively trivial, but clearly they are not. The scripture says they were greatly afraid. Greatly afraid. As when your hair stands on end. Just as you will be afraid in the final day when you stand before a holy God, if you have no Redeemer. And the angel says to them, Do not be afraid. Do not be afraid. Look at verse 10. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings. Of great joy this will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Don't be afraid. I bring no words of judgment. I bring good news. I bring glad tidings of great joy for all people. What's the great news? What's the glad tidings? Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. I have good news, the angel said. Great news. Today is born in the city of David. Someone who will grow to be an exceedingly good person and set a fine example for all people. Today is born in the city of David a philosopher who really gonna get people thinking about things. A teacher who will be able to explain some pretty difficult concepts to us To you who was born this day in the city of David, a skilled healer. Many will be healed through his medical knowledge. A powerful leader who will be greatly admired. Would such an announcement call forth this heavenly display? Would such an announcement call forth this heavenly display? Would it be good tidings of great joy for all people? Hardly. It's been said, well, if our greatest need had been information, God would have sent us an educator. If our greatest need had been technology, God would have sent us a scientist. If our greatest need had been money, God would have sent us an economist. If our greatest need had been pleasure, God would have sent us an entertainer. But our greatest need was forgiveness. And so God sent us a Savior. Spurgeon said, The Lord might have come with thunderbolts in both his hands. He might have come like Elijah to call fire from heaven. But no, his hands are full of gifts of love, and his presence is the guarantee of grace. Twas mercy filled the throne, and wrath stood silent by when Christ on the kind errand came to sinners doomed to die. Unto you is born this day a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. Christ, the anointed one. That's what the word means. It's not his last name, it's the anointed one, the Messiah. He's no unauthorized pretender. He's the anointed of God who will be able to say, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me. He was anointed as a prophet to preach the gospel with power. He was anointed as a priest to offer the sacrifice of himself. He was anointed as a king to rule and reign over his people. And he's the Savior who is Christ the Lord. The Lord. Turios. The same word used in verse 9 when it says an angel of the Lord stood before them. And the glory of the Lord shone around them. He's Christ the Lord. Here's a clear testimony to his deity. And where can we find the Savior? The glory of the Lord is shining around us. The messenger of his birth has come in majesty and glory. Where can we find this Savior? In a palace? In the midst of the mighty and powerful? No, uh verse 12. This will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying In a manger, not in a palace, not in a in glorious clothing, not in a fine home, nor even in a humble home. Not even in a lodge for travelers. You'll find the baby wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a feeding trough. This will be the sign, the only sign you will need, because it was such an extraordinary thing for a newborn child to be found in such a place. Presumably, this would be the first and only time a child would be born and placed in a feeding trough in Bethlehem, not in a in a in a in a room, not in a home, not in warmth and safety. Uh surely when women were about to give birth, they stay close to home. If forced to travel, they would lodge with family and friends. in a place uh with no family or friends, they'd try to to be in an inn or someplace where they could find shelter, but a baby in a feeding trough? Surely this was unprecedented So the shepherds see an angel, one angel. They're terrified. They fall, they fall down, well presumably fall down, I would, and uh and they're they're crying out in fear, they're they're trembling in fear. And the angel tells them why he came, he tells them not to be afraid, and he tells them where they would find this child. And then, suddenly, just as that original angel had appeared to them, suddenly The whole sky is full of angels, a multitude of the heavenly hosts, a whole army of angels light up the sky. And they say, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. Goodwill toward men, literally. Peace to men of good pleasure, the men on whom God bestows his good pleasure. What what an experience these shepherds had. Can you imagine? I wonder, you know, how many years would they tell this story over and over and over again? Now anyone who would listen, even that night they went out and began to tell the story. Look at uh at verse fifteen. So it was when the angels Had gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said to one another, let's now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that's come to pass. They couldn't very well stay where they were after getting a message like this. The angels must have told us this so we'd go and see the baby. Anyway, I don't know about you guys, but I'm going to go find this baby. So it says that then they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now, I would remind you there's no indication of any supernatural uh phenomena in the sky other than the angels. I guess that's supernatural phenomena in the sky But what I meant was no star over the birthplace of Jesus that night, nothing that we read about here. That would have indicated where they would find. Go find. See the star there. Go directly where that sh is shining down, where that heavenly object And uh and that'll lead you there. That's how, in fact, God led the wise men to Jesus sometime later. But no indication of a supernatural star over Bethlehem that night, although it makes a beautiful Christmas card. Uh no visit of wise men from the East. And so the way they would find a child is to go find out find the feeding troughs and look until you see a baby in one That's the only sign you'll need. These were shepherds who lived there out in the fields. No doubt they were familiar with Bethlehem. And they knew exactly where to go. Well, the only feeding crops in Bethlehem are Maybe there by the Cataluma by the inn where the people come to lodge. He must be behind the inn or wherever. So they knew where to find him. They went and and sure enough They find him and and the scripture says they came with haste, they found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. When they had seen him What did they do? They made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And what was the saying that was told them concerning the child? Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. They went out telling everybody that the Savior has come, the Christ has been born, the Messiah is here. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart And then, after they'd run around telling everybody they could find, maybe waking people up, then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things. that they had heard and seen as it was told them, returned presumably to their sheep, glorifying and praising God for all the things they'd heard and seen. as it was told unto them. Now let's take a few moments and do what Mary did. Let's ponder these things in our hearts. First of all, God had said that his eternal son would come from Bethlehem. But there was a problem. Joseph and Mary lived in Nazareth, some sixty miles to the north. How would the Lord see that his anointed one would be born in Bethlehem? Well, there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus. Of course, Caesar had no idea that he was an instrument for fulfilling prophecy. He acted freely and as he thought sovereignly, after all, he was the Caesar. But there was a sovereign above him who foreordained what he would do. Alexander McLaren wrote, Augustus imagines that by numbering his subjects he is only increasing the glory of his kingdom. He evidently thinks of nothing else. He, however, becomes an instrument in the fulfillment of prophecy, as many other monarchs have, and many humble men along the ages. Monarchs and subjects always and everywhere weave on the great web of world life with no conception of the pattern to be woven and no plan to weave according to the will of heaven. God 's hand, however, is guiding the shuttle of human history with infinite guidance unto ends which he ever has in view. Men unwittingly aid in accomplishing eternal purposes and often set their seal to the truth of the inspired word when they purpose no such thing, and when they would gladly thwart those eternal purposes. Caesar Augustus' sovereign ruler was unbeknownst to him, accomplishing the sovereign will of his sovereign. And so God is able to foreordain whatever comes to pass on earth without doing violence to what we feel is our own free will. Ephesians 1:11, He works all things after the counsel of his own will. He works all things after the counsel of his own will. Proverbs 21:1. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turns it whithersoever he will. How does he do it? Theologian Lorraine Bettner wrote: God so governs the inward feelings, the external environment, habits, desires, motives, etc. of men. That they freely do what he purposes. This operation is unscrutable or inscrutable, but nonetheless real. It's inscrutable, but nonetheless real. Luther said, both good and evil men, though by their actions they fulfill the decrees and appointments of God, yet are not forcibly constrained to do anything But act willingly. The Assyrians, the rod of my anger, were acting willingly. Joseph's brothers Selling them into slavery. We're acting willingly. It was their thought. It was their idea. This is the way we're going to get rid of him. But it was God's plan. I wonder if you can look back and see God's invisible hand in your life. Moving and working his will. Secondly, clearly this whole scene reminds us that God's thoughts are not our thoughts, his ways are not our ways. The whole scene is so wonderful, so unexpected, so surprising. I want you to go to earth, he says to the angels. I want you to go to the earth, go to earth, and tell of the coming of my son. Wonderful. To whom shall we go, Lord? Shall we go to the Roman Senate? Shall we go to the men, the man they call Augustus? Shall we go to the temple in the Holy City? How about to the halls of the Sanhedrin? Why don't we go tell old murderous Herod the king and watch him shake on his throne? Why don't we tell him that his days are numbered? That would be cool. No, no. I want you to go to the fields outside of Bethlehem. You'll find there's some men who are tending their flocks. What you shepherds? You want us to go tell shepherds? Well who's gonna believe them? The sacrificial lamb is born, and the shepherds are the first I want to tell. The poor are going to have the gospel preached unto them. Not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. that no flesh should glory in his presence. 1 Corinthians 1. Thirdly, it was God's free, unmerited grace that brought this good news to the shepherds. It was God's free unmerited grace that brought this good news to the shepherds. And listen, it's God's free unmerited grace that has brought the good news to you. You have as much cause to take pride in your salvation as those shepherds had cause to take pride in what they were privileged to see that night. Well, wasn't it good of us to be in this very spot? How smart of us to carve off this spot here to tend our sheep when this is exactly where the angels were coming. Of course not Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. It's been wisely said, the only thing that that I contribute to my redemption is the sin that makes it necessary. The only thing I contribute to my redemption is the sin that makes it necessary. Whatever hardships these shepherds face later in life, I have no doubt that their minds would often return to that night. uh near Bethlehem, the wonders they witnessed. And they would always have cause for rejoicing. Man, things are going bad, things are looking bad, the sheep are dying, whatever it is But the Savior has come. Christ was born Now, fourthly, I don't know if this is necessary to say, but I want to make it clear that it is my belief, and it is the doctrine of our church and our denomination, that the biblical account of the birth of Jesus Christ is not just a pleasant story to contemplate at Christmas. Not like stories of talking snowmen and uh uh dancing sugar plum fairies. We believe that Jesus actually, miraculously, was born of a virgin. That he lived a sinless life, that he died a real death. Upon the cross, a real cross. That he rose again from the dead. That he showed himself to his apostles, his astounded apostles, his disheartened apostles, his disconsolate apostles, and they were flabbergasted. And he told them to go into all the world and proclaim this good news. We believe he literally ascended into heaven, that he's literally going to come back to earth one day. The Christian church is established on events that took place in history. Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea. It was ruled by Herod I. He was subject to Caesar Augustus. Historians know the approximate year. We have several eyewitness accounts of Christ's life, death, and resurrection. This is not merely a Christmas story. This is the Christmas story. Now what was it the angels declared? Good news of great joy! Great joy, because the promised one has finally come. There shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse , the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. A root of Jesse shall stand for an ensign of the people, to it shall the Gentiles seek The Lord himself will give you a sign, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. There was great joy because the promised one had finally come. Great joy because the sin barrier between man and God was forever breached. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now she'll call his name Jehovah Saves, that's what it means, for he will save his people from their sin. Wait a minute. He must be Jehovah. Now shall call his name Jehovah Saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. Man will now have victory over death. The sting of death is sin. Strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And then we have great joy because man can now call God Father And God calls us son. To as many as received him, to them he gave the authority to become sons of God. Friend, I wonder, does the birth of Jesus Christ, does the news of the birth of Christ bring great joy to you? Does it bring great joy to your heart? Can you remain unmoved at this glorious message? If angels who have no personal interest in the birth of a Messiah If they can demonstrate such excitement and wonder at his birth, can you remain unmoved? Only if you have a heart of stone. And that's exactly what you have if you're outside of Christ. You've never been regenerated, never been born of God. But the same Holy Spirit who came upon Mary, the same power of the highest that overshadowed her, is at work whenever God's word is preached. Calvin said that preaching, the purpose of preaching, is so God may speak to us. God takes his word and he speaks to us through it. He may be working within you now, urging you to see your sins in all their ugliness and see Christ in all his beauty. Maybe God's Spirit is working in you now, and you see your sins as vile, and you see the beauty of Christ What must you do? Simply call out to him, God forgive me. God save me. I see my sin. I know it's vile. I hate it. I wish I could never sin again God deliver me from this body of death. I believe that Jesus lived a sinless life and died upon the cross and rose again from the dead. I want him as my Savior. God save me. You say in your word that if I believe I was saved. Lord, I believe. Save me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You come to God that way. You pray that prayer and mean that in your heart. God promises all your sins will be forgiven. You will receive this gift of everlasting life. And what a glorious time to come. Come to him, Christmas time. Come to him now. Don't delay. Is Christ the joy of your Christmas? And finally, I want you to notice what the shepherds did. They made widely known what was told of them concerning the child. And what was told of them that he would be the savior, that he was the savior who is Christ the Lord. Have you made widely known the saying that's been told you? The same message that the shepherds got, you've gotten, you've received it from God's Word over and over again. You have the same message. Are you proclaiming it as the shepherds proclaimed it? Have you made widely known what God's word has told you concerning this child? Do your sisters and brothers know it? Your nieces and nephews know it? Your aunts and uncles know it? Your friends know it? Your high school friends today know it? Your college buddies, do they know it? The kids at school, do they know it? Are you making widely known the saying that's been told you concerning the child You know we have a little track rack on your way out of the main doors. There's uh s Uh scores of Christmas tracks. They're wonderful little tracks that explain the gospel very clearly. Pick some up, take them with you, hand them out. You go to a restaurant, give somebody this message of the gospel. Somebody comes to your house, give them the message of the gospel. You sending out your late Christmas cards or early Christmas cards for next year, put the tract in there. In the gospel. Your New Year's Day cards or whatever it is people do. And spread this wonderful news that Jesus Christ is born. Tell it on the on the mountain over the hills. And everywhere. Let's pray. Father, what a joy to meditate upon Christ's birth Thank you, Lord, that you brought this good news to us. We were like those shepherds poor, outcasts, far from you, without hope, without God in this world was our state. But you brought this glorious message to us. The poor had the gospel preached to them. Lord, thank you for saving us. And Lord, loosen our tongues. May we go forth spreading this good news. Sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ to all the world. We ask it in his glorious name. Amen.