Our Heavenly Father, that last line is really put you through us, Lord, that our glory is bound up in the cross. Lord simple that in the ancient world obviously that shame, humiliation, you turned around and you use for glory, not just for yourself, but for others. Lord, I think about what Jesus said in Mark 8:34. If anybody wishes to come after me, let him deny himself daily, take up his cross, and follow Lord, as we are here this evening and we contemplate the death of your dear son on the cross, Lord, I pray that as we walk through your word tonight As we remember how your son died, Lord, I pray that you would open our eyes, open our ears Open our minds and our hearts, O Lord, that we might be able to see the cross with new eyes, that we may be able to hear of the cross with a new appreciation. That we may be able to understand the cross with a new death, and that we might be able to perceive the cross. Cross. Take up our own cross. This renewed. Because of your word, your spirit the essence of Jesus. Well if you wanted to follow along, I'm not going to reread it because we already did, but I'm going to be looking to see This evening at uh Matthew twenty seven, verse forty five to fifty four, which we already read. You know, I think it's really hard for us as twenty-first century believers to understand the impact that the magnitude of the cross. And that uh the joke that that must have been to the original believers and Christians in the first century I mean put yourself in the shoes of either the women who followed Jesus from Galilee or his disciples or any one of the crowd that would have been following Jesus. Sometimes for many years, but at the very least, on that road through Jericho into Jerusalem for that last week Think about the miracles that they had seen. Think about for three years the teaching that they had heard. Teaching like no one else had ever taught. Teaching with authority. And then to behold this man upon a cross. Must have been crushing for the hopes that they had. Because you've got to remember, we have 2,000 years of church history Of church tradition, of church teaching, of church reflection upon the scriptures to understand the cross. They had none of that in them. And that's what we're here for when we look at Good Friday of Marks, the crucifixion, and the death of Jesus Christ. And then there's many things we can say about that, or about the nature of the atonement, but this evening, I want to focus squarely on the death itself. My clever title, The Death of Christ. The idea I think tonight is pretty simple. The events surrounding the death of Christ are intended to lead us to To faith in Jesus Christ as the Son of God. That's it. That's the idea we want our cap to see it. The events surrounding the death of Christ are intended by God in the scriptures to lead us to faith in Jesus as the Son of God. And so when I mentioned the events surrounding the death of Christ, what I want to look at is what happens beforehand, because there's the thing That leads right up to the moment of Christ's death. And then I want to look at what happened immediately after he died, because Matthew records this for us in a way that I think is really important for us to grasp. You've got to remember Matthew is writing to Jewish people in the likely in Palestine in the first century, trying to evangelize them. So as we work through this, we We want to try to understand what this original Jewish audience would have understood so that we can understand the implications for us this evening. We see the events leading up to Christ's death. That's our first point this evening. And there's really two things that we see. In verse 45 Our passage says, Now for the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And so we see this first The first event leading up to the death of Christ was darkness over all the land. And I think we need to understand the timing of this darkness because it is so important to understand what God was doing at that moment when his Summit was suffering of the cross. The sixth hour mentions when at noon they have another time Noon, the ninth hour would then be 3 p. m. Therefore, if there's a three-hour period of time In which darkness covers the land. And now there's been a lot of things built over what caused that darkness, trying to argue this from a naturalistic perspective, was a No, the Bible doesn't say that. In fact, it says darkness was over the land would have said to a Jewish believer that darkness is caused by the Lord Himself. Okay , in Exodus chapter ten, verses twenty-one to twenty-nine, we find the ninth plague of darkness in the land in Egypt. And the description in the plains on Egypt of darkness is very, very profound. In fact, it says that the darkness was so thick that people could Now what a Jewish audience reading this for the first time would have understood, or maybe they were there those Jews that were there would have understood about this darkness that God's judgment was at play here. This was a moment of God's judgment. They would have also maybe thought about David's Jesus Chapter 8, verses 9 and 10. Centuries after the Exodus, you think that God would judge his people of darkness or judge Egypt of darkness because repentance Well he does the same thing with Israel 's equal in Amos. The prophet says this on that day, therefore, I will make the sun go down at noon and darken the earth in broad daylight. I will turn your feasts into mourning and all your songs into lamentation. So if we think about the death of Christ and the things that lead up to it, including darkness, we need to understand that this signifies God's judgment on sin. And so as we look for the cross of Jesus, what we understand with the darkness is that God is judging sin. The sin of all mankind, the sin of all God. Well falling on the head of his son. Why? So that it wouldn't have to fall on our own heads. But we also see the second event leading up to the cross in verses 46 to 50, the cry of Jesus. So this is really interesting, and I think it really illustrates what's going on in the heart of Christ as he's buried the sin of sinners on that cross. As he himself experiences judgment. He cries out, Eli, Eli, Lebas, Sabbathami, which Matthew tells us. Means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Have you ever wondered why he cried that? Why did Jesus say that in that letter? We know that he's quoting from Psalm 22, 1. If you were to go back and read that psalm, what you would find is half of that psalm is a vivid description of the cross. It's a vivid description of the sufferings of Christ on the cross, a century death through three. The second half of that song is actually looking forward to the joy of the resurrection. But this is Good Friday if we're not there yet. But I think when Jesus cries this out, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? There's a few things it says about his suffering. And it presupposes that there is a close, intimate relationship that he had with the Father that was somehow in that moment distant. Now, it's easy to point to the physical suffering of Christ on the cross. That's obvious. And scholars uh have gone to great lengths to describe medically what what would have been going on with the body of Christ physically as he suffered various things and what happened medically I don't think that that's exactly what's going on here. In fact, when you go back to the Garden of Gethsemane and he's pleading with his father those three times, let this cup pass from me Yet not my will than yours. He tells his disciples before them that he is perplexed. He's in agony. He has got this grief and sorrow unto death. Was it that Jesus was afraid to die? No. The good news for you, it wasn't that he was afraid to die physically. What Jesus was anxious about in that moment, what he was sorrowful over, was the fact that he knew he was going to take the full broth of his father's breath. For sin. This is a spiritual suffering that he is going through in that moment. The weight of sin, the weight of God's full wrath and justice was being poured on his head incessantly in that moment. And he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? As Matthew 1, 21, and his birth prophesied, he was in the process of saving his people from their sins. As Paul writes later on in 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he who knew no sin in that moment had become sin. So that you and I, who are sinners, may be made the righteousness of God through faith in him and what you're doing right there. And when we get to verse 50, it kind of all climaxes right there. And this is the fulcrum of the passage. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice. Let me pause there real quick if you just notice Matthew does not record words there. It's just a cry. He cries out again with a loud voice, and he heals up his spirit. Gives it up and What about after darkness? Signifying God's intense judgment, the cries of the Son of God, in that moment of taking the judgment, we have the death. This leads to our second point, the events that happened immediately after Christ's death. Verses fifty-one and fifty-four. Now one, we see the curtain of the temple in Verse 51. So then behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. Let me stop there really quick The temple curtain torn from top to bottom. You don't remember what that temple curtain was made for. It was the curtain of separation. What do you mean? Separating who? Separating a holy God from sinful man. If you know anything about the tabernacle in the Old Testament in the way to the temple, which is standing here in Jesus times, there were different uh parts to this temple. There were the Holy of Holies right in the center, and that's where uh the Ark of the Coven in God's presence namely would have been in the old Testament, not Jesus' time of the ark. But that's where God's presence had been. Then there was a holy place which had lamps and a table. The priest could go into the holy place, but you know, even the high priest After he sanctified himself and consecrated himself with a litany of sacrifices, he could only go in once a year. And then when he goes in once a year, the law of Moses commanded them to create little bells and and strings to tie around his body so it When he went in there, anyone in the holy place, when he's in the holy holy place, can hear the bells moving around. And the point is when the bells are moving around, they notice the priest is alive. And God is accepting whatever ministry he's offering in his immediate presence. And when the bells will silent being proud. the priest of it. But I want you to think about the significance of that. We just talked about darkness and judgment. We just talked about the the son crying out, bearing the full weight of sin and God And now we see the temple dividing from top to bottom. And it follows the death of Christ. What does this mean? What this means is that Christ's death was a final sacrifice that abolished the separation between God and man. In other words, God has accepted the sacrifice of his son once and for all our sinners. Think about what that means for us today. What that means is we don't have to take the darkness and the judgment that happened for three hours straight. We don't have to experience on our own heads and within our own souls, the judgment of God's wrath and the bitter cup of that judgment on ourselves. Why? Because we have a sacrifice. Once we were separating from God Now that separation has been done away with in the death of his beloved son. And God proves it by taking down that separating law in the form of You know, on a day like this, does we remember the death of Christ? That should give us Great joy. That the very thing that separated us from God, namely our sin, has been done away with at the cross. And whatever separated us has been done away with, and we have full access to God. We draw near. As the author of Hebrews tells us, the trumpets to the throne of glorious. We also see something that only Matthew records in his gospel in verses fifty-one and fifty-three. Secondly, after his death, we see an earthquake and something we With the tombs in Jerusalem. And the earth came up, and the rocks were split. The tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. And coming out of their tombs after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to him. Really interesting, there is a bulk line we know that runs east to west along the Mabamas in Jerusalem. Since the first earthquake that hit Jerusalem, Amos chapter 1 mentions his prophecy comes two years after a great earthquake that occurred that brought judgment. We have this earthquake. And it anticipates another earthquake that we will see on Easter Sunday. Chapter twenty-eight verse two. What is the point here? Well, I think it reveals the fact that the death of Christ Cosmic implications. Cosmic implications. The Apostle Paul talks about this in Colossians chapter 1, that through the cross, through the death of Christ, God was reconciling all things to Himself, things in heaven and things on earth. There's that separation, right? That separation is being undone. There's things that are being reconciled. And when you think about what that means for the death of Christ Going back to the original pronouncement of death in the garden of Eden in Genesis chapter 3, verses 17 and 19, what did God say to Adam? After he said, he said, From dust in case, to dust you shall return. In other words, the earth that Adam was meant to To rule over, will then rule over him again. We find the reversal of death kind of foreshadowed in this passage. And of course to the fact that the earth is going to give our bodies back. What I find fascinating about this is the earthquake happened, the Jews were hoping, Friday night, when Jesus got on that cross. But notice what it says there, what it says that the bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep they were raised, verse 53, coming out of the tomb, wait, Friday night. After his resurrection, we find the testimony and an anticipation of the resurrection hope. Immediately after the death of Christ. Why? Because death had begun to be conquered in the death of Christ. So and the last thing for a Jewish audience in verse 54 that would have been so striking and surprising. Look at verse 54. When the centurion and those who were with him, they were Romans, Gentiles, pagans, keeping watch over Jesus when they saw the earthquake and what took place. They were filled with awe and said, Truly, this was the Son of God. Think about that for just A gospel that is written to Jewish people tried to evangelize a Jewish people who should have seen and recognized And understood their Messiah when he came and didn't. Who's the first to make a profession of faith in Jesus Christ? The one you would least expect. A Roman Gentile pagan who was responsible for keeping watch over Jesus to making sure that he is dead. So when we put all of this together, we have to ask ourselves, what about us today? I don't know what your day looked like today. I don't know what your week has looked like this week or your month or even your year. I don't know what's in your mind Some of you here don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Some of you do. My hope in putting all of this before you tonight is to call you to the same faith, the same confession that this censurian hat. Maybe you're here tonight and you think there's no way the Lord can forgive me. I love this, I love that, I've done the other. Beloved. Look at this guy who is the least likely to come to faith in Christ. My spirit is hearing the gospel of people Just as a Christian, and also a pastor, is oftentimes the people I least expect to get saved are the ones that get saved. Why? Because they're the ones who understand that they're sinners. They're the ones who understand that they have no problem. And yet we see here at the cross, before the cross, that there is grace, there is redemption, there is salvation for all. As we look at the cross tonight, as we look at the darkness over the land, the cry of Jesus, the curtain of the temple. The earthquake and the tunes of the confession of the centurion. What we need to understand is that God moves heaven and earth to save lost sinners. And to call them to His son. And as somber of a night as this is tonight, that is cause for rejoicing. And that's a cause that really prives our hearts. to celebrate the resurrection on Easter morning, which we will, Lord willing, in just a few days. But it brings us back from the main idea, doesn't it? The events surrounding the death of Christ are intended by God to lead us to faith in Jesus Christ. As some brothers and sisters , let's ask you to break tonight. The Lord will press the reality of the cross into our hearts so that we might spread the bear of the cross. We are thankful For the fact that you moved heaven and earth from the darkness in the sky to the shaking of the land to the confession of the security. The real the truth moves in our hearts in mind. Strengthen us today as you. Lord, if there are any here tonight who don't know, as Lord and Savior, Lord, I pray that you work in their hearts. Did you have help them to cry out to you, to confess their savings of faith in Jesus And I pray that even as we contemplate the cross, as we understand the reality of the fact that our sin put your son on that cross Lord, I also pray that you would help us below the Holy Spirit at the coming resurrection and the dawn of day at Easter Sunday. He has this in Jesus name