Well, it's always a privilege to be back with you. You'll notice that uh there is a little bit of a change this morning in regards to the pulpit ministry, and that's pertains to my voice this morning when I woke up and I was spending some time in prayer and um I was trying to be silent before the Lord when I started to communicate with Debbie this morning I realized I didn't have much of a voice so this could be to your advantage, right? Because maybe maybe things will be just a little bit shorter, but I can't promise that But we'll have to see what happens. But if in the midst of the sermon you notice that my lips are moving but you can't hear anything, that probably means that's the end of the sermon and Barry will come up and do the benediction. As Barry mentioned, we are in a little series. Actually it's a three-part series. Uh I'm not sure when the third part will will come. But uh this is the second half to what we were looking at last week. If you'll recall, we were in the book of Acts, Acts chapter 17. And that pertained to what God was doing in this one particular community, Thessalonica. And I know that most of us, I've not been there, many Maybe you haven't been there either, uh, but it is interesting for us to go back almost two thousand years ago. and to see what God was doing in that particular community. And we noted a number of things as we were looking at that particular passage there in Acts 7. That the work of Paul and those that accompany him was very intentional and it was strategic. And it was they w they thought through things so that we noticed that they missed certain cities. That is, they didn't s spend any time uh in certain communities and they went specifically to Thessalonica because of the background that that community had in regards to the Jewish community. And we noticed that it wasn't such an easy deal that there was a lot of conflict. There was a lot of There's a lot of stress. And it's an important part to recognize that when God works in a place, it doesn't mean that everything is just going to be wonderful. In fact, it might mean just the opposite. We live in a we live in a time, in fact, since the fall, actually, it's been a long time, uh where sin is really dominant. And Uh I don't think as Christians we all always appreciate just how how incredibly dominant and powerful sin is And for that reason, when we don't remind ourselves of how powerful sin is, we don't we don't remind ourselves of how powerful the gospel is. But this morning we're going to look at what the impact of that ministry uh was over the course of some years as we look at the book of First Thessalonians, and we're going to be looking at Chapter 1, verses 1 through 10. And so I invite you to join with me as we read this particular portion of God's Word. Paul, Silas, and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace and peace to you We always thank God for all of you and continually mention you in our prayers. We remember before our God and Father your work produced by faith, your labor prompted by love. And your endurance inspired by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know, brothers and sisters, loved by God, that He has chosen you because our gospel came to you not o not simply with words, but also with power and with the Holy Spirit and deep conviction. You know how we lived among you for your sake. You became imitators of us and of the Lord. For you welcome the message in the midst of severe suffering. With the joy given by the Holy Spirit. And so you became a model to all the believers in Macedonia and Archaea. The Lord's message rang out from you, not only in Macedonian or Cai, your faith in God has become known everywhere And therefore we do not need to say anything about it, for they themselves report what kind of reception you get. They tell how you turn from God, turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead. Jesus who rescues us from the coming wrath. Will you pray with me? Father in heaven, it is a privilege for us almost 2,000 years since This passage that we have read was penned under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Thank you for enabling us to go back into history and to see the incredible power of the gospel, how it transformed people's lives. Thank you, Father, for speaking to us today, and that we can be assured that the same Holy Spirit Spirit that worked in the lives of these people is working in our lives. He is at work. We thank you for his influence. And we pray today that your Holy Spirit Would so move within our hearts and minds today that we would not only have a better understanding of what it is that you're teaching us today, but we would understand how it's to be applied to our thinking and to our behavior, to our daily lives. So we ask these things for your glory in Jesus' name. Our youngest son Peter, who lives in LA, has been involved in a documentary the last couple of years. And it basically highlights Instagram and its impact upon uh this And uh we were watching it the other night and reminding Debbie and I were being reminded about just what it means For things to go viral. And you understand that term. Now, twenty years ago, if I said, you know, certain things have gone viral, you you would look at me and you would have no concept of what we're talking about But as you understand today that we live in this cyber world where people put things on the internet, and it's amazing how many other people will view it. them. I mean like the numbers are are just just incredible. So this particular documentary highlights three different very young people, people basically in high school. And the one gal in California that it highlights, she just basically, you know, takes her cell phone and takes a lot of selfies and pictures of doing things. throughout her day and people watch it. I mean people are looking at what this gal is wearing and what she is doing. And the numbers are off the chart. So she has a following of not just like a thousand or five thousand or fifty thousand We're talking about 500,000, almost 500,000 people daily are watching and paying attention to what this high school student is doing. Now That just boggles my mind to think about those kind of numbers. There's a guy up in New York, basically the same age. In his case He goes to the very high buildings and bridges in New York City and he takes pictures, incredible pictures. He also has this unbelievable following. I don't know if if it's just within the United States or the world, probably world probably in both cases, but there's that kind of interest in terms of what they're doing. And these are just high school or maybe your early college students in terms of of their age. And you you've heard these kinds of stories where, and you know of this, where people just post things and it doesn't cost them anything to do it, right? And they have this incredible following. Things have gone viral. Now, I believe what Paul is talking about here in terms of what has transpired, what is taking place within this particular community This this very little church is an example of what it looks like when the gospel, as it has an impact upon not only individuals' lives but a community how it goes viral. And if you come back to the passage, you'll see what he says here when he says, the Lord's message rang out from you. From you not only in Macedonia, not only within that particular region in Archaic, but he says your faith in God has become known everywhere And therefore, we do not need to say anything about it, for they themselves report what kind of reception it has given us. The impact upon these people's lives By the gospel was so life changing, transformational, that one person and then another person person and then more and more were observing, hearing what was taking place. Uh we live in a time when there's so much competition, you might say, in regards to what people are paying attention to And my hope is that this morning, as we reflect upon what Paul has said here with within this particular That we might be reminded of what it looks like for the gospel to go viral, for the gospel to to take off. and individuals' lives and have an appreciation for what it is. And as we begin, I think it's important that we talk for a few minutes about what it's not In fact, in some cases, I think it's it's helpful for us to gain a better understanding of what the scriptures are talking about as we see what it doesn't talk about. Now if you if you think about things in regards to the ministry of the church, and maybe I should just say for a moment uh that we have a responsibility as a church. As a ministry, as a denomination, as a community of believers, to make sure that we're doing everything we can to promote the gospel within this generation. So whether you thought about it or not, you have a incredible responsibility of stewardship when it comes to the gospel. If you're a believer , you're trusting in Christ, it's not sufficient, it's not enough for you to simply say, I'm going to take care of myself. care of my family in terms of the gospel, making sure my my children are discipled, making sure that I'm maintaining a healthy relationship with Christ. It's that's not enough. We have a responsibility according to the Great Commission, according to what Jesus said to the disciples in Acts chapter one, to make sure that the gospel is going viral in essence. Right? And it and I don't know about you but it's easy for me to sometimes We c we can't stand before God and say we're good stewards of the res of the responsibility that He's given us and Just say, well, someone else will do it. Now all of us have that responsibility. And so as we think about the life of the church It's important that we don't somehow think that if these things are true, that we're doing a good job in terms of the stewardship of the gospel. And here's what I mean It's not the gospel and it going viral is not political. It's not. Now, as you know, I live and I work within a political environment Every day I have to think about what what's happening politically within Washington, D. C. because those are the people that I'm working with. In a sense I have to get up in the morning and I have to read enough to know these are the issues that people are talking about. These are the things that are taking place. So I uh I have a sense of what it means to be political At the same time, it's true to say that if you really know Chuck Garriot, you know that he's not a political animal. I have no real natural interest in in politics. Chuck If you know me also, you know that I'm not really that savvy when it comes to the sports and and those things, which many people are. Isn't in my blood. And so I I find myself in a type of work that's not a natural fit in certain ways. But I do find that it's sometimes the tendency of the church to become political. And that's not for us as a church. It's not for you as a local congregation. And if somehow if we think, oh, if we can just do things politically, then we can make a change. And let me also say I'm not saying you don't become involved in politics because you do need to as individuals But in terms of the work of the church, we never look, oh, if we're political enough, we're doing the job of the gospel. Secondly, it's not that is the gospel going viral is not in terms of personalities. And that's another thing that I've noticed is that some Sometimes the church becomes so wrapped up into certain personalities because of of of how well these people are having ministries. and how talented and gifted they are. And if we can just put the right kind of gifted talent uh personalities in front of the the world, right, as a church, then we're doing a good job. But But that's that's not really the case at all. And in fact, as you go through the s the Gospels, you'll see that that's never the the accent at all. It's not a matter of having sort of the right talented personalities in front of the world or in front of the church. Nor nor is this gospel emphasis a building or physical thing. And I I do tend to think, and having been in the ministry for a long time and and knowing how important buildings are, and they and they are important. It's a it's a gift that you have this this building and you have put a lot of energy and a lot of time and resources and money and not only But I do note sometimes as as certain ministries present themselves that it looks that that there's such an accent on the physical side of the equation is a that the spiritual the emphasis with the gospel somehow has gotten lost. And and I will just I will just put it this way. I think that we've got to be careful in this area. We've got to keep the right perspective because it's so easy for people to get excited about seeing something physical happen. And actually as you go through the, again, the epistles, etc. how often do you see Paul talk about building programs? Right? He doesn't. Or Peter, right? Or Jesus preparing the disciples in the upper room. Now by the way, when you guys get in these building programs, they're gonna be kind of tricky, you know, because you're gonna have some be People they want red carpet and some people are gonna want blue carpet and some people are gonna want padded you know, no, they they don't ever talk about those kinds of things and nor is nor is the and this may sound a little bit odd, nor is this gospel going viral numbers. Right? W and what I I said, well what what are you talking about? It's not numbers. Well the point is simply this there is a tendency for us to be kind of looking at big crowds and being enamored by big crowds. But it's also interesting to note as you go through the book of Acts that even though there are big numbers, and I don't deny that, it's not just about numbers. And we do live in a world that is really uh very much attracted by numbers. And I remember reading articles about certain presidents and their view of Billy Graham and his ministry, and the reason why so many presidents were willing to entertain Billy Graham. Now why Is because of the numbers that he was drawing, right? And again, there's nothing wrong with numbers, but if people are so oriented towards numbers, then all of a sudden it's all about numbers And you can do lots of little tricks, just like this thing about going viral on the internet to gain numbers, but it's not ultimately about numbers. It's about the gospel. Right? Alright, so I just said that out. You you don't have to pay any extra for that little business there but I think we need to we need at least kind of put some of that to the side so we get to the heart of things. So what is it about? It's about the work of God. I that may sound so simple to use are redundant in certain ways, but that's really what it's about. Look again at what Paul is accenting here in this first chapter to the Thessalonica to to the Church of Thessalonica. He's talking about the work of God. It's as simple as that. And if you're sitting here this morning, if you've been involved in worship, And you ask yourself the question, would this happen in my life? It's not about numbers, it wasn't about programs. It's another thing. Sometimes we act. It's not about buildings. It's not about personality. Personality, it's about what God has done in your life and what he continues to do. Paul, when he writes about this, he's writing about what God is doing. And I I will say this that I I want to be faithful to God and I want to make sure that He's the one who is is exalted, but I do feel the pressure in regards to to letting people see what I'm doing. And I think that one of the one of the temptations about being in ministry and especially and I'll just speak for me personally that in the present ministry there is a need to present the ministry to To friends like you and churches like this one and many other churches and many other friends. And in the process of doing so, there is this It's kinda like you've crossed this boundary, this this line, and now somehow it's about me, right? I want you to be impressed with what I'm doing in my ministry. industry, what the way things are growing and the progress and the people we're impacting, etc. And I and all of a sudden you can see like this thing is just moving More and more about Chuck Garriot, about Chuck Garriot, what Chuck Garriot is doing, right? How his ministry is going. And it should never be that way. Because ministry is always about what God is doing. And I think the longer I've been in ministry, the more I realize that one of the one of the benefits for Chuck Gary to be in the ministry is to be in in a position where he's being reminded that it's not about him. Right? So this will sound odd, but I do tell like I tell fellow pastors That I know that now I'm gonna confuse you. I know that the ministry is not about you, but it is about you. Right? I think one of the reasons why why guys are called to the pastor is It's because it's the best place to put them because it's such a pressure cooker that that's the only it takes that much, it takes this many people to help people like me become sanctified, right? I need I need your criticism. I need I I need your prayers, etc. Right? And let's face it, um, how much time, how much time were as uh if you think about the 20 years when I was in Oklahoma City pastoring there, how much time was I afforded to be in the scriptures compared to the rest of my people, right? I had the lion's share of time in the in the in the scriptures because Because I had to prepare sermons. That's because I think it's part of because Chuck Garriot needs that much time in the scriptures. The rest of his people don't need that much time. Right Anyway, the but the point is that is that being in ministry is gonna be it's gonna be challenging, it's gonna be difficult at times, but at the end of the day, it always has to be And so notice what Paul says here in verse 2. He says, We always thank Chuck Garriot. No , Paul. We're always thanking us ourselves. No, he says we look at verse 2. We always thank God for all of you and continually mention you in our prayers. That focuses upon what God has been doing. And that's a different mindset. We remember before our God and Father, your work produces By faith, your labor prompted by love, and your endurance inspired by hope. In the building program, in the wonderful programs that we have, in the money that we've been raising, etc. No, he says, in our Lord Jesus Christ. It's it's so really incredibly simple, isn't it? That the focus is always upon God And that's where it needs to be. And so as he does so, he accents a number of things. For example, he does accent the whole dynamic And in fact, I I think to to a great extent, if the gospel is to go viral, fundamentally it's going viral because at the heart uh of those who are involved in that gospel proclamation. Is worship. Worship because of the love that God has poured out upon us. Where he says in verse 4, it is the love of God through Christ Jesus that is that needs to be our focus. And it's an interesting thing to me that when you think about uh what Jesus said to the disciples back in the upper room discourse as he was preparing them for what was to take place. He says in verse 9 or chapter 15 of John, as the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Now remain in that love. You know, it's an interesting thing when I think about what government does, meaning that, you know, we we're all interested in government and and the news media is always interested in terms of what's happening within uh a place like Washington DC or Annapolis, what have you. And and we believe in government and we need we need government. But when was the last time Those in government talked about how much they love you. Right? We're going to do this because of our love for the people. type of thing. Right. You would just kinda like we laugh. We would say that's really that's really funny, you know. When was the last time uh a president or a governor says certain things and just talked about, you know, we're doing this out of our love for you, right? I mean I think the world would kind of think that's funny as as well But but the scriptures don't shy from that at all in regards to what what motivates what has happened in your life because of What when we talk about the gospel, we're talking about that which comes from our God because of his great love for us. The agape love. A love that is patient. A love that is always for you. that regardless of your offense to God, it's because of God's love for you that you have been brought to him. Right? That's a really different mindset. The the whole story of the prodigal uh son, for example, and what you see there as the uh within that Account that Jesus gives to us is the Father uh sees the Son from a distance who has offended him greatly, and instead of pouring out uh the wrath and his anger to that son He embraces him. Because that offensive son is loved by that father. And that's what we experience us through the gospel. And Paul speaks about that in Romans eight as he says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship and e It gives us this list. No, he says in verse thirty seven, and all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. I need to be reminded of it. Love and so do you and at the heart of this gospel going viral uh is going to be God's love. Secondly, Paul speaks about God's intentionality and turn He speaks about election. He speaks about those who are chosen and those who embrace the gospel, those who understand their need for Christ, those who understand their great offense, do so because God before the foundations of the world has chosen them. Now I understand that within the general evangelical church, that the doctrine of election can be somewhat offensive, and people uh within the church at large sometimes object to that. And there's lots of theological education that is done that objects to the election that is often spoken about. There's a misunderstanding. Sometimes people say, Well, okay, yeah, I believe in election, which means in essence it's as if God was looking at a crystal ball and he could see into the future and based on what he could see in the future, then he He uh he chose certain people because those are the people who chose him. But the Bible never talks about that. That's that's a foreign c Concept to the scriptures. The Bible speaks about God before the foundations of the world, planning out everything that's going to take place. And so those who believe in the sovereignty of God understand that everything that is happens within this world, as crazy as it may seem, as chaotic as it may seem, is happening because God is is displaying to us What his plan is all along. And we may not understand all these details, etcetera. We just know that God is sovereign over every area of life, and specifically, certainly, in terms of And Paul speaks about that in verse four. And then in verse five, he speaks about the work of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit specifically. The work that God does in the heart of those, in the lives of those that He has chosen before the foundation of the world. is something that Paul wants to remind these believers about. And I think that it's that one way of thinking about election and the work of the Holy Spirit in terms of regeneration, regeneration meaning That the only way that a person will ever express faith in Christ is because the Holy Spirit has taken a heart that is dead And rotting in essence. And and and has transformed that heart, has renewed that heart in such a way that it will see Sin and will see the need for the cross and will go to the Lord in repentance and in faith. That's all because of what the Holy Spirit has done. When you think about your salvation, Paul is replied Reminding us here. When you think about the work of the gospel and it going viral, it's because of the work of the Holy Spirit in a person's life. And let me tell you, there is no greater miracle today. Than a person acknowledging their sin and their need for Christ and coming to Him in repentance. And I think to some degree, especially with our culture within the within the United States and the background that we have, that we lose our sense of appreciation for what God does in a person's life. But the reality is is that it makes perfect sense for a person to reject the gospel. It really does. And make to me when I think about it, that's that makes perfect sense. Because the weight of sin, the nature of sin of sin, what it means to be dead in our transgressions and sin, as Paul speaks about there in Ephesians chapter two, that makes perfect sense. Because if you're really dead spiritually, then you 'll then there's no way that you could ever respond to the gospel. But if a person does, and they actually do express faith, that to me is amazing. And we all all have that kind of appreciation. And what I believe is taking place here in this particular community is that people have this fresh concept, so to speak. speak of what the Lord is doing, meaning that they don't have the background of faith that we have. And so when Paul goes into a community like Thessalonica And people are expressing belief in Christ who they can't see. That's an amazing thing, right? And And Paul after a few weeks of spending time in the synagogues preaching Christ, people coming to him, that had to be an amazing thing. Amazing thing to experience. And we mustn't ever lose our perspective on that. And then, fourth of all, as we think about what it is for this to be God-centered, we see that the message is very critical. And if you go back to Acts chapter 17, you'll see that Paul, I'm sorry, you'll see that Luke speaks specifically and mentions Specifically about the message, and he accents, of course, the life and the resurrection, the death and the resurrection of Christ. How critical that is and how offensive uh that is. And the message to us mustn't ever be somehow toyed with or tinkered with or somehow changed The weight needs to be where it is on our sin, our need for Christ, our offense to God, and the fact that God, because of his love for you Because of his love for those that he elected before the foundations of the world has brought them to himself. And that which is taking that which took place 2,000 years ago is taking place. And I know I know some of your stories. And you you know some of my story in terms of what is taking place and how my Debbie and myself Went to this high school called Randallstown, not very far from here, right? And how different ones who were concerned about that student body would dedicate themselves to coming to that campus to the ministry of young life and make sure that that there was at least the opportunity for those students to hear about the gospel and through that ministry. Debbie? Myself in the middle of high school, heard the gospel, grew up, both of us in church. We were around things like worship and church for a long time. But it was through those individuals and their concern and their prayers that brought us to Christ. Those are the means that God uses. Alright, so the last thing is this and my voice is still here so I'm sorry that I didn't give up earlier. But I want to talk a little bit about the the last the the last aspect that Paul speaks about here in regards to things going viral and that is just the change That takes place, right? All these things that I mentioned are are important. But ultimately, the reason why Paul says what he does here in verse 8, the Lord's message rang out from you not only in Macedonia or Your faith in God has become known everywhere. Your faith. Meaning simply this. Now he's accenting not only this whole dynamic of of what has been going on in the background, but now what the world can see. And that's a really that's an amazing that's that really is an amazing thing. That that is going to have an impact. And if you go back to Acts chapter 7 you'll recall that that one of the members of the new church, and we're talking about a church as in a couple weeks old, is a guy by the name of Jason. And when the people began to comprehend this gospel, they became offended. And they started to, in essence, riot. And they were just angry and mad. Now, there's a number of things that were happening here. It wasn't just the fact that Paul was was president and he was speaking or preaching a message, but people's lives began to change. And as the community began to understand what that change looked like, then they became angry. Now, note one of the things that would make a community Angry. And maybe we should just accent this. If you look at verse nine, it says they tell how you turn to God, and then he goes on, from idols to serve the living in True God. Now we live in a day and age in which there is present a lot of idolatry. Now, it's not quite the same format that was present within Thessalonica or many other communities, meaning that that in those communities there were actually templates Where people naturally worshiped, and were told that there were all kinds of gods that were worshipped, like Aphrodite or or Venus, the the goddess of love. Venus is the the the Roman goddess uh encompassed Things like uh sexuality, uh beauty, uh fertility, prosperity, and desire. Now, just think about what I mentioned earlier in regards to what's happening with the selfies And what's being photographed, right? Things that are physically attractive, uh things that that deal with some aspects of sexuality. And the list kind of goes on, but it very much mirrors What was taking place over 2,000 years ago in the temples and the worship and the idolatry that was taking place then? We haven't changed, really we just sort of alter Some of the the vehicles that feed this aspect of idolatry. And the truth is, is that even within our own lives as Christians, right, there's there's There's all kinds of opportunities for ideology to surface in our thinking, in our workplace, in our just in our own lives. And it becomes uh it becomes uh an obsession to the point where that really ends up be controlling our lives. So the point is simply this that in terms of what was happening in Thessalonica, people were turning from those idols. In some cases, for example, if you were worshiping one of the Egyptian deities, that meant that you were regularly entering and eating sacred meals You are celebrating annual festivals, ceremonies, public processions. Uh for example, the beginning of a sailing season was always uh was always done with With certain forms of worship to the gods. In addition, there was singing of hymns as a means of engaging the worship of those who believe in this power. And these Christians were going home in the market going to the marketplace into their place of work with their friends and they were saying, uh I'm not gonna sing those hymns anymore. I'm not going to make those sacrifices. I'm not going to be a part of that. I'm worshiping the one true God. And that created quite a bit. There was change, there was a transformation, and it was costly at times. I believe that if the gospel is to go viral within the world today, then not only Not only do people need to hear the message and understand the message, they need to see that individuals' lives are now transformed. Different. Different not because people exercise discipline, although discipline is part of it, but because people are responding to what God has done through Jesus Christ And that will look somewhat different. When we think about what's taken Taking place in the world today. I mentioned last week about China. And to me, China is a is a Is somewhat um of a of a of a lesson in regards to what God is doing for me and for Debbie, because there was a day, and this is going back sixteen or so years ago, where Paul Taylor, who is at the time was part of mission to the world. Mission to the world is our denomination's emphasis towards reaching the world with the gospel. If you if you're not familiar with that part of the PCA. That's basically what I mean when I talk about mission to the world. And this individual had had sat down with Debbie and I and challenged us about going to China. And uh and at the time I w again I was pastoring at Heritage and and uh I had a sense that maybe God was going to do something different but but Debbie and I prayed about it and we decided that China wasn't going to be where God was calling us. And And uh there was an opportunity for me to go to the Philippines, which is where Paul Taylor was living and uh overseeing the work in that uh in Asia. in that whole Pacific rim. And so I went there to explain to him that I wasn't going to be involved in China. And I didn't I didn't sense the call. At the same uh period of time when I was in Manila, I met this couple who were involved in uh ministering to people in government. And that's really where I was oriented, and I spent some time with them and they had requested that I write some material in regards to the topic of work and vocation. And so uh I thought that was kind of interesting and I was was glad to do that and so after I returned and we then came to Washington in the first year or so I was spending all this time and you may know this story but I'll be quick about it. So I wrote the material, sent it back to them, and they said, Well thank you for your work, but we're not interested in this material. So I thought, Oh well that was too bad, you know? I spent all this time and I thought maybe my friend these new friends in Manila might use this uh basically this very basic uh Bible study on vocation. And so we went ahead and and published it and and I use it for Bible studies in Washington and in fact uh you've been great gracious and using some of the material here. What I did know is that uh my brother Chris had taken the copy, a couple copies of the book to Beijing on a mission trip he was going to, and he gave it to this one guy. And uh the guy uh hung on to a few copies, uh gave most of them away, he had one copy left, and this gal by name of Jody took the the last copy that he had, and she just happened to have come to Christ About a year before she was given a copy of this book called Work Excellence. And she had never thought about what God was doing in the workplace and in her life in the workplace. Relative to the gospel. And so she had a friend that helped her translate the material into English. And then she began to uh uh realize that this was an important part not only for her own life and she was a gal let's say in her late thirties, early forties. She was a HR consultant uh through not only Beijing but other major cities. In China, and she began to form these small groups, these what they called work fellowships that met in different places in Beijing using the material in work excellence. eventually let me know what they were doing. And next thing I know that there was this somewhat, not huge, but a substantial ministry going on in Beijing with with twenties and thirties something going to material of work excellence, which then eventually took me to China. China took me to Beijing and I spent some time visiting with the leaders of these small groups as well as uh the people themselves. But I began to see through what I would call the skift of what God was doing in China. Now, as I mentioned to you last last week, the gospel is definitely going viral in China. And I I say that because the more I uh I spend time with those who are in China. I hear these these very basic, beautiful stories. And again, I know that I've shared this with you before, but I'm gonna I'll do it one more time because I think it's it's it's It's the kind of thing we're looking for. When I sat down with this gal, Jodi, and her friends, and I asked them, tell me what what was it that brought you to Christ, right? Was it, you know, someone's personality or, you know, some big program, etc. No. It was it was some friend that they had. That left for a period of time, came back, and Jody told me she said this friend had changed. Her life was different. And I couldn't help to note the differences in her thinking. and her attitude. And I eventually asked her, what was it? And her friend explained, I became a Christian. I surrendered my life to Christ. I don't know the exact term That she used. But the point was is that Jody saw the change in the person's life. Just the change, the transformation And then Jody said to herself, without any kind of background, in any kind of religion for the most part, except maybe cultural Buddhism or whatever she might have been brought up with, but nothing Really, in terms of Christianity. So Jody says, that's what I want. And she surrenders her life to Christ. And then she becomes an influence upon Her friends. And those friends become an influence upon their friends. In other words, it's a picture of the gospel going viral. And so when you think about places like China, It's really an amazing thing to think about what God is doing there. You know, we sometimes talk about Hudson Taylor. And about his great work. And it was great. And especially when you think about what God was doing in this man's life and how for a long for a period of time he rejected the gospel. As a kid, he wanted nothing to do with it. And his his mother prayed for him and his sister prayed, and then all of a sudden the guy not only comes to Christ But he goes to China from Great Britain, right? That's real craziness. That's a real I mean that's uh that doesn't make any sense at all. And he dresses like the Chinese and And he he he wears his hair like the Chinese because he is so passionate about seeing the gospel take place in their lives. And for a long time, it does it it doesn't go very far very well. But then eventually he's responsible for bringing hundreds of missionaries into China. That's just another example of what God is doing. But let me say this and I'll I'll close. As you understand, we live in a world where it really does need the gospel. And it needs not only to be present, but it needs to go viral. It's not going to go viral because of all the things that I mentioned earlier that don't have any impact or often don't have any impact. It's going to go viral because the church is focusing its worship upon Christ, upon God. And that alone. And as it does so, it understands how God has been transforming our lives how we need to be a part of that transformation within the world through the gospel. And so when I think about China, I say to myself This is one incredible country that has the goal now of becoming more influential and more present in the world, much more so than this country. It has as its purpose to become a much larger economy than the United States. In every way, economically, defense, culturally, it wants to be the dominant. Dominant part. And as you know, since the forties, communism has been has been its main master and continues to be the main master. President Xi, who represents the Communist Party, is creating a culture that will be very much consistent With communism. So to see the gospel go viral in that part of the world is to me very significant. Because if that country does become as dominant as it's planning, as it desires to be, there's going to at least be the presence Of a message that centers not upon communism or any other kind of ideology, but upon Jesus Christ. And we need to pray to that end. All right, my voice is gone. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for the gospel, for what it's done in our lives. Personally, thank you for the way in which you have used this church and this community here. But I do pray again that what is taking place within this congregation with Within this ministry, within the lives of these people, all of it would pale compared to what you will do in the future. And so I pray that for all of us, our sense of stewardship would be significant. Significant, that we wouldn't grow tired or weary, but that we would be strengthened by your Holy Spirit to continue to do all that we have been called to do in regard to We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.