If you uh you have your Bible with you, would you turn please to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 10? We have resumed our study through the Gospel of Mark. We are in chapter 10. And as we turn there, we'll dismiss the little ones for wonders of worship downstairs. And uh let me say while we're turning t uh in our scriptures, I'm not sure everybody understands Peter and Sarah are going to uh you're going to Dayton, Ohio, is that right, Peter? And you're is this a doctorate program? Is that what you told me? So uh and uh I can't remember exactly what it has to do with uh camouflaging soldiers or something. I nothing like that. No, nothing But uh anyways it's an incredible opportunity for 'em and it was a a very difficult program to uh to get into. So they'll be in Dayton for a few years, a couple of years Four years? Can you make that like three? Let's try to make that three. Yeah. Four years. Wow Alright, so uh Mark chapter 10, let's begin in verse 13. Then they brought little children to him that he might touch them But the disciples rebuked those who brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was greatly displeased and said to them, Let the little children come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God. Assuredly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. And he took them up in his arms, laid his hands on them, and blessed them. Now, as he was going out on the road, one came running, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one, that is God. You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and your mother. And he answered and said to him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, One thing you lack, go your way Sell whatever you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, take up the cross and follow me. But he was sad at this word and went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Then Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for those who have riches. To enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answered again and said to them, Children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. And they were greatly astonished, saying among themselves, who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With men it is impossible, but not with God. For with God all things are possible. May God And his blessing to this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, forgive us for our failure to Seek you and your word for our neglect of prayer, for even wandering thoughts when we come to Worship you. Help us to focus our minds now upon your holy word. Use it, Lord. Apply it. Pour your spirit out upon us, Lord, not for our sakes, but for your glory. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord Jesus, as you know, said many astounding things We heard at least two of them in our scripture reading this morning. He said, Assuredly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. And then he also said, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Now his reference to rich men came as a result of his encounter with one who came to him inquiring about eternal life. The books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, what we call the Synoptic Gospels, each record this encounter for us. We call them the Synoptic Gospels from the Greek word Synopticos or Synopticos, to see the whole together, to take a comprehensive view. So they offer us slightly different perspectives of a number of events in Christ's earthly ministry. The account of this visit to Jesus is recorded both here in Mark 10 and in Matthew 19 and in Luke 18. And all three evangelists tell us that this man came earnestly seeking Jesus' help. Matthew and Mark say the man had great possessions. Luke says he was very rich. Matthew tells us he was young. Luke notes that he was a ruler. Now, if he used that term in a general sense, Luke may have meant that he was of the upper class of society. He was a mover and a shaker. He was a man who was viewed with respect. Uh if Luke used that term in a more specific sense, then this young man may have been a ruler of the synagogue, that is, an administrative leader who handled the day-to-day duties of the synagogue, overseeing Maintenance, overseeing public worship, appointing those who would read the scriptures, those who would pray, those who would expound God's Word, etc. So as we put these three accounts together, we commonly refer to this visitor as the rich young ruler. Although he was wealthy, he was not like the man in what we call the parable of the rich fool, who was content to eat and drink and be merry with no regard for his soul. This man was in earnest. Mark says he came running to Jesus. He humbly implored him. He knelt before him. Now what would you do, what would you say, if a young man ran up to you in uh food line parking lot? And fell on his knees and asked, in evident concern for his soul, What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? What did Paul and Silas say when the Philippian jailer came to them, trembling, in evident concern for his soul, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? They answered, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. You and your household. And then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. Acts 16. What did Jesus say when this young man, earnestly seeking him and eternal life, fell before him? And said, What must I do that I may inherit eternal life? Jesus said two things that we would probably never say to an earnest seeker. He said, first of all, if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments. Matthew 19. Go sell everything you have and give it to the poor, secondly. Keep the commandments. Have you kept the commandments? Go sell everything you have and give it to the poor. Reformed Baptist pastor Walter Chantry of Carlisle, Pennsylvania has written an excellent little book called Today's Gospel. that I've cited before in reference to this conversation between Jesus and this man. He points out that this young man was ripe for evangelism. We would have elicited a decision from him in a few moments. We would have given him assurance of eternal life before we sent him on his way. He writes, Aren't you a little disappointed to see Jesus handling this tender soul so roughly? How could our Lord use such obviously poor tactics with a sinner? He began with a rebuke. He went on to talk about the Ten Commandments of all things. Then he demanded immense sacrifice as a condition of having eternal life. And then he allowed the fish to get away. Didn't he know how to lead a soul to himself? If you're surprised, he writes, surely you are the one who doesn't understand evangelism. The answer to the question, why would Jesus deal with this man in this way is in Jesus himself. The scripture says he knew what was in man. He had a distinct advantage in dealing with men. He knew their thoughts, their hearts, their motives, their background, etc. He knew all about the Samaritan woman's experiences with men. He knew the Sadducees were trying to catch him in his words. He knew Nicodemus was sincere but unregenerated. He knew there was no guile in Nathanael. He knew all men, and he had no need that anyone should testify of man, for he knew what was in man. John 2, 24. Jesus knew the heart of this man. Now there are some clues in the accounts of the conversation that suggest to us that this young man may have had some basic misconceptions that Jesus was addressing. And the fact is they're very common misconceptions. First of all, on the person of Christ. Look at verse 17. As he was going out in the road, one came, running, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher. What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? Now there's nothing wrong with calling Jesus good teacher, as long as you realize that he's much more than a good teacher. Evidently, this young man did not view Jesus as the Messiah, as God's anointed son, as Emmanuel, God with us. For Jesus said, Why do you call me good? Only one is good, that is God. The implication is if you don't acknowledge me to be God in the flesh, why do you call me good? He was trying to clarify the thoughts of this young man. Now, whether this visitor to Jesus had a misunderstanding of Jesus' nature or not, that certainly seems to be the case with many today. Sadly, both inside and outside the church. I read an astounding statistic. According to Christian pollster George Barna, 49 % of American evangelicals Don't believe that Jesus is God and man, or that he is without sin. Now that's astounding. If he's anywhere near correct, Forty-nine percent of American evangelicals, almost half of us, don't believe that Jesus is God and man or that he is without sin. Half of those who say they believe the Iwangeleon, the good news, don't even know or proclaim one of the very foundational truths of the good news. And it's entirely possible that some here see Jesus as a great teacher, a holy man, a great prophet, one of many holy men, great prophets. But the scriptures declare him to be much more. The Old Testament testifies to his deity. Psalm 45: Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is the right scepter. You love righteousness and hate wickedness, therefore God, thy God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. He's addressing the son, and he calls him, God, thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a right scepter. Here we see God's anointed king referred to as God Himself. In Psalm 110, David writes, The Lord said to my Lord , Jehovah said to my Adonai, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. In Isaiah 40, we read the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. This prophecy was fulfilled in the ministry of John, who prepared the way of the Lord Jesus, our God. Isaiah 9. 6 makes it clear Crystal clear, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father. In 7. 14, Isaiah says, the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. The New Testament testifies to his deity. John 1:1. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. Then later, in the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. In Acts 20, Paul urges the elders of the church of Ephesus to feed the church of God which he has purchased with his own blood. The Apostle Paul writes, we are looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Titus 2. 13. Hebrews 1. 8, unto the Son God says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Quoting Psalm 45. The apostles testified to Christ's deity. Thomas answered and said to him as he saw the risen Christ, my Lord and my God. 1 John 5. 20, we read, This is the true God and eternal life. John 5. Concept. This is the true God and eternal life. Peter said we were eyewitnesses of his majesty And even unbelievers testified to his deity. Now when the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and the things that had happened, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. Matthew twenty seven fifteen. The demons testify to his deity. Matthew 8:29 speaks of Jesus confronted by two demon-possessed men, and behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus, you son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone! What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. Luke 4. Jesus' works testify to his deity, healing the blind, the lame, the deaf, the lepers, casting out demons, feeding thousands with a bit of bread and fish Walking on the water, stilling the storm with his word, turning water into wine, raising the dead. Jesus himself testified to his deed John 12, 45, he who sees me sees him who sent me. John 10, 30, I and the Father are one. Bible teacher John Stott has pointed out, as have many others, that Jesus' exalted claims testify to his deity. The claim to be able to forgive sins. Who can forgive sins but God only? That's what the Pharisees said, and they were right. The claim to be able to bestow life. He who drinks of the water that I will give him. Will never thirst, he said. I am the bread of life. He who eats of this bread shall never hunger. His claim of of authority, you have heard it said, but I say unto you He issued absolute moral commands: love your enemies, don't worry about tomorrow. Ask, and it will be given you. And then there's his claim to be the one who will judge the world. He will revive the dead. All nations will be gathered before him, he said. He will sit upon his throne. The criterion of judgment will be men's attitude to him, as shown in their treatment of his brethren. Jesus claimed that for a man to be excluded from heaven in the last day, it would be enough for him to declare, I never knew you. God the Father testified to his deity at Jesus' baptism. This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Hear him. On the Mount of Transfiguration. He is declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. God declared his son to be the Son of God with power by raising him from the dead. Romans 1:4. The rich ruler called Jesus a good teacher. I wonder, did he recognize him as the Son of God? As God in the flesh, as the promised Messiah. Well, apparently not. Is he only a good teacher to you? The second misconception this rich man may have had concerns his doctrine of man. And Jesus affirmed, no one is good. Good teacher. Now we use the term loosely, right? He's a good friend. is is a a good parent, whatever, a good child. But Jesus affirmed, really, no one is good. None but God. In other words, Jesus affirmed our total inability, our total depravity. Now, this is a familiar subject to our church family. I'm not going to belabor it this morning except to say this. When we affirm the doctrine of man's total depravity, we're not declaring that depraved men have no conscience. We're not saying they don't admire virtuous character when they see it in others. We're not saying that they're incapable of true affections. We're not saying they're as wicked as they could possibly be. We are declaring that the guilt of Adam's first sin has been justly charged upon the whole race, and consequently every child who was born into this world is in a state of condemnation by one man's disobedience. Many were made sinners. And secondly, that our entire nature is depraved. It involves an innate sinful disposition which leads to actual transgressions. Thirdly, we're unable to change our own nature or to do anything spiritually good in our original state. Can't do it. We can't just change ourselves. The natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God, they're foolishness to him, nor can he know them because they're spiritually discerned. And he has no spiritual sight. Corinthians 2. 14. The rich young man seemed to have a misconception about our natural depravity. And thirdly, he seemed to have a misconception about the way of eternal life. What shall I do? What more do I have to do? What good things shall I do? That I may have eternal life. Galatians 2. 16. A man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. Whosoever shall keep the whole law yet offend in one point, he's guilty of all. James 2. 10. Remember when the people asked Jesus, what shall we do that we might work the works of God? This is after he had fed them. And they said, man, he can give us bread. And they went back to him for more bread. And he said, don't labor for the bread that perishes, labor for the bread that endures. And then they said, well, okay then. Well, what shall we do that we might work the works of God? says John 6. And Jesus said, this is the work of God, that you believe on him whom he has sent. And that's not a work at all, is it? It's just the faith. That's the only work God is requiring of you if you want to put it that way. Now, this idea that we have to do something to merit eternal life is, as you know. uh perhaps Satan's uh most successful lie. It's a common misconception. And it was once embraced, I suppose, by most, if not all, of us. It's the conviction of millions of people. Nothing can be more valuable than everlasting life. Anything of such value must have a very, very high price. However, they reason heaven is not to be purchased with money. But with good deeds, with a life of virtue, with a life of honor, with a life of purity, with a life of reaching out to other people What shall I do? What do I still lack? What more is needed for me to merit eternal life? I don't know what this young man was hoping to hear from Jesus. If I know if I had been in his shoes, I would have wanted to hear something like, hey, hey, you're already virtuous enough. Relax. Or continue what you're doing. That's great. Just keep it up. And then maybe find a child that you can mentor. Or teach a class in the synagogue. so others can benefit from your life of virtue. When I speak to couples or to individuals and inquire what they would say , If they stood before God, if they passed away tonight, stood before God, and God said to them, why should I let you into my heaven? Some of them respond with a version of, we've lived good lives, we've helped other people, we've avoided the worst sins. In other words, all these have I kept from my youth up. Well, that's how I would have responded before, in my case, my brother, shared Christ with me when I was a college student Uh he helped me to see that if I could be saved by living a relatively good life, then Jesus would not have had to come to earth and die as my substitute, as a substitute for sinners. This young man seemed to have some misconception about the way of eternal life, and a misconception about his own morality. Uh Walter Chantry noted that Jesus took this young man to Mount Sinai before he took him to Mount Calvary. Normal evangelical practice is swiftly to run to the cross of Christ. But the cross means nothing apart from the law, he wrote. Our Lord's wretched suffering must be tragic and senseless in the eyes of any who have no reverent esteem for the perfect commandments. On the cross, Jesus was satisfying the just demands of the law against sinners. If sinners are unaware of the decalogues, the Ten Commandments, requirements for themselves, They will see no personal significance in Christ's broken body and shed blood. Without knowledge of the condemnation of God's holy law, the cross will draw sympathy, but not saving faith from sinners Christ was set forth to be a propitiation, Romans 3. 25, that is, the substitutionary object of God's wrath poured out against a violated law. What sense was there in offering the man salvation when he had only a very vague awareness of his danger? Though he had doubts that he would inherit eternal life, he certainly didn't think of himself as a lawbreaker. But sin is the transgression of the law, 1 John 3. 4. So he was saying in effect that he had no real sin. And Jesus came not to call the righteous, those who think themselves righteous, but sinners to repentance. Luke 5. 32. Until this moralist could see his soul in the light of God's law, he was unprepared for the gospel. The chantry goes on, present-day preaching only pays lip service to the concept that a man must recognize himself to be a sinner before he can genuinely embrace the Savior. The average witnessing booklet insists on the question, do you believe that all men are sinners? If there's any hesitation, you establish the point with, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 23. But no definition of sin is included. There's scarcely a man alive, including the most hardened sinner, who will deny this fraud statement. Anyone would answer, Well, of course I'm less holy than God. Nobody's perfect. The young ruler would have conceded as much. But such is hardly an acknowledgement of sin. He would still deny that he was a liar, an adulterer, a thief Hosts of Christians have a dreadful fear of God's law as if it were the useless relic of a past age, the use of which in our day Would keep sinners from the grace of God. But our Savior used the law as a primary tool of evangelism. He knew that preaching the Ten Commandments was the only way to teach a sinner his guilt and thereby stir within him a desire for God's grace. Now, perhaps you've already noted The contrast between what Jesus said about coming to him as a little child and the incident that preceded the approach of this man And away, this rich ruler, confident in his own personal morality, proud of his faithful keeping of God's law, approached Jesus How different from the way of a little child who has nothing to boast in, no record of righteousness , no accomplishments to rely upon. Do you see coming to God relying upon your own record, your kindness, your personal sacrifice, your selflessness, your service in the church, your spiritual accomplishments That's not coming to him with the humility of a child. When the ruler responded, all these commandments I've kept from my youth Jesus might have expounded on God's law, as he did on other occasions, to prove that this man had indeed broken it. Jesus might have said, oh really? You've kept them all from your youth? So you've never been angry with your brother? I guess I was angry one time. Uh then you've committed murder in your heart. Have you ever lusted? Well, I guess yeah I guess I have. Well then you've committed adultery in your heart. Have you ever failed to return something that you borrowed from somebody? Then you've stolen. Have you ever failed to thank God for his blessings? Have you ever placed others before him? See, Jesus could have dealt with this man that way. Instead, Jesus, seeing into this young man's soul, requested of him one thing that would require complete faith in Jesus. I want you to sell whatever you have and give it to the poor. Come take up your cross and follow me. Now why did Jesus ask this man to sell all that he had? To give away all his money, all his possessions, and follow him? He didn't ask Nicodemus to do that. He didn't ask Jairus or Bartimaeus or Peter or Thomas or James or John or any of the scores of people that he healed, as far as we know. What did Jesus see in this man's heart? We have to assume from Jesus' subsequent conversation with his disciples that this young man loved his possessions. And he was unwilling to part with them. He was hoping that eternal life could be obtained at less cost. His unwillingness to part with his property manifested that he didn't recognize Christ's lordship. He wasn't yet truly born again. He wasn't truly regenerated. If this man had cheerfully gone about to do what Jesus asked of him, he would have evidenced that he was in fact exercising faith in Jesus. Faith in Jesus as both Savior and Lord, the one who had the right to command him to do that, to sell all that he had and give to the poor. The fact that he went away sorrowful suggests that his riches had a strong hold upon him. And the thought of divesting himself of everything that he had gathered to himself all his life. Everything he owned, that was more than he could bear. Now think about it. If Jesus had asked the blind beggar described in John chapter 9, to sell all you have and give it to the poor and come take up the cross and follow me, I suspect he would have done it in a heartbeat, perhaps even without being regenerated. He had, you might say, nothing to lose. As a beggar, he presumably lived from hand to mouth. But this man went away sorrowful because he had great possessions. In other words, he was grieved because of his gold. He was grieved because of his goal. He appeared to have a misconception about the person of Christ, a misconception about man's depravity. A misconception about the way of eternal life, and a misconception about his own morality. And he seemed to have a misconception about the value of money, the value of the things that money can buy. Jesus said, lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust corrupt and thieves break through and steal. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Wherever your treasure is, that's where your heart's gonna be. He said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. He said, You can't serve God and mammon. Money, riches, lucre. Apostle John said, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Paul said, the love of money is the root of all sorts of evils. The scripture says, those who desire to be rich fall into temptations and a snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. 1 Timothy 6. Jesus said, beware of covetousness, because a man's life does not consist in the abundance of things that he possesses. It's easy for us to see the love of money in other people. I remember an interview I saw with a young real estate speculator from Miami. He was asked, What is your goal? in life and his answer was I want to be worth a hundred million dollars by the time I turn forty. At the time of the interview he was well on his way. It's easy to recognize it in other people. It's especially disconcerting when we see professing Christians who seem to have ignored Jesus' warnings not to lay up treasures on earth. An interview with a prominent Texas television evangelist was broadcast a few years ago. He was questioned as he and his entourage walked along about his six million dollar estate, his private airport, his fleet of planes. including what I think a reporter referred to as a twenty million dollar private jet. And the question from the reporter was how can you justify the use of tax free contributions of your supporters for such things? As this. At one point, when the reporter pressed the question of Plains, the evangelist, with apparent frustration or anger, pointed his finger at the reporter and said, That is none of your business. It's relatively easy to detect what we think is the love of money in other people. It's a little harder sometimes to see it in our own hearts. But I suspect if you search for it, you can find it in your heart, as I can find it. There's something else in this passage which should at least be mentioned, and that is that by telling this man to sell everything he had and give the proceeds to the poor And take up the cross and follow Jesus, it's self-evident that Jesus was addressing him as his Lord and master. Now, if we you left from the main doors this morning and I happened to be there, and if I said to you, if I took you aside and I said, uh, I want you to sell everything you have and give it to the poor, And I want you to take it across and follow me. Well, you would laugh at me, or you'd tell me to get my head examined, and I've heard that before. Why? Because I'm not your Lord and Master. I don't have the right to say that to you. I don't have the authority to say that to you. Jesus, on the other hand, who created us, who sustains us, our Redeemer, our Lord, our King, our Master. Our God has every right to say such a thing to us. Jesus said to some, Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do the things that I say? Christ knew nothing of the man-made suggestion that taking Jesus as Lord is optional, writes Chantry. For him it was no second step, essential for great blessings, but unnecessary for entering God's kingdom. Practical acknowledgement of Christ's Lordship Yielding to his rule by following is the very fiber of saving faith. It is only those who confess with the mouth the Lord Jesus, the Lord Jesus Romans 10, 9, who will be saved? And Jesus says, in effect, you must become my bondservant. You must submit your thoughts to my word. You must submit your will to my lordship. These are my terms of surrender. The gospel is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And you will be saved. A. W. Tozer put it this way The Lord will not save those whom He cannot command. He will not divide His offices. You cannot believe on a half Christ. Dr. John MacArthur put it this way, we do not make Christ Lord. He is Lord. Those who will not receive him as Lord are guilty of rejecting him. Faith that rejects his sovereign authority is really unbelief. Now, we don't have an epilogue for this young man as we do for Nicodemus. Remember, John chapter 3, Nicodemus, he must be born again. We realize later that Nicodemus came to faith in Christ. We don't have an epilogue for this young man All we know is at this point he was sad and he went away grieved, sorrowful, because he had great possessions. We can hope that by God's grace, as he meditated upon Jesus' words and perhaps more closely followed Christ's ministry, This young man came to recognize Jesus as God in the flesh, that he came to recognize the depravity of his own heart, that he came to recognize that the true way of eternal life is by grace through faith in what Jesus is doing. In the Messiah's coming sacrifice, he would recognize his own lost condition. recognize the fleeting value of all worldly possessions, that he would embrace Jesus alone as his Savior, as his Lord, as his master, and as his king. So how about you? Do you understand these things? Is Jesus your Lord and Savior? Have you seen your sin for what it is, vile, corrupt? Do you hate it? Do you recognize that it's like a cancer inside of you that's destroying you? It's in all of us. Do you hate it? Do you see Jesus in all his beauty? Do you see him as the Son of God, God who came to earth to live that perfect life that you couldn't live? Do you realize you've broken every single one of God's holy laws? In thought, word, or deed. And that whoever keeps the whole law and offends in one point is guilty of all. Have you fallen down before Christ and said, Lord, forgive me and save me? Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about I'm a sinner. I deserve your wrath. I'm no different than that thief on the cross. I deserve death. I deserve judgment. I've broken your laws. I've shaken my fist at God. But I believe that you live that perfect life, that you died upon the cross, that you rose again from the dead. And you say in your words If I put my faith in you, if I trust in you, if I rest in you, all my sins will be forgiven. I'll have eternal life. I'll be with you in heaven. Lord, that's what I want. Forgive me and save me. I embrace you as my Lord and my master, my king, my God. Have you come to him that way? You can do that today if God's speaking to your heart. Cry out to him, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said, this wonderful word, he who believes in me, that is he who trusts in me, has everlasting life. Amen? Amen. Let's pray. Father, first of all, those of us who have been redeemed, we thank you, we praise you for bringing us up out of that horrible pit, out of that myry clay. We thank you for opening our eyes and showing us our sin and bringing to us this message of Jesus, this good news, this gospel. That he's God in the flesh, who lived the perfect life, who died as our substitute, who rose again. He's the good shepherd who gives his life for his sheep. He's our Passover. Lamb who died for us. Lord, we thank you for this. But now we pray for those who may be here still outside of Christ. It's possible, Lord, there are some here today who still think of Jesus as a good man, a good teacher, a prophet, a holy man, but not the Son of God. Who lived the perfect life and died as our substitute. Lord, open their eyes. Give them saving faith as you graciously gave it to us. We pray that no one here will go away grieved because of his great possessions or because of his misconceptions Open our eyes. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.