Second Corinthians chapter seven, we're going to begin in verse two. The Apostle Paul writes, Open your hearts to us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have cheated no one I do not say this to condemn, for I have said before, that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together Great is my boldness of speech toward you. Great is my boasting on your behalf. I'm filled with comfort. I am exceedingly joyful in all our tribulation. For indeed, when we came to Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, but we were troubled on every side. Outside were conflicts, inside were fears Nevertheless, God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus. And not only by his coming, but also by the consolation with which he was comforted in you. When he told us of your earnest desire, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoice even more. For even if I made you sorry with my letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it. For I perceived that the same epistle made you sorry, though only for a while. Now I rejoice not that you were made sorry, but that your sorrow led to repentance For you were made sorry in a godly manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing. For godly sorrow produces repentance, leading to salvation, not to be regretted But the sorrow of the world produces death. For observe this very thing that you sorrowed in a godly manner What diligence it produced in you, what clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal, what vindication. In all things you proved yourselves to be clear in this matter Therefore, although I wrote to you, I did not do it for the sake of him who had done the wrong, nor for the sake of him who suffered wrong, but that our care for you in the sight of God might appear to you. Therefore, we have been comforted in your comfort, and we rejoiced exceedingly more for the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. For if in anything I have boasted to him about you, I am not ashamed. But as we spoke all things to you in truth, even so our boasting to Titus was found true. And his affections are greater for you as he remembers the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling you received him. Therefore, I rejoice that I have confidence in you in everything. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of His inspired word. Join with me as we pray for His blessing upon it. Let's pray. Father, we acknowledge our utter dependence upon you and upon your spirit to take your word. And accomplish eternal things in hearts this day. Lord, we know full well that there may be someone here this morning who is still outside of Christ, still dead in sin, still without hope, headed for judgment. Someone here this day who will stand before a holy God without being covered in the righteousness of Christ. And so, Lord, please We pray that you'll have mercy upon that soul, that you'll draw that one or those souls to Christ this day. May your word go forth with clarity and truth and power And we pray that your people will be built up, will be edified, will be strengthened by your word. Bring us to repentance where it's needed. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. The Apostle Paul's authority had been challenged in the city of Corinth, in the church that he had been instrumental in founding. If we're understanding the clues from Paul's letters correctly, it seems that one of the men who had come to Corinth after Paul left One of these false teachers that Paul refers to had particularly wronged Paul, no doubt by the things that he said about him. And the church did not, at first, anyway, come to Paul's defense. So Paul wrote the church a very strong letter, a letter that has not been preserved for us. It was written to rebuke the Corinthians for their behavior. He refers to it here in chapter 7. And he did so in chapter 2. If you'll turn back to 2 Corinthians chapter 2, and look at verse 1. But I determined this within myself that I would not come again to you in sorrow. For if I make you sorrowful, then who is he who makes me glad but the one who is made sorrowful by me? And I wrote this very thing to you, lest when I came I should have sorrow over those from whom I ought to have joy Having confidence in you all that my joy is the joy of you all. For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you, with many tears. Not that you should be grieved, but that you might know the love which I have so abundantly for you. Aware that the foundation that He had established in Corinth was being undermined, and that the church was in danger, Paul wrote that strong letter. It was hand-delivered to the church by his fellow servant Titus. But Paul wasn't relieved to get these things off his chest, so to speak. He was in turmoil. He was anxiously awaiting news from Corinth. waiting to hear how the church had responded to his harsh letter. Chapter 2 of verse 12. Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel and the door was opened to me by the Lord, I had no rest in my spirit, because I did not find Titus, my brother. But taking my leave of them, I departed for Macedonia. Now, Paul picks up the narrative in chapter 7, verse 5, but first let's look at those first few verses, beginning with verse 2 Chapter verse 1 really goes along with the previous chapter, so look at verse 2. Open your hearts to us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have cheated no one I do not say this to condemn, for I have said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together. Great is my boldness of speech toward you. Great is my boasting on your behalf. I am filled with comfort. I am exceedingly joyful in all our tribulation. Perhaps contrasting himself with those false apostles who sought to make merchandise of them to profit from them, the Apostle Paul coveted no one's gold. or silver or apparel, Acts 20, 33. And he says to them in verse 2, open your hearts to us. We've wronged no one, we've corrupted no one, we've cheated no one. Verse 3. I don't say this to condemn, for I've said before that you were in our hearts to die together and to live together. It sounds like he's saying that uh Neither death nor life can sever the bond of love that he has with the Church of Corinth, and the Church of Corinth has with him. And verse 4, great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my boasting on your behalf. I'm filled with comfort. I'm exceedingly joyful in all our tribulation. The Presbyterian theologian Hodge summarized this verse. So far from wishing to condemn the Corinthians, he had joyful confidence in them. And then verse 5. For indeed, when we came to Macedonia, our bodies had no rest, but we were troubled on every side. Outside were conflicts, inside were fears. Nevertheless, God who comforts the downcast comforted us by the coming of Titus, and not just by his coming, but by the fact that he brought good news. Paul was comforted by the coming of Titus and by the news that Titus brought him. He was comforted and encouraged by the fact that The Church of Corinth had not rejected Titus, as they might have done, as an emissary from an apostle who had now fallen from their good graces or fallen into disrepute. in the Church of Corinth. On the contrary, they had warmly received Titus, and Titus had reported back to Paul about their mourning for their sin, their earnest desire, their zeal for Paul, which gave Paul cause to rejoice even more. He rejoiced that they warmly received Titus, and he rejoiced even more that they evidently still had a love in their hearts for Paul. Now, if you've ever had to rebuke someone by letter, you can empathize with the apostle's trepidation. How will he respond to it? Will he be humbled or hardened? Will she be humbled or hardened? In this case, it was a whole congregation that was being rebuked, a flock that was very dear to Paul. And there was this additional factor, and a very important one. A rejection of Paul's leadership would mean, in effect, that the Corinthians were throwing their lot in with the false apostles The legalists, in other words, the Judaizers, those who are teaching that faith in Christ is a very good thing, and you gotta have it, but you also have to have all the laws and rules and ceremonies of the Old Testament You've got to keep all those things too. You've got to be circumcised and you've got to keep the Old Testament law, which pointed forward to the coming of Christ. Without a diligent observance of all those ceremonies revealed in God's law, you cannot be saved. That's what the legalists, that's what the Judaizers were teaching. Now look at verses 8 and 9. For even if I made you sorry with my letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it. Looks for a time Paul regretted it, for I perceived that the same epistle made you sorry, though only for a while Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorry, but that your sorrow led to repentance, for you were made sorry in a godly manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing. For a period of time, Paul regretted having written such a harsh letter, but he was glad to learn that his letter led the Corinthians not just to sorrow, but to sorrow that led to repentance. They were made sorry in a godly manner, is the way he puts it. That you might suffer loss from us in nothing. I think he means that That because of the way they responded to his letter, they had not been harmed by him, they haven't suffered any damage from this harsh letter. Their temporary sorrow had a very positive effect. And that's in fact what godly sorrow does. It has a positive effect. Look at verse 10. For godly sorrow produces repentance, leading to salvation. Not to be regretted. But the sorrow of the world produces death. Godly sorrow produces repentance, which leads to salvation, a repentance that will not be regretted. It would be hard to imagine a Christian ever regretting that the Holy Spirit brought him to a point of repentance and saving faith. And it would be hard to imagine a Christian ever regretting that the Holy Spirit brought to his conscience a sin that he had committed that he has now repented of. He'd be grateful that the Holy Spirit uh laid that sin upon his heart and that his conscience troubled him and that God led him to repentance. Genuine repentance, in other words, is never regretted. The sorrow of this world, however, leads only to death. In other words, the sorrow of this world is insufficient to change one's course, which is, since man's fall, an unremitting descent toward death. Mere regret doesn't change that. Mere regret doesn't change that course. And sometimes Sorrow, that is guilt for sin, the troubled conscience, drives a person to drastic measures, even such as Judas taking his own life He regretted what he had done. But there was no evidence of genuine repentance. Look at verse 11. For observe this very thing. That you sorrowed in a godly manner. What diligence it produced in you, what clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal, what vindication. In all things you proved yourselves to be clear in this matter. The evidence of their genuine repentance, you might say, the evidence that the repentance was real was their diligence, their indignation against the offender, evidently, their clearing of themselves. Perhaps they're distancing themselves from this one who had so severely attacked Paul, seeking that person's repentance. What fear? Fear of displeasing God, perhaps fear of of grieving the heart of the apostle that had founded their church. What zeal zealously coming to Paul's defense, what vindication vindicating themselves? Verse 12. Therefore, although I wrote to you, I did not do it for the sake of him who had done the wrong, nor for the sake of him who suffered wrong. But that our care for you in the sight of God might appear to you. Paul's saying the overriding purpose in writing that severe letter was so that Paul's care for the Corinthians might be evident to them. Verse 13, therefore, we've been comforted in your comfort, and we rejoiced exceedingly more for the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. Paul has been and remains, perfect tense here, comforted by the comfort that they showed to Titus. I've been comforted and I remain comforted by The the grace that you showed to Titus by the comfort that you bestowed upon him by the way you received this messenger Paul rejoiced more for Titus because Titus was blessed to see a successful conclusion to a mission that was so fraught with difficulty. Titus, I want you to go to this church that I have just sent this strong letter to, and I want you to go as my emissary. Uh okay. How are they going to respond to that? So Titus was comforted by the response of the church. Now verse 14. For if in anything I have boasted to him about you, I'm not ashamed. But as we spoke all things to you in truth, even so our boasting to Titus was found true. So Paul's uh Paul feels vindicated here because he told Titus, look, that church of Corinth They have a deep love in their hearts for Christ. They have a deep love in their hearts for me. And I and I'm confident that That they will ultimately believe that I am a true apostle of God and that they'll heed the instruction and counsel that I gave them in that 18-month period that I was with them. Although Paul didn't minimize the gravity of the crisis, one commentator put it, he believed that at heart the Corinthians were loyal and true, and he had assured Titus that his mission would be crowned with success. Happily, Paul's confidence in them was justified by the event, and he was not put to shame. My words about you have proved as true as my words to you, he says And then look at verse 15. And his affections, Titus 's affections, are greater for you, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling you received him. Therefore, I rejoice and I have confidence in you in everything. Titus 's affection for the Corinthians is intensified as he recalls their willingness to obey Paul's words, and as he recalls their nervous anxiety to do what is right. Verse 16, Paul's confidence in the Corinthians has been restored, and he can even now, as he does in the very next few verses, ask them to excel in the grace of giving. Now, I think the most important message of this chapter is what it teaches us about repentance. There are a few places in Scripture that throw as much light on the subject of repentance as this passage does. And as repentance is a subject that's often neglected in the preaching of God's Word in our generation. It's wise for us to carefully consider it when we come upon it. So let's underscore something here. That Paul differentiates between worldly sorrow, which leads only to death, and godly sorrow, which leads to genuine repentance. True repentance, in other words, is something other than simple regret. The word translated regret is meta -melomai. It's derived from the little word meta, which means here, after, and then it's derived from the word mellow, which means to care for. So literally that word that's translated regret in in at least in my English translation is a word that means to care for after Hence to regret. You didn't care for it at the time, but afterwards you cared for it. Let me give you an example. You file your income taxes. You failed to disclose the money that you earned on several side jobs that you did not account for. Those jobs were not accounted for in your W-2 Whether you did them for your employer or you did them for other people, somehow they were not accounted for. You were not paid in a check, let's say, you're paid in cash. And so when you file your income taxes, you don't account for those things You don't declare all your income. A month goes by. Then two You haven't yet received your refund. You expected it by now. And you begin to suspect that perhaps your return has been flagged by the IRS. You think maybe one of those businesses that I did work for had to declare their expenditures on them on their corporate tax returns and they listed me as a recipient of that that thousand dollars or whatever it was, maybe I'm gonna end up facing fines Maybe I'm even going to face prosecution. Well, you didn't care much about not declaring all your income at the time But now you regret it. You wish you'd declared it all. The few dollars that you save by deceiving the government proves to be an insufficient payment. For the fear and the anxiety and the restless nights and the tired days that you've experienced ever since. You care for it after. You did it. That is regret. That's what Paul calls worldly sorrow. That's metamelami. You regret that you did something. It now seems to you it would have been better if you hadn't done it. The way you feel now, if you could turn back the clock, you wouldn't do the same thing again. That's regret. But the word translated repent or repentance is something quite different. It has the same prefix, meta. But the word is metanoia and it comes from noeo, which means to perceive. It's derived from noose, the mind. the seat of moral reflection. So metanoia is to perceive after. Not to be sorry after, but to perceive after, not to uh to feel bad about something after or to to wish you had not done it quite that way, but to perceive it differently. Metanoia is to perceive after. You realize what you did was wrong. You've changed your mind about it. Your sin is no longer attractive. It's now hideous. It's abhorrent to you. Now let's go back to your failure to declare all your income. And let's imagine that you didn't simply regret it because a couple months went by and you didn't get your refund and you're starting to get worried. But let's imagine that you actually repented of it. Now what would that mean? It would mean you had a change of mind about it. Perhaps you were reading God's word and you came across this. Jesus says, render to Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and to God the things which are God's. Or maybe you read the Apostle Paul's words: Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, you must be subject not only because of wrath, not only because you might get caught if you're not subject, but also for conscience' sake, Paul says. Romans 13, for conscience sake. That is because your creator told you to obey the authorities. That's what conscience means. Or maybe you repented because you experienced conviction in your heart. All right, you you didn't declare all your income. I'm saying what's the difference between regret and repentance? Repentance would be you're disciplining your child for lying to his teacher about something. About an assignment, and in the process of punishing him, however you're punishing him, taking away privileges or whatever, you realize that you just lied to your authority In this case, the federal government, the powers ordained by God. Whatever it was that brought you to repentance, you now see that lying about your income is dishonoring to God, it suggests that you can't trust Him to provide for you through the honest means, and you recognize your deceit is a lack of faith, and you sincerely repent of it. You ask God's forgiveness for it. And because it's genuine repentance, it results in changed behavior. In this case, it means you file an amended return. You list all your income, even what you received as cash. Now this may result in penalties because you didn't pay all your taxes by the April 17th. But you're willing to accept the consequences for your actions because you've truly repented of them. That's genuine repentance. Now let's consider another example. Let's say it's this fellow's wife. The same dynamic that was at work in his heart is at work in his wife's heart. Because she lost her temper with her children and she was ranting and raving at them, threatening them in language that she would never want them to use. Ever happened to you, lady? And suddenly this passage or a portion of it comes to mind. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth But that which is good for necessary edification, building up, that it may impart grace to the hearers. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, and be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. So here she is. She's just lost it with her kids. She screamed at him. She sweared at him. She sent them to their room. She's threatened to take away their bite for the rest of the year. And suddenly that verse comes to mind. And she doesn't merely regret that she lost her cool with her children She repents of it. She asks God's forgiveness. Lord help me. There I did it again. Lord help me. She asks her children's forgiveness. Not for attempting to discipline them for misbehavior, which she was was uh quite right to do, but for screaming at them and threatening them instead of calmly disciplining them And as she obeys the Lord in humility and asks for children's forgiveness for losing her temper with them, she is modeling for them genuine repentance. And uh she may be teaching them more in that one little action than a whole month's worth of of uh mommy sermons The same dynamic is at work each time a believer genuinely repents. The Holy Spirit reveals to him or to her that he has in some way violated God's word. He sees a sin as an act of rebellion against the one who sacrificed his own dear son to redeem him. He asks God to forgive him. And if his sin has negatively impacted others, he asks them to forgive him as well. If he's violated some law or defrauded somebody, he accepts the consequences of his actions and he begins the process of making restitution. I hope you see that true repentance is an ongoing dynamic in the life of every true believer. Repentance, then, is for believers. But it's not only for believers. Jesus said, I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Luke 5. 32. Repentance is an act to which Everybody is called. All unbelievers are called. Jesus said to the people of Israel, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Luke 13, 3. He told his apostles, repentance and remission of sins was to be preached in his name to all nations. And if you look at the preaching of the apostles, repentance held a prominent place. Repent, therefore, and be converted that your sins may be blotted out, so that the times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. Acts 3 Later, before the Sanhedrin, Peter said, the God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on a tree. Him God has exalted to his right hand to be prince and savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. Acts 5. When Paul preached in Athens, he proclaimed, now God commands all men everywhere to repent. Acts 17 And as he stood before King Agrippa, he said, I declared first to those in Damascus and in Jerusalem and throughout all the region of Judea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent. Turn to God and do works befitting repentance. Acts 26. Now there are many other passages that affirm that same truth And we've devoted entire messages on the subject before. Theologians refer to this aspect of repentance as repentance unto life. Our Westminster larger catechism puts it this way. Repentance unto life is a saving grace wrought in the heart of the sinner by the Spirit and Word of God. Whereby, out of a sight and sense not only of the danger, but also of the filthiness and odiousness of his sins, and upon the apprehension of God's mercy in Christ through such as are penitent In other words, he sees that Christ is merciful to those who are truly sorrowful. He so grieves for and hates his sins as that he turns from them all to God, purposing and endeavoring constantly to walk With him in all the ways of new obedience. That's repentance unto life. It's the very first act of the regenerated sinner. How can you tell if somebody's been born again? I'll tell you, he repents. That's how you know. He didn't care much about his sin before, but once God begins to work in his heart, he sees it, he sees it's vile. And he turns from it. He doesn't want it anymore. That doesn't mean, of course, he'll never sin again, but it means he detests it. He hates it. He wants God's help to overcome it. Repentance unto life is the very first act of the regenerated sinner. It is, in other words, the very first evidence that the new birth has taken place. All those who are truly born again will repent. All those who are truly born again, born from above, all those who have those blind eyes taken away and sight given to them, all those who have that stony heart pulled out and a heart of flesh put in All those who have those dry bones breathed upon by the Spirit of God, everyone who's born again will repent. Now what does this mean to you? What does this mean to you? Well, first of all, it means this. If you have an opportunity to speak to a lost soul about Christ, if you take that opportunity to speak to him about Christ, and you give that lost soul the impression that he can come to Christ without forsaking his sin If Christ's command to repent does not have a prominent place in your message, then you are short-circuiting the work of redemption. And you're quite possibly adding to that very long list of people walking around thinking that they're Christians who are not. In other words, only the Holy Spirit can bring a person to the point of repentance. If you skip that and you say, oh, just accept Jesus as your Savior, whatever that means, and uh and when I accept Jesus as my savior, I get this little card and I'll put it on my wallet and I got that covered I'm on my way to heaven. Thank you very much. Bye-bye. That's not what Christ is asking. That's not what he's seeking. That's not the gospel. The gospel is believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's got to be Lord of your life. You forsake all and you follow Him. You take up your cross and you follow Him. That's the gospel. With Jesus, it's all or nothing. He's not looking for people to put his name in their wallet. He wants your life. If you love your sins so much that you refuse to let them go, then obviously you've not been born again Secondly, if repentance is a vital element of the gospel, if it's the very first action of the regenerated person, if it's true, as Jesus said, except you repent, you will all perish. Then it should be obvious that if you have not repented, If you've not turned from your sin to Jesus Christ, if you've not turned from your sin in disgust and laid hold upon Christ, you are not a Christian. Call yourself a Christian. But you're not. Now, you may not remember when that happened. You may have been four or five, and it might have been, Mommy, sometimes I get mad and I hit my little brother and God forgive me and and make me I want God to make me part of his family. I want him to adopt me into his family. I want to be forgiven. I want him to change my heart. That's repentance. But you must come to a point in your life, whether you're two or three or four or eight or eighty-five, when you realize that you are a sinner and you acknowledge it. You see sin for what it is, disgusting, vile, heinous, the very thing that put our Savior on the cross. And you turn from it in disgust. And you lay hold upon Jesus Christ by faith. That's a supernatural work, you see That's a supernatural work. You can't cause someone to repent. I can't cause someone to repent. Only the Holy Spirit can do that And if you haven't felt the need to repent, then your understanding of God may be defective. That is, well, whatever God Whatever God it is in whom you believe, he's not the God of Scripture. Because the God of Scripture has eyes as a flame of fire Feet is fine brass. He's holy and just, and he must punish sin. You see, what's happened in your heart is you may have elevated God's love to such a point that you've neglected his holiness. Of course, God is a God of love, but he's also holy and just. And he must punish sin. He must punish it Or else your understanding of God's law is defective. You have a superficial understanding of God's law. You think, well, you know, I haven't murdered anybody. The Bible says thou shalt not murder, so I haven't violated that law. I've kept that commandment. But Jesus said, If you're angry with your brother in your heart, you've broken that commandment The Bible says you should not commit adultery. I haven't done that. Yeah, but Jesus said if you lost out for a woman in your heart, you've broken that commandment. Jesus said the commandments are much deeper, much broader than they may appear to you. Thirdly, your understanding of your own sinful heart may be defective That's the saddest case of all. You don't yet know from experience that your heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. You're quick to see the speck in your brother's eye, but you ignore the beam in your own eye. And as God's ambassador, I warn you. Jesus said, unless you repent, you will perish. If you're not yet a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, your need is repentance. That is your great need. But you will not repent until you see your sins as vile, until you see God is holy and pure. You will not repent until you see your sin for what it is, a wicked rebellion. against your gracious creator and sustainer, the one who gives your life and sustains your life. You will not repent until you see your sin as rebellion. You won't repent Until you see Christ as the glorious King, the glorious master, and you believe his powerful word. So the word of God is what you need to bring you to repentance. The entrance of his word brings light. You need to read it. You need to hear it. You need to meditate upon it. You need to memorize it. You need to pray that God will open your understanding. Now, maybe you've already done so. It's entirely possible that one here has been prepared by the Spirit of God. And he or she is ready right now to ask God to forgive him. And you can do it right now, right here. You can do it today. You come to God and you say, God, I don't need any more convincing. I don't want to put this off any longer. I'm a sinner and I know it, and I see that sin as heinous and vile. It's a stench in my nostrils and an affront to you. Forgive me, God, and save me. I see my pride and my selfishness and my anger and my ungratefulness and my bitterness and whatever it is. Confess it to him. God, forgive me and save me. I believe that Jesus lived a sinless life, that he kept the law that I broke. I believe that he went to the cross, not for his sins, but for mine. He paid the debt that I owe. I believe that through his shed blood I can have forgiveness of sins. Father, have mercy upon me. You come to God that way, pray that prayer, mean it in your heart. God says he'll forgive all your sins. Give you this precious gift of everlasting life. If you prayed that prayer, or if you're going to pray it here in a moment, there will be rejoicing in heaven. As rejoicing in heaven over one sinner that repents, the Bible says, joy in the presence of the angels of God Repentance is the great need of the unbeliever, and repentance is a great need of the believer, because although he's being sanctified, he continues to sin in this life. But what we need as Christians is true repentance, true godly sorrow for our sins. Because godly sorrow produces repentance without regret. GS equals R minus small case R. Capital R minus small case R. Godly sorrow equals repentance without regret. But worldly sorrow, W S equals D, worldly sorrow just leads to death. A student at Moody Bible Institute used an unusual method of witness a few years ago. While talking to a man at the Pacific Garden Mission about his soul and his need for Christ, that man that this student was talking to said, I don't believe the Bible, I'm an atheist. The student, quoting the King James translation, said to him, Except ye repent, ye will all likewise perish. The fellow scoffed, I told you I'm an atheist. I don't believe that. Again, the student quoted, Except you repent, you will all likewise perish. The man, exasperated, said, You disgusting fellow! What's the use of telling me that? Again the student repeated the verse. Finally, as you may have guessed, the fellow socked him between the eyes. The Bible went one way, the student went another way. The student got up, walked up to him, God gave him grace, and he said, My friend, God loves you, but except you repent, you will perish. The next night the man was back in the mission before the meeting began. He said, I couldn't sleep. All over the wall I read, Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. He said uh I saw it on my pillow. When I got up in the morning, I saw it at the breakfast table. And all the day it was before my eyes, except you repent, except you repent. He said, I've come back to settle it. Friend, God loves you, but except ye repent, you will perish. But the good news is Jesus Christ went to the cross. So you wouldn't have to perish. Let's pray. Lord, teach us what true godly sorrow is, true genuine repentance. Lord, teach us as your people to truly repent when we offend one another, when we sin against each other. When we lose our temper, when we lie, when we steal, whatever it is, Lord, that we do that dishonors you, may we truly repent. And Father, I pray for those who may still be dead in sins. Bring them to true saving faith. Draw them to Christ. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.