Chapter ten for our scripture reading today, Luke chapter ten And let's begin at verse 38 and read through the end of the chapter. Luke chapter ten and verse thirty-eight. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving And she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, tell her to help me. And Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. But one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. May God's blessing rest upon this portion of his word. Let's pray. Father, we do ask for your presence now and for your help. We pray for your Holy Spirit to teach us. We pray for the believers here that we will be exhorted, edified, challenged, blessed. We pray for those who may be here still outside of Christ. Lord, you know our heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they would be saved. That you would graciously work in their hearts as you worked in ours and bring them to true saving faith. Regenerate them, breathe upon them through your spirit. Give light to the darkness we ask in Christ's name. Amen. As we prepare our hearts to come to the Lord's table this morning, I'd like us to meditate for a few minutes upon one of my favorite incidents in the ministry of Christ. It's recorded for us by the evangelist Luke here in the tenth chapter of his gospel. Let's uh look at verse 38 again. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. As they went, presumably Christ and his apostles, he entered a certain village. Well, we know from John's Gospel that the name of that village was Bethany. It was across the Khedron Valley from Jerusalem, about two miles east of the city. And we read that Martha welcomed him into her house, into her house. Matthew Henry suggests that Martha was probably a widow and thus the owner of the home. Martha welcomed him into her house, it says. I would imagine this was just one of many occasions when Martha and Mary extended hospitality to Jesus and his disciples on their frequent visits to Jerusalem. As you know, Martha, Mary, and her brother Lazarus were particular friends of the Lord Jesus. John says the three of them were beloved of Christ. And we read in verse 39 that Martha had a sister called Mary who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. Mary took this opportunity to sit at Jesus' feet and to absorb his teaching, to audit one of his classes, as it were, as Jesus instructed his apostles. To sit at a teacher's feet signifies submission, readiness to receive his word, resignation to the guidance that the teacher provides. The Apostle Paul is described as being brought up at the feet of Gameliel. But as Mary sat listening to Jesus, And how often do you have Jesus in your home, sitting at your table, giving instruction? We read that Martha was distracted with much serving. Now you'll note that if all the apostles were present, she had at least 13 house guests, and even if it had been but one, if that one was the Lord Jesus. then certainly uh you can understand how she might be concerned that everything should be just right. She wanted to make sure the mutton was not overcooked. There was enough bread, enough wine, that the table was set with the finest of their dishes. The flowers, uh if there were flowers, were arranged just so. Maybe she was preparing something especially sweet for uh dessert. You know, fig dumplings or uh grape shortcake, raisin butter pie. And so it may be uh she came in to serve more bread, let's say, hot from the oven, and she's thinking perhaps You know, I love it when Jesus comes and visits with us, but does he have to bring all these fishermen with their hearty appetites? You know, and she notices uh uh Philip and Bartholomew are out of wine. Mary's sitting right there. Can't she see it? I'll go get another decanter of wine, then, she says. Thomas and those Zebedee boys have no more olive oil for dipping their bread. Mary, would you hand me that bowl, the empty one, right there in front of you? And I'll go get more olive oil to serve our guests. And every time Martha walks by and sees Mary just sitting there with the guests, as if she were a guest herself, Martha's clenching her teeth a little harder. Her face is getting a little more red. She was distracted, the Bible says. Perespa'o. It is in the Greek to draw away. To be overoccupied with something. She was perispa 'o, she was drawn away, she was overoccupied with much serving, the Bible says, a polaine diaconion, much ministering. We get the word deacon from diaconion or service, ministering, attending. With much serving. She was preoccupied with much serving. She was distracted. And what made matters worse in Martha's mind was that Jesus was right there and he could clearly see that she was doing all the serving and Mary was just sitting there. Not lifting a finger. Finally, the inequity of it all, the injustice of it all, was just too great It was more than she could bear. And Martha had to say something. She was upset, and she was so sure that she had a legitimate complaint that get this, she interrupts Jesus' teaching. And she says to him, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, tell her to help me. What? Tell her to help me Christian, you ever get so frustrated that you tell the Lord what to do? Tell her to help me. Why don't you just change my husband? Why don't you just change my wife? Surely you can see the way my children neglect me. Why don't you change them? Or maybe it's give me a husband. Why don't you give me a husband? Why don't you give me a wife? Why don't you give me children? Why don't you give me grandchildren? Surely you can see that I need them. And Jesus answered, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. What does Jesus do? He gently rebukes her. He mildly chastens her, you might say. He rebuked, first of all, the intensity of her concern. Martha, Martha, you are worried. Mary Imnas, it is, and inward fretting and anxiety. Martha, you're you're worried. You're fretting inside. And you are troubled, Durbatze , disturbed, troubled in tumult, in turmoil. So he rebuked the intensity of her concern, and then he rebuked the extent of it. What are you worried and troubled about? About many things. Perhaps the seating arrangements. Was I supposed to put Peter right next to Jesus? I put him across the table. The the temperature. Is it too warm in here? We get all these guys that it's too hot in here. The food, is there enough of it? Is it is it evenly distributed? Is everybody getting enough? The wine, is it s is it a good enough wine? Is there enough of it She was distracted. He rebuked the extent of her concern. You're careful and troubled about many things. But then he goes on to say, but one thing is needed. One thing is needed. Martha, in order to do the many things that are unnecessary, you have missed the one thing that is needed. Put the a few loaves of bread on the table. Throw a couple uh uh bunches of grapes on the table. We'll eat by and by. Now I'm teaching We're learning about my Father in heaven. Come now, sit with Mary. Listen to the words of my Father's kingdom. Perhaps he went on to teach about priorities. It would probably be a good time. Don't worry about your life, what you'll eat or drink, don't worry about your body, what you'll put on. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things. Will be added unto you. Martha, you're worried, you're troubled about many things. You've got a lot of things running around in your head. But one thing is needed. And Mary, the one you want me to rebuke. The one you ordered me to rebuke. Mary has chosen the good part. She's chosen the one thing that's needed. She has chosen wisely. And it will not be taken away from her. Now, I asked the question, what does he mean by that? What will not be taken away from her? Perhaps he means simply, I mean, the most obvious answer would be: she's made the right choice of those two choices. of the two choices, and I'm not going to ask her to forsake what is needed. Learning of my father listening to me as I teach of him I'm not going to remove from her the one thing that's needed and tell her to go do the thing that's not needed of those two choices. But I think maybe he's saying something more than that here. Look at it again. Martha, Martha, you're worried and troubled about many things, but one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. I think maybe what he means here is that what she is doing now is going to last. It has eternal benefit. It will not be taken away from her. You know, the serving that you do today, the food that you eat today, it's transitory. Physical food like bodily exercise profits a little. Of course, it's beneficial, we have to have it, but godliness has the promise for this life and the life to come. Mary is communing with me. She's learning of me. She's being transformed by the renewing of her mind. And that will not be taken away from her. Now, some observations from this little passage. First of all, sort of a secondary application. We're reminded here that when a Christian gets serious about his or her faith, He or she can expect to take some flack for it, to get some heat for it. Sometimes, as Mary discovered, it comes from your own family. You might remember I I told you a story some years ago about a pastor a friend of mine, his name is uh James Blizzard, Dr. James Blizzard, he's a uh he goes by Jim, he's a pastor of a uh Bible Presbyterian church in Cape Canaveral, Florida. I heard him tell how when he was an unbelieving high school student, he was growing up in Fort Lauderdale, he was invited to a gathering of Christians before school one Friday morning. So uh Christians, there were some Christians at his high school, and they invited him to come to a Friday morning uh Bible study. Uh that morning he heard the gospel clearly proclaimed and he put his faith in Jesus Christ. The very next Sunday he was in church with his friends. And that afternoon he went with the youth to visit a nursing home. And then that night he was back at church. And then the next morning, his first uh, I guess, full week then as a Christian, he he went to school with his Bible on the top of all his textbooks. And his parents are watching all this, and they're saying, what has happened to you? Why aren't you out fishing with all your buddies What's all this newfound Christian stuff? They didn't like that sudden change they saw in him. He'd gone overboard And when he told them he wanted to go to Columbia Bible College instead of the Coast Guard Academy, which was his father's choice for him, his father told him he would receive no help from them. Religion is fine as long as you keep it in its place. Don't get carried away by it. That was evidently the philosophy of David's wife. Uh I gu I'm not sure how you pronounce it. I would call her Mishal. That sounds better than Michael to me. Um when she saw King David uh exuberantly dancing before the Ark of the Tabernacle Leaping and whirling before the Lord, she despised him in her heart. How glorious was the king of Israel today, uncovering himself in the eyes of the maids of his servants! as one of the base fellows shamelessly uncovers himself. David responds, It was before the Lord who chose me instead of your father and all his house. To appoint me ruler over the people of the Lord over Israel. Therefore I will play music before the Lord, and I will be even more undignified than this, and will be humble in my own sight. 2 Samuel 6 And even so today, when a wife or husband, son or daughter gets excited about the Lord, begins to praise God and begins to meditate upon his word, begins to read it. begins to worship, begins to have a desire to be with Christians more than an hour and a half on a uh a week He or she begins to meet with resistance. And some of you have felt that resistance. Secondly, I would remind you that one testy complaint, one snide remark made on one particularly stressful day should not be viewed as characteristic of an entire life. Right? It's like poor doubting Thomas, you know? Hey, okay, so I doubted one time. So all I'm saying is if you have the opportunity to meet Martha of Bethany in glory, you know if you're invited to her home, uh cut her some slack. I would suggest you not even bring up this subject. You know, we're all capable of saying foolish things. I mean even I No, no , no. I'm not gonna go there. Remember that Martha was also the one who went out to meet Jesus after He refused to respond to the to the urgent plea from Mary and Martha that their brother Lazarus was sick. And uh when he finally came, of course, Lazarus had died. Four days after Lazarus died, Jesus showed up, and Martha went out to meet him and said, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Now, that's a statement of faith. But even now, she said, I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. That's even greater faith. And she believed that evidently she's saying, I believe if you ask God to raise him up again, God will do that. And then Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. And she said, Well, I know that my brother will rise again at the resurrection at the last day. And then Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live, and whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said, Yes, Lord, I believe. I believe. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is to come into the world. Now let's remember that about Martha. I wouldn't want my whole life to be characterized by one foolish statement. Thirdly, uh I would point out it's not too big a stretch, I think, to refer to this incident to remind us that we are called to genuine Hospitality. Each of us as believers is called to be given to hospitality. Martha was so concerned with having everything just right that she missed this opportunity to sit at Jesus' feet. Hopefully there were more opportunities to follow, and maybe some before this when she made when she chose more wisely. But uh uh she she missed that opportunity. But let's face it, she did open her home to the Lord Jesus and perhaps all of his disciples, maybe some other hangers on, we don't know She did open her home. She was serving the Lord. She was given to hospitality. I suspect there may be some here who never even get that far. You're so anxious about your home. You are so anxious about the food. You're so anxious about your dishes and the furniture. That you stubbornly disobey the frequent biblical exhortations to be given to hospitality. You don't think you're homoseotable. You don't think it's good enough. You don't think it measures up Well, I don't know what uh Martha's home looks like, but I I could almost guarantee it's not as it wasn't as nice as the homes that you and I live in You don't think your house is suitable for hospitality, so you don't extend hospitality. You say, well well, all right, yeah, but if I mean if Jesus came to my town, I would extend hospitality to him. Now Jesus said, inasmuch as you did it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you did it unto me. But of course the great lesson of this passage is one thing is needed. One thing is needed And it has always been the case. Enoch walked with God and he was not, for God took him. He walked with God. He did the one thing that was needed. David said, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined to me and he heard my cry. David did the one thing that was needed. Daniel knelt down on his knees three times that day, prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as was his custom since early days. He did the one thing that was needed. One thing is needed for them, one thing is needed for you and for me. One thing is needed for the laborer, one thing is needed for the scholar. One thing is needed for the young person, one thing is needed for the aged, one thing is needed for you every single day It's not your morning coffee. It's not the daily paper. It's not the late-night news. The one thing needed for you. Is that you sit at Jesus' feet sometime during that day? That you sit at his feet, that you meditate upon his word, that you commune with him It may be beside your bed each morning. It may be on your lunch break. It may be in your lounge chair at night. It may be listening to his holy word on a long commute. or meditating on a verse throughout the day. But mark it down, Christian, no matter how many appointments you kept, no matter how many meetings you attended, How many letters you typed, how many sales you made, how many lessons you taught, how many errands you ran. If when you fall into your bed at the end of the day And and you you consider the day in your mind, you realize you haven't done the one thing that's needed, then basically you've wasted the day. Yeah, but yeah, but but I have two jobs. Jesus says one thing is needed. But I'm working and going to school. Jesus said one thing is needed. But I'm on three committees. I'm on two different boards. Jesus said, one thing is needed. I have two preschoolers. One thing is needed. I've been a Christian for 50 years. One thing is needed. But I'm just a child. One thing is needed. But my job is so demanding. One thing is needed. If George Washington, while serving as our president With all the demands of correspondence, administration, legislation, social responsibilities, was reportedly not too busy to devote an hour each morning and an hour each evening in communion with God. feeding upon his word in prayer, then you know our uh excuses tend to ring hollow Of course, uh it's true Washington was able to retire each night without hearing a live report of that day's carriage accident. the wind speed in Philadelphia and the temperature in Boston. Note something else, Christian. Martha was rebuked although she was actually in the process of serving the Lord. What will Jesus say to those professing Christians who take no time for what's needed because they're actually actively serving themselves? Money, beauty, pleasure, prestige. Adulterers and adulteresses, know you not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? What our culture says we need and what Jesus says we need are poles apart. So what's the one thing needed for our church? And for every church. It's not more members, more money, more staff, more fellowship, more outreach. Those things are good. But none of those things is the one thing needed. The one thing needed is that each member of the body is feeding upon Christ. Is in a relationship with him, is communing with him, is meditating upon him , is in a relationship with the head of the body That we're worshiping him, learning of him. That we're doing what we were created to do, glorifying God and enjoying him forever. If we do that, our relationship with other parts of the body will be what it ought to be. And the things that matter most to Jesus, like the souls of men, women and children, those are the things that are going to matter most to us. As we beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord. 2 Corinthians 3:18. So let me ask you. Is there something you're worried about today? Is there something you're anxious about? Something troubling your mind? A son, a daughter, your husband, your wife, your job, your house, your health. Don't let what is temporal distract you from what is eternal Let's pray. Father, help us with this little reminder, help us to focus upon the things that matter most in the year to come. And Lord, now as we approach your table, speak to our hearts. May we meditate upon you and the wonderful sacrifice our Savior made for us. In his name we pray. Amen.