First Samuel chapter one, it's uh by the way. Uh uh now I have too much battery. It's uh it's good to have Nancy Hammett here today. Nancy and her son Stephen, uh both of them went through some medical issues. You Stephen had a detached retina and that's uh all systems are go now, I guess. And uh Nancy had a broken uh radius in her. You got a cast on or something somewhere? Ah, there it is. So anyway, good to have you with us. 1 Samuel, let's begin in chapter 1. We'll read into chapter 2, and I forgot to dismiss the little ones if they haven't yet gone downstairs They can go now for wonders of worship. 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 1. Now there was a certain man of Ramashayam Zophim of the mountains of Ephraim. And his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroam, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuf, an Ephraimite. And he had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other Panina. Panina had children, but Hannah had no children. This man went up from his city yearly to worship and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts in Shiloh. Also the two sons of Eli, Hapni and Phinehas, the priests of the Lord, were there. And whenever the time came for El Kanah to make an offering, he would give portions to Panina, his wife, and to all her sons and daughters. But to Hannah, he would give a double portion, for he loved Hannah, although the Lord had closed her womb. And her rival also provoked her severely to make her miserable, because the Lord had closed her womb. So it was year by year when she went up to the house of the Lord that she provoked her. Therefore she wept, and did not eat. Then Alcanah, her husband, said to her, Hannah, why do you weep? Why do you not eat? Why is your heart grieved? Am I not better to you than ten sons? So Hannah arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish. Then she made a vow and said, Oh Lord of hosts! If you will indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant and remember me, and not forget your maidservant, but will give your maidservant a male child. Then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head. And it happened, and she continued praying before the Lord. So Eli watched her mouth. Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she was drunk. So Eli said to her, How long will you be drunk? Put your wine away from you. But Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor intoxicating drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Do not consider your maidservant a wicked woman, for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken until now Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace. And the God of Israel grants your petition, which you have asked of him. And she said, Let your maidservant find favor in your sight. So the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad. Then they rose early in the morning and worshipped before the Lord and returned and came to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah, his wife, and the Lord remembered her. So it came to pass in the process of time that Hannah conceived and bore a son. And called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him from the Lord. Now the man Alcanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice. But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, Not until the child is weaned. Then I will take him, that he may appear before the Lord and remain there forever. So Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems best to you. Wait until you have weaned him. Only let the Lord establish his word. Then the woman stayed and nursed her son until she had weaned him. Now when she had weaned him, she took him up with her and three bulls, one epha of flour and a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the Lord in Shiloh. And the child was young. Then they slaughtered a bull and brought the child to Eli. And she said, Oh my Lord, As your soul lives, my Lord, I am the woman who stood by you here, praying to the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted me my petition which I asked of him. Therefore I also had lent him to the Lord. As long as he lives, he shall be lent to the Lord. So they worshiped the Lord there And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoices in the Lord, my horn is exalted in the Lord. I smile at my enemies because I rejoice in your salvation. No one is holy like the Lord, for there is none beside you, nor is there any rock like our God. Talk no more so very proudly. Let no arrogance come from your mouth, for the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty men are broken, and those who stumbled are girded with strength. Those who were fooled have hired themselves out for bread, and the hungry have ceased to hunger Even the barren has borne seven, and she who has been who has many children has become feeble The Lord kills and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and brings up. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and lifts up. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the beggar from the ash heap to set them among princes and make them inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the world upon them. He will guard the feet of his saints, but the wicked shall be silent in darkness. For by strength no man shall prevail. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken in pieces. From heaven he will thunder against them. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth, he will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Then Alkanah went to his house at Ramah, but the child ministered to the Lord before Eli, the priest May God's blessing rest upon this portion of His inspired word. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we do ask now for your presence, for your blessing. We We acknowledge, Lord, that without it, our time will be wasted here. But we pray for your spirit to take your word and apply it to hearts Lord, help our minds to focus. I pray for the believers here that you'll edify us, for any unbelievers who may be present, that your word would take root in their hearts and draw them to Jesus Christ. We ask it in his glorious name. Amen. As uh Americans are focusing upon and honoring mothers today. Rather than resume our study in Mark this morning, I thought it would be wise to uh hop on board that train of thought that's already leaving the station. So I'd like us to consider one of the godly women that we meet in Scripture, Hannah, the mother of Samuel. We're introduced to her in 1 Samuel chapter 1. Look again at those first few verses. Let's pick up at verse 2. And he that is El Cannah had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, the name of the other Panina. Panina had children, but Hannah had no children. This man went up from his city yearly to worship and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts in Shiloh. Also the two sons of Eli, Hophne and Phineas, the priests of the Lord, were there. And whenever the time came for Elkhanah to make an offering, he would give portions to Panina, his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, but to Hannah he would give a double portion, for he loved Hannah, although the Lord had closed her womb. This was the time in Israel when the land was ruled by judges. It was shortly before Saul and David came upon the scene. Elkanah was a Levite, a member of the tribe that was set apart for the service of God. And at this time, special worship was conducted at the tabernacle, fixed at this point in Shiloh. The scripture notes that El Kanah had two wives. He probably married Hannah first, but when she bore him no children, he took another wife. Panina. Give you a little insight into the mind of the pastor this week. This has been running through my mind. You say El Cana. I say El Cana. No, you say El Cana. I say El Kana, you say Panina, and I say Panana, Panina, Panana. Okay. Can't get that out of my head. But we're pronouncing her name Panina. If we if we're consistent and his name uh Alcana departed from the original institution of marriage When God said, It is good that man should be alone, I will make him a helper, comparable to him. Genesis 2. 18. And therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. It didn't take long for men to reason if having one wife is a good thing, then having two wives must be a better thing. That reasoning, however, is not what we would call sound. The first polygamist noted in scripture was Lamech, son of, or Lamech, son of Methuselah, who was the great-grandson of Cain, son of Adam. In this case, Elkana found himself in a situation that was not particularly harmonious. One wife with children, one wife without. One wife especially loved, the other apparently not so much. The result was, not surprisingly, a home that was full of rivalry and tension. Matthew Henry points out, thus men are often beaten with rods of their own making. How many enter into ill-advised relationships, sinning in haste, repenting in leisure Samson told his parents, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore get her for me as a wife. Judges 14. When his parents protested, he insisted, get her for me, for she pleases me well. If I know that overeating or smoking or neglecting exercise can lead to premature death, and I choose to continue the practice anyway. Then I may find myself one day in Elkana 's sandals, being beaten with a rod of my own making. Many years ago now, during my first pastorate, which was near Buffalo, I sat by the hospital bed of a man who was slowly dying of emphysema. A condition that was evidently exacerbated, if not brought on, by his smoking habit. Nicotine had such a power over him that he would remove his oxygen mask and light up a cigarette His lungs would go from processing pure air one moment to attempting to process foul air the next. I thought about it in retrospect now with him lighting a cigarette where oxygen was in use. His struggle in my ministry might have both ended abruptly during one of my visits. But my point is it must make such a death by emphysema particularly troubling. When a man knows that he is to some degree, anyway, responsible for his own misery. Surely Alcanah, a Levite, would have known that it was God's desire for a man to have only one wife. But he chose to disobey. To his credit, he loved Hannah, even though she bore him no children. Verse 5, he was especially attentive to her. seeking to cheer her, no doubt, but I think we can safely assume that any extra attention he gave to Hannah, like Jacob's attention to a son Joseph Would only tend to goad Panina, who provoked Hannah and made her miserable, because the Lord had not granted her a child. Verse 6. You come across as a godly woman, Hannah. Why then has God closed your womb? Why is it that you cannot bear children? Evidently, their annual visits to Shiloh gave Panina a unique opportunity to mock and provoke Hannah. It's a sad business to take pleasure in attempting to make others miserable. We can imagine Panina saying to Hannah, so you're worshiping God again, as if he loves you. If God loves you, why do you have no child? The scribes taunted Jesus, he trusted in God. Let him deliver him now if he will have him. For he said, I am the Son of God. Job's friends, whoever perish, being innocent. Those who plow iniquity and sow trouble reap the same. By the blast of God they perish. It's a common mistake, isn't it, to assume that misfortune is an indication of God's displeasure. Who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? The disciples asked Jesus Recorded for us in John 9. Panina's sin of provoking Hannah was aggravated, was made worse by the fact that it occurred at the time that they should have been focused upon God's worship. It's a sin to steal, but the sin is made worse when you, for example, steal from the poor. It's a sin to lie, but that sin is worse if you attempt, for example, to lie to God. Our Westminster Shorter Catechism says some sins in themselves, and by reason of several aggravations, are more heinous in the sight of God than others. Mocking and provoking Hannah was sinful. To do it during worship made it even worse. It interfered with Panina 's worship, and it interfered, of course, with Hannah's worship. Verse 7, she wept. And did not eat. Congratulations, Panina. You have succeeded in making someone else's life miserable. Presumably, Hannah already bore a measure of sadness. She describes herself as a woman of a sorrowful spirit, verse 15. But Panina's mocking apparently made matters worse. Look at verse 8. Then Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Hannah, why do you weep? Why do you not eat? Why is your heart grieved? Am I not better to you than ten sons? Well, Canna lovingly rebuked or reproved Hannah. You know, you do have a loving, attentive husband. And it's true, God often softens our trials with uh blessings. from another uh area. There are always things we can be grateful for, even in our trials, right? The illustration is given some who had been standing for several hours on a train were obviously uh or not surprisingly, I guess you could say, complaining about the fact that they've had they had to stand for so long. An invalid who had been carried aboard responded to them, you are fortunate. You're fortunate that you're able. to stand for three hours. It's easy for us in our minds to focus on what we don't have and to focus on what others do have. If only I had his money. If only I had her looks. If only I had his job. If only I had her house. If only I had their children. It's reported that a number of movie stars were asked what they'd like to change about their faces. Each of them, it is said, had a list of no fewer than eight things. Now these are movie stars. Eight things they would change about their faces. The difference between us and them is they actually do change their faces But it goes to to remind us of the fact that there's always a reason to be discontent. Look at verse nine. So Hannah arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat of the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish. And as we just read, as she prayed, she prayed in her heart, but her lips moved as she prayed. I don't know if you do that as you pray. But her lips were moving. Eli saw it and assumed that she was drunk. It happened as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli washed her mouth. Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she was drunk, and he said to her, How long will you be drunk? Put your wine. Away from you. She was in bitterness of soul. This was a fervent prayer from her heart She was pleading with God to grant this long-standing request. Lord, I know you've denied it for so long. But Lord, if you'll give me a son I'll lend him to you. I'll dedicate him to the Lord's service all the days of his life. Her prayer was very specific, and yet it was humble. You'll notice he didn't cry out as Rachel did to Jacob, give me children or I die. Give me children or I die. But she did make a solemn vow to the Lord. If he granted her a child, she would set him apart for the Lord's service. When she says, No razor shall come upon his head, it appears she is saying that he would be a Nazarite from birth The word means dedicated or consecrated. Most often one took the vow of a Nazirite for a specific period of time, perhaps a month or a year. It entailed the renunciation of all wine or products of the vine, refraining from cutting one's hair, and having no contact with anything dead, man or animal. The Nazarite was meant to be a living example of total dedication to the Lord. We know of only three men who seem to have been Nazarites for their entire lives. uh Samson, John the Baptist, and Samuel. As someone well said, one bad effect of abounding iniquity is it gives occasion to suspect the innocent. That appears to be what happened here. I think it may be likely that Eli had seen people in the worship of the Lord who were drunk on other occasions. He had to rebuke them. And his first thought when he saw this woman whose lips were moving and she was worshiping, his first thought was that she was drunk The Reformation Study Bible suggests that Eli's suspicion may also mean that he had never seen anyone praying so fervently that his or her mouth was moving. Maybe this saw people going through the motions. But she was in earnest. In any event, Eli jumped to a wrong conclusion. He shot from the hip, made a judgment and an accusation before he knew all the facts. Proverbs 18, 13, he that answers the matter before he hears it, this is folly and shame to him. Sometimes those who think they have the gift of discernment really just have the gift of snap judgment. But note Hannah's reaction to Eli. Eli reproached her. uh accused her. How long will you be drunk, woman? This is not the place to be drunk And Hannah responded, No, my lord, I I am a woman of sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor intoxicating drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Do not consider your maidservant a wicked woman, for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief I have spoken unto you. until now. She showed the humility. How do you respond well when while you're doing something right? with the best of motivations, you are accused of doing something wrong. With the worst of motivations. That's what happened here. Well, let's suppose you come to church having uh just used a strong mouthwash, and uh a pastor with a weird last name uh uh speaks to you. Catches a whiff of uh of what he thought was alcohol and uh jumps all over you. How would you respond to that? What's the idea of coming to church with alcohol on your breath? Don't you have any regard for the sanctity of worship? This is a worship hour. This is not happy hour. How would you respond? Let me suggest that many Christians would be indignant. They would respond with something like, What you smell is scope, you dope. Or uh a little more difficult if it was Listerine. It's Listerine, you Philistine. And they would uh they would leave the church and uh never return and think themselves fully justified in doing so. But how did Hannah respond to this false accusation? She responded with respect. She responded with humility. We're reminded of the Gentile woman who asked Jesus to cast a demon out of her daughter. Jesus said, Let the children, that is the Jews, be filled first. For it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. Now she could have been highly offended at that, but she answered, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs a wise answer, an answer that shows humility and respect to the Lord For this saying go your way, Jesus said. The demon has gone out of your daughter. Mark chapter 7. The scripture says, when you do good and suffer for it, If you take it patiently, this is commendable to God. Young people, listen to me now. You're gonna be accused of things by your parents that you didn't do. I mean that's just the nature of being a parent. Sometimes you jump the gun, sometimes you make a uh a mistake. But that's a time to respond uh with kindness and with respect and with humility. No, no, Mom, I didn't I might be able to tell you. Look at uh look at verse seventeen. Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel grants your petition which you have asked. Notice that Eli does not apologize for his harsh words and sound judgment. And the lesson here is that ministers don't have to apologize when they're wrong. They just have to say go in peace. She reminded me that Eli died of a broken neck. Now, Eli may not have specifically asked forgiveness, but he did apparently realize he was wrong, and he pronounced a blessing upon Hannah and prayed that God would answer her prayer. And she said, let your maidservant find favor in your sight. And so she went her way. The woman went her way, and her face was no longer sad. Hannah was satisfied. She was encouraged. Her countenance brightened. She was no longer sad. And then the Lord heard and answered Hannah's prayer. She returned home. And through the natural course of events, she conceived the child. God opened her womb. And she had called that child Samuel. Which is translated heard by God or God hears. So you recognize them as a gift from God. Parents, do you recognize your children that way? You recognize them as gifts from God God. They are. Every child is a gift from God. The fruit of the womb is his reward. Fruit of the womb is his reward. Look at verse 21. Now the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow. But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, Not until the child is weaned. Then I will take him that he may appear before the Lord and remain there forever. Notice Hannah's faithfulness and submission here. She fully intended to perform her vow, the vow that she made to the Lord. Now, let me speak to you, moms, particularly. If you had prayed and prayed and waited and waited for a child, and that child finally came, And if you had previously vowed, as Hannah vowed, to take him far away, place him into the care of others for the glory of God, should God grant you a son. Would you not have been tempted to find some way to weasel out of that vowel? Lord, uh You remember my babbling there in the tabernacle. I was in agony of soul. I didn't know what I was saying. I couldn't have possibly foreseen how much I would love this little guy. Lord, let's just forget about that foolish vow. But Hannah had every intention of following through on her promise. Verse 23, Al Canna, her husband said to her, Well do what seems best to you. Wait until you've weaned him. Only let the Lord establish his word. Interesting. Interestingly, some ancient manuscripts have let the Lord establish your word there, which seems more in keeping with the context. In other words, may the Lord give you the grace to fulfill the vow that you made to the Lord when that time comes. It's going to be hard. He knew it. And she knew it. This would be a great sacrifice for him as well, of course. This would be the sacrifice son of uh his wife, the wife he loved apparently more than the other. And it would be difficult for him to lose that son and uh the the i interaction with the son that he would have if the son Lived in their home. Look at verse 24. Now when she had weaned him, she took him up with her and three bulls and one effa of flour, a skin of wine, brought him to the house of the Lord in Shiloh. The child was young. Then they slaughtered a bull and brought the child to Eli, and she said, O my Lord, as your soul lives, my Lord, I am the woman who stood by you here, praying to the Lord For this child I pray, and the Lord has granted me my petition which I ask of him. Therefore I also have lent him to the Lord. As long as he lives, he shall be lent to the Lord. And so they worship the Lord. there. Matthew Henry notes on this phrase, I've lent him, or the sentence, I've lent him to the Lord. Whatever we give to God may upon this account be said to be lent to the Lord. That though we may not recall it as a thing lent, yet he will certainly repay it with interest to our unspeakable advantage. Now, let's highlight a couple things this morning. First of all, Al Kana made an accommodation to his culture. An accommodation which was becoming acceptable. Polygamy. It was an accommodation that brought great pain and conflict into his home He was becoming in that respect conformed to this age or this world rather than being transformed by the renewing of his mind. So the obvious question is, Christian, are you making accommodations to your culture? Are you right now making accommodations to our culture, the culture in which we find ourselves today? Well, I know the Bible is very clear that sexual intimacy is to be reserved for marriage. I mean it can't be any more clear, but this is a new age. Someone told me of their doctor advising their uh engaged daughter. that uh it would be best for her if she were intimate with her fiance before marriage so they could determine if they were in fact compatible I know God says he hates divorce and that what he joins together should not be put asunder, but divorce is accepted practice now, so why should I remain married if I no longer want to be married? It's a new age. I know God says homosexuality is an aberration. I know he calls it an abomination. But it's a new age. I know God says human life is precious and we were created in his image, but we really don't want this baby. We really can't afford this baby. The timing is all wrong, and it's a new age. I know God doesn't want us to steal. He's quite clear about that. He made it one of his ten commandments. But you don't understand. I work for a concern that wastes money right and left. They'll never miss it. And it's a new age. I know God says I should only marry a Christian. And I know my boyfriend has not been born again. But he does say he believes in God, and there just aren't that many good guys out there. Anyway, it's a new age What accommodations have you made to our culture? Do you really think that intentionally violating God's word could possibly be for your good? And for his glory. El Cannah could have spared himself much misery if he had just followed God's revealed will. And then there's some lessons here from Hannah. First of all, she didn't give up, did she? She prayed. She waited. She prayed more fervently. She waited some more. Eventually, God granted her request. Now, it may have been that God didn't grant her request, right? God doesn't grant every request in the way we want it answered or granted. But she was faithful. She persevered. She cried out to God in faith. And and cried out to God with her whole soul. It was an effectual fervent prayer of a righteous woman. Some of you moms are praying right now for a wayward son or daughter. One woman I'm thinking of prayed long and hard for her son. Her husband traveled a great deal. Her son had developed a taste for hard liquor and a fascination with guns, and he was getting into fights and leading the police in his town on high speed car chases. But at the age of twenty-two, in a hotel room in Jerusalem, he reread Romans 8 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. He later wrote, I put my cigarette out, I got down on my knees beside my bed, I was his. The rebel had found the cause. And Franklin Graham gave his heart to the Lord Jesus Christ, and the prayers of his parents, Billy and Ruth Graham, were answered that night. Hannah reminds us that whatever it is we're praying for, though it may be long in coming, God may yet grant it, if we pray fervently in faith, for things agreeable to his will. Also, Hannah recognized that her child was the Lord's. She willingly lent back to him what he had lent to her. Mom, have you done this? Are you willing to say, and do you really believe, Lord, he's yours? If you send him to Zimbabwe, that's fine with me. If she marries a Chinese Christian man and moves to Hong Kong, that's fine with me. She's your child. You have lent her to me. If you take my child home at what seems to me to be before his or her time, I will not murmur, I will not deny you. You have only lent him or her to me for a time. When you ask for your loan back, I must give it and be glad for the time that I was graciously given. Hannah exemplified genuine humility, deep faith, fervent prayer. And then she also showed us an example of joyful praise. In chapter 2, we don't have time to develop that, but what a blessed passage that is. And you can see reflections of it. Um in in uh Mary's prayer uh in the Magnifica, My soul doth magnify the Lord, my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior, for heath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden. From henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. Now you may be wondering, you're trying to remember what happened to Hannah and Samuel afterward. Let me remind you. Chapter 2, verse 18. But Samuel ministered before the Lord even as a child, wearing a linen epit. Moreover, his mother used to make him a little robe and bring it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. And Heli would bless Elkanah and his wife and say, The Lord give you descendants from this woman for the loan that was given to the Lord. And then they would go to their own house And the Lord visited Hannah so that she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the child Samuel grew before the Lord. And then there's something of an epilogue in chapter 7. Listen to verse 15. And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. He went from year to year on a circuit to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all those places. But he always returned to Ramah, his parents' home, for his home was there. There he judged Israel, and there he built an altar. to the Lord. He always returned to Rhema where his parents live. In a moment uh we'll go to prayer. Thank God for our mothers, whether they are still with us or not. But in honor of godly mothers, I want to exhort our young people to live lives that are worthy of them. If you've not yet bowed the knee to Jesus Christ, that's the most precious gift you could possibly give to your mother. Now, you can only do that if the Lord has brought conviction into your heart, if he's shown you that you are a sinner who deserves his wrath, if he's brought you to believe that Jesus Christ is the sinless Son of God. Who died upon that cross and rose again from the dead, who first of all perfectly kept the law that we broke. So he was the perfect sacrifice for us. And he went to the cross and endured the wrath of his father that we might be forgiven. If you'll put your faith in him, Lord, I'm a sinner, I can't save myself, but I believe that Jesus did that, lived that perfect life for me, died upon that cross, rose again from the dead. Ascended into heaven. Lord, I want him as my Savior. I want him as my Lord. You come to God with humility like that, as a little child. You pray that prayer, something like it. You acknowledge Jesus as Lord and Savior on the authority of his word. I can tell you all your sins will be forgiven. You'll be granted this precious gift of eternal life. You'll be with the Lord in heaven one day. Let's pray. Lord, how we thank you for godly mothers in particular. How we thank you for mothers who read us your word, who prayed for us and with us, who instructed us in your truth, who lived lives of example before us, who We 're kind and gentle and gracious and who sacrificed so much for us. Thank you for our mothers. Thank you for those who have already gone beyond and are in glory, those that we'll see one day. Thank you for our surrogate moms, those who took us in, those who cared for us. perhaps when our own mothers couldn't. Thank you, Father, for adoptive moms. Thank you for all those who. uh were in distress and might have chosen the path of destroying the new life within them, but instead gave birth and perhaps provided a A child for adoption for a couple that couldn't have their own. Lord, how we thank you for mothers. And Lord, we lift up now those in our church family who might be outside of Christ. Father, please, draw them home. Bring conviction of sin. Bring the wanderer back home. May the prodigal return. We ask it in Christ's glorious name. Amen.