Let's just read a few verses of John 17 this morning. Let's begin at verse uh 11 and read through verse 17 The Lord Jesus is praying to his father, it's the very night before his crucifixion, and he says, Now I am no longer in the world But these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I have kept, and none of them is lost, except the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. Amen. Let's pray Father, now as we open up your word, we are once again Aware that we are utterly dependent upon your Holy Spirit to teach us from your word. We pray that He will take it and apply it to our hearts, that He will focus our minds. Lord, that uh that all the things that could call our minds away from your word would be removed from us now and that we would hear your word, speak to hearts, Lord, accomplish eternal things. In men and women and young people and boys and girls, even this day. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Perhaps the most striking statement that Jesus makes in this glorious prayer for his disciples on the night before his crucifixion is found in verse 14. He says, I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Now, if you're a young Christian, young in the faith, one who is relatively new to this relationship with Christ, You may be thinking, wait a minute now, what's this about being hated by the world? I don't remember reading this in your promotional literature. You know, the tracts I read spoke about the joys of heaven, the blessing of having sins forgiven, uh having that weight of sin removed from Christ, uh from us uh by Christ Uh but uh I didn't read anything about being hated by the world. It reminds me a little bit of the time that I took a cruise. I I'm sure I told you about it. I uh wanted to do something special for our anniversary one year, so I went to a travel agency and uh I didn't know what I was gonna uh do, but they had assigned three-day Chesapeake Bay Cruise, all inclusive Special today, today only, a hundred dollars. I said, well, you know, that's too good to pass up. So uh I took out my little debit card, I handed it, she ran it through, I signed it No sooner did I sign the thing than than uh the travel agent took something heavy, I don't know what it was, hit me over the head. Next thing I knew, I woke woke up in a barrel floating in the Chesapeake Bay Had one little hole in it, you know I could look out and see what's going on. And uh before long another barrel floated by and I heard somebody singing. I think he was singing uh uh Oh what a beautiful morning. I recognize it was uh Carl Hancock's uh booming voice. And uh I yelled out to him, Carl! Carl, I said, they serve any meals on this cruise? And and Carl yelled back as he f kind of drifted away. I don't know, they didn't last year Yeah, that's that's the way I remember it. Uh you may be thinking about the Being hated by the world, that's not the uh Christian pleasure cruise that I signed up for. And you may be wondering, in fact, why in the world would the world hate Christians? For that matter, why would the world hate Jesus? He said in chapter 15, what we call chapter 15, verse 18. Listen to this. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. Why in the world would the world hate Jesus? Well, to understand uh what Jesus meant, first you have to know what he meant by the world here. As you know, our English word world has several meanings. If we sing he's got the whole world in his hands We mean uh uh the whole universe, every created thing. We're using the word world there to refer to everything. Uh when cartographers produce a map of the world Uh for Rand McNally or whoever, they are using the word world for planet Earth, right? The map of the world doesn't show all the stars and planets When Gladys Knight sings, I'd rather live in his world than live without him in mine, she means his sphere, his circle of experiences in which he moves every day The Greek word cosmos found here in John seventeen has several meanings as well. In the last verse of John's Gospel, you remember he wrote, There are many other things that Jesus did which if they were written every one I suppose that even the world itself should not contain the books that should be written. Well there I think he meant uh the entire earth, right? He was using cosmos or the world for the entire earth. There's not enough places on the planet to hold all the books that could be written. When Jesus says to his disciples, You are the light of the cosmos. You were the light of the world. Or God so loved the cosmos that he gave his only begotten Son. He's using the word world for mankind, right? It's not the the trees and the plants, etcetera, that is being spoken of there. God so loved the world, it's mankind. When Jesus said, What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole cosmos and lose his own soul? He's using the words to refer to the sum of all temporal possessions, all the stuff that you can uh Can gather up in this world. But many times in scripture the word cosmos clearly refers to something else. Not this planet, not the universe, not mankind, not stuff. Now listen to this. Now we have received not the spirit of this cosmos, but the spirit which is of God. 1 Corinthians 2. 12. Not the spirit of this world. James said pure religion includes keeping yourself unspotted from the cosmos. From the world. John writes of those who do not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh, he says they are of the cosmos. Therefore, they speak as of the cosmos, and the cosmos hears them. They're of the world. 1 John 4, 5. We know that we are of God, John said, and the whole world, the whole cosmos, lies under the sway of the wicked one. Greek scholar Vine defined this use of the word cosmos as, quote, the present condition of human affairs in alienation from and in opposition to God. The present condition of human affairs in alienation from and opposition to God. It is the world system which is influenced by the Prince of Darkness. It's the world system that conspired to crucify the Lord Jesus. It's the world system that persecuted the apostles and that sought to uproot and undermine the church. Now, if you ask the question why does the world system hate Jesus? The simple answer is because the world system is motivated and orchestrated by the prince of this age, the prince of the power of the air, Satan himself. The God of this age he's described as in Scripture. He has blinded the minds of them that believe not. The world system is motivated and orchestrated by Satan, by the devil himself. So that's why the world system hates Jesus. But if you ask for what things does the world system hate Jesus, then you're asking a question that's a little more difficult to answer. What we're asking is, what could Satan use to stir up hatred for Jesus? What was there in the life of Jesus that could possibly stir up any displeasure or animosity in the hearts of unbelievers, let alone hatred? Well, think about it. If we're speaking of the Jesus of popular thought, the humble preacher of love and peace. Who never rebuked or condemned anyone, never claimed to be anything more than a teacher, directing us all towards spiritual things, a helper of the poor, a helper of the oppressed. one who taught all who would listen to be kind, to be generous, to respect all religions as equally valid, who devoted his life to spreading joy and good cheer the Saint Nick of Nazareth Galilean Gandhi, the Albert Schweitzer of Palestine. What is there in such a man that the world could possibly hate? The devil himself would find it difficult to stir up men to hate the Jesus a popular thought. And of course he doesn't need to. Because the Jesus of popular thought is a Jesus who was not born of a virgin, did not lead a sinless life, was not the Son of God, did not promise eternal life to all who would repent of their sins and believe in him. He didn't offer his life as a ransom for his bride. He didn't lay down his life for his sheep. He didn't rise from the dead on the third day. He didn't ascend to heaven and he's certainly not going to come back again The Jesus of popular thought, in other words, could not, did not redeem anybody. But it's not the Jesus of popular thought, whom Satan stirs men to hate. It's the Jesus of history. The world hated Jesus, first of all, because he rebuked the world for sin. Look at John chapter 7, verse 6. Turn back a little bit. I know I'm asking you to do something. You had a whole extra hour to sleep. John chapter seven. It didn't work out that way for me. I don't know how Didn't use my time wisely. John seven. Look at uh look at verse six. Then Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify of it that its works are evil. Now the men to whom Jesus was speaking here were his what we would call half-brothers, that is, those who were born to Mary and Joseph by natural means after Christ's miraculous birth And he says, he's speaking to those brothers who at this point are unbelievers, didn't believe in him as the Messiah at that point in their lives. He says the world hated him. For testifying that its works are evil. The world cannot hate you. The world can't hate you as unbelievers, but it hates me because I testify of it that its works are evil. Jesus condemned the world's murdering, lying, the world's theft, the world's sexual sin, bitterness, selfishness, stubbornness, ungratefulness. Murmuring, complaining, impure language, sloth, worry, anger, worldliness, idolatry, love of money, lack of love for God, etc. He condemned such things. He rebuked the world for sin. And don't forget, no one hated Jesus more than those whom many would call good people, religious people. What were their evil works that Jesus testified against? Well, primarily pride. Hypocrisy, sinful thoughts, improper motives. He called them wolves. He called them whitewashed sepulchres. So the world hated Jesus, first of all, because he rebuked the world for sin. Secondly, the world system hated Jesus because he was different from the world system. Look at John 17, back to John 17 now. Look at verse 14. I have given them, his disciples, your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. You see, the world doesn't like those who are different, those who don't go with the flow, those who don't march to the beat of the drum. And Jesus didn't. He didn't conform to the world. He didn't conform to the religious leaders' concepts of what a religious man should be like. They piped unto him and he didn't dance. They mourned him and he didn't lament. He followed the beat of a different drummer. As far as the culture was concerned, he was in many ways a non-conformist He conformed to his father's will alone. He was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, the Bible says. He didn't enjoy the same pleasures. He didn't succumb to the same temptations. He was different. He was odd. And the world doesn't like those who are different. Thirdly, the world system hated Jesus because of the exclusiveness of his claims. The world system hated Jesus because he rebuked the world for sin, the world system hated Jesus because he was so different, and the world system hated Jesus because Because of the exclusiveness of his claims. He said, You will not come to me that you may have life. He said, Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. He said, no one comes to the Father but by me. He said, I am the door of the sheep. All that came before me are thieves and robbers. He looks back upon all the religious leaders, so-called, all those who said, look to me for salvation. Or I'll show you the way. And he says, all that came before me are thieves and robbers. He said, He who believes in me has everlasting life. He said, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. He said, if anyone keeps my word, he shall never see death. John 8, 51. What kind of talk is this? You see? The world says, what kind of talk is this? Who does this man think that he is? If he had just been a little more flexible, a little more tolerant, a bit less opinionated, a bit less dogmatic. He said, if any man thirsts, let him come to me and drink. You notice what he didn't say. He didn't bring the Pharisees to stand alongside of him. So he could say flattering things about them. Now you can learn much from my dear friends the Pharisees. You can come to them and drink too. Nor did he say, listen, I'm only a road sign, right? I'm just a road sign, I just point the way. There are many other road signs, many other roads, which will bring you to the same destination. Baal, Ashtareth, Isis, Jupiter, Athena, Artemis, Ra, gods of the sun, gods of the moon, gods of the stars. Your Heavenly Father accepts your sincere worship, however it may be offered, and to whomever it may be offered. Now, if he had spoken like that, Satan himself would have had a hard time finding anything to say against him. Where's the offense there? Nor did Jesus say he was merely one who communed with God and one through whom, in some sense, God spoke. That's not what he said. He said, He who has seen me has seen the Father. He said, I and the Father are one. He said, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. He said, before Abraham was, I am. Using the very name of God, Jehovah, Yahweh. That's why they picked up stones to stone him. Remember when Thomas fell down before him and said, My Lord and my God, what did Jesus say? Oh Thomas, get up! What are you doing? Don't be so silly. There's only one, you have only one Lord and God. He's in heaven. I'm just a voice in the wilderness. I'm just pointing the way. How dare you call me God? What are you saying? It's blasphemy. Is that what Jesus said? The very next verse, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. John 20, 29. And what does the scripture say about Christ's deity? If you call his name Emmanuel, God with us His name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Thou shalt call his name Jehovah Saves, for he shall save his people from their sins. Jesus was hated because of the exclusiveness of his claims. Now, think about it. If the world hates Jesus, the world system, remember what we're talking about here, how does it feel toward his followers? The world has hated them because they are not of the world. We read in John verse chapter 17, verse 14. A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master, if they've called the master of the house Beelzebub. How much more will they call those of his household? Jesus said to his disciples, Matthew 10. If the world hates you, he said, You know that it hated me before it hated you. Now If you're like me, you're trying to find it out here, and you're thinking, well maybe that was just the apostles, you know, right? Uh he he was speaking to the apostles. uh the the world hates. The world doesn't necessarily hate me, does it? Uh well listen to the Apostle John. He was writing decades later, and he was writing the Christians in general And he said, Why did Cain murder Abel? Because his works were evil and his brothers righteous. Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. 1 John 3:13 Now, I may be stating the obvious here, but if you are not conscious of much in the way of the world's hatred If you are not conscious of much in the way of the hatred of this world system in our culture, it's due in great part, no doubt, to our Christian heritage as a nation. Right? Don't underestimate the blessings that we enjoy by living in a nation founded on a consensus that our freedoms come from God. In the pagan world of the early church, the church was legislated against. Christians could be quite legally flogged, imprisoned, stoned, burned, slain in arenas for sport. Persecution of Christians, you know, remains rampant throughout the world 2,000 years later Don't underestimate the blessings you enjoy by living in a land of freedom. We don't have any fear that the police are going to come in here and begin arresting people for meeting together. We've got absolute freedom to say what we want to say from this pulpit at this point in this nation. But that's not the way it is around the world, and that's not the way it's been for most of the ages. For example, according to the organization Christian Solidarity Christian Solidarity International, which is based in Switzerland, just a few weeks ago in Pakistan Where Christians account for only 1. 5 % of the population, by the way. After Friday prayers, Muslims attacked, killed, and robbed the Christians in their midst. And the pretext was that YouTube video that dishonored Muhammad. St. Paul's church in Mardan was attacked by hundreds of Muslims armed with clubs and sticks. After looting and desecrating the church, they set it on fire. That wasn't enough for them. Then they went to the church school, which was nearby, had thousands of books in it, Christian books, and they burned the school down. The attack continued for more than three hours, with very minimal efforts by the authorities to stop it. Well, you know, what can we do? Rupert Short, that's with two T's, wrote an article for the British newspaper, the Daily Telegraph, which was published just last Monday. Listen to this. Imagine the unspeakable fury that would erupt across the Islamic world if a Christian-led government in Khartoum had been responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Sudanese Muslims over the past thirty years. Imagine if Christian gunmen were firebombing mosques in Iraq during Friday prayers, or if Muslim girls in Indonesia had been abducted and beheaded on their way to school because of their faith Such horrors are barely thinkable, of course, but they have all occurred in reverse, with Christians falling victim to Islamist aggression. Only two days ago, a suicide bomber crashed a jeep laden with explosives into a packed Catholic church in Kaduna, northern Nigeria Killing at least eight people, injuring more than a hundred. The tragedy bore the imprint of numerous similar attacks by Boko Haram, which roughly translates as Western education is sinful. An exceptionally bloodthirsty militant militant group. Other notable trouble spots include Egypt, where 600,000 cops, C-O-PTS , More than it the entire population of Manchester, England, have emigrated since the 1980s in the face of harassment or outright oppression. I'm uh taking little segments out of what he wrote. Christians are targeted in greater numbers than any other faith group on earth. About 200 million church members, 10% of the global population, 10% of the global total number of Christians, it's estimated, face discrimination or persecution. It just isn't fashionable to say so. In 2010, I set out to write a chronicle of anti-Christian persecution on several continents. I published it in my book, Christianophobia. Christ Christianophobia. Christianophobia. He says there is scarcely a single country from Morocco to Pakistan in which Christians are fully free to worship without restriction. The suffering is no less acute elsewhere, he says. Before East Timor gained independence from Indonesia, a hundred thousand Catholic noncombatants were killed by agents of the Suharto government between the 1970s and 1990s. And a few months ago the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, Sheikh Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah Officially announced that, quote, it is necessary to destroy all the churches on the Arabian Peninsula. The problems faced by Christians are not by any means restricted to the Muslim world. Take India, where minorities, Muslims included, are menaced by Hindu extremists. Who consider the monotheistic traditions to be unwelcome imports and they resent Christian opposition to the caste system Between August and October of 2008, Hindu hardliners in the eastern state of Orissa murdered at least 90 people, displaced 50,000, attacked 170 churches and chapels. This disaster was not exceptional. Uh the past four years have seen scores of assaults on churches and congregations in other parts of the country. Elsewhere, the culprits include not only communists, but also Buddhist nationalists in countries such as Burma and Sri Lanka. The scale of communist intolerance is a matter of record Curves on freedom of worship in countries including China, Vietnam, and Cuba are draconian and sometimes exceptionally sadistic. Now, of course, Western society is moving slowly away from its Christian heritage. And as we do, the hatred of the world system will become more and more apparent. George Leonard Carey, the former Archbishop of Canterbury, the highest office in the Church of England, has declared that in Britain Christians are being vilified by the state, treated as bigots, fired from their jobs simply for expressing their beliefs. This is Britain John Bingham, religious affairs editor of the Daily Telegraph, wrote in April of this year that Lord Carey was appealing to the European Court of Human Rights in a landmark case on religious freedom. Quote, the former leader of more than 70 million Anglicans warns that the outward expression of traditional conservative Christian values has effectively been banned in Britain under a new secular conformity of belief and conduct. His comments represent one of the strongest attacks on the impartiality of Britain's judiciary from a religious leader. He says Christians will face a religious bar to employment if rulings against wearing crosses and expressing their beliefs are not reversed. Lord Carey argues that in case after case, British courts have failed to protect Christian values. He urges European judges to correct the balance. The hearing, due to start on September 4th, so it already started, I guess, will deal with the case of two workers forced out of their jobs over wearing crosses as a visible manifestation of their faith. It will also take in the cases of Gary McFarlane, a counselor who was sacked, who was fired, for saying that he may not be comfortable giving sex therapy to homosexual couples. And a Christian registrar who wishes not to conduct civil partnership ceremonies. He's a registrar, apparently a civil official, but he'd prefer not to give civil partnership ceremonies to homosexuals. Lord Carey, who was Archbishop from 1991 to 2002, warns of, quote, a drive to remove Judeo-Christian values from the public square. Courts in Britain have consistently applied equality laws to discriminate against Christians. They show a crude misunderstanding of the faith by treating some believers as bigots, he says In a country where Christians can be sacked, can be fired for manifesting their faith, they're vilified by state bodies, they're in fear of reprisal, even arrest for expressing their views on sexual uh ethics, something is very wrong, he said. It affects the moral and ethical compass of the United Kingdom. Christians are excluded from many sectors of employment simply because of their beliefs, beliefs which are not contrary to the public good. Now as another example, in April of this year the pro-homosexual organization Stonewall ran advertisements on London buses. Big posters. Here's what they read. Some people are gay. Get over it A coalition of Christian groups attempted to run their ads reading, not gay, ex-gay, and post -gay and proud, get over it. Well, the London mayor, Boris Johnson, intervened to ban those ads, which he viewed as intolerant. He said, quote, London is one of the most tolerant cities in the world. And intolerant of intolerance. The founder of one of those two Christian organizations that attempted to sponsor those ads is Dr. Michael Davidson Not our Mike Davidson, of Wales, a psychotherapist, who recently get this, had his membership in the British Psychodrama Association. I'll explain that in a minute. revoked for endeavoring to assist through counseling those who are involved in the homosexual lifestyle to redirect their affections. He does this through a combination of counseling, prayer, and psychotherapy, and he says he himself has experienced such deliverance from homosexual a homosexual lifestyle. Psychodrama uses role-playing to address past experiences. So he was booted out of that association in Britain because his work has been vilified as inflam inflammatory, homophobic, and harmful. A bit closer to home, Governor Jerry Brown of California just signed into law a bill that prohibits mental health providers from quote engaging in sexual orientation change efforts, often called reparative therapy, for patients under 18. Jerry Brown said, these practices will now be relegated to the dustbin of quackery. A few decades ago, same-sex attraction was widely recognized in the psychiatric community as a developmental aberration. That's the way Dr. Michael Davidson described it. But now it's common to endure persecution just for saying that, as Dr. Davidson has experienced. Perhaps you heard about uh fourteen-year-old Sarah Crank, right here in Maryland, who testified before the Maryland State Senate about redefining marriage. She just wanted to say, look, I have a mom and dad. They love me and it's wonderful and I wish every other child could have a a loving mom and dad. That was that was the gist of what she said before the Senate After she said it, she received telephone rape threats, death threats, and a website was created to bully her. I don't know if Sarah's a Christian, but she was upholding the Christian view of marriage. and his family. And uh the night we arrived was the night of the third debate and uh we didn't catch the debate but we caught a uh radio broadcast in Seattle after the debate and apparently in the debate somebody had raised the issue of Islamic persecution of Christians And a caller called up and said, I'm so tired of hearing about Islamic persecution of Christians. What about all the Christian persecution of Islamists? You don't hear about uh Islamis burning Bibles. And yet you got this crazy guy, Terry Jones, who's making films about Islam and d you know, dishonoring their prophet and and burning their Quran. And uh I'm thinking, what are you talking about? You've never heard about Muslim persecution of Christians? No, Muslims aren't burning our Bibles, they're burning us. So why does the world system hate Christians? For the same reason they hated their master. Because we reprove the world for sin. When he, the Spirit of Truth, has come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and judgment. The world doesn't hate, the world doesn't have any cause to hate those who just go with the flow, those who present no opposition to its practices. The world has no reason to hate those it views as broad-minded and tolerant. But if Christians are truly acting as salt in society, if we call the love of money idolatry, if we call drunkenness a sin, if we say abortion is murder, if we say society should have no tolerance for pornography, if we declare that homosexuality And fornication and adultery are misdirections of sexual desire, and the sexual relations were intended by God to be reserved for husbands and wives within the bounds of marriage If we say in short that certain things are always right and certain things are always wrong, then we are viewed as narrow-minded and intolerant. John the Baptist, you remember, declared it was unlawful for Herod to marry his brother Philip's wife. Well, she did not take kindly to being publicly declared an adulteress, and so she conspired to have John killed. And if John had been a bit more broad-minded, he wouldn't have lost his head. If we live as Abraham's nephew Lot apparently lived in Sodom. personally troubled by the wickedness around us, but unwilling to confront it, and thus tacitly approving it, then we're just tasteless salt. Nobody hates tasteless salt, they just ignore it. So Christians are hated as Jesus was hated when they reproved the world for sin. Secondly, Christians are hated by the world because they're different from the world In Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress when Pilgrim and Faithful passed through the town of vanity and its year-long fare, they were mocked for their dress, for their speech. And they were mocked because they weren't interested in all the pleasures and entertainments there. They didn't want to buy. What will you buy? What will you buy Jesus said, if you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you're not of the world, but I've chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. The godly Christian doesn't live by the world's standards. The godly Christian doesn't enjoy the world's pleasures, doesn't imbibe the world's philosophies. And thirdly, Christians are hated by the world because of the exclusiveness of their claims. Early Christians weren't persecuted by the pagans for declaring Jesus was a God. Romans and Greeks would have been willing and happy to add Jesus to their pantheon of gods and goddesses. They were persecuted for saying that Jesus was the God, the only true God in the flesh. They were not persecuted for saying Jesus was a way to heaven. They were persecuted for saying he was the way to heaven. And even so, today Christians are persecuted and viewed as narrow-minded and intolerant troublemakers, not for uh Not only for being different, not only for uh for rebuking the world for sin, uh, but for claiming to have not a truth, but the truth. Nobody cares if you believe Jesus is a way for you. Nobody even cares if you believe Jesus is the way for you. That's fine. I'm happy for you. Satan stirs up people to resist and dislike Christians when Christians declare Jesus is the way for everyone. So Jews can be angered when Christians evangelize Jews, and Muslims can be angered when Christians attempt to evangelize Muslims, and Hindus are angered, etc. etc. The great Princeton Seminary Professor Jay Gresham Machin wrote, What struck the early Christian observers, I'm sorry, what struck the early observers of Christianity most forcibly Was not merely that salvation was offered by means of the Christian gospel, but that all other means were resolutely rejected Christianity demanded an absolutely exclusive devotion. All other saviors, it insisted, must be deserted for the one Lord. Salvation, in other words, was not merely through Christ, but was only through Christ. In that little word only lay all the offense. If the offense of the cross is done away, so is the glory and power. Now as we prepare to come to the Lord's table, I want to ask you to answer this truthfully in your heart. Are you experiencing anything other than the complete acceptance of this world system? Do you even know what it means to stand up for Jesus Christ? Have you ever been laughed at for speaking the truth? Well, Jesus was. Do you know what it's like to be rejected by your family? Jesus. No. Do you know how it feels to be mocked for doing what is right? Jesus knows. Have you resisted the pressure to conform? This is what Paul said in Romans 12, 1 and 2, you know, in verse 2. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your minds. Don't just form whatever the form the world has for you, as water in the glass forms the shape of the glass. Don't do that, he said. Be not conform to this world. The temptation to conform to this world system is very strong. In our youth, the temptation, it seems to me anyway, is to conform to the world's immorality, to conform to the world's entertainment, to conform to the world's pleasures And as we age, the temptation changes somewhat. We want to be conformed to the world's standards of success. We want to seek the world's uh fame and fortune So how about you? Do you reprove and rebuke the world for sin, or do you go along with it? Are you different from the world or do you fit in with any crowd you're in and just go with flow? Are you pointing others to Jesus as the only Savior, or are you letting people perish without a word? Adulterers and adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? That makes you the enemy of God Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself the enemy of God. James 4. 4. Let's pray. Father, these are hard words, but these are your words, and I pray that you will use them in people's hearts. Lord, convict us of sin for conforming to this world system. May we stand out among them. May we be even at times hated as our Lord Jesus was hated for rebuking the world for sin, for calling sin. For being different from this world system and for the exclusiveness of our claims that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father but by Him. We pray in his name. Amen.