You can turn in your turn in your Bibles to Jeremiah thirty three. We are going to be reading from a banned book. And it was destroyed in the middle of being written. And so who is this author who keeps on writing even though his book is destroyed? It's Jeremiah. Jeremiah lived out rejection like nobody else. He was a priest of the lineage of Eli, whose line, whose priestly line was rejected in favor of Samuel. And he was possibly of the lineage of Abiathar, another high priest who was rejected for supporting Adonijah instead of Solomon to take over after King David. Jeremiah lived in Anathoth, which was a priestly city, in the territory of Benjamin. The line of Benjamin had been rejected. Remember, Saul was of the line of Benjamin as a king, and he was rejected. because of his faithful faithlessness, but also because of Saul's presumption that he could be prophet, priest, and king all at the same time. Jeremiah, the author of our book, lived at a time when it seemed that God was rejecting his people. Because of their faithlessness, God had allowed the Babylonians to take uh Jerusalem, Judah, and the Jews away into exile. At the time of Jeremiah's preaching, the Babylonians are erecting siege ramps to go over the walls of Jerusalem. And Jeremiah had a total of possibly two converts his entire career. His contemporaries were not listening to him. He spoke God's word to them, and they threw him in a pit. Jeremiah 38, 6. So if you're coming here this morning feeling rejected or having a little bit of rejection in your life, we're going to be reading the words of a man who found himself in a similar situation. I wonder what the Lord wanted to tell him. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, help us to read these words of the ancient prophet with new eyes. Help us to read them in light of the cross, in light of the good news of Jesus. Help us to see how wonderful you are and what you say to those who feel rejected, that we might know how we are loved in you, Lord Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen. Jeremiah 33, starting with verse 14. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. In those days and at that time, I will cause a righteous branch to spring up for David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In those days, Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell securely. And this is the name by which it will be called the Lord is our righteousness. For thus says the Lord, David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel, and the Levitical priests shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings. to burn grain offerings and to make sacrifices forever. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, thus says the Lord. If you can break my covenant with the day and my covenant with the night, so the day and night will not come at their appointed time, then also my covenant with David, my servant, may be broken. So that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests, my ministers, as the hosts of heaven, cannot be numbered, and the sands of the sea cannot be measured So I will multiply the offspring of David, my servant, and the Levitical priests who minister to me. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Have you not observed that these people are saying, The Lord has rejected the two clans that he chose? Thus they have despised my people, so they are no longer a nation in their sight. Thus says the Lord. If I have not established my covenant with day and night, and the fixed order of heaven and earth Then I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David, my servant, and will not choose one of his offspring to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on them. Have you ever been rejected? Have you ever felt rejected? There are two times in my life that immediately come to mind when I think of rejection. The first was when I was dating my wife, Annie. And we had been dating for several months, and late one night, Annie stopped by my house and left a letter on my car. The following morning I found the letter and it said in a very diplomatic and kind way, our relationship has issues. So, instead of talking to Annie directly about it, I went, took the letter to the scribes, to the skilled interpreters of female correspondence. My guy friends. So they read it and confirmed my suspicions. This is a breakup letter, they said. I hadn't been sure that if any was just saying our relationship needs work and I'm willing to work on it with you, or if Annie was saying, because of how many and how bad the issues in this relationship are, I'm breaking it off. Or I'm about to. So my friend said it's a breakup letter. So I decided to listen to my wise counselors who declared this to be a breakup letter. And so I decided I need to break up with her before she breaks up with me. And you know, while I was at it, while I was taking their counsel on relationship issues, I also took their counsel on hairstyle issues that night and and I shaved my head. And um I found out why I should not shave my head. I have red blotches all over my bald head. And I found out why I should not take their advice on relationship issues either, because when I finally went and talked to Annie about it, Annie said that she was really trying to say, we need to grow in loving communication. By God's grace, he used that situation to greatly grow Annie and I in our relationship and equip us for loving conversation as a way of life. The other time I acutely felt rejection was when a former church let me go from my job. They were encouraging me to go to seminary. Uh I felt rejected, but they meant to greatly help me. They assisted me in going to seminary at Covenant, and the benefits of a seminary education at Covenant are incalculable. I learned how to read and interpret Greek and Hebrew, how to counsel, how how great was the wisdom and knowledge of God, how to preach, and God greatly used that freedom from that job to grow me in grace. So in each of those places where I felt rejection, I wasn't really being rejected. I was being spurred on to love and good works, but I felt rejected My conscience was accusing me. Subconsciously, I thought that my shortcomings deserved rejection. I thought that my immaturity was too much to overcome. And if I was in the relationship it was too messed up to redeem. So uh I and I thought that, you know, if the church let me go is because I was too immature to train. But that wasn't what the church was saying and that wasn't what Annie was saying. So I don't know if you've ever felt rejection like that. And if your weakness played a role in your rejection. Not only did Jeremiah in our passage feel rejected, his listeners might have been feeling rejected. The Jews were about to be led away to captivity in Babylon. And Jeremiah was saying that their relationship with God needed work. Jeremiah was saying that they needed training. And that the people's weakness was involved, their sin was involved. And those circumstances might have led many to believe that God was rejecting his people. A great enemy army of Babylon was threatening and approaching and building siege ramps, and their only true prophet was saying that God was not going to give them victory. But it was instead going to send them into captivity. That felt like rejection. It wasn't. Have your circumstances ever caused you to think that God was rejecting you? Have your circumstances ever caused you to think that God was rejecting you? God had literally said to the Jews, through the prophet Hosea, because you have rejected knowledge, I reject you from being a priest to me. And since you have forgotten the law of God, I also will forget your children. Humanity's sins are so deeply seated that we deserve to be rejected And God is so holy and just that he justifiably could condemn us. But the good news is that Romans 3, 23 and 25 say, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. But are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. So, how does Jeremiah get that message which we know from the New Testament to the Jews who are about to be taken away into captivity? You know, what should he say to encourage them? Should he say, we're going to win? No. Should he just say, we're gonna lose, but after a mere 70 years, we'll be back. No Jeremiah prophesies about Jesus. Jeremiah prophesies about Jesus. Jeremiah 33, 14 through 16 Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous branch to spring up for David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. Jeremiah skips about prophesying that God will bring his people back after exile. Jeremiah skips to the really good part of the story. He skips to Jesus. Jeremiah says that a righteous branch will spring up. How do we know that Jesus fulfills this? See, any of David's children who reigned could righteously, who reigned righteously, could have fulfilled this prophecy But Jesus is the righteous branch in a special way that the others aren't. One of the Hebrew words for branch, though not used in this text today, is naser. Jesus was a Nazarene. He was from Nazareth. He was a branchite. He was a branchy. Okay? What do we call someone from Washington? We call them a Washingtonian. What do you call someone from Baltimore? A Baltimoron? Okay? Um He was a he was from branch. He was a branchy. Alright? This is why Matthew is able to claim that the Old Testament prophesied that Jesus would be called a Nazarene The town name, Nazareth, is nowhere in the Old Testament. So we must understand that this prophecy is fulfilled because Jesus, the righteous branch, is from the town called Branch in Hebrew Next, Jeremiah says that he will execute justice and righteousness in the land. Does Jesus really execute justice and righteousness in the land? Did he really remove Roman oppression from the Jews? Jesus executed justice and righteousness, but not in the way that people expected it. He healed the sick. He gave sight to the blind. He cured the leper. He set the demon-possessed man free from his prison. He fulfilled, Jesus fulfills the prophecy according to Scripture, but not exactly as his contemporaries would have imagined. Not how they would maybe have wanted. At Jesus' time, they thought the Messiah would physically free them from Rome. But Jesus came to free them from a far greater and more dangerous enemy: death, sin, Satan. Does Jesus really cause Judah and Jerusalem to dwell securely? Shortly after Jesus ascended, Jerusalem was besieged. Again and the temple destroyed in A. D. 70. Is that really so secure? Well, Jesus was referring to a new Jerusalem. In heaven, which would never be in range of any siege ramp, never in danger of any catapult hitting its walls. The new Jerusalem is in heaven, and the new dwelling place of God with men is all over the earth And God's people are now secure since our fortress is in heaven. Jesus fulfills this prophecy, but not how some might expect it. Jeremiah 33, 17. For thus says the Lord, David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of Israel. Uh Hmm. Well, but they were taken into captivity. But there was a time when there was no there was no throne for them to sit sit on there practically. Jesus fulfills this prophecy as well. If you've been a Christian any amount of time and you've read the Christmas story carefully, you know that Jesus is the fulfillment of verse 17. Jesus is of the line of David. Because Caesar's census, requiring everyone to return to their ancestral homes, Jesus' parents left Nazareth, returned to Bethlehem, and there Jesus was born in the city of David. Jesus' lineage is traced through his father and through his mother, and both are of the line of David. And Jesus says himself that he fulfills this prophecy explicitly in Revelation 22, 16. I, Jesus have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David. I'm the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star. But if Jesus is the fulfillment of this prophecy, and the prophecy states that David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne, isn't the throne lacking that man right now? Because that's what some people believe. Some people believe there's going to be a throne in Jerusalem. Is it lacking that throne? No, Jesus is on the throne right now. Jesus is reigning. Stephen said, behold, I see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the throne of God. He is reigning right now. That's what we talked about all Sunday school long. Is that Jesus is reigning right now. That means that you don't need to be afraid. No matter how much it looks like, evil is winning in this world. God is on his heavenly throne. Jesus is on his heavenly throne, and he cannot be moved His purposes cannot be thwarted. He will win. Then Jeremiah gets a little confusing in his prophecy. So 18. And the Levitical priests shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings, to burn grain offerings, and to make sacrifices forever. I'm confused. If Jesus is the fulfillment of the prophecy one line previous, how is the prophecy fulfilled that Levi shall not lack a man to offer a sacrifice for all time? That's why the title of the sermon is this way, a sacrifice for all times, because in the Hebrew it says, The priest of literally, the priest of Levi will not be cut off, a man before my face will offer a sacrifice, a sacrificial offering will be made. A sacrifice will be offered for all days. It's singular. Not sacrifices. A sacrifice. And looking at the way the Hebrew puts it, with a sacrifice as singular, it made me wonder if Jesus was the fulfillment of the prophecy of the previous line, perhaps it's the fulfillment of the prophecy in this line as well. But how could that be, since Jesus is not of the line of Levi, but of the line of David? He's of both lines. Jesus is of both lines And Matthew, how do I know this? In Matthew and Luke, we have Jesus' genealogy. And three of the kings and Matthew's genealogy are significant for this discussion. There were three divided kings that had Levite mothers. 1. King Abijah. His mother was Micaiah, the daughter of Uriel, 2 Chronicles 13, 1 through 2. And we know Uriel to be a Levite according to 1 Chronicles 15, 11. Number two, Jotham. Jotham, whose mother was Jerusalem, the daughter of Zadak, Zadok, 2 Chronicles 27, 1. And Zadok's name is mentioned too many times to count, but it's always a priestly name. 1 Chronicles 29, 22. I'm going to read it. And they ate and drank before the Lord on that day with great gladness. Then they made Solomon, the son of David, king of the second time. King the second time, and they anointed him as prince for the Lord, and Zadok as priest. And 2 Chronicles 31:10. Azariah, the chief priest, who was of the house of Zadok, answered him. Since they began to bring the contributions into the house of the Lord, we have eaten and had enough and have plenty left, but the Lord has blessed his people so that we may have this large amount left. Okay? Two, that's two, that have priestly mothers in in Jesus' line. And then number three, King Hezekiah, whose mother was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah, 2 Chronicles 29, 1. Now Zechariah is a pretty common name, but in the next earliest, maybe two times that the name is mentioned in 2 Chronicles 24, 20, and 22 , He's a priest, Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he stood above the temple. And then verse 26, 5. Okay, so all that's to say. Jesus' great-great-grandparents were Levites. They were of the even of the high priestly line. Jesus fulfills the scripture that the Levites will not lack a man to offer sacrifice before the face of God for all days. Jesus is the high priest of the line of Levi. He's the perfect high priest because he was sinless. And if you still doubt that Jesus was of the priestly line, just look at Mary. Mary's cousin was Elizabeth, Luke 1. 36. Elizabeth was married to Zechariah, who fulfilled the priestly duty of going to the holy place. Well then you might say, hmm, well maybe maybe uh Elizabeth married into that line. No, she herself was of the daughters of Aaron. Luke 1. 5. Therefore, Mary is likely of the daughters of Aaron as well. So God's word is fulfilled in Jesus Hallelujah. The scripture is true. The scripture is trustworthy. We don't need to wait for another priestly class to be set up and a temple to be set up in Jerusalem and sacrifices offered. That has been fulfilled in Jesus. He offered a sacrifice for all days. But I'm kind of surprised though. If Jesus is of the line of Levi as well as the line of David, how come the scripture makes so little of this point? Does anybody know what a drop kick is? It's football season. Does anybody know what a drop kick is? Right? In football, you can drop the ball on the ground, and after it hits the ground, you can try and kick it through the uprights. For all points. And uh I think you can do it from anywhere on the field, but ever since 1934 When they made the ends of the ball pointy, the ball doesn't bounce reliably. And if you kick a football while it's moving after it hits the ground, its trajectory is unreliable Therefore, though it's still technically a way that you can score in football, it's almost never used. Once in the past fifty years, Doug Flutie, backup quarterback for the Patriots, made one as an extra point in the game against the Dolphins. It was his final play of a long career, and he just wanted a chance to do something risky and historic. But it doesn't come up as a strategy used in the NFL or for the Crusaders for that matter. Okay? Sure, Patty Driscoll did four in a game in 1926, but the rules have changed. There's a vastly improved ball, there's vastly improved plays, therefore the drop kick never gets a mention. That's kind of the way it is with the Levitical priesthood. There's a vastly better priesthood that has more power, more purity, more righteousness, more peace, more stability, more staying power. That priesthood is the priesthood of Melchizedek, which we'll have to turn our Bibles to Hebrews 7 to read about. Let's turn our Bibles to Hebrews 7. For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, met Abraham, returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him. And to him Abraham apportioned the tenth part of everything. He is first, that is Melchizedek is first, by translation of his name, King of righteousness. And then he is also king of Salem, that is, king of peace. He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, recorded, but resembling the Son of God, he continues a priest forever. See how great this man was, to whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth of the spoils. And those descendants of Levi who received the priestly office have a commandment in the law to take tithes from the people, that is, from their brothers. Though these also are descended from Abraham. But this man, Melchizedek, who does not have his descent from them, receives tithes from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises. It is beyond dispute that the inferior is blessed by the superior. In the one case, tithes are received by mortal men, Levites. But in the other case, by one whom it is testified that he lives. One might even say that Levi himself, who received tithes, paid tithes through Abraham, for he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek met him. Now If perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received the law, what further need would there have been for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, rather than one named after the order of Aaron? For when there is a change in the priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well. For the one whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe. From whom no one has ever served at the altar. For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said nothing about priests This became even more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek, who has become a priest, not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life. For it is witness of him. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. He's quoting the Psalms there. For on the one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and its uselessness, like the drop kick. For the law made nothing perfect, but on the other hand, a better hope is introduced through which we draw near to God. So Jesus is this Melchizedek. I'm comforted. If Jesus fulfills the prophecy that Levi will never lack a man to offer sacrifice for all ages by being a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek, how much greater is God's salvation, his priesthood, than our expectations? No one could be accused in the NFL of rejecting the dropkick. They don't say, oh, should have used a dropkick there. I don't wonder why they didn't consider that. No. They're taking just taking up something far better. God hasn't rejected the Levites. He's taken up something far better. How does this apply to us? First, we must know that Jesus has fulfilled this prophecy already, that we don't need a temple to be set up in Jerusalem to offer blood sacrifices by Levites. Some people think that. This has been accomplished in Christ. There are are Christians who mistakenly think that a temple is going to be built and sacrifices offered. This is this is an affront to Christ's finished work on the cross. In our wives, let us not be depressed or dis walk about in despondency, thinking that the Lord has rejected us. For when Jeremiah spoke, the Babylonians are building siege ramps. And we're not in such a state as they. Yet Jeremiah encouraged them with the words of the Lord. We stand on the other side of the cross. We know that we have not been rejected, but rather we have been forgiven. Salvation has been wrought in Christ for us. Hallelujah. Let us walk then in newness of life with joy. Jesus is our high priest. He has offered the sacrifice of himself once for all. We don't gain God's favor by sacrificing things for Him. But we are priests now too. And Jesus has made us a priesthood, a royal priesthood, by uniting himself with us. And if we are priests, what do we present for for God as a sacrifice? Christ presented himself, and we present ourselves. But by ourselves, we would make a putrid, blemished offering. But Jesus has cleansed us and made us pure, made us a clean offering. So, how do we offer our lives to God? By being willing to lay down our life for the Lord. How Well, if it gets to that point where we're asked to pay homage to a pagan symbol, we can refuse, knowing that God will save our soul even if we must give up our body. How do we offer our lives to God? By laying down our desires each day. There may be something in your lives. That you're wondering, do I have to lay down this too to the Lord? Does the Lord get control and authority over even this area of my life? Yes, your whole bodies as a sacrifice, serving others as our Lord did when he walked this earth day in and day out. Therefore, present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. So in conclusion. Although it seemed like God was rejecting the Jews, David, Levi, he had something so much better planned for them. Though it might seem either now or sometime in the future that God is rejecting you because of your circumstances. If you're in Christ, he is accomplishing the opposite of rejecting you. He is redeeming you. How will you respond? If we're joined with Christ, we are not only his servants, but his friends, his brothers even, co-priests, co-regents. And the sacrifice we offer is our lives, either in death as a martyr or in life as a servant. Let us pray. Oh Jesus, we need a high priest, for we know that our sin is so great that It deserves, we deserve to be killed. And yet, we can't even offer ourselves as a sacrifice for our sins because we are blemished. Sacrifice, and we're an unclean priest. And therefore, Lord, we stand in need of a great high priest who is pure, and we stand in need of a sacrifice which is clean. This you have accomplished for us, Jesus, thank you. Jesus, thank you. And amazingly, you have not only saved us, but caused us to be priests And to be royal priests with you. This is grace too great for us. Help us, Lord, to offer our lives as a living sacrifice, as our worship to you. Help us to walk in newness of life and holiness. unblemished life before you, Lord, help us to lay down even that area of our life which we want to reserve to our own control. Help us to give that up to you and offer that to you. That we might offer our whole lives to you, Jesus, in holiness. In Jesus' great name we pray. Amen