Good morning, Liberty. It's good to be with you. It's good to be back home. At this time, all the children can be dismissed for Children's Church. And um it's it's great to be back home and to share God's word with you. It's funny, I'm interning at a small church in uh Eastern Maryland on the other side of the bay, and they're currently meeting in a fellowship hall and they have a you know section of people out front and a section of people to the side. So hopefully I've already gotten a little bit of practice to not forget Everyone over there. Our sermon text this morning is Luke 18, verses 9 through 14. So Please turn there and I'll be reading from the English Standard Version and you can read along in your own Bibles Luke 18, verse 9 through 14. He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with content. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjusts, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off , would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. Please pray with me. Father, we come to you this morning hungry for your word that you might teach us. And if we are not hungry, God, make us hungry and see our need to learn from you. We pray, Lord, that you would nourish us with the truth, that you would teach us more of who you are. That you would enlighten us by the light of your Son Jesus Christ, and that you would fill our hearts and our lives with your Holy Spirit. Speak, O Lord, for your servants are listening. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. So Jesus was an expert storyteller. He was able to draw people in to tell these stories that really got their attention. and then use them to teach spiritual truth, often without ever speaking a direct word. The great power of these stories was that as Jesus told them, he was able to to engage even the most hostile of audiences. He was able to break through people's defenses and pierce even the most hardened heart. Now Luke tells us here in verse 9 what the audience that Jesus targeted with this parable was. He says, verse 9, those who trusted themselves that they were righteous. And treated others with content. Self -righteous and full of content. In other words, people who were arrogant who were proud, people who were belittling to others. I'm sure you know the type, the the proud person, someone who's so full of themselves that every thought that they have is ingenious. And everything that they do, they they think it has the golden touch, it's just perfect. And everything they say is always right, they're never wrong. They believe everyone who contradicts them is not only wrong, but stupid. To them, all their coworkers, they just seem incompetent. Their favorite quote is this. If you have to do anything, if you want to do anything right, you have to do it yourself. That's maybe a caricature of the proud person, but we want to ask ourselves today as a little bit of that person within us, is Jesus speaking to us with this parable? Of course, self-righteous and contemptuous are not they're not the words most people you would use to describe themselves. The self-righteous person would never call themselves self-righteous. It's usually some a label we put on someone else. The self-righteous person merely says he's dutiful and disciplined. Uh maybe he's smart and hard working and Just does a good job at whatever he does. But that's the way that pride works. Pride by its very nature blinds the proud person to its very existence. The proud person never realizes his own folly. And while I'm sure all of you have seen pride in others and seen Just the terrible effects it has, how it makes relationships so difficult, how it makes it hard to work together. You've seen it in others, but when it comes to not just relationships with one another, when it comes to spiritual realities, when it comes to our relationship with God , Pride doesn't just make things more difficult. Pride is absolutely deadly. The interesting thing here, especially in this passage, if you go back into uh chapter 17 and read the parables that come right before this one, Jesus is addressing his disciples. Now It's possible that when he comes to this parable, his whole audience had just disappeared and a whole new one had come. But it's more likely that he was speaking to those who were already following. following him. He's speaking to his disciples and especially those among his disciples who had this this proud mindset. So Jesus told this story to an audience so that they could come face to face with their own pride. And I believe it can have the same effect for us today. It's written to teach, to expose, to confront, and I believe it should make us a bit uncomfortable It should make us question, it should make us wrestle, it should make us stop, think, and examine our own hearts. And the primary meaning of this parable can be summed up very briefly, and this is my sermon title today, is that God lifts up the humble. God lifts up the humble. And we'll break this down into three parts as we work through the parable. That first Jesus Exposes the proud, then he lifts up the humble, and third, we'll look at the reason behind this great reversal. So first God lifts up the proud, but before that, or God lifts up the humble, but before that he exposes the proud. Now the Pharisee in this story is chosen to represent the proud approach to God. But at the time that Jesus told this story, the choice of a Pharisee might have been a bit of a surprise to his listeners. It might have been a bit of a controversial choice. The Pharisees were a party within Judaism who were very scrupulous. In their devotion to keeping the law. They had a tradition of interpreting God's law very strictly so that they would be absolutely as careful as they could be to keep it. And you know today when we read the gospels, if we know the teaching of Jesus, we often think of the Pharisees as as hypocrites, as as proud people, and and uh We're right to see that Jesus exposed them, Jesus showed them for what they were. But in the very time in the time of Jesus, these people were highly respected. They were devoted and pious. People would have looked to them to teach them how to keep God's law. And rightly so, on the outside, the Pharisees seemed to be very religious. They put on a great show of piety But Jesus was able to see through the outward appearances and look into their hearts. He saw that Even in all their efforts to be devoted to God, to keep his law, they were really trusting in themselves and not trusting in God. They were trusting, as it says here, in their own righteousness. So Jesus gives the example of this prayer of the Pharisee to expose a little bit of what this looks like. I don't know, if I were to sum up this prayer, I would say the Pharisee mentions God, but he focuses on himself. So listen to the prayer in verses 11 and 12 as I read it again and count. How many times you hear the word God and how many times he talks about me, how many times he says the word I. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. He managed to say I five times in just two sentences. He mentions God at the beginning, but then he goes on to focus on himself and what he had done. Think about this in terms of it's it's a thanksgiving. So think if you were to write a thank you card. I don't know about you, but when I write a thank you card, I tend to try to thank people for something that they've done. But here he's got this long, God, I thank you for what I've done. He doesn't even mention anything that God has done. And then we look even further. What is the Pharisee doing? He's eager to compare himself to other men. And let's be honest today, that's our tendency as well. We uh we love to compare ourselves to other people because then we can always find someone that we measure up well against. You can always find someone who's just a bit worse than you are. And so that's exactly what he does. He lists off several stereotypical sinners and bad sinners at that. But then not only does he say, God, I'm thank you that I'm not like these terrible sinners out there, those people, he makes it personal because he then points to the tax collector who's there with him in the temple and says I thank you that I'm not like the lowest of the low, this tax collector. Now he seeks to mask his content for others through praying a prayer of thanksgiving, and is really little more than self-congratulation, boasting, and condemning others. And in verse 12, the Pharisee goes on. He highlights all his good behavior. He says, I fast twice a week. And this in light of the fact that the Old Testament only actually required people to fast once a year on the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur. He also says that he tithed everything, a tenth of everything he got, when the Old Testament required tithing the fruit and the produce of the field. But likely, as the practice was among the Pharisees, he tied even the smallest of garden herbs. So he went above and beyond God's law. To show God just how devoted he was. And he must have thought, certainly, certainly, this will earn me favor in God's sight Certainly God would owe this man good in return for all of his good deeds. But Jesus is not so certain. Jesus tells us that the Pharisee's prayer did not make him right with God. In fact, Jesus goes on to expose all the pride that lurked underneath this Pharisee. A pride which actually alienated him from the God that he was trying to seek. So the Pharisee's prayer shows he was in the temple that he was trying to seek God. But he was focusing on what he could do right. And this focus on doing right to get right with God had this terrible side effect. It made him proud, it made him arrogant. And it made him hate and despise other people who did not live up to his own standards. And all his good deeds did not undo the sinful attitude of arrogance. And content for others. So what does Jesus do for proud Pharisees, for proud people like the Pharisee? This is a major aspect of Jesus' ministry all throughout the Gospels. It's a theme we see and it's It's maybe most clear when you look at Matthew twenty-three. We won't spend a lot of time there, but Jesus spends a whole chapter detailing and going through all the ways that the Pharisees had gotten it wrong in their pride in the way they taught to obey God, but they missed the point. So he was there to expose the pride of people. And as I've thought about this, the question for us today is not how were the Pharisees proud two thousand years ago, but what What does Jesus' work of exposing pride? What does it look like today? What does it look like for us? Who would be the modern-day Pharisees that if Jesus were here today, who would he speak out against? Some would say that he would look at those in denominations that emphasize doing good works and going through all the right ceremonies and the sacraments. Yet they don't preach the grace of God. Others would say, no, it's the conservative, evangelical Christians, people in denominations like the PCA who think they've got all their doctrine right. But even with all their right doctrine, they look down on all those who don't quite seem to get it. Maybe that's true, and maybe we do need to examine ourselves. The more I thought about this and I thought, who is it that Jesus would call out today? I'm gonna I'm gonna pick pick them out. I'm gonna really preach it. I'm gonna make sure they know they're proud. And I've just I thought as soon as you As soon as you label someone, as soon as you call them out, you become susceptible to pride yourself. Before you know it, you're praying like this, God, I thank you that I'm not like these people. I thank you that you've made me humble. I thank you that I'm not so legalistic, that I'm not so hypocritical. And before you know it, you're right back in the shoes of the Pharisee. Brothers and sisters, pride is such a slippery thing. Because whenever you think you've gotten rid of it in one area of your life, it slips out in another. Before you know it, you're proud of how humble you are. It's like a weed. It it just keeps popping up and as you try to uproot it, you realize that the roots go deeper and deeper. Then you realize. What we need to do is not not um it's not for me to call out the pride necessary in your life. Because that just often leads to me becoming proud. But we need is to ask Jesus, the one who's truly humble, to expose pride in our own lives. We need to ask him to help us realize our sin, especially in this most subtle, in this most deadly of sins And then the Holy Spirit will work to convict us and show us the road to true repentance. So this is the first point this morning, that Jesus works to expose the pride of man. Because he wants to humble us. But that's not the end. That's not the end of the road. First Jesus exposes the proud, but our second point today is that he lifts up the humble. God lifts up the humble. And we see this in the second uh the second character of Jesus' story, the tax collector. Now, in Jesus' day, the tax collectors couldn't have been more different from the Pharisees. They were the opposite in reputation. They were seen as wicked sinners and traitors of their country, Israel. And while they were Jews by birth, Natives of Judea, they were in league with the foreign Roman authorities to extract taxes from their own people. They were no more loved in that time than the IRS's beloved today. Don't you just love taxes and look forward to filling out your tax forms April 15th each year and paying up? And imagine how much less you would want to pay taxes if instead of going to fund the roads and the education and national defense, if the majority went to just pad the pockets of these local tax collectors. Who just live their extravagant lives out right in front of you. By its very nature, the tax collector's job, on the one hand, it made him an enemy of the other man and other people around him. But on the other hand, because the taxes were also results of this situation in which God's people Israel were opposed by a godless foreign empire. On that side, it also was assumed that the jobs collector's job, the tax collector's job, also made him not only an enemy of God, but an enemy. Not only an enemy of men, but an enemy of God. So tax collectors, we see this often in the Gospels. They were placed in this big broad category of sinner. Along with the other save unsavory characters that the Pharisee mentions, adulterers, extortioners, thieves. And to say the least, the tax collector was not the first person that you would expect to show up to the temple. To pray. And yet, despite expectations, the tax collector does come to pray, and what a prayer he prays. It's simple, it's short, but it is profound. But first, let's notice the tax collector's posture. Verse 13 , read the, but the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven. He knew that he was not worthy to walk and march right in confidently like the Pharisee was. He knew he was not worthy to approach a holy God. And then continuing it says, he beat his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. The Greek here for beat his breast, it indicates a repeated action, something he was doing continually, and likely this short prayer was also repeated over and over again as he begged God for mercy. And this prayer, the short little prayer, it it actually echoes Psalm 51, which uh we've already sung today, the great psalm of repentance. The great Psalm of David. And I'll read for us just the first three verses of Psalm 51. Have mercy on me, O God. according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquities, and cleanse me from my sin For I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. That's the first three verses, and the Psalm goes on for a total of 19 verses. Here the tax collector prays as if he only remembered the first half of the first verse. God be merciful to me, a sinner. He only knew that maybe that's all he remembered, since he hadn't been really following the ways of God. But it's incredible that in that short prayer, it has all the essential elements. Of true repentance. To ask for mercy like this, the tax collector had to recognize several foundational truths about who we are and about who God is. So first, He recognized who he was. A sinner. A sinner. It means that he knew that he had broken God's law. He knew that he was unworthy to approach God. He knew that he had been given the gift of life by God the Creator. And yet he had used that very gift of life. He had lived that life in rebellion. in hatred and scorn of the giver of life itself. So he recognized he was a sinner, second he recognized who God was. A holy and just God, a God who punishes the wicked, a God whose anger breaks out against the rebellion of his creatures. He knew that God was rightly and justly angry at him for his sin. Third, he recognized not only that God was holy and just, but that God was merciful. His plea is that God in his mercy, his anger would turn away from this sinner. It's interesting here, the word that the tax collector uses saying, God be merciful to me. He doesn't use the ordinary everyday Greek word for mercy. He actually uses a special term that had a particular reference to temple sacrifice. And it was appropriate here as he prayed in the temple. He asks God's mercy in a particular way. What he says is, God be merciful by making atonement for me. He recognizes that his crime required payment. Really, the penalty for sin was death. The required payment for sin is our own blood. But in asking for mercy, he was asking that God would provide a substitute. That God would punish another in his place and then show him mercy. This brief prayer The tax collector prayed it with sincerity. We see it in his posture, in the words that he prays, that he prayed a short prayer, but a prayer of true repentance. And at the end of the story in verse 14, Jesus gives his evaluation of the tax collector. He says, I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. He went down justified. That means he had been justified by God, that he was justified before God. This term justified is sometimes a very you know, technical theological term, but the meaning of it here is really quite simple. What Jesus was saying is that the tax collector was made right with God. His prayer for mercy through a substitute was answered. That God had accepted him, that God was reconciled to this sinner, and that the sinner could now have fellowship with God. He was given back the relationship for which he was created, the relationship to know God, to love God, to know God's love for him So this humble sinner was lifted up. Jesus even seems to put him before us as an example of true repentance. So I ask you today, what kind of prayers do you pray? Are they more like the Pharisees or the tax collectors? Now certainly there's nothing wrong with giving thanks as the Pharisee attempts to do. But we must thank God for God's own sake. Thank him for what he has done and not use our prayers. of thanksgiving as a plot to congratulate ourselves. But then we look at the tax collector's prayer and there's always room for prayers of repentance, for prayers of confession. And that's why here at Liberty, every worship service, we have a time for confession of sins. We must recognize that we do not, we cannot approach a holy and righteous God without remembering who He is and who we are, that we are sinners before Him. And yet, even with a confession of sin every time it remains a worship service because we praise God and we rejoice in the good news that one who humbles himself before God God confesses his sin, asks for mercy, asks for a substitute. He will be granted forgiveness through Jesus Christ. We rejoice every worship service in the assurance of forgiveness. This is our second point: that when we come to God humbly and confess our sins He will forgive, he will restore, God will lift us up. The third point this morning, at the end of the parable, Jesus gives a concluding statement which is really this great reversal. We'll look at the great reversal and the reason behind the reversal. It's in the second half of verse 14. Jesus sums up the reasoning behind the whole parable. He says, For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. This short saying is actually used multiple times by Jesus in the Gospels. And at its heart, it's a reversal It's not just saying that humble equals exalted or that truth is going to become false or that high is going to become low. There's actually A very clear statement here that the one who exalts himself will be humbled by God. The one who humbles himself will be exalted by God. The prideful and exalted are thrown down, the humble are lifted up. So we see it's it's about what we do and what God does in response, but there's also something even deeper here. We should ask, what makes such a reversal possible? How does everything get turned upside down? Something happened 2,000 years ago that is so backwards, so reverse, so upside down that he has turned everything on his head. I'm talking about the life, the death, the glorious resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. I'm talking about God sending his own Son to come into the world. To suffer and die as a substitute, the substitute that the tax collector was asking for, a substitute for sinners Think about it today. Think about what happened. The most high God, exalted in majesty, glorious in splendor, almighty in power, perfect in righteousness. as he who dwells in unapproachable light. This God, the exalted one, was humbled He took on flesh, being born as a helpless baby, born into this world, suffering through temptations, through trials, through all the miseries of living in this false world And broken world. Then the exalted one was humbled even further. He submitted to death itself, the humiliating death of the cross Although he was innocent, although he was perfectly righteous, the exalted one suffered the penalty of sin in our place. He came under the judgment of God for our sake. The exalted one was reduced to a dead corpse in a dark place underground. The exalted one was humbled. It took this great tragic reversal to set up for an even more glorious reversal that was. was to come. Because after three days the humbled one was exalted. Jesus Christ rose from the dead. He conquered sin and death. He ascended into heaven. and was seated at the right hand of God. He was exalted above all things and given the name that is above every name That the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Because of Jesus' perfect life, then humiliating death, and that his glorious resurrection, Jesus declares this great reversal to all of us Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but everyone who humbles himself will be exalted. To put it another way. In 2 Corinthians 8. 9, it says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. He was humble. So that through his poverty you might become rich. Because the exalted one was humbled, when we recognize our sin and plead his mercy, he will lift us up. In conclusion, I challenge you today to hear this word, to listen to this story and take it hard. As James says, do not merely listen to the word. And so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. And I'll lay out the application as simply, as directly as possible. And I want to point out that this applies To all of us here, no matter where you are spiritually, whether this is your first time in church, if you're just exploring the idea of Christianity, if you're a new believer, or if you've been walking with the Lord for some time for your whole life. This story applies to you, and here's how we can respond today to this parable. Ask Jesus to expose the pride in your life Ask God to humble you whatever the cost. And then diligently search your own heart Examine your life for pride, for arrogance, for boastfulness, for willful sin and disobedience. Search for each and every sin. And that means every time you have not loved the Lord with all your heart, soul, and mind. That means every time you have not loved your neighbor as yourself. Search, examine, discover what a wretched sinner you are. And then humble yourself, come to God and confess To him. Beat your breast and cry out to the Lord, Lord, have mercy on me, a sinner. If you do these things, God assures you that He will hear, He will forgive, He will restore. And not only this, but he will lift you up. Because he lifts up the humble. Humble yourself today, and he will lift you up. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you this day for not not for anything That we have done, but for what you have done for us through Jesus Christ our Savior. We thank you for Jesus, how he humbled himself. and went to the cross to bear judgment in our place for our sin. Thank you, Lord, for your mercy. We pray, God, that you would be at work in our hearts to expose pride and sin and everything, everything that's wrong and evil in your sight. Lord, show us the way of humility, the way of repentance. Lord, have mercy on us and restore Restore to us the joy of your salvation. Teach us the sweetness of fellowship with you, Lord, for you are good, and your mercy endures forever. We pray through Jesus Christ, our faithful Savior. Amen.