This morning. This morning we uh we plan to uh Conclude our study of the gospel of Mark chapter 1 and uh proceed to Mark chapter 2 next week, the Lord willing. Mark chapter 1, look at verse 21. And we 'll pick up with uh an incident we looked at last Sunday so we get the context. Mark chapter one and verse twenty-one. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. Then they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And immediately his fame spread throughout all through the r through all the region around Galilee. Now, as soon as they had come out of the synagogue, they entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever, and they told him about her at once. So he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her, and she served them. At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick and those who were demon-possessed, and the whole city was gathered together at the door. Then he healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons, and he did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew him Now in the morning, having risen a long while before daylight, he went out and departed to a solitary place, and there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him. And when they found him, they said to him, Everyone is looking for you. But he said to them, Let us go into the next towns that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I have come forth. And he was preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and casting out demons. Now a leper came to him, imploring him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, If you are willing, you can make me clean. Then Jesus, moved with compassion, stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, I am willing. Be cleansed. As soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy left him and he was cleansed. And he strictly warned him and sent him away at once and said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone. But go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing those things which Moses commanded as a testimony to them. However, he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread the matter, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter the city, but was outside in deserted places And they came to him from every direction. May God's blessing rest upon his word. And just before I pray, if the little ones haven't yet headed down for wonders of worship, they may do that now. Let's pray. Father, we we do ask for your help now, as we always do when we approach your word. We we know that we are uh in need of your spirit. to help me as I preach it, to help all of us as we hear, and to apply it to our individual lives and hearts. Please, Father, work within us. And again, if there's someone here today without Christ, without hope, we pray this might be the day of salvation for that one. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord Jesus had just taught in the synagogue of Capernaum and he had taught on the Sabbath day astonishing those present by his teaching with authority, and not as the scribes. His presence evidently disturbed an unclean spirit, that is a demon, a servant of Satan who was indwelling, one of those who was present. And the demon cried out, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. And the Lord Jesus, who has authority over all, rebuked the unclean spirit, told him to be quiet and come out of the man The Spirit obeyed, but evidently unwillingly, convulsing the man, and the man crying out loudly. The congregation, of course, was amazed at this, never having seen anything like it And Christ's fame began to spread throughout Galilee, throughout the region, basically around the Sea of Galilee. Now look at verse 29. Now, as soon as they had come out of the synagogue, they entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. As soon as they came out of the synagogue, they entered the house of Simon and Andrew. R. C. Sproul provides some interesting background here. Modern excavations in Capernaum have revealed the foundations of that synagogue. Sproull writes Further excavations have revealed a building that stood very close to the synagogue. Religious graffiti appears on the wall of this structure. It was a home, but it was built with the unusual feature of doors opening into a large area where people could gather Historians and archaeologists believe, based on their excavations, that this home served as a church in early Christian times. And the conclusion of the historians, with almost complete certainty, is that this excavated building was once the home of Simon Peter. It's easy to imagine that Peter's home would very early become a gathering place for Christians and be adapted to accommodate large groups. But at the time described by Mark, it was simply the home of Peter and Andrew and evidently their families. Look at verse 30. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever, and they told him about her at once. Peter and Andrew had just witnessed Jesus casting out a demon, and they seemed to have reason to believe that he could just as easily cast this fever out of Peter's mother-in-law. And verse 31 So he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her, and she served them. Sure enough, as soon as they brought this concern to Jesus, he went to her, he took her by the hand, he lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her Not only that, but the weakness one would normally experience after a bout with fever was evidently gone, for she served them. That is, she immediately did what I would imagine each of you ladies present would do if you had a house uh full of uh visitors. Uh uh she got up to serve. Let alone a visitor who was the miracle-working prophet from Nazareth. She served them. Now, remember, this was the Sabbath day. Which for the Jews meant from sundown on what we would call Friday until sundown on what we would call Saturday. And as you know, the scribes had a great many rules about what could or could not be done on the Sabbath day But look at what happens next. Verse 32. At evening, when the sun had set, Sabbath has ended, they brought to him all who were sick and those who were demon-possessed, and the whole city was gathered together at the door. Then he healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons, and he did not allow the demons to speak because they knew him. Anyone who lived in Capernaum, who was not in the synagogue that morning, hearing Jesus teaching with authority and witnessing him cast a demon out of a troubled man. would surely have heard about it by now. And as the Sabbath ended, the people brought him their family and friends who were sick or demon possessed, and he healed the sick of various diseases, and he cast out many demons. But you'll note he did not allow the demons to speak, as that demon had spoken in the synagogue, declaring who Jesus was. It's clear that Jesus had a timetable for the revelation of himself as God's Son and the Messiah. And it would not serve his purposes to fan the flame of enthusiasm for him at this very early stage of his ministry. Scottish theologian Sinclair Ferguson noted, the purpose the demons had in mind for revealing Christ's true nature was, quote, to create conflict for him before his time to die had really come. And so he exercised his royal power and he commanded them to be silent. Now, we're not told how long Jesus healed and cast out demons that evening, but I think it's safe to say it was a long uh exhausting night. And yet we read verse thirty-five. Now in the morning, having risen a long while before daylight, he went out and departed to a solitary place, and there he prayed. Jesus rose from sleep a great while before daylight, and he went out to some solitary place to pray. Luke tells us that he was praying at his baptism. We know that he must have been praying as he fasted in the wilderness for forty days. He prayed on the Mount of Transfiguration. Luke tells us of an occasion where he prayed all night. Luke chapter 6 And he, after the feeding of the 5,000, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray, Matthew 14 tells us. And of course, we know Jesus prayed long. And arduously in the Garden of Gethsemane, the night before his crucifixion. So our Lord set for us an example of long seasons of communion with God. He's setting for us an example of long seasons of communion with the Father. J. C. Ryle wrote: His Godhead did not render him independent of the use of all means as a man. His very perfection was a perfection kept up through the exercise of prayer. We ought to see in all of this the immense importance of private devotion. If he was if if he who was holy, harmless, undefiled, and separate from sinners, thus prayed continually, how much more ought we, who are compassed with infirmity If he found it needful to offer up supplications with strong crying and tears, how much more needful is it for us who in many things offend daily? Although Jesus didn't remain in Peter's house to pray, but found a solitary place, it wasn't solitary for very long. He was not able to pray completely undisturbed. Verse 36. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him. Where's Jesus? He's not in the house. Is he outside the house? Is he in the back? Is he up on the roof? No, we can't find him. Let's go find him. We need to find him. There are more people. Who need to be healed, more people who need their the demons cast out of them. And they go searching for Jesus. Verse 37, when they found him, they said to him, Everyone is looking for you. There may be here a veiled rebuke. Everyone's looking for you. Presumably there were more people, more people demanding uh help from him. Why are you out here all alone? When there's so much to be done, everybody's looking for you. Verse 38. But he said to them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I have come forth. I haven't come simply to make Coperna a disease-free, demon-free oasis. My primary task is not to take away disease, but to take away sin. To proclaim the gospel of the kingdom. I have a message to deliver. That's what he told his disciples. I must preach in the next towns also. Verse 39. And he was preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and casting out demons. Thus far we've seen Jesus healing, praying, preaching. But this chapter ends with a dramatic incident of the healing of a leper. Dr. R. C. Sproul notes that in the ancient world there were 72 distinct diseases of the skin under the broad heading of leprosy. Mark doesn't explain which variety of leprosy this poor man had. It may have been what is called today Hansen 's disease, which is the worst form of leprosy Hansen's disease is a disease, it's really a disease of the nerves. If uh if I had Hansen's disease, uh I could cut my finger and not even be aware of it. I could hit my finger with a hammer if I ever had an occasion to use a hammer. And uh and I could actually uh lose You know, a digit or something. With Hansen's disease, because the nerves are no longer uh working, eventually people with it lose digits from their fingers, could can ultimately lose their whole hand, could lose toes. because infection occurs and they're not even aware of it. Who studies his toes every night to see if there might be an infection setting in? And so uh That's that's uh uh the the worst form of leprosy. And so you see images of lepers and and and you see them without without fingers and uh and without other uh extremities that begin to come off. It's a it's a horrible disease and and and it reminds us of of the benefit of pain, doesn't it? No, we we need to have the pain. The pain has a purpose. God gave it to us for a purpose. So the ability to to feel pain is actually a blessing in disguise, you might say. So any any skin affliction in ancient Israel If you woke up one morning in ancient Israel with a skin affliction, it would be a terrifying thing. Because it meant you would have to go seek out a priest And have it examined. And the priest would look at it and he'd compare it to what the scripture says in what we call Leviticus 13 and 14 to determine if this was a harmless skin disorder or if it was, in fact, what they would call leprosy Sproul writes, if it was leprosy, that not only meant that you had a dreadful physical malady that probably would be with you the rest of your life It was the worst possible announcement that you could hear with respect to your fellowship, to fellowship in your home, the community, and the assembly. You were deemed unclean. You were cast out of the covenant community and not permitted to enter the gates of Jerusalem. You had to live alone. You weren't allowed to come within fifty steps, fifty paces of another person. And if someone approached you, you were required to cry out, Unclean, unclean, in other words, stay away Clearly, the news about Jesus had even reached the lepers. Verse 40. Now a leper came to him, imploring him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, If you're willing, you can make me clean. Then Jesus moved with compassion, stretched out his hand and touched him, and said to him, I am willing, be cleansed. As soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy left him and he was cleansed. Now, I want you to notice something. This man violated the ceremonial law. I just said the ceremonial law required 50 steps from any other Israelite. Not only did he come to Jesus, Jesus then apparently violated the ceremonial law by reaching out and touching this man. No doubt this was the first human touch this man had experienced since the declaration that he was lepros. We're not told how long this man had that leprosy. But uh what it must have felt like to be touched by not only a human, but Christ Himself. Not only did Jesus in compassion reach out and touch this man, but he also, of course, healed him. Church of England pastor J. C. Ryle, a contemporary of Charles Haddon Spurgeon, wrote Who can conceive the greatness of the change in the feelings of this leper when he had found himself healed? The morning sun rose upon him a miserable being, more dead than alive, his whole frame a mass of sores and corruption, his very existence a burden. The evening sun saw him full of hope and joy, free from pain, and fit for the society of his fellow men. Surely this change must have been like life from the dead. Verse 43. And he, Jesus, strictly warned this man, whom he had just healed, and sent him away at once, and said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone. But go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing those things which Moses commanded as a testimony to them. If I was the one who had just been healed from leprosy, what's my first impulse? To go find my family and tell them, Look, I'm cleansed I can come home. But Jesus said, no, no, don't do that. Go directly to the priests and show them that you may be declared ceremonially clean. And no doubt the reason Jesus told this man was that which we've already mentioned, that uh Jesus didn't just come to heal, and he certainly didn't just come to heal lepers, and if if that was what people were coming to him for, and they would be coming from all over It could conceivably hinder his gospel message, repent and believe the gospel, and explaining to the people why he'd come, preaching, and teaching. But presumably because of the great joy this man felt, he simply could not contain himself, and he proclaimed freely to everybody he saw, evidently, what Jesus had done for him. That's, of course, normally a good thing, but certainly not in this case, as the Lord had told him in very clear terms to say nothing to anyone but go immediately to the priest to be declared clean. And as you read on, you see the result of this man's disregard for Jesus' word was that Jesus could no longer openly enter that particular city. Perhaps it was Besseda or Tiberius towns on the Sea of Galilee. But he remained in deserted places, and people came to him from every direction. That's verse 45. He went out, began to proclaim it freely to spread the matter. So that Jesus could no longer openly enter the city, but was outside in deserted places, and they came to him from every direction. Now, let's ponder for a few minutes. Some of God's truth, which is revealed in this passage. And I want us to begin with something that's very basic , something we might miss in reading this. From verse 30. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever. Is it not self-evident that if Simon Peter lived with his wife's mother Then at some point, either here at this time or earlier, Simon Peter was married If the consequences of their foolish tradition were not so tragic, it might be found to be amusing that the very man declared by the Church of Rome to be their first pope was clearly a married man. Now some might object, well maybe he was married previously, but uh his wife had died, or uh after meeting Jesus he forsook all earthly comforts, including the comforts of a wife, and And thereby he set the example for all who would follow him in church leadership. Well, if that is the case, then why would the Apostle Paul say to the false teachers in Corinth who questioned his apostleship, Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Do we have no right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles, the brothers of the Lord, Jesus half-brothers, we would say, and Cephas? That's Simon Peter's Aramaic name. That was the name that close friends, I suppose, would use of him. Paul says, 1 Corinthians 9, do we not have the right to take along a believing wife? As Peter? 1 Corinthians 9. If pastors are forbidden to marry, why do we read a bishop must be blameless, the husband of one wife? Temperate, sober-minded, etc. One who has his children in submission with all reverence. 1 Timothy 3 Now think about this. If the Roman Church followed the clear teaching of Scripture rather than their tradition, their ministers would not be forced to live celibate lives, and one can't help but wonder how many Children might have been spared the horror and emotional scarring of being abused by the very men they revered as God's servants on earth. Let us be reminded that the clear word of God must take precedence over even centuries old traditions. Secondly, we see in this passage that although Jesus' compassion led him to heal multitudes who were sick and to cast demons out of those who were possessed, that was not his primary mission. It could have easily consumed all his time, which is one reason he told some of those he healed not to spread the message abroad, and he commanded the unclean spirits not to speak. Because they knew him. Christ knew that the news of his healing ministry would spread like wildfire. And it didn't require any additional fuel. He came to proclaim the good news of the kingdom. Let us go into the next towns that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I've come forth, not just to heal people. Physical healing is important. Certainly, it's important to the individual who is in need of it, and it's important to his family, but it's not our greatest need. It is good, but it's not best. All those Jesus physically healed, including this leper, ultimately succumbed to physical death But those who heard his words and came to faith in him as Lord and Savior are living today in his presence and will live for all eternity. In a place where there is fullness of joy. You might help remove branches from your neighbor 's yard. That's a good thing. You you could help me remove some branches from my yard, come to think of it. But if you can help remove blinders from your neighbor's eyes, if you can help him to see Jesus as Lord and Savior, that's the best thing. Thirdly, we can learn from the priority Jesus gave to prayer here. Now think about it. He preached in the synagogue, there was a great uproar. He went to Simon South Simon and Andrew's home, he healed their mother, they must have had a few moments of peace there as they had a meal together And then at sundown the people start to come, masses of people. He goes out, he heals many of various diseases. And this no doubt took time. And it was probably late by the time he had a chance to retire, and yet Several hours before daylight, he gets up and he goes out and finds a solitary place to pray, to commune with his father. We shall do well to watch our habits of prayer with a holy watchfulness, wrote Bishop Rile. Here is the pulse of our Christianity. Here is the true test of our state before God. Here, true religion begins in the soul when it does begin. And here it decays and goes backward when a man backslides from God. Let us walk in the steps of our blessed Master in this respect as well as in every other. Like him, let us be diligent in our private devotion. Let us know what it is to depart into solitary places and pray. Fourthly, I want you to meditate for a few moments upon the healing of this man plagued with leprosy. This man, as we said, violated God's law. Revealed in the book of Leviticus. He was supposed to dwell alone, away from the people of Israel, and cry out unclean, if anybody got near him. Yet this man came right up to Jesus, imploring him Kneeling before him, and Jesus violated certainly the common understanding of the ceremonial law, if not the law itself, by reaching out and touching this leper Now, how can this be? The one who had come to fulfill all righteousness evidently ignores his father's law. Well I'll show you how it can be. You're uh hiking beside a lake in a state park. It's clearly posted, no swimming. There's no lifeguard on duty, there's all kinds of branches and stuff in the lake. They don't want people swimming Water may not have been tested by the Maryland testing authorities. No swimming by order of the State Forestry Department. But you see, maybe 30 yards from shore, a man flailing in the water. He evidently can't swim. He's crying out for help. Now what do you do? The sign clearly says no swimming. Why? I'll tell you what you do. You yell to them, look, I'd love to help you, but the sign here says no swimming. The sign, it's the Maryland law. Is that what you do? Of course not. You dive in, you attempt to save him. The man's desperate need and your own ability to help supersede any law. I'm reminded of the incident in Washington, D. C. a couple months ago now, I guess. You all read about it, heard about it. A man collapsed in the parking lot of a strip mall uh evidently having a heart attack. I believe it was his daughter who ran right across the street. Happened to be a a fire department right across the street. This is perfect. She ran across the street. She she sh summoned the fireman. She said My my father's dying. It looks like he's having a heart attack right across. Can you come and help? And uh the officer responded that uh that that was not protocol. Uh In other words, they can't leave they can't leave the fire hall unless there's a call. You have to somebody has to call 911. And and of course she's are you crazy? My f father's dying across the street. And in effect what he told her is you gotta you gotta call nine one one and then somebody's gotta send it to us and then eventually i if they give us the go ahead we You know, suffice to say that when that heart attack proved fatal, as it did, that fireman was not hailed as a hero for obeying protocol. What I'm saying is, human lies take precedence over rules and regulations. Rules and regulations set by the government. Or in this case, even rules and regulations set by the Lord Himself through the ceremonial law. Human lives take precedence. Even uh God's general counsel that we should obey those in authority over us was not to be followed when those in authority over the Jews in Egypt, Pharaoh in particular, Demanded that the Hebrew midwives secretly snuff out the lives of all male Hebrew children during the birth process. Human life created in God's image takes precedence. In a similar way, if I may for a moment address the young women who are here, you have the right to choose your college. You have the right to choose your career You have the right to choose your apartment. You have the right to choose your doctor. You have the right to choose your hairstylist. You have the right to choose your dentist. And a thousand other things. But you don't have the right to choose to kill your college professor. You don't have the right to choose to kill your boss. You don't have the right to choose to kill your landlord. Or your doctor or your hairstylist or your dentist, and you don't have the right to choose to kill a tiny boy or girl living and growing inside your womb. Human life created in the image of God takes precedence over your right to choose Jesus permitted this man to approach him and he touched a man with whom an Israelite was to have no contact. As Sprohl puts it, his presence, Christ's presence. supersedes the the written law in the same way the presence of a police officer at an intersection waving people on or halting the traffic supersedes the light You must obey the embodiment of the law, the Lord Jesus Christ, just as you must obey the embodiment of the law in the presence of a traffic officer waving you on. Now note something else. This jumps out at me. Jesus healed this man, even though he knew he was not going to obey, the man was not going to obey his instructions, right? Jesus can foresee. in uh in verse 39 or whatever it is, he can see what's going to happen in verse 45. So Jesus healed this man uh knowing that he was going to go tell everybody That Jesus had healed him and that the people were going to be such masses, such crowds, that he wouldn't even be able to enter into that city again. But Jesus healed him out of kindness and compassion, even though, get this, even though he knew the result would be great inconvenience for him. In the parable of the Good Samaritan, there was significant investment of time and money for the Samaritan to care for the man who had been robbed. You know, the easiest thing to do is just keep walking. Hope somebody hopes somebody stops and helps that guy. Well he he stopped and he invested the time. And and and the effort to bring that man to an inn, he even paid the innkeeper to cover any expenses that the man incurred while he was there. It takes effort sometimes to minister to people, but it's what each of us would want another to do for us if we were in distress. Intervening in the lives of others can be messy, can be costly , can be time-consuming. The owner and operator of a filling station in the 60s Was working long hours to the detriment of his wife and four children. After his children began to attend Sunday school at a Bible church, He was encouraged to meet with a pastor. I'll talk to him, but only if he'll come at 10 p. m. because that's when I get home from work, he said. Well, the pastor might have said, look, I'm too tired at 10 p. m. to do visitation. Let him come to church on Sunday if he wants to hear what I have to say. But instead, the pastor went to the home at ten p. m. met with the man and his wife for several hours until the wee hours of the morning. He returned the next night at ten p.m. stayed again till two or three, explaining The gospel answering questions, comparing scripture with scripture, I presume. The third consecutive night, at two or three in the morning, that filling station owner, Harry Ring, and his wife, Nelda. Prayed with that pastor to embrace Christ as Lord and Savior. Half a century later, where we are today, through the grace of God The message of the gospel permeates their family. Permeates their family there. The lives of their children, the lives of their grandchildren, the lives of their great-grandchildren. And they have a son and a grandson. We're both called to preach this glorious message. Harry, the patriarch of the family, is already in the presence of the Lord of the Rings. And he and he will evidently have the joy. He will evidently have the joy of seeing his descendants arrive one by one. Until Christ returns to earth in majesty and takes the others home. Intervening in the lives of others can be time-consuming and costly and messy. and inconvenient, but it's what Jesus did and it is what he would have us to do. Note uh finally , We've looked at leprosy here for a little bit. There is a disease, as you know, much like leprosy that afflicts each man, each woman and child. It affects every aspect of our lives, and it's vile and it's loathsome. And no remedy on earth can heal it. It can only be cured by our heavenly physician. The disease is, of course, sin , our sinful nature. And it's not cured by hearing about Jesus. It's not cured by knowing that He's the Holy One of God, as the demons evidently know and declare. It's only cured by repentance and faith. Lord, I've sinned against you. Have mercy upon me. Save me. I believe that Jesus lived that sinless life and died upon the cross, and I want him as my Savior. Come into my heart. Forgive me. Give me this eternal life the Bible talks about. You come to the Lord Jesus that way. He'll take away that sin, that iniquity. He'll take it upon himself And he'll take his righteousness and apply it to your account. So as God the Father looks at you, after you put your faith in Christ, he sees you bathed in the righteousness of Christ, clothed in his white garments. He separated your sins from you as far as the East is from the West. He'll remember them against you no more. Have you come to Jesus with your sin? Fallen down before him and said, Lord, if you're willing, you can make me clean. Because if you do, Jesus will say to you, as he says to everyone who prays that prayer, I am willing to be cleansed. Let's pray.