Thank you for the opportunity to worship with you this morning and to be a part of bringing to you God's Word. I should say that Barry warned me about making sure that I'm reading from the translation that you normally use. So I don't think I did that this Sunday. So if you wouldn't mind, don't tell him that That I I totally disregarded his request and I I will I will attempt to do better in the future. Psalm five, starting at verse one Give ear to my words, O Lord. Consider my sighing. Listen to my cry for help, my King and my God, for to you I pray In the morning, O Lord, you hear my voice. In the morning, I lay my request before you and wait in expectation. You're not a God who takes pleasure in evil, and with you the wicked cannot dwell. The arrogant cannot stand in your presence. You hate all who do wrong. You destroy those who tell lies, bloodthirsty and deceitful men, the Lord abhorers. But I, by your great mercy, will come into your house. In reverence will I bow down toward your holy temple Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness, because of my enemies, make straight your way before me. Not a word from their mouths can be trusted Their heart is filled with destruction. Their throat is an open grave. With their tongue, they speak deceit. Declare them guilty, O God. Let their intrigues be their downfall. Banish them for their many ways, their many sins, for they have rebelled against you. But let all who take refuge in you be glad, and let them ever sing for joy. Spread your protection over them. That those who love your name may rejoice in you. For surely, O Lord, you bless the righteous. You surround them with your favor as with a shield. Will you please pray with me? Father, as we come before you, we we delight in the fact that you call us to worship you and we are thankful. for the opportunity that we have even today, this morning, to come and to bring you praise and adoration, to acknowledge our sin, our need for you. and to take delight in knowing about your grace and your gospel. Thank you. Thank you for this portion of your word It's been given to us for thousands of years. Help us by your Holy Spirit to be able to appreciate all that you are saying to us this morning We pray that your spirit would help us to understand how to apply it. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I recently heard a prominent leader within the denomination of which we are part of. An event that you may not be familiar with, the Presbyterian Church in America, it's really a relatively small denomination as denominations go. So when I speak about someone who is prominent, maybe they are prominent within our circles, but maybe not too much beyond that. But this individual was sharing about his concern in regards to those who are in ministry. And he said that he was aware of a pastor that I believe now is deceased, but he said this pastor has a very effective pulpit ministry. People appreciated what this person did in regards to their sermons and was really sought after. But he said that this man, before he died, acknowledged that on a personal level he had a very, very small prayer life, meaning that he almost Personally, he didn't pray at all. It doesn't mean he didn't pray from the pulpit or wasn't involved in maybe more corporate types of prayer or never went to prayer meanings. But personally, he acknowledged That he rarely prayed. Now I don't know what that sounds like to you, if it is alarming, if it's shocking. It is to me that someone who would be in ministry Wouldn't feel the need, in a sense, almost the pressure to pray. I don't know if you've ever felt the pressure to pray or not. Uh maybe it maybe it doesn't exist to you. I uh another friend, a personal friend, even this past week, I was talking uh with a guy that I've spent a lot of time with over the years and we've been involved in what I will call a discipling type relationship. And I asked him, I said, how are you doing in regards to regularly having Personal prayer. And he said, no, pretty much it doesn't exist in terms of having a set time A day in the day where he's putting everything else aside and he's just praying Now, I don't pretend to know where you are in this regard. It's possible that you have a very robust prayer life personally. Or maybe you and your spouse, you and your wife, you and your husband pray regularly. Or maybe uh maybe you you you believe or you have found that that it's impossible to go through the day without any kind of prayer. I I suspect that the the whole gamut exists for a a congregation of this size. In some cases, maybe it's sporadic. In other cases, maybe you are searching when it comes to having that personal time in prayer. And maybe in other cases it's just what I'll call flat. Do you know what I mean when I talk when I talk about having a flat prayer life? I mean that You do sort of the discipline of prayer, and you go through the the the rigor of prayer and you have maybe a list of things that you were discipled, you were taught from a sermon or a Bible study that, okay, these are the things that I should be praying for. I should be acknowledging God. I should be acknowledging my sin. I go through that every day, but it's almost like like bees. And you go through these B every day and you kinda you you have this rote type of mindset when it comes, so it's flat. Or maybe Maybe it's maybe it's what I'll call the button prayer life. The button, you're you're familiar with it. Okay, we won't talk about the button prayer life right now. We'll come back to that. But the point is that you're going to find in a congregation like this that entire gamut, some who don't pray at all. They believe in prayer, but it's just not for them, or those who have this really dynamic prayer life. I mean they they've it's been recorded that they would spend hours praying. Just an unbelievable amount of time. What would it be like for you to spend hours in the morning? Pray. I think Psalm five is a help to us, regardless of which category we might find ourselves. And I think one of the reasons why Psalm five is helpful is because it does accent the different dimensions of prayer. So for example, you know, the my a piece of paper doesn't really have much in the way of dimensions, but this pulpit does. Right? It has a height and it has a width and and depth and all these different aspects. And so I believe that what Psalm 5 does for us is that it provides these different dimensions. of prayer. And I think basically one of the things that it's accenting for us that we want to note this morning is that it teaches us about what it means to be dependent And I think fundamental to prayer is being dependent. And I think that's one of the reasons why we struggle with prayer. is because we don't fundamentally see ourselves as being dependent. Now let's face it. Wood parent would be doing a good job If it train, or maybe I should put it this way, a parent who does a good job will make sure that their children are independent. And not dependent, right? You want your children to be able to get up in the morning and dress themselves and maybe, you know, get their own bowl of cereal, right, providing it doesn't have too much sugar. And then you want them to be able to go through the day and to show independence. And so there is a tension here when you look at Psalm 5. Because people who have been trained and reared to be independent are now being told that you need to be fundamentally dependent. And that's where the tension, I think that's where the tension is. And that's why you don't have time in the morning or in the middle part of the day or in the evening to pray. Because you're out and about being independent. You got work to do, and you got children to take care of, right? And you've got places to go and and Soccer practice and baseball practice and oh yeah, you've got way too much to do as an independent person to be prey. So when you come to Psalm five, it just sounds it it sounds very foreign. It sounds odd Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my sign, I mean, my cry for help. But think about it for a moment. Now I realize that it's possible that, again, as you come into an environment like this to worship, that you come from different perspectives. Some of you Come from a background of knowing the gospel and understanding your need for Christ And you've surrendered to Christ in repentance and faith. And you did it a hundred years ago. Others of you, I know there's no there's not too many people in that category, but I'm kind of getting I'm getting closer And others of you are, you know, you you you're introduced to the gospel, but it's something that that's that you're wrestling with, and there may be those who want nothing to do with the gospel. Anybody who understands the gospel understands that fundamentally you are dependent upon God for everything. It's just how it is. Right? In every way of life, you're dependent. The rich young ruler in Mark chapter 10. Right? Very independent. Very fruitful for for all that he's done. Right? He's the rich young ruler. This guy is the Bill Gates you know of his day and he's got everything and people around him, etc. He is incredibly independent. And when Jesus told him to give Sell it all, give the proceeds to the poor and come and follow me. He was telling them, you need now to be dependent on me for every area of your life. And we're told that the rich young ruler went away sad because he had great wealth. He had too much And that's one of the reasons why we struggle with prayer, because fundamentally, even as Christians, I think, even as people who have a understanding of the gospel , We fail to realize just how dependent we are. So what do we see here in regards to Psalm five in terms of what it means to be childlike, to be truly humble, to experience that tension. Well the first thing that confronts us in terms of the the dimensions of this dependency is the urgency, the intensity, the just being fundamentally desperate Now I know this sounds this has to sound a little bit odd. This has to be just seem seeming a little bit odd because for the most part we don't function like this with this kind of intensity. This sounds like another world. This sounds like a different universe in a sense. Now maybe not. It is possible that this morning As you got up and you came to worship, there are things in your life that are yelling at you, that are screaming at you, and this passage resonates with you. Give ear to my words, O Lord. Consider my sighing. Listen to my cry for help. Now one of the one of the great blessings we have in regards to the scriptures Is that as God speaks to us, you'll note that in most cases, in terms of the volume of Scripture, The 66 books of the Old and New Testament given to us over the course of like 1,500 years are principally about people and places and times and those events. And so we know that this psalm is given to us by a guy by the name of David, who was king of Israel, who lived some 2,900 years ago, almost 3,000 years ago. We are, I believe, benefiting in terms of what God did in this person's life. It happened 3,000 years ago. Imagine benefiting from someone's life that's that's far far gone, long ago, three thousand years ago. Wow, what could possibly benefit us today? But the truth is it can We know things about David's life. We know about his relationship with his son Absalom who wanted to destroy David. destroy his father and take over the kingdom. And we know with the sad circumstances that took place in David's life because of Absalom. We know about what David went through in regards to having to run from And hide from King Saul, who hated David. I mean, if you think about it, David, David was hated by a lot of people David had things in his life that certainly would cause him to have this kind of prayer. Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my sighing, listen to my cry for help. And maybe some of you this morning have that kind of background today, this morning. Maybe it's in regards to family issues, it's relationship. Maybe it's health. I you know it it's I I hate to even mention this because I feel like it's so wimpy, but Uh last summer I I injured my knee and went to the doctor and the doctor said, Oh, you know, you're in your sixties and you got plenty of running to do. and you're going to be fine. It's just a kind of a little injury. And it didn't go away. And several months later, you know, went back, had more tests, etc. And the same doctor looked at me and she said, Your running days are over. I thought really? Like in three months? I mean come like what gives you? Like but it was swollen and it was painful and I could hardly walk and and uh and then I began to think about it. Your running days are over, right? Wow, my running day. I love to run I mean aren't there s like there there are things in all of our life that we love to do, right? And then we just sort of it's just one of those parts of our day, you know, to be able to get up and and to go run and I'm sure I had, you know, I mean I'm not a great runner, but but I I had maybe too much life that was coming out of my running and I didn't realize it. And all of a sudden to realize that my running days are over. just seemed like, you know, the worst news in the world. And the more I thought about it, I thought, yeah, that could be horrible, you know, for me personally. It seems like such a small thing. And maybe maybe it's seemingly a small thing in your life, but it but it's grabbing it's grabbing you in such a way that it's causing you to be quiet and to be still and to be even sorrowful or whatever the case may be, but there's a crying out to God, like, Lord, is this really true? Is this really part of my life? Do I have to deal with this issue? What or let me put it this way, how many languages are in the world? I don't know what the number is. You can ask Google next time. Uh you're around Google. Uh there's thousands of them, right? And there's there's all kinds of different dialects and it's amazing when you travel around the world to realize just how many different languages there are. How many of those languages do you need to know besides English? And I'm still learning English Besides English, how many of those languages do you need to know to discern someone when they're crying out? Of all the languages in the world, someone who's who's speaking French or German or Hindi or whatever the language may be, right? You know You understand what they're saying when they are crying out, when they are sighing. It's not pleasant to hear actually. It's someone who is really desperate. I remember uh years ago when our oldest son Philip had pneumonia. I don't know if Debbie was with me or not, but we were we were both spending uh 24-7, so to speak, at the hospital with uh Philip Pete. uh was in the hospital and we were very concerned for the first couple of days he recovered well. It was fine. But I I'll never forget this one evening when I was sitting out in the hall uh from his room And the night was somewhat quiet, even though it was a large hospital. But the night was interrupted, so to speak With this woman, this lady, crying a few doors down, just weeping and wailing. And I learned a little bit later on that her infant had died and passed on. It was just sobering to think about her circumstances. Now maybe you're not quite there where you have had an incredible loss or there's been some change. that is really grabbing your life in such a way that you are crying out. But I do believe that in different ways, under different circumstances, and maybe in different degrees That needs to be a picture of our lives. We need to see that. And the reason why we often don't see it, we don't see this kind of desperate dependency. is because we don't really see life as we should. Maybe things have been going really well for you. And you're doing really well. And you ought to be rejoicing in giving God praise and acknowledging Him in that. But I can assure you that if you really understand the world around you And the fears that exist and the problems that are all around us, that there will be a tendency of saying, Lord, the world is in trouble. And notice what notice what David says here. He says, you are not a God who takes pleasure in evil. With you, the wicked cannot dwell, the arrogant cannot stand in your presence. You hate all who do wrong. He speaks about the circumstances. Again, we're not necessarily quite sure exactly what he's pinpointing here, but he's talking about the fact that his world, he knows, is in great need. And we cannot live on this side of heaven and in a world like we do today without recognizing the incredible needs that exist. exist. And it may be just spiritual needs with some of our friends. It may be more physical. It may be people who are really suffering because of of illnesses. Or it may be people who Who are starving to death. The truth is, a large portion of the world are in great trouble. And when I think about things in Washington, and I think about the dynamics, sort of the daily life there, I'm confronted with all kinds of things. A normal path of going back and forth to uh Capitol Hill or the State Department or other places in Washington And I see the I see the people, I see the the diversity, I see the street people, the people that are sleeping in uh in cardboard boxes so to speak, right there on the street. I see uh I see the needs that exist. And then you go from that to Capitol Hill maybe a meeting with somebody in a congressional office or whatever the case may be, and I think about the fact that, you know, in the areas of Washington that look really clean and neat and well presented There is an enormous amount of need here. A government center, especially something like Washington, DC, has to be one of the major focuses of spiritual battle. It just it's just a reality. And the spiritual warfare that exists there often is not necessarily seen But the need, I can assure you, is significant and great. And the time is short. And we often think in regards to ministry with that we have all the time in the world. I was sharing with the group this morning How this one friend who took me years to develop a friendship with, and then at a point in his life when things got really critical, We were spending time and he was sharing these things and I could see that he was hungry that he had a spiritual hunger and we started spending time talking about the gospel and the scriptures. And we did this for years. And I saw how God was transforming his life and bringing him to himself. And then at a very early age, one night when he went to sleep, when he woke up, he was in heaven, I believe. And that was it. And I thought about the fact that, you know, our time together was so very, very short that I see the urgency. Of the moment. No, I I didn't. And most of us can. So when I look at Psalm 5 and I think about what David is saying here, this issue of being dependent and being desperately dependent and seeing the needs around us and the the reality of our circumstances is critical. When Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount, he said, you know, blessed are the poor in spirit. He was talking about people who, if they could see reality, could see just how deep they are in poverty. Not physical poverty, but spiritual poverty. Do do we see on a daily basis Our great need for the gospel. Do we see on a daily basis the great need for the gospel within those around us and the consequences of what takes place when the gospel isn't being proclaim and exercise. Then secondly, when you look at the passage, he speaks about the morning. He speaks about a segment of time. He says He says, In the morning, O Lord, you hear my voice. In the morning, I lay my request before you and wait in expectation. There is this sense here as you're reading the psalm that it's morning by morning. One morning, the next morning, the next morning, the next morning. Now this is again kind of a fundamental of what I think David is relaying to us, what I believe the Holy Spirit Spirit is reminding us that our prayer life is to be regular and persistent. You recall what What Jesus said in Luke chapter 11, when he said, then he said to them, suppose one of you has a friend and he goes to him at midnight. This is again Luke chapter 11. And says, Friend, lend me three loaves of bread, because a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him. And then the one inside answers, Don't bother me. The door is already locked, and my children are with me in bed. I can't get up and give you anything. I tell you, though, he will not get up and give him the bread, because he is his friend, yet because of the man's boldness, persistence, he will get up and give him as much as he needs. And so I say to you, ask. That is repeatedly asked, and I will give to you, seek and you will find, knock, and the door will be open. There's this emphasis in the gospel, Jesus' teaching on that. prayer that there is to be this persistence this this this regular spending time in the word now uh there's a lot of things I don't know about our relationship with God I don't understand I'll put it that way. Things I'm introduced to but I don't totally understand. Why do I need to go to God on a regular, daily basis? On a persistent basis? Well, I think on the one side I I need to go because I've been instructed to go. Because the both Old and New Testament are telling me that it's to be That's why it's important that we come to worship not just once a year, but we come weekly. That we're cons continually under the word. I think part of the reason is because of who we are. And that means that if we really examine who we are, we're forgetful and we wonder. Right? We do. We do. We really do. We are very much like that little child. And and when I look at my especially my younger grandchildren, the the ones that are, you know, the two-year-olds and three-year-olds, they wonder all the time. And that's what it means to be childlike. And there's nothing wrong with that, except for the fact that it means you're need, you're in a certain kind or class of need. Which means that on a regular daily basis, you need to be involved in these what we might call the means, or we'll call the means of grace, prayer and the word, and the word in prayer. And it doesn't take rocket scientists, our rocket scientists, to to put this thing together. But because of our because if if if we don't, or I'll put it this way, if we don't own our nature, then we won't be Be regular. Even if my prayer life is flat, boring, mundane, repetitious, whatever it is. I can assure you, you will benefit a great deal more from spending that flat time in prayer than you will no time in prayer at all. I've wondered when I had this last conversation with this friend recently when he acknowledged that he was inspired. Spending personal time in the Word, except maybe like on a app. He said, you know, when I I have on my app the Bible, and so it pops up a verse. Well, actually, that's, you know, that's something, right? Even if it's like for 15 seconds, he's spending some time in the Word. I think we could do a little bit better than that, but at least at least there's something. I think that there are practically speaking there are means that we can employ that help us to do it. And and we have to be intentional. If you're going to do morning by morning prayer, that means you're going to have to get to bed early enough, right? You're going to put other things aside in order to do this. You're going to have to invest in it. I think also it's important to realize that when you intentionally say, I'm going to spend time in prayer, That you realize there will be there will be the pressure not to do it. You'll get up and you'll you'll say, I don't have time. Oh I my alarm didn't go off or whatever the case is. But isn't it true to say that the things that we believe that are really important we will do? For example. And that this is a common this is a common uh point I make all the time. Whenever I'm in a group of people like this. I look around and I say to myself, look at all these wonderful, beautiful people and look how they're dressed. I mean really, they're all just properly presented. They've they've come and they present themselves this way. I see that every day when I go on the metro, when I go in the the metro system in DC, I get up early and those cars are packed and everybody in there is properly attired. They've dealt with their hair and they've shaved if they need to shave and they put on these nice clothes and they look really good. They spent some real time getting ready. Now I can only think of a an occasion where I got up and I didn't have time to get ready. And you know what happened? I canceled the appointment. I did not go out of the house right in my gym shorts to a meeting if I didn't have time. I will make sure I have time. In other words, the things that we think are really important, we do. And we do on a regular basis, and we make sure we do them. So if we don't spend time in prayer, the issue isn't that we don't have time, nor is the issue that we don't really have the discipline to do it. It's just that we don't believe in it to be regular and to be persistent. And we don't have this desperate mindset that says, I really need to be doing this, where there is this sign, there's this crying out. Then thirdly, not only do we need to see how desperate it is and how regular it needs to be, but as we look at the psalm, and again there's many other points here. Here, we need to understand there is appropriate expectation. David does not pray here thinking that well it's just a prayer. I'm just gonna go through the the deal and it doesn't make sense. any any difference. No, notice notice what he he says here in regards to the degree of expectation. In verse 2, he says, listen to my cry for help, and then he identifies God by saying, My king And my God, and of course in verse 1, he says, O Lord, and you'll note, and you've heard this many times before that when you notice in the scriptures, especially in the Old Testament, like in the Psalms, the word Lord spelled in all capitals, that's telling you something about the Hebrew. Right. And what it's telling you is that the word Lord there is from the Hebrew word Yahweh. And Yahweh is what is referred to as that most distinctive and sacred name of God, and it is the incommunicable name for God. It is God revealing Himself as the God of grace He is the covenant-keeping God who always remains faithful to his people. So when David prays And as he is writing the Psalm, he chooses to draw from the word Yahweh, accenting the fact that the God to whom he is praying is a God who greatly loves him, who is very interested in him, and who will always be faithful. And then in verse 2, in the middle, he says king. It almost sounds political in a way. David is a king. And he's talking about God being king, meaning God is the one who rules the entire universe. All the heavens, the entire world, all the nations of the world are like a drop in the bucket, Isaiah says. But this one to whom David prays is sovereign over all. Think about that. Over all. And then The last part of that sentence, my king and my God, Elohim, who is the strong and the mighty God. So when you put all that together. David is reminding himself and now teaching us almost 3,000 years later that when we pray and we're going before God, this is a most magnificent, unbelievable. God that we can't really totally comprehend. But what you can know is that He will deliver. And He can deliver and He will answer Answer your prayers. And he will hear your crying. He will hear your sighing. He never leaves you. He never forsakes you. And I think having that kind of a reminder, even if your prayer life is flat, is a really helpful thing. So that as you're getting your kids up and ready or as you're going through the day in your work or school or whatever the case may be You know you're not just talking to a clerk that doesn't really care about you. I mean, you we all know what that's like. I'll never forget the time when I was uh we were heavily involved in South Africa back in the early nineties and I was on my way to Johannesburg No, I'm sorry, I was on my way to Cape Town and I had to go through Miami and there was a lot of storms and my flight got delayed and by the time I got to Miami my flight to South Africa had already left. And so I went to the counter and they told me they could help me with my arrangements for the next flight and everything would be taken care of. So I went down to the hotel, got up the next morning morning, came back to the airport to discover that whatever the person told me, none of it was true. I didn't have any arrangements at all. Nothing was done right. I mean we all we've all experienced those things when we thought someone was listening to us and we thought the person who was listening to us could help us and they were going to help us and they you know right and then to discover they didn't at all But that's never the case with God. Even if you're tempted to think that he hasn't heard you, he does hear you. I think one of the things that that that is helpful for us to be reminded of is the dynamic that God not only does hear us and he answers us, but it really has in it is his intent always to bless us. Even when he says no, or when his answer is to wait, or whatever the case may be. And I think sometimes when I think about my life and I think about how I've prayed, I realize that there are the big things that you pray about, right? The big things are like your marriage and my relationship with Debbie is is is a big thing and that's really That's always on my mind and it's always within my my prayer life. And God is very concerned about those big things, right? Your career and your your family, your your relationships. But he's also concerned about the little things. And I think sometimes we need to be reminded about that. I have a friend years ago who said, you know, I never I never ask God for something insignificant. Like, you know, somebody driving, looking for a parking spot. You know, you hear this. He would talk about that. These people then they they talk about all they pray that they would get a parking spot Parking spot and there a parking spot would open up, you know. And he said, That is he said, I would never pray those kind of prayers to God because God is way too important. But you know, the truth is, God wants to hear even those kinds of prayers. This past winter I was on my way to the State Department and it was cold and I have my overcoat, my my wool coat that probably needs to be replaced to be honest. It's it's probably twenty-five years old and I wear it a lot. And uh I went through the turnstile coming out of the metro at Foggy Bottom going on my way to a Bible study in the State Department and maybe I guess my code was open probably was because I was reaching for my wallet and somehow when that thing opened it caught my coat and the button and it popped that button right off and tore my tore my coat Oh, I thought, oh. And I looked for it, I couldn't find the button, and I had to go on. I thought, how embarrassing. That I've got to have to walk the streets of Washington DC in a coat without a proper button. And the thing is, you know, Washington is a place of appearance. And but I didn't have time to think of, you know, to spend any more time with it, so I went on and went to my study and you know if you hold your arms like this You can you can hide the fact that there is a little tear with and there's no button there, right? And uh so anyway, so I made my way through the day and and then you kinda get too busy and you think, you know, you need to take care of this this the absence of a button on your coat and um as one day goes by the next day and you're you know you're just not you know you're just not able to get this thing done And so a number of weeks went by and thought, you know what, if the code is old, I need to start thinking about replacing it. Just don't even worry about that button. And and how are you going to find the right button? And are you gonna go on you're you're gonna go on Amazon and find that right button? You know, and it's just hard to do. So I just put it out and but I but I was always very you know, embarrassed when I thought about the fact that I'm I'm walking the streets of DC without the button. So I was on my way back to uh the same uh Um same place. So now it's weeks later. I still haven't dealt with the button. And I was going by a a clean uh a a c a a cleaner's. And I noticed on the window the cleaners they do alterations and I thought, Lord, uh I thought you know, I know this is really silly to pray, but Lord, I need to deal with this coat issue. Is it possible that you could provide a button for me? And so I only had like ten minutes. So I thought, well maybe you know I can leave I'll leave my coat there and I'll just Just I'll be all right with Ed and so I walked in there and there was this sweet lady, uh elderly lady, and she was sitting at sort of her sewing center where she does her alterations. I said, I said, I have this coat without a button. Is it possible that you could help me? And she looked at it, she said, please take your coat off. And I gave her my coat and she went into her little container. She threw it out, she brought the exact button that matched the other ones, and she sewed it on and made it look like Brand new. And she all did it within like five minutes. And then I thought, this is, you know, this is like a $15, $20 button. And I asked her, I said, how much do I owe? He said, two dollars. For two dollars I got a brand new coat bag. I I was so excited and I left that place thinking, Lord, you are so kind to give me this lady with who could fix my my old coat and make it like new and now I can walk the streets of DC with a proper button in my coat and no one cares of course no one cared before but I did But I you know but I think about that and really I was maybe maybe I was at a really low time in ministry and in my life and who knows why like a button would would so encourage me, but it did. It it just ministered me to I mean that lady had no idea how much this was ministering to me, but it did. And I think that's the way our Lord works. When we are totally dependent on him, we're dependent on him even for the buttons and for the reclaiming, the renewed coat. Right? I mean doesn't the Lord talk about coats in the Bible and how significant they are and clothing and clothe ourselves with you know, we know that, clothing ourselves with righteousness and God does those things for us So what is it in your life that's calling you to pray? My prayer is that the Holy Spirit would work in your life, would remind you of the gospel. The gospel is for needy people, for people who see their sin, who see their circumstances, and who respond by not being independent, but by being dependent upon Christ in every area of their lives. And they will cry out and they'll show how desperate they are, and they will do it on a regular basis, and they will do it with expectation because our Lord is much greater. Than we will ever know on this side of heaven. Lord, we come to you now in prayer and we thank you for this time of worship. Prayer is important, it's significant. We need it personally, and we definitely need it as a country. So help us in this area by your spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen.